When we were weak we told ourselves we were strong. And sometimes if we were very weak we told ourselves we were very very strong. I mean unquestionably I was by far the most loathed member of my class I think you know? Being a pasty unathletic kid who was weird looking and probably seemed overly eager so you know. And I had friends that would come over on the weekends to play. But then at school they would ignore me and pretend like they did not know me. And so when he was little Chris Ware-- the guy you were just hearing-- spent a lot of time thinking about superpowers. He drew superheroes over and over trying to get them right. He always wondered where somebody could find a radioactive animal like the one that bit Peter Parker and turned him into the amazing Spider-Man. And a couple of times Chris thought that he might be developing his own superpowers-- real ones. There was one morning where I was standing under the shower. And of course when you get in immediately because you are so cold the water is extremely hot by contrast. So you have the cold water turned up. And as you stand in there you get used to it and you turn the cold water down. And I was in there for a very long time. And I remember turning the cold and it would not go any farther. And I thought well that is weird. It must be stuck. And I turned it more and it would not go any farther. And I realized I was standing under completely hot water but it felt fine to me. It actually felt warm almost cool. And the longer I stood there it felt cooler and cooler. And the only explanation I could come up with is that I had developed the ability to withstand extraordinary heat. And of course we would just run out of hot water. But at that time I did not know that that happened. I thought hot water was an endless commodity. He invented his own superhero called the Hurricane who could shoot blasts of wind from his hands and was drawn with huge manly muscles. He made a Hurricane costume that he could wear himself-- red t-shirt with a black circle with an H on it and a mask that his mom made for him and a yellow cape. You know some kids really go for a cape. There were a few times where I actually came to school with bits of a superhero costume secreted under my school uniform. I do not exactly know why. I guess I thought it was like it was going to give me some sense of power or something. But of course then I have gym class you know? So you have to change your clothes so I do not know what I was thinking. There was one time I actually-- this is sort of peripherally superhero but I would actually drawn circuit boards on pieces of paper like the Bionic Man the 6 Million Man. And I would actually taped them on my legs to look like real circuitry exposed as if I had mechanical legs or something like that. So I guess I vaguely thought that somebody would catch a glimpse of it and think wow. Look. He is bionic Some of us we spend a long long time hoping that we are more than what the world thinks of us. And so of course we are drawn to these stories of these mild-mannered guys who underneath their clothes wear a costume in secret with powers nobody suspects. And when we get older it all seems ridiculous of course. It seems really really dumb. It is embarrassing. Chris Ware though went on to draw cartoons for his living. But the cartoons that he draws are like novels. They are graphic novels about real people. And anytime a Superman type shows up in one of his cartoons he is always somebody trying to con kids with a costume and a cape. He is always a disappointment. It is just more interesting that way. I think he is more like a real dad that way I guess. And the more I draw him the fatter he gets too and the more bald he gets I guess. I mean if you were Superman too you are like-- you know what do you care what you look like? You would not be all handsome. You would just eat whatever you felt like. You would take whatever you wanted. And you would end up looking really terrible after a while I think. If I was a superhero I think I would probably-- I mean who is going to criticize you? Well today on our radio program superpowers-- four real life stories about how easy it is to be caught up in the dream of them. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira. Glass. As the super-villains say silence miscreant. Our program has begun. Act One The Invisible Man Vs. Hawkman. So we now present a kind of super contest for you beloved super listener between two ancient superpowers-- two of the superpowers which have fascinated humans since antiquity. And actually this is kind of a super Rorschach test. John Hodgman has been conducting an unscientific survey posing for people a very simple choice. Flight versus invisibility. This question is only for you. Whichever you pick you will be the only person in the world to have that particular superpower. You cannot have both. Which do you choose? I started wondering about this a few years ago. I would bring it up at parties dinners wedding receptions. It was more interesting to ask than where people worked or where they went to school and clearly more fun to answer. Like a magic word shazam flight versus invisibility would instantly change an evening's character opening passionate conversation and debate. But what surprised me more was how quickly everyone would choose as though they had been thinking about it for a long time. Everyone knew exactly which superpower they wanted and what they would do with it. Their plans were not always flashy or heroic. In fact they almost never were. If I could fly the first thing I would do is fly into the bar check out what is going on there fly back home. I would attach my baby to me and fly to a doctor's appointment at 1130 and fly right back. Then I think I would fly to Atlantic City. I would imagine if it got around that I had the power of flight and it was a rare type of thing I mean there would definitely be flight groupies. I would imagine. So there is going to be just like oh yeah. I just slept with a flying dude. You know? But people are just like oh score. I would go into Barney's. I would pick out the cashmere sweaters that I like. I would go into the dressing room. The woman says how many items? I say five. I go into the dressing room. I put those five sweaters on and I summon my powers of invisibility in the dressing room. I turn invisible. I walk out leaving her to wonder why there is a tag hanging from the door that says five and no person inside. So you would become a thief pretty quickly? Immediately until I had all the sweaters that I wanted. And then I would have to think of other things to do. Typically this is how it goes. People who turn invisible will sneak into the movies or onto airplanes. People who fly stop taking the bus. Here's one thing that pretty much no one ever says. I would use my power to fight crime. No one seems to care about crime. I do not think I would want to spend a lot of time using my power for good. I mean if I do not have super strength and I am not invulnerable then I mean would be very dangerous. If you had to. rescue somebody from a burning building or something like that you might catch on fire. Just having flight I do not think is necessarily quite enough because you do not have the super strength. I would still be weak when I got there I guess. I do not fight crime now and people without superpowers do. So sure in theory yes. But I am not a-- I mean what can I do as a-- I mean either one of those-- you see you need a whole package because there is not much you can do with any one thing. I would go to Paris I suppose. That is not being a super hero. Well may-- you know I could be a Going-to-Paris Man that sort of a superhero. Going-to-Paris Man is not a superhero. And I have to say this drove me crazy a little bit. We are after all talking about superpowers. Why not take down organized crime bring hope to the hopeless swear vengeance on the underworld if only a little bit? I proposed a variety of sample scenarios along these lines such as how would you handle a mad genius taking over the Empire State Building or a group of terrorists hijacking an overseas flight? And what I learned is some people should simply not be fighting crime. Well the first thing that occurs to me is I would go sneak up behind them very low and with a knife that they did not see and slice their Achilles tendon. Uh no. I somehow shove a sock in their mouth or something like that and wrap some tape around their mouth so that they cannot yell out. It might not be a sock. It might just be some napkins or something. I cannot keep all this in my head. I would have to keep a bag full of stuff with me--  knives socks tape. Do you think you would be tempted to enlist a teenage helper? No I think a helper would be good a helper with a complimentary power. There is no others-- anybody else with superpowers. Oh. It would just be a teenager hanging around me? No. People who consider invisibility always want to know do I have to be naked? People who choose flight want to know how fast. Almost all asked who would win in a fight Mr. Invisible or Flying Man? And so I had to lay down some rules. Invisibility means the power to become transparent at will including your clothing but anything you may pick up is visible. Flight means the power to fly at any altitude within the Earth's atmosphere at speeds up to 1000 miles per hour. But even then they start looking for loopholes hidden catches superpower fine print. They start negotiating their dreams with me. Now when you are flying if you are flying at 1000 miles an hour at 100000 feet are you comfortable? Do you get very cold? Let us say I am in this room and I am invisible. And I am walking around this apartment and I am invisible. And-- Yes you-- Do I have to be completely quiet or you guys will hear my footsteps? Yes. Because that is a pain in the ass. And also someone would have to let you in. Can I carry somebody? Can somebody go on my back? Can you carry someone on your back now? Little people yeah. Then you can carry little people on your back. Done. Flight it is. This is all part of what I call the five stages of choosing your superpower. Sometimes this process occurs in just moments. For example subject A a tallish man with glasses wedged into a cramped bar room corner begins as they all do with stage 1-- gut reaction. Initially I would think perhaps invisibility. Next comes stage 2-- practical consideration. Because you have the ability to walk around work perhaps show up at one point and perhaps go away for a little while and turn invisible and then come back and listen to what they say about you. You have the power to spy on your exes and that would all be enlightening and fun and in fact a little bit perverted. You hear that doubt in his voice? That is the beginning of stage 3-- philosophical reconsideration. That would-- I believe it would be-- it would immediately turn into a life of complete depression. You would not be able to really share with anyone you know? And I know there would be some problems with the perversion thing. Stage 4-- self-recrimination. Invisibility leads me as an invisible person down a dark path because you are not going want to miss out when you are invisible on-- you know no matter how many times you have seen a woman naked in a shower you are going to want to see it again because there is always a different woman right? And there is just like a lifetime of that. And that is not acceptable behavior no matter whether you are invisible or not. And finally stage 5-- acceptance. Yeah. I would have to go with flight. So who chooses invisibility and who chooses flight? In my experience though there are lots of exceptions men lean toward flying women to invisibility. And many brood anxiously over their choice switching from one to the other and back again. And that is because more than the ability say to burst into flame or shoot arrows with uncanny accuracy flight and invisibility touch a nerve. Actually they touch two different nerves speak to very different primal desires and unconscious fears. My friend Christine chose invisibility. One superpower is about something that is obvious and the other is about something that is hidden. I think that indicates your level of shame. How do you mean? A person who chooses to fly has nothing to hide. A person who'd choose to be invisible wants clearly to hide themselves. Do you feel that you want to hide yourself? I want to-- I would like to not-- I am not going to answer that question. It all has to do with guile. Wanting to be invisible means that you are a more guileful person. If you want to fly it means you are guileless. And I think the reason that I am so conflicted about flying versus invisibility is that I have guile but I really wish that I did not. Flight is the hero-- selfless and competent and unashamed. And invisibility the villain. Almost everyone I talked to called invisibility the sneakier power. Flying is for people who want to let it all hang out. Invisibility is for fearful crouching masturbators. First of all I think that a lot of people are going to tell you that they would choose flight. And I think they are lying to you. I think they are saying that because they are trying to sound all mythic and heroic because the better angels of our nature would tell us that the real thing that we should strive for is flight and that that is noble and all that kind of stuff. But I think actually if everybody were being perfectly honest with you they would tell you the truth which is that they all want to be invisible so that they can shoplift get into movies for free go to exotic places on airplanes without paying for airline tickets and watch celebrities have sex. Anyone faced with this choice in their heart of hearts will choose invisibility? Yes or they have this sort of inflated heroic mythical concept of themselves and that in fact they are not really giving it very much practical thought. In the end it is not a question of what kind of person flies and what kind of person fades. We all do both. Perhaps that is why when I put the choice to myself I am hopelessly completely stuck. At the heart of this decision the question I really do not want to face is this-- who do you want to be? The person you hoped to be or the person you fear you actually are? Do not rush into it. Think it over. Which would you choose? John Hodgman is the author of many fine books. His latest is called Vacationland True Stories from Painful Beaches.  Act Two Wonder Woman. OK. What are the ways to create a superhero? Gamma rays space alien abduction prison experiment or a NASA flight gone awry. And then there is the idea of a list. Is it possible that a to-do list is powerful enough to achieve this incredible result? Hmm. Kelly McEvers met somebody who tried. We met in a bar in Flagstaff Arizona. I would just moved back from Cambodia and I was going out for one of my first beers back in the States. Not long into the first one I noticed this Amazon of a woman with huge blond and red-streaked hair and frosty lips wearing a short red tank dress and at least 50 bracelets. She is six feet tall and showing a lot of leg. People at the bar swivel their heads to watch her every move. She stands next to me to order a drink and in this throaty voice says what are those? Pointing to my cigarettes. I tell her they are Cambodian. Her eyes light up and she shoots out a long tanned arm and points at a table in the corner. She orders me there. Before I can say no I am following her to my seat. She tells me she is an international private investigator a bounty hunter and a bail bonds enforcer and that her name is Zora. I sit there for hours listening to her. Within a week she takes me to Las Vegas. We drive there in her red Mustang. As always there is a Colt .380 under the driver's seat and a .45 Megastar in the trunk. In Vegas we skip the casinos and head straight for the male strip clubs where Zora drops at least 200 on lap dances from buff guys with names like Roman. Her get-up is the same as before-- teased hair jewelry and the ubiquitous tank dress-- which I realize is the best way to show off her tattoos. One is this big circle with blue and white swirls in it kind of like a bowling ball on her left shoulder. Every guy she meets asks her about it. And when they hear her answer they sometimes propose marriage. Turns out the tattoo is a magic globe she holds in her dreams. And in these dreams it gives her superpowers. Ever since I remember I have had the dreams. And they are very vivid but it varies. It usually involves fighting sometimes with guns sometimes with superhero powers-- lightning from my fists and all that. And I usually have super strength and I can fly and I have all those things right? And it is my most common set of dreams. And it varies. Sometimes it is medieval. Sometimes it is futuristic. Sometimes it is like a guerrilla war in Latin America. Can you describe that Zora to me? The Zora in the dreams? Very powerful athletically but beyond the rules of nature that this world allows. So 6'5 and long-- like almost impossibly long silver hair. This sort of otherworldly quality to her where her voice did not sound normal. It sounded almost musical. It became something that I aspire to be-- aspire to be this sort of superhero this sort of person who would fight for a cause. Yeah. It was my motivation in life. Ever since I was 10 or 11 I decided that that was my goal. Zora took the dreams seriously. So seriously that at the age of 12 she sat down and composed a list of some 30 skills she needed to learn if she wanted to become as close to a superhero as any mortal could be. She even gave herself a deadline-- to master these skills by the time she was 23. I know it is in these. Zora pulls out the old spiral notebook that was her diary at the age of 13 and turns to the inside back cover. Yep. There is the list. Wow. Why do not you go ahead and read it? OK. The list included martial arts electronics chemistry metaphysics hang gliding helicopter and airplane flying parachuting mountain climbing survival-- Throughout her teens and 20s-- --martial arts politics-- --each time she started a new diary she would update the list-- --physics-- --and write it in the back of the book. French Arabic Spanish-- Each one with the same format each one titled The List. Weaponry rafting scuba diving herbology. Yes I studied that. CPR first aid and mountain emergency kind of medicine. The list also includes-- Archaeology-- --bodybuilding archery-- --sailing-- --demolitions and explosives. She wanted to learn how to hunt animals and track men. This is funny. I have here major physical conditioning. And the most incredible thing about all of this is that Zora accomplished nearly every item on the list. Throwing stars and compound bows and throwing knives and-- yes. It was a very interesting pastime. To keep up with the goals set by the list she sped through school. Starting in the seventh grade she began completing entire school years during the summer term and finished high school by the time she was 15. She got her BA at 18 a masters at 20 and completed the coursework for a PhD in geopolitics by the time she was 21. She wanted to live like Indiana Jones spending half her time in the classroom and half her time saving the world in the jungles of Peru. Item number 4 camel elephant riding. Evasive driving and stunts. When you are a kid you have these romantic visions of what you will be when you grow up. But how many people are so diligent they commit their dreams to paper and make it their life's work to achieve them? How many keep a list amending it adding to it ticking things off as they go along well into their adult lives? After finishing the coursework for her PhD Zora decided to quit school disappointed at the lack of cliff-hanging adventure in her doctoral program. And since superheroes who live in the real world need jobs she decided to seek employment at the only place that would allow her to put all the skills from the list to use. Zora wanted to become an agent in the CIA. And so began a rigorous application process-- interviews psych exams a three-day lie detector test. After that then they sent investigators out to interview me interview my neighbors interview ex-boyfriends interview friends ex-friends former colleagues people I work with people I used to work with. They threw a question out in the middle of an interview. So what would you do in this situation? If you were driving down the road and you had one of your native agents with you someone who is going to give you some information and you were in a third-world country somewhere and you were driving a car and you accidentally ran into a dog? And people have been out playing in the street children in the street they see their dog get killed. And they get upset and they rush towards the car. What do you do in that situation? You do not want to draw attention to the person who is with you. So what I said was that I would tell my agent to get down lower in the car. And I would get out of the car and draw the attention to myself and try to appease them in some way either by giving them money more likely but-- and that was an acceptable answer to them. That was a good answer to them. At the time when I was going through the process it felt like everything was coming together. And I had not felt so much joy probably ever. Did you tell them about your dreams? Absolutely not. And I would tell them that I had a sense that I could combine the whole street smarts intellectual the education with the sort of adventurer personality. And I was actually told that I had the perfect personality for it and that I would do really well. It was like the fruition of my life that it was going to be the step into the next-- you know where I would be using all that list and preparation for the next phase which would be to actually put it into practice. About eight months into the interviews Zora got a letter saying she would been rejected. She appealed over the next year and a half partly to find out why they would turned her down. But the best they could do was to tell her to try again in a few more years. In the end the CIA would not take her and they would not even tell her why. Probably it took me more like two years to recover. I was a basket case. I was not-- I was not-- I was just down you know? I would have to work. I could not concentrate. Sort of slumped down staring at the wall. I put my whole life into examination all the years of preparation. Most of us give up our dreams of superhero adventure when we are adolescents. Zora was only getting to it at the age of 27. Here she knew how to fly a helicopter and survive in the wilderness but for what? She devoted a lot of time to thinking about why she might have been rejected by the CIA. Maybe it was all those months she spent with right-wing militia groups doing her doctoral research. Maybe she should not have told the CIA how she ended up in a clandestine IRA club one night while on vacation in Ireland. Maybe the CIA did not like the fact that her father a professor at the University of Minnesota is an outspoken Serbian nationalist. Or maybe it was simply her own fault-- that she could not turn herself into a superhero. I had violated the agreement of the list violated the agreement that I made with myself that I had not become what the archetype was that I had become something lacking. The point being that my mythology should have guided me better and it felt like such a final thing. So Zora remade herself. She had been virtually isolated from other people since she was 15 when she started actively pursuing the goals on the list. Her parents were happy she was so busy because she had no time for boys. But now she started working for a woman private investigator. One day when she went to court she wore her first pair of pantyhose because she was told it would help her look more feminine. Soon after she was schooled in the sheer power of lipstick a short skirt and a supermodel runway walk to control the minds of others. These days she works for an international private investigation agency that handles these kinds of cases. Child abduction retrieval custody reverse stings occult and ritualistic crimes-- those tend to be really interesting I like working on those-- anti-terrorism kidnap protection and return counterintelligence. She is happy doing this work. In a typical case Zora's agency sent her on a mission to Mexico to do what is known as a reverse scam. The agency was hired by the family of a young woman who'd recently traveled there and fallen in love with a man she planned to marry after knowing him for only 10 days. The family suspected some sort of con. Zora contacted him pretending she was looking for a girlfriend who used to work with him in the travel industry. She took a photo of a classmate with her to begin the scam. I sort of played the distressed American student going to the Spanish school. And he invited me on a couple of dates and asked me to come back for the bullfight. What did you wear when you went to the bullfight? Oh I wore like a little itty-bitty skirt and a little tank top. I made it seem like I had plenty of money and that interested him. You know he kind of perked up at that. He never mentioned the whole time that I ever spent any time with him he never mentioned that there was ever a woman. I found him to be pretty emotionally open and a very romantic guy but I honestly felt that he probably was not in love with her that he was taking this as an opportunity to live in the United States. And that was the report I gave. Before Zora set out for Mexico I rode with her to the airport. We were late and hurrying through the terminal just 10 minutes to spare when she did the strangest thing. She sat down in a chair far from the gate and would not move. I told her she was going to miss her flight but she did not budge. I sat down next to her. She said she was scared. About the case? About which disguise she might wear? About being found out? No she said. She said she was afraid that when she got to Mexico people would not like her. The next time I was at her house I had not noticed before but I realized her bookshelf was packed with advice on how to build confidence-- titles like Princessa Machiavelli for Women. Books like that are not really so far from the idea of keeping a list having an ongoing plan for self-improvement believing that if you just put something on paper and stick to it you can change. Zora still has her list. But while the old list was all about being perfect and saving the world the new list is very different. I need to learn how to play tennis and golf. And my new list is windsurfing tennis golf. I need to develop some kind of talent. Like I need to learn how to sing properly or to do some kind of comedy or sketches acting. Acting-- I need to learn how to act. Oh I need to learn how to sing like Billie Holiday. She does not take the list so seriously these days. There are no deadlines. She puts things on the list and later decides not to do them. It is not a grand mission anymore. Now it is just a list. Kelly McEvers-- she is the host of NPR's Embedded podcast. Zora is currently doing a kind of superhero work. She is on the UN peacekeeping mission-- no kidding-- in the Central African Republic.  Noted Billie Holiday imitator David Sedaris. Coming up exactly what Superman knows that jigsaw man does not. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose a theme bring you a variety of different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's program-- superpowers and how easy it is to get caught up in the dream of superpowers. We have arrived at Act Three. Act Three-- The Green Team of Superhero Boy Millionaires the Amazing Super Monkey From Planet Krypton and the Man From Sram. My friends they come in waves-- 100 a year or more whole armies of them. I am talking about new superheroes created by the comic book companies. It is rare for any of them to last more than a few issues. The website Gone and Forgotten is as far as we can tell the authoritative archive of these failed super souls. The guy who runs the site under the title Your Humble Editor is Jonathan Morris. He says that the few great superheroes have some common sense things going for them. One they have powers that make intuitive sense. Two they have a reason for fighting crime. Three the stories have a human touch to them. You can relate to them. He agreed to come into the studio with a stack of some of the comics that do not quite measure up to those super standards. I am trying to find a very good one. I have brought a ton of comics with me. Let us see. We have got Captain Marvel who is one of the characters featured on the website. His amazing power is that he can split by which we mean his limbs fall off and then flail around. Hopefully I imagine beating up the criminal. What? I am not kidding. He says split. His arms legs and head fall off and he screams yow I popped apart! And with the word zam he returns to normal. That is a-- He is flying into action. I do not even know why-- that is one of the most disturbing things I have ever heard. This company had a number of characters who shared their names with preexisting characters. They had a Plastic Man who appeared in this very issue in fact but he was nothing like the famous Plastic Man. Which was always an embarrassment to him. He would be ordering-- you know he would be ordering online or he would-- He gets his mail all the time. Exactly. He would make a reservation at a restaurant. And then he would show up and they are like oh we thought you were the other Plastic Man. Right. And there is even a point where he hears people yell Plastic Man on the street and he is long past the point where he is thinking maybe they mean me. No he knows they mean the guy in the red. I did bring all the Preses with me. Pres? Pres-- the first teen president of the United States. A rather earnest young man named Pres Rickard becomes-- and with a name like that how could he not? He becomes the first teenage president of the United States. This is the issue right before he has to fight vampires too which was not a responsibility I was aware the president had but apparently it is rather important. Now what is his superpower? Like what kind of president does he make? Well he kind of fits in that Doc Savage Batman mold where he is mostly a very well-trained human. And thanks to his Indian companion Eaglefree's menagerie of animals he learns several animal skills-- helping teach Pres Rickard how to be fast as an antelope swing like a monkey fight like a bear I guess. You know I have always thought that the United States presidency would be so much more effective if the president had the powers to communicate and control the animals. Well there is one thing that Pres proves. It is that there is nothing that the President could not solve with two fists an Indian companion and a small army of birds and elephants.   If you were to explain to people the characteristics of a bad comic book superhero-- Yeah. There are obviously a lot of ways you can screw up. One of the ways is to just overdo it and cram the elements of the character down the readers' throats. One of the characters was Bee Man and everything about him was bees. His full name was Barry E. Eames. He was attacked by mutant bees which were sent to Earth by space alien bee people. And he himself became a mutant bee person who had bee powers and lived in a hive and ate honey and stole gold because gold looked like honey. And he could sting you. There is nothing bee-related this man refused to do. It is as if you meet somebody at a bar you start talking to him and you realize he only has one interest in life. That is exactly what Bee Man was. Everything would have gotten back to bees. You start talking about what you watched on television last night he will say you know I saw an interesting show on bees. Do certain comic superheroes come out of particular moments in the nation's history? Positively. That is another thing that really works against a character is when they are tied in too tightly to a fad or tied in too tightly to something that is identifying an era. There is a character created in the '70s but who was supposed to be a retro character from the '50s name of 3D Man to help hook up on the 3D movies that were a craze in the '50s. Terrible flat character. Nothing going on. And when you say 3D Man what was his pow