From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. A quick warning to everybody who is listening to this podcast version of our show. There are some words that we have unbeeped. If you do not want to hear that maybe you are listening with kids you can get a beeped version at our website ThisAmericanLife.org. So Chana Joffe-Walt one of our producers has been reporting this story. It is going be the whole hour today. It is a really good one. Here she is. When Vivian started reading about the men in Hollywood and the media and their sexual transgressions she thought of the men in her past who had behaved poorly the man who assaulted her in her 20s and the others-- A few unwanted kisses over the years-- I mean truly unwanted drunken guys just sort of pushing themselves on me and you know the usual array of jokes and comments and this and that. She thought of them and she thought of Don her partner of 23 years. And Vivian wondered. Don was a boss to dozens of women. He ran AlterNet a progressive news website and he was a flirt. It was easy for me to imagine that Don had missed unspoken signals-- being a little too present a little too close a little too eager a little too-- you know those kinds of things. She would seen it. She would seen Don's attention make women uncomfortable at parties in restaurants. And what would end up happening is I would catch her eye and we would roll our eyes together-- like oh God men --there would be a sort of a bond there and things would go on. And this is like Don flirting with some woman in front of you. Yeah. He was a flirt? Yes I knew he was a flirt. I also really knew that that did not have anything to do with us. That had to do with a need for attention. Did you feel embarrassed by it? Of course of course. But it pass quickly. It was usually very easy to move things along. Then I could step in. I could step between. I could engage her in conversation whatever right. Would you talk to Don about it? Rarely because I did not think I would be believed. By him. By him. I think he would sort of laugh it off and say oh you just do not get it. It is all in fun-- which I do think was his attitude-- which I know was his attitude.   So a couple of months ago when Don told Vivian that BuzzFeed News was writing a story about him Vivian was not surprised. People who used to work for Don at AlterNet were accusing Don of sexually harassing them. Vivian read the article. A number of women detailed encounters with Don-- unwanted advances inappropriate touching sending them explicit e-mails. Vivian recognized Don in some parts others felt like they were describing a person she would never met. Mostly she had a particular experience reading that story that actually had nothing to do with Don. A memory came back to me from when I was 28 that I am sure I had not thought about since it happened. She was training to be a psychologist with a bunch of young trainees at a clinic. She was in the back room where the staff took breaks and wrote notes. The supervisor was a man as virtually all the supervisors at the time were in his 40s maybe even early 50s. Vivian was on the couch with a friend a woman in her 40s and the two of them watched as many of the young psychology interns women Vivian's age in their 20s crowded around the supervisor. They are surrounding him and sort of hanging on his words and leaning in and it is just got that-- no offense his words were not that interesting you know. It is like they were fine. But oh my God and he was eating it up. You could just see he loved this. And then I am sitting in the back of the room on the couch with this other woman Lynn and she looks up and she goes hm the cupcakes. Vivian lost it. She loved this word. It was perfect. And you understood immediately that that was meant to refer to the women who were surrounding the supervisor. Absolutely. Absolutely. And you know and I was really proud that she was basically saying you are not one of them. You know I did not want to be one of them. She was basically saying that you are cool and they are not. Exactly exactly. Like we are grown up women and they are not. Oh God yeah. That is who I want to be. That is where her mind when reading about her partner of two decades in the news-- the cupcakes. Vivian felt full of regret. She regretted her contempt for the cupcakes. She regretted her acceptance that this was the way it would always be between men and women. Men would have power and women would have to deal with that. What I found so interesting about this was for Vivian learning the news about Don sparked this memory that was not about Don but in some ways it felt like it had everything to do with Don. It explained something to her about who she is and how she is and choices and assumptions she is made in her life. Now I want to tell you about another group of people I have been talking to the women who worked for Don including women who say they were harassed by him. I talked with them and they each told me their Don stories but they also did the same thing Vivian did. They brought up specific experiences from their past things that happened years ago. Because for them that stuff in the past feels related to their experiences with Don.   Over the last few months of Me Too stories I keep wanting to hear more from the women who were in the news reports their broader history not just the bad experience they had with one man at an office or on a movie set but the other moments before the harassment because there is no Me Too moment that is actually separate from the rest of our lives. So today's show we are going to do that. Five women tell their stories Vivian and four women who worked for her partner Don Hazen over the course of many years at different times with a wide range of experiences. We are going to hear from each of them one at a time about their experiences with Don and their experiences before Don. Don resigned from his job a few months ago and told me the board that oversees AlterNet insisted he could not talk on the record. I can tell you some about his version of events but you will not be hearing from him. It is not a story about him it is about them these five women. What these women are doing is what I think so many of us have been doing lately. They are doing it in ways I found brave and vulnerable. They are re-evaluating who they are how they have related to men how they came to think of certain things as normal. It is a reckoning not just for men for women. It is This American Life. I am Chana Joffe-Walt. Stay with us. This is probably evident by now but just to say we will talk about sex in this show not just its existence but some of the specifics. And there are some moments of abuse so take this as a heads up. OK. The women who worked for Don at AlterNet beginning with Act 1 Deanna. The list started when Deanna was eight years old. The first time it was Face from the A-Team. Deanna got a postcard of him that year when her family went to Universal Studios. She put a puffy red heart sticker on it took it with her during the day-- --slept with it at night and I actually-- and I am eight. And I felt like I was going to die if I never met him. I actually thought I would die. I was like I will cease to exist if I do not get to meet this person. The next one made her cry. He was 12 so was she. Deanna called her Aunt Rose from the basement distressed. She would written him letters dedicated a song to him on the radio and nothing no response. Aunt Rose was quick to deliver advice. This is the way boys are. They do not understand you. They are dumb. They do not get you. You are strong and smart and independent and that just is never going to make sense to men. Aunt Rose explained it would be Deanna's job to make sense of things to men. If she was going to have relationships with them it would never be easy and it would be on her to figure it out. Boys were too dumb to do it for themselves. Jay's dad was a minister. Jay liked Monty Python and had a car and very few opinions. He was incredibly sweet and he was very much whatever you want to do. Well what do you want to do? You know not super-motivated on his own. I was like come along with me. When Deanna went away to college Jay said I will come too. When she broke up with him his mom called her mom to ask if there was any way they could get back together. Chris worked at the dollar store in the mall. Chris wanted more from his life. Deanna was 19 and got him a job on the other side of the mall at a Sam Goody she used to work at. She wanted more for him too. He was funny and moody and he was the first person Deanna had sex with. Mark wanted a job in film or TV but nobody wanted to give him film or TV jobs. It was his idea to move to New York and once they were there Deanna got a job first as a bookkeeper. Mark got no job. She called his friends his friends' friends and found Mark an IT job which he hated so she found him another job at a magazine and he worked there for the next 10 years. Deanna moved out three weeks before 911.   There was the German the Israeli with the burger joint men seemed to want wives and Deanna did not want to be a wife. Men also seemed to want her but had no thoughts about what else that might look like. They do not get you her mom would say on the phone. You have to show them how to be with you. The Iraq War was starting and so was the presidential race. Deanna volunteered for the Howard Dean campaign. He had a rally in New York before her 28th birthday. And while she was at the rally-- This guy comes up to me and he is got a reporter's pad and he said hey after he is done talking you know can I talk to you? And I said sure. And he said you are a volunteer? An I said yeah. And we talked for a really long time and I actually got into an argument with him about Dennis Kucinich. He was pro. She understood but come on that guy could never win. And then he said well you know can I have your email address? I will send you the article when it is done. And I was like sure you know what are you writing for or whatever. And he was like oh I am the Executive Editor of AlterNet. Don Hazen. AlterNet was not a major publication but Deanna knew it. She read it all the time. The next day Don sent her his article very pro-Dean and a personal note to her. See how much you influenced me already. And I was like well that is cool. I just convinced this like editor guy. That is awesome. I was like that is really cool. Like what made you change your mind? It started up this email conversation. He asked about her. Was she hoping to get into politics? What was her job? Did she like it? What else did she want to do? It seemed really kind and a little bit flirtatious but I was fine with that. Like I liked having this super-interesting compelling man interested in me. Don lived in California but had an apartment in New York for work. Deanna could not quite guess his age. She thought maybe mid-40s. He was 56. He would be coming out to New York again. Did she want to get dinner? I kind of figured it was a date and I did feel flirtatious with him. I did feel like ooh this is fun. It was fun. He walked her home. They talked about the party she was planning for her 28th birthday where she should have it. They made out outside her apartment and the next day Don asked her out again dinner and this time back to his apartment. They were making out got naked and when she felt him push inside her Deanna was startled. It was abrupt and he was not wearing a condom. In Deanna's experience someone always went and got the condom. That had never happened before. She felt slow like she was floating in a silent conversation with herself. Uh-- should I say something? Uh-- I think it is OK. I mean I do not really want to stop things. He is older she thought. Guys like that are not getting around. Be nice to him. You are on birth control. You are not getting axe murdered right now. You are having a good time. You are fine. All right let us just do this. It was new and adventurous and that is who Deanna wanted to be. Plus she felt powerful in that moment. This is something that I am bestowing upon him this youthful gift this youthful body or something. Like I did feel that way and kind of like I was doing him a favor. And he seemed very like grateful and I had not had that experience before. With 25-year-old boys. No as it turns out different-- real different. So yeah I definitely felt like this was a rare thing for him. Uh huh.  She thought about the condom thing again on the way home. Deanna's story about Don that he was a good guy a grown-up self-actualized man who was taken by her was also a story about herself. She was powerful interesting could change his mind on important issues. The fact that he never even thought to ask about protection-- It just did not make sense. And so my default was to trust that it was going to be OK. It did not make sense to me and I made sense of it and that carried through the entire relationship.   Don started giving her work. He wanted her to help manage a big project for AlterNet. Deanna said yes. Don thought she was a poor fit for her corporate job. She agreed. When he was in town they would get dinner spend the night or a weekend which she loved and then he would leave which she also loved. Don does not need things from her as her other boyfriends had. It was the opposite. He set things up for her. He had an apartment for her to crash in he had contacts she should meet he bought her first Mac laptop he helped her quit smoking dinner was on him and he did it all without demanding she be a wife. It was seven months later that Deanna learned Don had a wife a partner actually a distinction without a difference as far as Deanna was concerned since Don explained that this was the woman he would been with for years Vivian who you heard from earlier. They owned a house together and she did not know about Deanna. She says it was one of their first fights. I cannot believe you lied to me. And he was like I did not lie to you. I never lied to you. And I was like lying by omission is still lying. And he was like you knew. And I will never forget this word he said you have been colluding with me all along. And I was like I do not think so. But she went back to old emails to references Don would make to his domestic situation. Maybe she had not wanted to know. She stopped sleeping with him. She kept working for him. By now they were working on a book together. That meant seeing him and when she saw him she would inevitably sleep with him again. She liked him-- their conversations their connection. He was not thrown by me in a way that felt like other men had been. He was not-- he just was not afraid of me. He saw her as she wanted to be seen. She stayed in the secret affair ignored his daily phone calls home to Vivian. Deanna wanted more time with Don more contact as he did with her. He could be annoying about it. She started a folder called his where are you emails. He did not like lack of contact or the wrong kind of contact. He would say why did you email me about personal stuff and there is no work info in here? Like I need to know what is happening. I need to know where things are. I need to know what we are working on. And I am like OK so I would send him the work email. Why is not there anything emotional here? Do not you love me? I guess you do not care about me. Like he would send these like super-victimy emails. That was also the point where he started talking to me more about the staff and his frustrations at work and his I do not want to do all this anymore but everyone that works for me is so incompetent that I have to be in there all the time doing all these things for them. By now Deanna had met a lot of Don's staff. He would started flying her out to California as a consultant for AlterNet. So she would see him in his office. He was just a very demanding boss just yelling at people like why cannot you get this right and what is wrong with you? Deanna tried to make sense of this behavior. He was angry and insecure. This was not the easy-going confident man she would signed up for. She wanted to be supportive the way he would been supportive of her but this felt all new to her. If we had been to an event together he would watch how much I was drinking and would accuse me later of drinking too much and being too tired to want to have sex with him and starting a fight about that. What do you mean? Why not? Why are you tired? Like I had a really long day. And he was like well you knew you were seeing me tonight. Like why did you have a long day like why did you do so much? And I am like well one I was working for you. And two-- you know and I would defend myself. And then he would get really assertive and red-faced eyes bulging you know veins popping and he was scary as shit when he was angry.   Deanna started giving in to sex. Not I do not feel like it but I love you sex. This was sex to end a fight. Having sex could shut down the behavior that was not making sense the parts that did not fit into Deanna's story of a powerful woman who was having adventures with a man who was not challenged by her power. Act 2 The Dinner. Onnesha had just started at AlterNet. She was still getting a lay of the land. She was bright ambitious ready for her chance and here it was. The staff was friendly. The boss Don was too sometimes. Don was very mercurial very very moody. Sometimes it would be like compliments and praise other times it would just-- he would be like furious about the pettiest thing. But she generally escaped his anger. Onnesha learned early how to anticipate his moods keep it professional. She kept her distance. A couple months in the whole AlterNet staff got together for some meetings. Everyone came. Don flew a couple of people out from New York including a consultant for AlterNet named Deanna. Onnesha did not know Deanna really. She seemed nice. After the meetings they all went out to dinner and Onnesha saw that Deanna was sitting next to Don but made nothing of that. It was Onnesha's colleague Laura who noticed it first. Here's Laura. During that dinner I glanced over and noticed that she was cutting up the meat on Don's plate like his steak or something and I was just like what-- I was just like what is happening? This is so strange to me. Cutting his meat like she was leaning over his plate? Yeah. Yeah they were sitting right next to each other in a tight-- you know it was a big table but a crowded restaurant. So they were sitting very close together and she was just like leaning over like it was her plate. But I mean it is not normal. It is just not normal. It is just like why would he need that? Why would she need to do that? Why was he letting her do that? Did he ask her to do it? I do not know. I mean there was something about it that was just very profoundly disturbing. Oh it was so weird. Oh she is like cutting his meat for him. Onnesha eventually noticed it too and she could not figure out what is up with this woman. I just do not understand this dynamic. Like the manual I had constructed on how to navigate and deal with Don I was just like flipping through all the pages I was like nope nope nope what no. I have no guide for this where to place this behavior. Laura could not place it either. There is really no rationalization. I could think of no possible reason for that to be a thing happening right at that moment that made sense beyond they are sleeping together. But it still did not make sense. After that dinner Laura and Onnesha left and never mentioned it. They did not talk to each other about it or anyone else in the office.  Onnesha says it just did not feel like fun office gossip. It felt like something she did not want anything to do with. She did not know anything about the woman sitting in that chair next to Don but Onnesha had always known she did not want to be in that chair. Act 3 Onnesha. Most other girls quit being friends with boys earlier but Onnesha was 13 and she still liked her friends. That summer she hung out with the same boys she always had in the same places-- the kitchen her friend's basement playroom or-- We would all go to the pool together and I had this tie dyed bathing suit this one-piece. And you know like most of my other friends were like wearing bikinis. But you know it was like no I am good. At the snack bar they would get popsicles. You know there would always be like talk about the scene at the pool you know like talking about different girls that would occasionally be part of a conversation. I think they probably reined it in when I was around but there would occasionally be comments. And so they were like they had named someone The Hypnotizer. Like there was this title for some woman. It would have been nothing if it was like the other girls they talked about a passing thing. But this one persisted for weeks. It got to a point I recall where they talked about it enough that I was like oh who is she? You know I wanted to be in on it. I was like show her to me you know. And they were all cryptic about it. They were like oh The Hypnotizer The Hypnotizer. Oh she is here. Or like did you see The Hypnotizer. And I cannot remember how I found out but eventually I found out it was me. It was the first time Onnesha had the feeling. There was her and there was someone else she had not known was there a person who looked good to these boys her friends. I guess a part of me was pleased by that but the more prevalent feeling was like whiplash. They were talking about me in front of me. It is like there was the me that was present and there and interacting with them and then there was this other separate objectified body. It just feels like this whole other person enters the room. Another person who is you? Yeah. Well or I guess fundamentally I felt the same. But suddenly I had to reckon with the fact that I did not look the same to other people. It was obvious to Onnesha how to reckon with that. She needed to crush that other person. She did not want to wear the tie dye bathing suit ever again. She slouched. She wore baggy clothes. It was not like a decision or anything it was just instinct. She watched the girls in bikinis that summer and considered if they somehow had the opposite instinct or maybe they had made a decision to actively try to merge the two girls the one with breasts and the one from before. It really seemed easy for some of them like they welcomed it. And a part of me wishes that I could do that sort of own it you know and like use it like a power. And it is just never struck me as a power. It feels like a false power. It feels like if that is somehow getting me attention like it could turn. Like that is not a safe kind of power to traffic in. By the time Onnesha met Don she would not have been able to say if wearing loose clothing was her fashion sense or strategy. She was 23 years old. She would been guarding against that separate person The Hypnotizer for a decade by that point. AlterNet was Onnesha's first real job the first time she had a desk that was hers the first time she learned a male colleague was getting paid more than her for the same work the first time she asked for a raise from her boss Don which did not go how Onnesha expected. Yeah so I like build this whole case and I get in there and I am nervous. I have my opening foray where I am just like you know I have been doing x and y and the quality of the work I have been doing how I have been working really hard and I am like you know and it is hard to survive in this city on such a low salary. He just like latched onto that. And he kind of leaned in and was like oh are you having trouble paying rent? And I remember that so specifically because it was like my rent. It was so oddly personal and unnecessary and out of left field and I was completely disarmed. And I did not know how to respond. And I think I just sort of stuttered and was like no it is not that. He was not offering to pay her rent directly just did she need a salary increase to help pay her rent which Onnesha did not want to talk about. I do not remember whether I said no I am not having trouble paying rent. I think I would tried to avoid answering that because I did not want-- I felt like that was none of his business. But when I tried to shift the conversation back to this is about being compensated I do not remember if he got angry angry but he was definitely visibly displeased. And he did not want to give me a raise. Instead he offered her a title change. Wait but had you-- what would have happened had you said yeah I am having trouble paying my rent. He would have won. What do you mean he would have won? He would have won a little corner of more power over me. Wait but would he have paid it? Would you have-- Probably. --gotten money. He probably would have. Oh so you would have won. You would have gotten more money. No I would have lost.   Onnesha felt like Don was not talking to her but to The Hypnotizer that he did not want to engage her as a professional discussing her compensation but as an attractive young woman struggling with her rent. He did not want to be a boss paying for her work but a savior paying for her life. Onnesha did not want that kind of help. Maybe it is kind of petty but I was like you are not going to win.  Like you do not get to have this. So she won but she did not get a raise. Act 4 The Cliff. The summer of Onnesha's first year at AlterNet Don left for several weeks of sabbatical. A friend had offered Don the use of his vacation house in Big Sur California. He headed out and wrote Deanna asking her to join him. It is the cliff of the universe he wrote what someone calls the greatest meeting of land and sea. Deanna wrote back bring me soon please. Don flew her out picked her up from the airport and they drove to the house together. We went to bed and started fooling around and he stops and he says we probably should not have sex. And I said how come? Don said he had an STI a sexually transmitted infection. He would had it for a long time had not had symptoms in years. And I was just started like I actually got dizzy. I am like hold up what? Wait. We have been having sex without condoms for two years and now you are telling me that you-- and he was like it is not a big deal. I have had it since I was 16. And I was like it is definitely a big fucking deal. And I got really angry like I cannot believe you would risk my health this way and like da da da this is really fucked up. And he was like why are you getting so upset about this? This is not a big deal. I was like yes it most certain-- this is an STI like-- and he cannot understand why I am upset at all. Eventually Don did seem to get that Deanna was upset and began to comfort her. She calmed down wanted to go to sleep. He started wanting to fool around again. You are kind of not up for this right now like this all feels-- and he was like well we do not have to have sex and whatever. And then he was like we can have anal sex. And I was like blink blink no. She did not want to do that. And we were naked in bed. He was spooning me and he made a move like he was going to penetrate me. And I jumped up and yelped what the fuck? And I was like what are you doing? And he was like what do you mean what am I doing? I am just you know like I want to be with you. I want to like you know--  And I was like you are starting to pressure me and it is starting to make me really uncomfortable. This is messed up. And he flipped out. He stood up and he just started screaming at me. He was like how can you say that? How can you say that I am pressuring you? I am the most feminist man you know and you know it. And that is fucked up. So he starts screaming at me like the eyes bulging the red-- He is screaming I am the most feminist man-- Yes. --at you? And then he-- the bedroom was sort of right on the other side of the kitchen and he goes into the kitchen and just starts slamming stuff and throwing stuff and I am just hearing shit smashing in the other room and I am naked in some dude's bed in fucking Big Sur. I do not know how to get out. VOICE BREAKING I am sorry. And eventually it just stopped. I just sat there the whole time like I did not know. You were in the bed? Yeah I just stayed in the bed. He came back eventually and slept with his back to me which was like his cold shoulder move. And I just laid there thinking like I do not know what is going to happen next. Because I really did not want to challenge him. I just had to start making sense of everything around me and being OK with everything. So if you are not going to challenge him or talk to him about it then how are you going to make sense of it?  Shut this out do not think about this again and do whatever you can to not make it happen again.   Deanna would manage manage her feelings his temper manage them away from explosive moments. This is what it meant to be close to someone. Managing a relationship was a role Deanna had practice in. It made sense to her. I have been told my whole life that I was going to have difficult relationships with men that nothing none of this was going to be easy. They warned me that this was how my relationships were going to be. They were going to be very difficult and challenging and so this was like OK. That was how it was going to be for me. It took three years for Deana to break up with Don after that. She was not angry when she did just tired and sad. She told him she loved him but she could not keep doing this. He was not angry either. She thought he would be but he was gentle. He said he knew the day would come. They both cried. After that she would still run into him at professional or social events. They were friendly. A few years after they broke up Deanna went to a protest uptown. And my friends were staging part of the protest so I went to be supportive. And I ran into Don there. And he was like well this is something. You know we were just kind of like chit-chatting. I had not seen him in a while. And you know whatever whatever. And we are kind of walking along with the protest and talking to different people. There was a young woman walking nearby with a reporter's notepad. She was looking around and quickly scribbling notes. And I have actually watched like it felt like watching the Terminator a little bit he just looked and zeroed in on her and just bee lined over to her and said who are you writing for? And she is like oh you know I am a student. And he is like you do not have a place for this article yet? I will give you a place for-- you know do you want to pitch me? And she was like who are you you? And he introduces himself and says AlterNet. She was like oh it would be great to write for AlterNet. He really just came out of nowhere. This is Kristen. Kristen was a determined 21-year-old who bought the same breakfast sandwich from the same cafe everyday because she knew what she liked and she had no need for wasting time. Kristen had never actually heard of AlterNet but she knew she wanted to be a reporter and this guy had a business card and she did not. I was a journalism student undergrad at NYU. Don told her to send him her article and if it was good he would publish it. Kristen said she definitely would. Deanna was off to the side watching. And I got so mad because it just seemed so gross. And I heard that tone of voice. And I had to remembered how he had said things like that to me like I will give you a job you know like I will help you. I will support you. And I got so angry I just looked at him I was like I cannot fucking believe you. And he was like what? And I was like I am out of here. I am done.   The story they had created together had just been obliterated. They were not co-creators. This was his story. Deanna was a set piece. It made me so sick to my stomach. I was not that special. And seeing her kind of brightness and enthusiasm like wow someone wants to give me an opportunity cool. I was so angry. I was so angry. Oh God. Deanna left went home. Kristen went home too. She wrote and rewrote her article until it was 200 in the morning and she knew she had to get it off to Don. And I was excited. Yeah I thought wow this is a crazy chance incident and maybe this will be good and turn into something and it did turn into something.   Coming up the story starts over but it is going to go so differently next time. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Chana Joffe-Walt. Today's show Five Women. We wanted to take one of the Me Too stories where you hear about encounters women have with men who abuse their power in t