Randy Amos was police chief in Albertville Alabama during years when lots of immigrants moved to town. And people in town sometimes did not know what to make of them. I remember I would get calls from people saying you have got to do something about these Mexicans next door. I would say well what are these Mexicans doing? And they said well they are devil worshipers. And I said what do you mean they are devil worshippers? Well they are over here killing goats. And of course they would hear the cry of a goat when the throat was being cut which is a bad sound. I agree. But they eat the goat. That was not a satanic ritual that they were going through. And so we would go back to the caller and explain to them look these people are not worshipping Satan. I am sorry that you had to hear the goat cry. But it is not violating any laws or ordinances that we have in existence here in Albertville Alabama. Well from WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. This is our second episode about Albertville Alabama. You do not need to have heard last week's show to understand this one. But just in case you missed it here's our premise very quickly. The current attorney general Jeff Sessions wants to limit immigration to our country. His views have been instrumental in shaping administration policy. And as we explained in last week's show his perspective comes from what he saw as a senator from Alabama when undocumented immigrants moved into poultry plants and other jobs around the state into towns like Albertville. In just 20 years Albertville went from being 98 white to more than 14 Latino. Basically there were 15000 people and then another 6000 arrived mostly for jobs in the town's chicken processing plants. There is no official estimate of this but the people who know the Latino community best say that more than half the Latino adults are living here illegally-- maybe a lot more than half. In the past Jeff Sessions has mostly spoken about the effects of those immigrants on jobs and wages-- stuff that we talked about in last week's show. Last week we stayed inside the chicken plants. But 6000 new residents non-white residents in this little white town-- that also upended things outside the plants to the point where Albertville became the statewide symbol in Alabama of everything that is wrong with immigration. At one point one of the big national heavy hitters on the immigration issue Kris Kobach flew in and declared the city a disaster zone. He wrote quote I have been all over the country fighting this fight and I have seen the damage done by illegal immigration in cities of every size. But Albertville is in a class by itself. He described a town of mobile home ghettos and a city budget quote thoroughly drained by illegal immigration. And the story of what really happened is so different from that. It is a mix of small local stuff in neighborhoods and in traffic-- traffic is actually a big deal-- and the local stuff sort of colliding with big national political forces that blew into town like a hurricane and reshaped how Albertville saw itself for a while-- but only for a while. And now with the distance of a few years it is actually possible to figure out the truth of what those 6000 newcomers did to Albertville-- what they did to crime rates and schools and property values. It is possible to say what having them in town really cost taxpayers. And we are going to get to all that today. My coworker Miki Meek and I have interviewed over 100 people for this. Miki is co-hosting these two hours with me. Stay with us.   Act one-- Fender Benders and Christmas Lights. So in the early years back in the '90's as people slowly realized that newcomers have arrived and there are lots of them the problem with the newcomers is not the stuff that you usually hear about when people talk about immigration. It is not jobs or wages or the cost to taxpayers. It is other stuff neighbor to neighbor stuff cars and yards and dead goats. The first immigrants to move to town were single Mexican men living together in trailer parks. They were not in the neighborhoods yet. So unless you worked at a poultry plant your first meaningful encounter with one of the newcomers was probably in your car. The number of hit-and-runs more than doubled in Albertville once immigrants moved to town. And everyone we met seemed to have a story of someone in their family getting into a wreck or fender bender. Again here's Randy Amos the police chief in Albertville back in the '90's and Benny Womack his successor. First of all they did not drive very well and not familiar with the laws over here. It put an extra load on our officers answering those calls. They would run a stop sign run a red light DUI. They did not have a driver's license and they would not have insurance. And it was almost a common practice. If they had a crash and their vehicle was not disabled they would run. You know you can understand that. Because they were in here-- in the US-- illegally. They did not want to be in contact with law enforcement. I talked to a bunch of the guys who arrived in the early waves of Mexican workers about this. They said yeah it is true. Most of them did not know what they were doing on the road. Here's Claudio who was in our first episode. He is speaking through an interpreter.   He is like I did not know what that light was. I did not know what that line meant.  No they did not know. They would just like drive around like without doing absolutely anything totally like idiots.  You do not know what a stop was.  You do not know what speed limit was. Was that hard to figure out-- to learn all the rules? Si. Si. They came from really rural places where some of the guys told me they got around on a donkey or a horse. They did not drive cars. Of the dozens of people we talked to one of the people with the most interesting and complicated perspectives on the conflict between the Latino newcomers and the white people in town is Jeannie Courington. She was a city council member a small business owner-- the kind of a town booster who opened the town's recycling center and then worked there for free for years just to get it off the ground. And she was one of the locals who stood between the two communities as a go-between explaining one side to the other. And when things eventually got pretty heated between the two sides she was one of the main voices in Albertville urging tolerance and understanding though she started with some of the same feelings that other people had. Back in the '90's when Mexican workers were first arriving in Albertville she owned and ran the town's travel agency on Main Street which in those pre-internet days people would come in to book flights home to Mexico. And she is very frank when she talks about what that was like for her. I mean I remember when they started coming in because it was so-- it kind of made you nervous. They usually would come in multiples. They did not come alone. I guess they were as afraid of us as we were afraid of them. And there was just three women in the office. So it was kind of unnerving. Most of them kind of looked a little rough around the edges.  It would be like if I was in a room with any minority. I am just not used to-- that is just not my everyday you know-- you just always are a little concerned in everything. Because it is the unknown. And the only thing you hear is the bad things. So it kind of unnerves you. But she got used to being in a room with a minority. And that feeling changed for her. A lot of these early customers became regulars. And when the first Latino businessman moved onto Main Street with a little grocery store onto her same block they ended up checking in with each other almost every day. This is him-- Jose Contreras. Well when I just have a chance I can just go over there and just say hi and blah blah blah and you know make some jokes. Jose is always making jokes. It is his go-to move in lots of situations. He is from the Dominican Republic then Florida and Georgia. He came to Albertville in the '90's because he heard Mexicans were moving into town and he saw an opportunity. Guys would line up in front of the store on payday because he would cash their checks. And because he spoke English and because he is this warm friendly guy he became the de facto community leader for Latino transplants. The person they would go to for advice on how to navigate everything from housing to where to play soccer. Jose loves sports. He jokes that he and Jeannie bonded because they are both outsiders. Because she is not born in Albertville. She was born in Crossville. Just like 10 minutes away. Yeah. Well no it is about 25 minutes away. LAUGHING OK 25. Yeah. She said that you are definitely like the first Latino friend that she ever had. Yeah.  Yes. I think so yeah. Because she is a lady that-- she is in the-- I do not know what is the word that will come up to my mind. She is a high class lady. She is more open-minded because she has traveled. Was she the white person in town who you knew the best? Oh yeah. She is the only one that I can trust.  Jose explained to Jeannie a whole other way to look at people who are living here illegally and what they go through debunking all sorts of stuff. And so she went off reading and researching on her own and found herself suddenly this translator to the white people in town. Somehow it would just always come up. It would come up about people being here illegal and I would try to explain well our government makes it really hard for them to become legals. They have to go through so many steps. And I would try to explain even though they may be illegal somehow they have got a social security number and they are paying taxes. I felt like I was always defending them. I just felt like-- I do not know. I guess I just had a sense in my gut that they are here to stay. By 1996 or '97 with so many hundreds of people moving to town housing's tight. The workers start moving from the trailer parks into rental houses in the neighborhoods around town lots of them packed into single family homes. Some houses started moving their families up from Mexico. Quick picture of the town-- Albertville is nice. There is a quaint little historic section in Main Street. The Tennessee River is nearby. It is pretty green. There is a four-lane highway with all the regular strip mall stuff and fast food. Most of the town is one-story houses with shutters neatly mowed lawns and little red flags for the high school band all over the place. And for the locals anything in the residential areas that deviated from that look was not so welcome. And so after the traffic accidents this becomes the next big deal in town. Jeannie gave us a driving tour and explained why this grated on people so much. If you look right here just as an example things like this would be what people would see and be very upset with. And just describe this yard. Well you have a car parked right in the front yard. You can see where they have destroyed the grass that is been on it because of all the traffic on it. You see garbage cans sitting right in the front door trash scattered on the yard. Here you see this next house. You have got one two three four five six cars sitting in it. Years ago there would be lots of people living in one house. There would be noise. Landlords would not keep up the property. People moved in and out. They were there to make money not settling into the neighborhood. And these were people from the countryside in Mexico where a perfectly kept front lawn was not a thing. Residents were scared it would drive down property values. But for Albertville overall with thousands of people moving to town in a limited amount of housing property values went up faster than for the state as a whole. We drove by one house painted a bright lime green and another bright blue. There were houses in town with Christmas lights year round. Jeannie was like that is just not what people here are used to. It is like that is not our culture to do that. But when non-white people move into a white neighborhood nearly anywhere you will hear this-- like messy yards too many people in one house too many cars. They are noisy. There is loud music-- like that kind of stuff. And then often that is code words for people just do not want non-white people moving in. That is true. Yes some of it is prejudice. You are going to look at the house and you think I have got a wife and a five-year-old kid. That looks pretty trashy with all these cars there. That does not look safe for my family while I am going to work. That is the prejudice part. That is the prejudice part. It is really easy to show up in any small town anywhere and look at how people react to change and decide that it all belongs in this bucket of prejudice. But in Albertville it was hard to parse out just how much was prejudice and how much was just people dealing with something new. That was real also. And we would get into these conversations where people would ask us to take that seriously. Like there really were more hit-and-runs. Some streets really did look different than they used to. One guy who worked at the local paper whose family had lived in town for generations put it this way. For a place which had not seen much change it was just a lot to take in in a very short period of time. People look different and paint their houses differently and speak a different language and it just seemed to come out of nowhere. People did not know how to deal with it. Immigration economist George Borjas named a book after this great quote about immigration. The quote's about immigrants arriving in the country. Somebody once said we wanted workers but we got people instead-- meaning real people who had their own ways of life. It might not match up with how people live in the new country. It is never easy. That is what happened in Albertville. The next thing people noticed totally plays into all sorts of ugly stereotypes. People see Spanish names on the police blotter which was printed in the local newspaper the Sand Mountain Reporter. These were usually write-ups about driving without a license DUIs public intoxication-- small stuff. And then years into all of this people started seeing major crimes appear in the paper committed by Latino men around Albertville. A man was shot and dismembered just outside of town. Five pounds of meth were seized in a drug raid. Five brothels were busted in the trailer parks around town. Chief of Police Benny Womack says brothels were something the town had never seen before. The Hispanic community was getting all the attention about crime and that sort of thing. It becomes a big issue for the citizens. Immigrant crime of course is one of those big topics where liberals and conservatives square off with their arguments that are at this point very familiar to many of us. But liberals point out that most studies on immigrant crime show that people who immigrate to this country are less likely to commit crimes than native born Americans. America Firsters say that even one crime committed by somebody who is not in the country illegally is a crime too many and we should not stand for it. That is the president's view and he set up a federal office that documents these crimes. So putting the rhetoric aside how exactly did this play out in this one small town in Alabama? Well during the period when the immigrants arrived-- 1990 to 2010-- there was an explosion of all kinds of crime in town. The numbers are kind of stunning. Arrests for drug possession quintupled. Property crime rates more than tripled. That is burglary theft and car theft. Violent crimes almost quadrupled though in the last few years they have fallen back to where they started. But I talked to John Siggers who is the commander of the drug enforcement unit for the county Albertville is in-- Marshall County-- and was an Albertville police officer from 1997 to 2007 right in the middle of the period that we are talking about. And I asked him about all that extra crime. Are most of the drug arrests Latinos? No. No. Absolutely not. Most of the meth possession cases are-- I would say-- 90-something percent Caucasian. And what about the property crime cases in town? That would be Caucasian. He explained these kinds of property crime rates are just a side effect of drug use and drug crime. It is people stealing to feed their habits. You know that happens not just in Albertville not just in Marshall County or Alabama but all over the country. The way police describe it there was an epidemic of meth use around Albertville that started around the time the immigrants arrived. It was all over the country back then and unrelated to their arrival. Around Albertville there was mostly home-cooked meth. But then state law made it difficult to get the ingredients for home-cooked meth and the Mexican drug cartel stepped in using Albertville as a base to supply a swath of northern Alabama. Sigger says today that every meth arrest they make they can trace back to Mexican distributors. But Sigger says that if there were no Latino population in Albertville there very well might be just as much drug and property crime in town because the meth would just come in through Atlanta. So whether the Hispanic population was here or not Atlanta is still the hub. And we are located three hours from Atlanta. The drugs would still come in here. So Albertville is in this strange situation where most of the immigrant residents are not involved in drug trafficking or organized crime. The police say they actually tip them off about crimes. And if the immigrants had never been to town the amount of drug trafficking and crime really might not have been very different in Albertville. But that is not the conclusion people are drawing from what they read in the newspaper. For the first decade and a half that Latino families were moving to Albertville probably the best place to track how longtime residents were feeling about the changes was in the local paper the Sand Mountain Reporter. They had letters to the editor in a column called Speak Out where any irate resident could call an answering machine and leave an anonymous message that would then get printed in the paper. People complained pretty much any time the city spent money on Latino residents. And then an equal number of their neighbors would call the complainers bigots and tell them to go read their bibles which did not stop anyone. It was like every week every week. People were just like get all these illegals out of here taking the welfare and using it taking our jobs doing crime-- like every week every week every week. This is Ricky Ibarra one of the first Latino graduates of Albertville High School part of the generation of kids who grew up speaking English and whose parents moved to town to work in the poultry plants. He says the older Latino people they do not read the newspaper. But like the college students high school students we are more to what is going on you know? So you would want to read it just to see what the atmosphere was. And it was pretty bad it sounds like. But it was bad because you read it-- or at least to me-- I would read it and-- I mean I used to work in companies where we were just surrounded. Sometimes I was the only Mexican there. So it used to have me feeling like I wonder if they are thinking the same thing which-- I mean that was bad because some of the people I used to work with they were pretty good with me. But it would just mess up the whole day. Because you would see that early in the morning. And then it would just have you thinking thoughts. Which brings us to act two The March. In 2006 President Bush tries to get Congress to create a path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants. There is a wave of marches around the country in support of that. Good evening. The issue of immigration stirs intense emotions. And in recent weeks Americans have seen those emotions on display. On the streets of major cities crowds have rallied in support of those in our country illegally. Ricky and a bunch of other Latino residents who had been living in town for a while and spoke English started talking about whether they should organize a march in Albertville for immigrants. They tried to enlist Jose Contreras the guy with the grocery store on Main Street who they were buddies with. Here's Jose. I would say are you crazy? You are going to be all in jail.  And he said why? Why? I said because you have to ask for permission. Are you sure? I said let me find out. I can find out. And I called Jeannie. Jeannie of course his friend on the city council who owned the travel agency. At this point Albertville is around 20 Latino. The population has been growing for 15 years. But there is been no official outreach from the city. There is no Latino resident on the city council. So this was the back-channel way things would get done. Jose would talk to Jeannie about things going on in the community. Jeannie would take it to the people running the city.  And so he brought it to my attention. And then I went to the mayor and the city council president at that time. And they kind of just laughed. And they did not think it was-- nobody's going to show up. So needless to say everybody was a little bit shocked when there was about 5000 people. 5000 marchers poured through the streets of Albertville blocking off the lane of traffic. White people were shocked. Latino people were shocked. The organizers were shocked. Oh yeah. We were laughing. I was laughing. We were like I do not know what we did. Jeannie shared a snapshot she took of the crowd-- a long calm procession. All the people-- yes they all wore white shirts. But they all-- if you notice that they all were carrying an American flag and talking about being-- I do not have my glasses on. So I cannot read their sign there. So-- but-- We love the USA. Yes. The organizers told people not to bring Mexican flags. People picked up litter along the route. Jose and his friend Luis reimbursed the police department for their officers' overtime during the march. Again here's Ricky. It was actually the biggest crowd in Alabama even bigger than Birmingham and Hunstville. I mean do you think this march-- do you think it freaked out some people in town to see in such-- Oh I think it did. I mean I think that is what it did really. Because they were more stunned. I think it did freak the people out of the community. Again Jeannie. It was a shock. I mean it was like holy cow you know? I have never seen this many people-- you know they would see them around town but never in that massive a number. It was just kind of hard for our town to kind of absorb. So it was like a wake-up call. Yeah kind of. And they were afraid they were going to take over their town. Why did you take these pictures? Well I guess I felt like at that time it was a moment of history. And it is a historical moment. What does it represent? Change. Coming up-- why some of the people in the march came to regret it. That is in a minute on Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. It is our second program about Albertville Alabama the town that went from nearly all white to more than 14 Latino in two decades. My co-host today is Miki Meek. We have arrived at act three of our program. Act three-- Backlash. So after the march now that the locals had realized just how many Latino families had moved into town a long period of backlash kicks off. At first it is modest. The city council passes a few new ordinances and starts enforcing a few old ones hoping to clean up the way things look around town. Oh and by the way if you want to hold a march you now needed to apply 10 days in advance. They also tried to get the federal government to deport people. The police partner up with ICE-- Immigration and Customs Enforcement-- so that anytime they have someone in jail they suspect is undocumented they call ICE. In the first year 300 people are turned over into ICE custody. And the city asks the feds to give Albertville police officers the power to do immigration arrests. Police Chief Benny Womack said most people in town did not understand that his officers could not enforce federal immigration law. You see the citizens-- and probably still do not-- know why a police officer a local police officer cannot do something about that problem. That is where I was getting flack. Why do not you do something? You are a cop. And sometimes even if you explain it to them they do not understand. If Benny wanted his cops to make immigration arrests they had to get special authorization and training under a federal program called 287g. The city applied for it. Their congressmen and their senator Jeff Sessions went to bat for them. A handful of officers did some training with ICE and Benny kept requesting 287g authorization and a detention facility to hold immigration violators. But it all fell apart. Federal priorities changed and they never ended up getting the authorization they wanted. While all of this was going on in town this interesting thing happened. The anti-immigration forces on the national scene scored a huge victory against the president of the United States President Bush and a bipartisan group of senators. They killed off Bush's proposed path to legal status in 2007. And then with the wind at their backs they headed out into a period of energized experimentation in Arizona Georgia and in Alabama. They started raising the flag on the issue around the state. A conservative group called The Eagle Forum held public meetings in Mobile Montgomery Huntsville Tuscaloosa Birmingham. State legislators sounded the alarm about how undocumented immigrants were a drain on taxpayers and how they drove down wages and stole jobs. Joe Hubbard was a state representative for Montgomery a Democrat who noticed how his Republican colleagues seemed to be strategizing from a new playbook. He says that before this-- Your state legislator was as local a politician as you got. He was the guy that you talked to about schools. He was the guy that you talked to about funding for that road project you need. I think that from 2004 to 2006-- and ultimately in 2010-- you saw efforts by the Alabama Republican Party to nationalize local elections and to talk about what is going on in DC the Congressional Democrats Nancy Pelosi on and on. I think there was polling that showed immigration which heretofore has been a national issue could make for good state political fodder. The person leading the charge in Alabama was a Republican state senator Scott Beason. As he stumped the state calling for action he got accused of trying to rile up voters over something that was a non-problem in Alabama. Alabama's not Arizona or Texas. They just did not have that many immigrants documented or undocumented. It was just 3 of the population. Only a handful of states had fewer. But Beason had an answer at the ready. And a lot of people said let us do not deal with this issue because we do not have a big population. So why would you deal with it? But what I looked out and saw was the states that did not deal with it decades ago eventually became paralyzed because the population had grown so big businesses were addicted to the labor. So we were trying to nip it in the bud. And when you were going around talking about this around the state did you feel like it was popular? Did you feel like people were on your side? Oh absolutely. Absolutely. What was the polling like? It was overwhelming. Beason's an environmental consultant turned Tea Party politician-- a chatty guy. And his first big win was convincing the legislature to create a special commission which he co-chaired-- the Alabama Patriotic Immigration Commission-- to hold hearings around the state on the issue. Albertville inserts itself into this discussion more than any other city in the state of Alabama. People were saying Albertville is a place you need to check out. It just kind of bubbled to the top. Scott Beason says-- and there is no doubt it is true-- that the person who pushed Albertville to the top was a longtime Albertville resident named Teresa Ferguson. I know Teresa well. Well a lot of Republicans in the state know Teresa. And a lot of that is from her efforts of saying hey come look and see what is going on here. How would you describe Teresa Ferguson? I think she is a great lady. I would say one of her gifts is the ability to reach out to elected officials. And I think she really cares about her community. And she is one of the nicest people I have ever met. Now there is a whole a cake. I mean there is plenty more. Thank you. Of the dozens of interviews that we did in people's homes in Alabama this was the only one that started with an Italian cream layer cake served by our interviewee Teresa Ferguson. Teresa is in her 60s runs a pearl jewelry business from her house-- one of her sons a big political strategist. And Teresa is so connected in the world of Alabama politics that during our interview at a personal request the state's current attorney general dropped by. Are you sure you do not want a piece of cake? I am great. Thank you. At a community event-- Teresa was on the stage with Donald Trump this year when he came to the state to endorse Luther Strange for Senate. And she is known Jeff Sessions for years. She first got to know him to get help with a family situation. Her daughter-in-law is Chinese and was in China about to have a baby having a hard time getting a visa. And the process was just taking too long. And she was introduced to Sessions when he was visiting a local hospital. And I told him-- I said-- as a joke-- I said I probably should just fly her to Mexico and bring her in the back of a pickup truck. That would be a lot easier. That is the way everybody else does it. You know? And what did he say? And he just kind of laughed and had this funny look on his face I think. She ran into him at other events. She started telling him about all the problems in Albertville she felt were caused by undocumented immigrants. And he was just so nice to listen. I mean he is just such a nice man anyway-- just a precious person. And he listened-- you know because you have a couple of minutes to bend their ear a little. And then after that I guess after you talk to him a couple of times there is my friend.  Teresa's beef with the undocumented immigrants in town was a mix of things including the belief that they were costing the town money it just could not afford. You get labeled a racist if you just want to even discuss. It is that you are here and it is against the law and we are paying for you to be here. You are not paying your taxes. You are going to school free. We get into that later in the show. We asked an economist to run the numbers on that for us. Teresa talks about teacher friends of theirs-- her husband worked for the public schools before he retired-- who have to pick and choose what they buy at the grocery store. And then they see Latino families in the cashier line with food stamps-- and I just want to say I know they are not food stamps anymore but that is what everybody in town calls them. Kids who are born here can get them even if their parents are undocumented. The last time I went through the line just as an example the family did not speak English. One child-- probably about 10-- they had several children-- spoke English-- very polite very nice. They finished with their groceries. Cashier said your groceries were like 93-- something like that. That will be 2.69. When you see that time and time and time again-- When you see something like that-- people in the grocery store-- like it is possible those kids are American citizens. Well they are. Because they have the WIC card. The parents probably are not. So do you feel like it is unfair if the kids are citizens? Nothing's ever fair. That is not the deal. But you know we cannot take care of everybody. So you have to look to take care of the people in your own country first. In 2008 the group that was organizing meetings about immigration around the state-- The Eagle Forum-- asked Teresa to organize one in Albertville. And she did. The immigration debate took center stage at a town hall meeting in Marshall County tonight. WAFF 48's Trang Do joins us live in Albertville. Trang the scene got pretty heated. Emotions ran high at the two-hour meeting tonight. And many were eager to voice their opinions. The meeting attracted more than 200 people on both sides of the immigration debate. I just remember standing in the door greeting everybody as they would come in. Thank you for comi