It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. OK so much has already been said about this week's news. And so what we are going to do today is very simple. We have people from all over the country all walks of life absorbing the news and getting to talk about what they are feeling and thinking. Some of these people you may agree with some you will not. This has been a year where it feels like the two sides are so radically far apart. But of course we all live here in this country together we are all facing this future together-- what are we feeling right now as we do that? And I am just going to start right in on our first stop. Act One Southern Florida. Our producer Miki Meek met these two police officers. They were both Latino both voted Obama in 2008 then Romney in 2012 then Donald Trump this week. It was Thursday middle of the night. And I was in the parking lot of a restaurant in South Florida where these two officers were taking a short break. The news of President Trump had been out for exactly 24 hours and they were still in shock. The results came in just as they were checking out a burglary at a local business. They turned and said to each other. This is almost as good as the Dolphins winning the Super Bowl. You know? Yeah I did not know. I looked at the Miami Dolphins. The last time they won the Super Bowl 1974. We never expected anything. Just all of a sudden it happened. This is Nick. He and his partner Alex said they would talk to me as long as I did not use their real names or say what police department they worked for. Also we had to kind of hide behind their SUV just in case other cops drove by. Nick and Alex are not supposed to talk to the press. But like a lot of police officers the last couple of years have been pretty rough for them. And hearing Donald Trump be called President Trump it calmed them. Here's Alex. Right now is what we are thinking of it is-- he is going to install members of his cabinet that are going to be more law and order. Then Nick jumped back in. It was actually just a relief like saying God maybe now there is a change in directions. Maybe now it is not OK to go out and riot in the streets and burn down buildings saying  the police. Maybe there will be hope. Maybe somebody's up there that could change that and say hey enough is enough. Here's an example of how they are treated. The night before on election night they stopped by a restaurant. There were a lot of people standing around the TV and Trump was on giving his victory speech. And we asked to turn up the volume so we could listen to whatever was said. And one particular person said no we are not going to raise the volume on the TV. Someone else reached over and turned it up for them. That person got extremely upset and said why are you raising the volume for these people? And the person just shook their heads and walked away like in disbelief. Like I cannot believe we have got to let these cops listen to what the president has to say. Like what is the emotion that you felt? It is kind of like for many years you are kind of like down under a rock. And then finally you kind of get used to living down there. You go to any bar you go to any gathering or barbecue or anything like that and the first thing hey what do you do for a living? And you are like here we go. And it is like the last thing I want to tell people is I am a cop. I am a firefighter. Is that what you tell people now? Firefighter. What else do I tell people? I sell pharmaceuticals. I do not even know. I come up with the weirdest things. But people's demeanor immediately changes. What does it look like? They are just like oh oh! Everything changes. Even if they are holding a drink they will put it down. Although Nick and Alex were both Obama supporters in 2008 they felt let down by the president and the Democratic Party. They did not like how policing issues had been handled over the past few years. It was a lack of support. Obviously it was 100 a lack of support. Basically right now when a police officer is involved in anything we are guilty until proven innocent. You are supposed to be for everybody. You are the president of everybody. And then during this election the way he ran and the way he supported Hillary and Hillary's number one thing was hey let us bring on victims of these shootings let us bring the Black Lives Matter let us bring out artists that sing against police. We are good guys they kept saying to me. We are not all bad apples. Both Alex and Nick are upfront that Trump has done things that trouble them. All the stuff he is said about women it shocked them. And also-- He is inexperienced. And I think he is very hot-headed. And when you are a man of the power that he is now any wrong decision could cost a lot. Is he the answer that we are looking for? Who knows? But for the moment he feels like their best bet. Miki Meek. Act Two Metro North Train. OK so next we head north. One of our producers Neil Drumming talked to somebody who was not happy with the results of Tuesday's election at all and was trying to figure out how to brace herself and think about the coming days. Wednesday morning my friend Janelle posted a comment on Facebook. Janelle's a stand-up comedian so this stood out to me because it was not at all funny. But it was a thing a lot of my black friends had been saying on social media in the hours after the election. Her post read All the older black people I have spoken to this morning including my mom are not surprised. Straight of back and calm as  so I will strive for the same. The next day I called Janelle to ask her about it. She was on the train headed into New York to do some gigs. What did your mom say? Or what did you ask her and what did she say? Well my mom is like one of those people that stresses out over the littlest . Like she watches-- she checks the weather where I live and tells me when storms are coming.  So I called her thinking she would be freaking out. I mean I was freaking out. Wait. What kind of state were you in first of all? Oh I was-- I did not sleep all night. Like I was really feeling real stressed. Like physical pain stress. And then so when you called your mother like how was she on the phone? She was like good morning!   I called her thinking she would be even worse than me and she was so chill that it was surprising. I called her and I was like can you believe this? And she was like you know where we live. That is what she said you know? She said you know where we live? Yeah. Janelle's mother means the United States of America. When she told Janelle you know where we live she meant in a country with a history of racism that runs so deep you as a black person should not be shocked by the results of this election or anything else you may witness in the near future. Stay cool. Like I have heard that sentiment a few times now and does it make you feel better? Or how does it make you feel? It is kind of resigned. I feel like that is how black people are. We are just like this is how it is gonna be. And you get little moments of reprieve. Like I guess Obama here and there. But it always comes back. Like we are just always waiting for the shoe to drop. And it is an ever-present thing that we have to deal with this feeling of being just always this  is dangerous is how I feel you know.  surrounded. So half the country now literally half the country I do not know who the fuck is sitting next to me closed mouth smiling about this . You know what I mean? And you travel a lot right? You are on the road in all of these towns. Yeah. I feel like I am not under siege but yeah I just do not feel safe. Whereas maybe before I had forgotten. That is what happens. You forget. And then this  happens. And you are like oh yeah. We know where we live like my mother says. Like that is basically what she was saying like oh you forgot. I guess if I was you I would feel genuine-- I mean I am concerned myself. But it is like the notion of going around these towns. Like you are going to see a lot. Yeah. I mean I feel like for most black people it is not that it is Donald Trump. It is what he represents. You know what I mean? And so there were those-- people have already they are coming out of the woodwork. You know there is already been reports of people walking around with black face walking up to people saying . Like we can say that now. Just  jerks-- he represents jerks. They  hate their life and just mad at the world and want to lash out. Do you feel emboldened at all? Do you feel bolstered at all by what your mom said? Like I mean not just is there a silver lining for you but are you confident? It just calmed me down. I am not like oh now everything's going to be fine. I am still like people are just on alert. That is how I feel. Like my body is just on alert. You know what I mean? Danger danger. Like that is how my body feels. The story from Neil Drumming. Act Three Trump Tower. So we have all been witnessing this historic campaign and this election together. But some of us have front-row seats on that. And our producer Karen Duffin went to talk to somebody who actually knows the man who is going to be the president. Here she is. Last week a few days before the election I spent an hour inside Trump Tower where Donald Trump lives talking with a friend and neighbor of his a guy named George Lombardi. I mean you are here. I wish your audience can see. I have got two pictures here one of George Bush Jr and one of George Bush Sr with myself. I have got also Rudy Giuliani. I have got also the Pope and the Dalai Lama. But anyway-- His living room is littered with pictures of famous people. I could not see any of Trump from where I was sitting but they have been friends for over 25 years now. In June of last year I said Donald are you really serious about this for president? And he goes yep. I am determined. I am going to do it. So he signed on to help his friend out. He organized volunteers for Trump. And when we talked last week he told me something that at the time seemed to me and probably every pollster in the country a little like wishful thinking. There might be a big surprise on November 8. Do you think there will be? Absolutely. I would not be surprised if we get 48 states. Really? Trump did not win 48 states. But when I called George this week it was of course a very different conversation. So do you want the chance to say I told you so Karen? No. Absolutely not. No no. I mean honestly the margin was so small that if I have to give you know really responsibility for the victory of Mr. Trump it is to the Almighty God. Because only God could pull something like that frankly speaking. Have you spent time with President-Elect Trump since the victory? No. I saw him here in the building just as he was walking away from the building going to the Hilton for the speech. At that point it was not yet 100. George told Trump hey we are having a victory party in the building and you should come. He looked at Melania and says well maybe two minutes. But then the Secret Service said no you cannot go in this suite. We check the premises first He said Trump looked at Melania said maybe two minutes but the Secret Service said no. So he said OK sorry. I am a slave of these guys now. As Trump walked away from him George says he seemed serious. Mike Pence too. Like the gravity of what they might be about to take on was finally sinking in. The size and the magnitude of the job ahead leaving basically the best city of the world for the next four or maybe eight years. How do you think this is going to change him? Like who do you think he is going to be in four years as a person? Mr. Trump and President Trump are going to be remembered as completely different people. George says he can already see this. In Trump's acceptance speech at the White House with President Obama. It is not the same man that did the campaign. It is a different man. Are they going to let him keep his Twitter account? Oh I do not know. You have to ask him that. I have to go. No problem. Thank you. Thank you so much. OK take care. Bye. Karen Duffin did that story. Of course Donald Trump has started tweeting again. Act Four Los Angeles. So the day after the election the board president of the Los Angeles Unified School District put out this statement. As students and staff arrive at school today we know there may be feelings of fear and anxiety especially within our most vulnerable communities. The district is providing additional supports to those who need it. Latinos make up 74 of the student body there. Our producer Jonathan Menjivar checked in with a teacher who he knows. I am going to let you eavesdrop on this conversation that happened this week. So I mean is it OK if we just talk normal Jonathan? Yeah yeah yeah. Of course. Yeah. So you know it was a school night last night. So we had to go to sleep. This is my cousin Angelina. I talked to her the day after the election. She is a kindergarten teacher. She teaches in this bilingual program at a school in LA in Highland Park. There is lots of immigrant families. So Wednesday morning she got up and learned that Donald Trump would be the next president of the United States. She had 10 parent-teacher conferences scheduled that day and a full day of classes. So the first conference she and the parent sit down at 7 oclock in the morning and they both start crying. We only have 15 minutes to talk. So we kind of said OK we are going to do this for five minutes and then we are going to talk for 10. This is how every conference started-- a download on the election sometimes with crying and then they would talk about how the five-year-olds were doing. It was hard to avoid the historic news.  It is sad what is happening this mom says. Angelina says it is hard it is hard.  But I hope that something good comes out of this she says. That something good comes out of this Angelina asks. I hope that he does not do everything he says he is going to that he does something good. We need to think positively that he will do something good.  So after Angelina's morning conferences the kids arrive for school. She picks up her class from the spot where they line up. And one of the kids he yells out Donald Trump is president. Then when we got into the classroom another student said I am really afraid because he is going to build a wall. And then another student shouted he does not like brown people. And I have a mixed class. These are not just Latinos in my class. I have a culturally ethnically diverse classroom. And one of my students approached me and said I am really sad. I am leaving the school. And then I said where are you going? You know kids move schools. And I said where are you going to another school? And he said no I am going to Mexico. And then I said when are you going? He said I am going right now. And I thought it was kind of like an imaginary conversation. So I said oh are you going on vacation? He said no I am leaving because Donald Trump is the president now. And I am leaving and I will never come back. And I am really going to miss you. And I just was shocked. Angelina does not think this kid is actually leaving. It is just a five-year-old digesting the news. And it was constant. It was all day long. And so I had to tell the students you know you spend your day at home and you spend your day with me. And you are protected at home and you are protected at school. Nothing bad is going to happen to you here. As long as you are home. I mean you know I can only speak for home and school that everything is going to be OK. Angelina says she does not know the immigration status of her students. It is just not something you are privy to as a teacher. Trump has said he wants to end illegal immigration entirely. The question is will he deport the 11 million undocumented immigrants who are already here-- something he said during the campaign but seems to have backed off of now. In the absence of information the kids and parents they are filling in the blanks. It is like it is hard to believe. How could this be? This is another one of the conferences. This mom told my cousin that she has an autistic brother. You can see it when you look at him. So Donald Trump's imitation of a disabled reporter-- It is not OK. It is not all right. Yeah it is not all right. He is just-- who is he to talk to someone like that? So I have been crying all day with all the parents that I meet. Yeah because it is hard you know? I have my 11-year-old. And it is hard to explain to him-- he is just like how did he win Mom? And he says you said he was not going to win. And then I said you know he just does not have that much power though. I told him you know just stay calm. And you know he is worried about people getting deported mainly families getting separated. It is just ridiculous. Yeah. OK. Let us do our conference. Thank you. Thank you. Angelina told me that this day processing all of this with the parents was exhausting. She crawled into bed as soon as she got home. Jonathan Menjivar. Act Five Long Island. So next we have two guys for whom the election was not just about choosing a politician. It was about choosing the new boss. Producer Stephanie Foo hung out with them and recorded their conversation. It is the day after the election and I am sitting in a diner in Long Island with two Army officers. They are both in the same unit in the reserves. They both have other jobs but they could be deployed at any time. They have worked together for about two years now. One of them voted for Trump the other voted for Clinton. Why do you like each other. I do not know. Why do we like each other? We disagree on almost everything. You know why? Because I know that he will have my back and I will have his. Regardless of what he believes although it is ill-founded most of it he is awesome. I would give my life for him. I would save my own life. Nah. He knows we are good. We are good. I am not using their real names in this story. Tom's the Clinton supporter. He is eating a stack of pancakes and is wearing a periwinkle blue button-down shirt and matching V-neck sweater. Chet is the Trump supporter. He is drinking a double shot of whiskey and wearing flannel over a Millennium Falcon T-shirt. These two guys have a text chain going with a couple other officers in their unit. Sometimes they are planning training exercises but mostly I get the feeling they are just complaining about their girlfriends and sending each other South Park memes. On the morning after the election Chet texted Tom. I say hey you doing OK Tom? You did not have an aneurysm did you? I go I am practicing meditative breathing preparing for the end. So then I respond ha ha it will be fine buddy. I saw this coming. So and this is where I say so did I. That does not mean it is going to be fine. Lots of people feel like their lives are going to be impacted by this election. But this is the person who could deploy these guys sending them to risk their lives in combat. And on this point they agreed. One candidate was way more likely to do that. Who is more likely to send us someplace? Hillary. Hillary Clinton had talked about establishing a no fly zone above Syria. And both men agree that sounded like a big first step towards war with Syria. Here's Chet. Listen man. I was in Iraq and I was in Afghanistan. As far as I am concerned I do not need to go to another  country to fight another  civil war. Let those  people work it out. It sucks. My question is it is not that we should not help people it is at what point man? At what point do I need to keep helping? At what point do we as Americans have to keep helping the rest of the world? I tend to agree with him that I do not want our forces there. But I do not agree with the isolationist policies that Trump is putting forth. I believe that a strong American footprint internationally is important. So that is the big picture. But the small picture is they both think that under Republican more money might come into the Army. Maybe their unit will get more money for training for supplies. But then there is the issue of the recruits. The most recent numbers I could find in 2008 65000 members of the armed services were immigrants. Chet and Tom's unit is really diverse. And Tom's worried that that could change that fewer people would sign up to the US military as a path to citizenship. You are looking at-- what I do not know how many soldiers I have met that still were not American citizens. But he is talking a very small minority. No. So you are fear is-- They do not get citizenship because they are-- Your fear is that we would get less of those-- People that would be invested in America. If Donald Trump is president. Yeah. They are saying all right this is not worth fighting for anymore. They do not care about me. And I have a lot more faith in them to vote for the next president or to participate in the American process than a lot of people that were born in the United States. Yeah me too. And then of course there is the biggest question of all-- the actual for real apocalypse. Lots of people this year have questioned whether Donald Trump is too erratic to be trusted with the nuclear codes. Tom's worried. Chet's not. They will be fine. He is not going to drop nukes on people. I do not know. I think he is incredibly uneducated about it. So here's the thing about the codes that people do not realize. It is not like he has a piece of paper in his pocket. It is like here are the nuclear codes. It does not work that way. How it works is there is a military officer that walks around with what is called a Football. That officer he is got more experience than I do. And at the end of the day if the president goes off the handle and says nuke these guys because I do not like them we are taught in the military as officers that we have a moral obligation to refuse orders that are not moral. So if my commander tells me to do that and it is not moral I have an obligation to tell him to  off. So you tell him to  off. And then he goes OK you are out. So he as the president has somebody else  take that Football from you. And then he looks at the guy and goes are you in because this guy's fired. Except the guy-- At the very best he is fired or he is going to jail. So you are telling me that Army or Navy or Air Force officers of Major or Lieutenant Commander or whatever rank guys who have been in the military for 15 years are just going to go ahead who have children and families are just going to pull the trigger because Trump decides one day you know what  them I do not like them nuke them? You are counting on the moral character of every single one of these individuals. Should we not? Because that is what we are trained to do. But this comes down to trust right? It comes down to trust. Absolutely. Say I am working for a man that I completely trust. I have not been informed of the situation at all. And he comes in and he says this is what is got to be done. More than likely I would probably do it right? So I mean I cannot-- But do you completely trust this man? Me? No.  Sitting with these guys the night after this divisive awful election was actually really reassuring. Not the part about possible nuclear obliteration but it is the way they talk to each other. They disagree on everything but they like each other so much. They work together great. They get stuff done. So many Trump and Clinton supporters we just never talk to each other for long enough to realize we might actually get along. In this moment when nobody seems to be listening to anybody with a different point of view when each side vilifies the other and thinks the other side is going to destroy this country it was calming to watch conflict play out in this way that was devoid of rage and judgment and hurt that had each person continually acknowledging the other person's humanity. After this year I could use more of that. Stephanie Foo. Coming up a Trump supporter explains to us the difference between gloating and simply celebrating. And a foreigner wonders if it is time to leave this country. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today on our program The Sun Comes Up people around the country reacting to the news this week in all kinds of ways. The name of today's show came from President Obama's speech the day after the election. Good afternoon everybody. Yesterday before votes were tallied I shot a video that some of you may have seen in which I said to the American people regardless of which side you were on in the election regardless of whether your candidate won or lost the sun would come up in the morning. And that is one bit of prognosticating that actually came true. The sun is up. And I know everybody had a long night. We have arrived at Act Six of our show. Act Six Times Square. So on election night a young woman named Blair Imani tweeted this around 1130. Quote I am scared today will be the last day I feel somewhat safe wearing my hijab. I got her on the phone the next day and she told me that she wrote that after walking through Times Square in New York. Four guys walked past her probably on their way to the Trump victory party which was not that far away. They were wearing red Make America Great Again caps. She had never seen groups of Trump supporters together like that. You know whenever I see men in red hats-- just because of this election not before. But you know because of this election I kind of tense up and I wait to see what is on their hat. And when I see that it is not Make America Gay Again or you know a parody of Trump's campaign I kind of feel a knot in my stomach. And so when I saw four white men walking towards me with Make America Great Again hats I was just kind of feeling the anxiety. And were you seriously debating not wearing your hijab. I always will have my head covered. Today actually I went and I bought some hats. Wait so you stopped wearing your hijab. Yeah. And tweeted a picture of myself with like hashtag Muslim Girl Camo. Camo like camouflage. She is done this in the past sometimes. Like when she has to fly she will wear a hat instead of a hijab on the plane. On election night there were other people tweeting things like quote My mom literally texted me do not wear the hijab please and she is the most religious person in our family. And quote My mom and sister are actually having the conversation on whether or not they should continue wearing hijab for their own safety. In the days since then Blair says that she is seeing more and more red hats around New York. Like Trump supporters are feeling bolder now that he is won in this super-liberal city which is weird for her. But at the same time other strangers are being especially nice to her. Before she switched to the hat on Wednesday an older white woman on the train made a point to sit next to her and smile at her. There was a couple of situations like that like when I was in the checkout line getting the hats the woman noticed that I was getting hats and she was like yeah this is bad. Do you think it is going to start to feel safer to wear the hijab around New York City? I think-- I am going to be optimistic in saying that I think yes. So I am hoping there will be more people like the old woman today who reached out to me to just kind of make eye contact to smile. And that is really my hope because that is kind of-- that is what I feel like America should be. And I feel despite what the polls show that more people in America are good than are bigoted and awful. Act Seven Nicholasville Kentucky. So Donald Trump has been vague and even contradictory about some of the changes that he wants to make once he takes office. But there are some very specific things he is promised over and over. One of our producers David Kestenbaum talks to somebody who is life seems like it definitely will be affected.   Hello? Hey is this Billy? Hold on a second. Billy? Billy? Hello? Hey Billy. Hey what is up. Billy Webster is 45 years old. He lives in Kentucky works for Hallmark setting up the card displays at a local Walmart store. His favorite cards are probably the Star Wars ones. Is there a sorry you lost the election card? No I have never seen that uh-uh. Billy voted for Clinton so he had the usual shock when he saw that Trump was going to win. But he also had this very specific thought watching the TV that night. What is going to happen to my health insurance? He gets his through Obamacare. What can you do about it? You had not thought about it but basically we all decided your health insurance the other day. Yeah basically. Uh-huh. Trump and the Republicans have of course promised to repeal Obamacare. And however you feel about Obamacare and how well it is working there are something like 20 million people currently getting insurance through it. So here just for the record is exactly one of those stories. Hallmark for all its get well cards does not offer Billy health insurance. The job is not full time. He says he earned about 12000 last year. Before that he was unemployed and so did not go to a doctor. Even when stuff happened that really honestly you should go to a doctor if it happens to you. Thanksgiving Day you know I had a big meal at Thanksgiving. And all of sudden I just got this rush of not feeling good like my vision started blurring and my feet tingled and hurt really bad. And I do not know I lost my hearing. I started having a little ringing in my years. And just I do not know kind of like an out-of-body experience. Did not your parents or friends say you should go to a doctor? Oh they always tell you that yeah. But I could not afford it. So yeah they always tell you that when you are sick and you do not feel good. Yeah go to the doctor. Well you gonna pay for it? When Obamacare came along Billy qualified for insurance under the Medicaid expansion part of it. It cost him about 50 a month. And he finally went to a doctor who did a simple blood test and was like yeah you got diabetes. I was ecstatic. I mean-- You were ecstatic to be diagnosed with diabetes? No I am ecstatic to know what I had. The doctor prescribed some pills and pretty quickly Billy's blood sugar levels went back into the normal range. I mean I felt so much better after that. So it probably saved my life you know. With diabetes you can lose your eyesight lose your limbs. Trump was never very specific about what he would replace Obamacare with. Billy says to be honest losing health insurance would not be the end of the world. It is not like he has cancer does not need heart surgery though that is certainly the case for some other people on Obamacare. Billy told me he would have to pay for the diabetes medication himself which would be a strain but he said he would just have to find a way. And if something really went wrong he is not just going to sit at home and die. You know I will go to the emergency room. You know and then the state can pay for it or whoever else is the people that complain about people like me or whatever that has benefited from this then they can just pay for it out of their taxes. You know the people of the state of Kentucky can pay for those 1000 emergency room bills. I will never pay. So-- I mean I would try to pay them but you know I was just being sarcastic. Going to the emergency room with no money that is basically the system we had before Obamacare. I asked Billy if he thought Trump and the Republicans might replace Obamacare with something better. Maybe he said. I should just give the guy a chance. David Kestenbaum. Act Eight Greenville South Carolina. So all this year we have been talking to Trump voters as their chances went from laughable to striking distance to victory. One guy who was all the way for Trump back in February was Barry Chisholm. His son was too. His son's Dave. Our producer Zoe Chace met them back then. They used to call up their local talk show host on the radio and crow about how great Donald Trump was. They were underdogs back then. So we checked back in this week to see how the week was going for them.   Hello? Hey Barry. It is Zoe. What is going on? Are you being safe up there or what? I am safe. Walking around the streets of New York? Good grief. Does not seem like they are too happy still huh? Um yeah. I do think a lot of people are upset. Mm-hmm. Yeah we are pretty safe here in the South. Yeah I am wearing my Trump hat today. I am good to go. I am getting a lot of high-fives. You are getting a lot of high-fives in your Trump hat? We are deep in the deplorable country. Are you guys excited? Yeah but only to the point of celebration. Not like we get satisfact