From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. This person's an airline pilot so they are gone quite a bit. Paul Gereffi is a letter carrier in Ft. Lauderdale. He is been doing the same route on and off for 15 years. This house next door here one of the original Miami Dolphins lives there from the 1966 team. And this guy's a policeman. That is why that car's there. After closing up his truck he heads out on foot with the mail. Before we get to the story of the guy whose life Paul saved a word about the mentality you can get walking a mail route. This is a couple that have young children and now their kids are going away to college. You see them growing up. And next thing you know. Like here there is a pennant in front of the house. It says Ole Miss. He is going to Ole Miss. This guy here just passed away about a year ago. He was a retired mail carrier. He was a really nice old guy.  Hey! Hey! Stop it. What is going on? We were just talking about your father. It is not like the mailman knows a lot about any of us but he is the one person in the neighborhood who knows a little bit about everybody. Oh once in a while a man or woman will pull down in the street. I am moving out. Here's my change of address individual only. You know it is just sad because they are splitting up or something bad's happening. So you just sometimes know things. It is like a doctor. You know things about people but you do not say anything or acknowledge it. It is just in your head. It is funny because I will run into people sometimes and I will know their name and then I will know their address. And they will say How do you know my address? And I say Well I am your mailman once in a while. You have that little grey box off to the side and it is got a little dent in the front. They will just freak out.  Good. How you doing? All right. Good good. Sometimes knowing just a little bit about everybody you step in. Paul says that a common scam in Southern Florida is the people who go door to door pretending to sell stuff just to see if it is an old person who lives in the house to see if they live by themselves casing the place basically to rob it later. He is called the cops lots of times on strangers in the neighborhood who seem to be doing just that. He is comforted a little boy who came out of his house crying one day wondering why his mom's late getting home from work. And he saved a guy. He went into the studio with me to tell me the story. It happened one day. Paul was driving in his mail truck. He saw these two guys standing on the sidewalk in front of an office building right near the entrance to the parking lot. And they were punching each other and fighting and wrestling. As I am coming closer I noticed some people standing there watching. One guy I remember clearly had his arms folded. And I am thinking OK they must be filming a movie. Sometimes they film movies in the area. And that was my initial thought. Well I kind of recognized this guy from delivering his mail occasionally. He owned a pizza place there. So as I got closer he saw the mail truck. And he started waving his hand back and forth for me to stop. So I slowed down. And he had this guy by the pants with one arm and he put his hand to his ear for me to call for help. And he is saying Help! Help! So Paul pulls over and he calls 911 when he notices that the pizza shop owner must have been stabbed. There were these huge circles of blood on his clothes. The two guys were still tussling on the ground. So in the midst of this what really struck me as odd is a person that worked at the office building is pulling into the parking lot. These two people are fighting. The guy saying Let me go! Let me go! Leave me alone! And she very carefully steers around them goes into the parking lot parks her car gets out looks back for a second and goes into the building like Well I have got work to do or something. Paul found out later that would had happened was the older guy the pizza shop owner had fired the younger guy told him to get out. The guy went home came back snuck in the back door with a steak knife and stabbed him five times. And after he did that he ran to get away. Well the restaurant owner in his anger chased him out into the parking lot to apprehend him so he could not get away. I mean he was not going to take it. So even though we found out later he was in critical condition-- he had been stabbed five times he chased the guy maybe 50 yards to the back of the parking lot caught him. That is amazing. And that is when I came across the scene. So I heard the sirens coming. I am pleading with the dispatcher Hurry hurry! Then the police came and ironically the guy that had been stabbed ran. He ran away back to his restaurant because he was worried that he had left the door unlocked. So they had to catch him and sit him down until the ambulance got there. What struck me really odd about the whole situation was that so many people stood there and did nothing. And that is what the gentleman said You know people drove by. They were standing there and nobody helped me until the mailman came by. The National Association of Letter Carriers named Paul one if its Heroes of the Year in 2008 for this. Others who were named that year a postal carrier in Cedar Rapids who crawled inside a partially submerged car and rescued the driver. A carrier in New York who alerted the authorities to what became a major identity theft case had been noticing tons of credit card mail in the name of an 85-year-old woman who had been in a nursing home for months. It is so common for letter carriers to stumble onto something during their route and perform a good deed that these incidents are a regular feature of the Letter Carrier Association's monthly magazine. These postal workers they see what is happening around them and they feel responsible. Versus the rest of us. We are more like the people standing on the sidewalk. And today's show is about the tension between those two different ways of reacting to trouble. Which kind of person do we want to be? I mean really. Not pretending. Really. Our show today in four acts. Four acts where there are decent reasons for people step in and help and even better reasons not to. Stay with us. Act One Baby Steps. Let us begin today with a story of a bunch of people on the sidewalk in one neighborhood deciding if they are going to intervene one by one. And mostly I have to say deciding yes. I do not think that is much of a spoiler. And they say yes for reasons that will all become clear enough to you. Ryan Knighton is the dad in the story. He is Canadian and I only point that out because he uses the word nappy. I think I will take Tess for a walk I announce one morning. Tess is our 4-month-old. This would be our first walk together. My wife Tracy paused. Oh she said. Uh OK. I have already got the baby chest sack carrier thing I said. If you can put her sweater on or whatever. You sure? Tracy asked. I was already busy putting the harness on inside out. Yep. We will be fine. I will go with you then Tracy said. She sounded extra cheerful persuasive. I could not angle a kind way to say But I do not want you to walk with us. For once I want to take Tess for a walk by myself. So instead I said Look you never get any time alone. Tracy did not need reminding. In four months she would never been further than the shower without Tess either in her arms or in sight. She had not much in the way of alternatives either. I am her husband but I am also blind and people are naturally wary of leaving me in charge of a baby even my own. Though I have been blind for 10 years now I am still not very good at it. I lost my sight slowly over a 15 year stretch a slow and painless deterioration of my retinas caused by a genetic misfire with a long name. While I have adapted to much over time four months with a baby is a slender window in which to perfect my new dad skills. Just imagine changing a nappy in the dark. What was once a diaper is now psychedelic origami. Today my plan was to strap on our child for a walk through city traffic. You can understand Tracy's reluctance. It is just a little walk I said. We will be fine. You have the baby carrier on upside down she said surrendering. A few minutes later I descended our front stoop with Tess. I have never been more petrified as a blind pedestrian. Tess was harnessed to my belly and the weight of her there that new presence against my chest and stomach brought other sensations to the surface. I could feel memories of mushing my gut into any number of undetected obstacles into poles bicycles parking meters chain-link fences you name it. I stepped cautiously deliberately as if carrying a sack of sweaty dynamite. I swept my cane with the care of a mine detector. 20 minutes later we would only made it to the corner. We live two doors down from the corner. The first person to pass us saw the situation in simpler terms. Jesus that is got to be tricky she said as she passed. Maybe she said it to me or maybe to a person she was walking with or maybe as her phrasing suggested to her pal Jesus. Already strangers were praying for our survival. Within the next block and the next 20 minutes of slow-going movement at least a half a dozen others offered similar prayers or insisted on guiding us or asked to take us home or asked if we would lost mommy. Slowly we edged around the corner at Grant Street and left the residential sidewalks for Commercial Drive. More people meant more noise to govern by a good thing. The sound of traffic stretched into the distance so at least I had something pointing me in the right direction. The help of crowds has a backhand though. Busy people pay less attention to their surroundings. Folks regularly clip my shoulders and I have been caught off-balance and knocked down before. Here they might even slam us head on or smush a slice of hot cheap pizza into Tess's face. And there will be dogs too. Usually it is pit bulls around here. Pit bulls leashed to bike racks or snoozing in front of doorways as you would find them in their native habitat by the Gates of Hades. Too often I have whacked my cane against a dog where no dog should be. And too many times large toothy shadows have snapped at my legs. Tess could become a chew toy. I waved my free hand in front of us braced my arm and pushed ahead the way running backs rush into a dog pile but really really slowly. Within 10 steps somebody clipped my shoulder. As I rebounded it happened again this time sending me off course towards a garbage can. A woman caught up with us. She would retrieved Tess's baby sunglasses that had fallen to the sidewalk awhile back. Here she said. You let the baby drop these. Thanks I said. You should be careful she said. Telling a blind person he should be careful is like telling him to look out. It is not a question of should but how. I thanked her again and tried to fit the glasses back on to Tess's face. Mostly though I just poked at her chubby cheeks with the arms. We shuffled on. Soon I recognized a voice at a sidewalk cafe table. The voice belonged to Joe an older Italian man who continues to be as best I can determine shackled to my preferred coffee shop. My God he said as we approached. You have got a little baby. He was up and at us in seconds pinching Tess's cheeks. This was a man who looked past my blindness and her vulnerability. He simply drank in the baby and her babyness. It was refreshing. I am telling you Joe said coming up for breath this is a hell of a beautiful baby. She likes me. I can tell. He tickled the baby some more. And look Joe went on she is got her little sunglasses on and-- Suddenly all the espresso fueled joy drained from his body. The glasses. My God no he said his voice low and serious. She do not see. My God she do not see like you. It took a few minutes to convince him that everything was fine. He found it hard to believe that babies might wear sunglasses for comfort. As we rounded the corner at Graveley Street stepping past the pub and local U-Brew a mere 30 yards from home plate I heard the ridiculous girth of an SUV shoot out from a building's underground parking lot. The weight of its super-sized engineering and Freudian neurosis blew across the sidewalk in front of us close enough in fact to bat the cane from my hand and into the street. My heart stopped. I did not know if Tess had been clipped. Everything happened so fast. She sucked wind readying a hail of tears and a permanent distrust of her father's guidance. Nothing came though. And still nothing came. So I knew she was shaping that worst cry the deep silent open-mouthed cry the one that cannot find any voice in the beginning. I braced myself and then it arrived. She violently shook and kicked and squealed with laughter. Out of her came a glee powerful enough to start my heart again a laugh like I have never heard before. Meanwhile the driver had stopped. He fetched my cane. Had I been one step closer home when the SUV had left the lot my spine would have resembled what now remained of my cane. Sorry there the driver said and handed me my new boomerang. I did not see you coming. Cute baby. Before I knew what to say or remembered how to yell he was back inside his tank putting it in hyper-drive. You should be careful he said from out the window and sped away. Actor Daniel Beirne reading a true story by Ryan Knighton an excerpt from Knighton's book C'mon Papa Dispatches From a Dad in the Dark. This story originally aired on the CBC radio program Wire Tap which is hosted by Jonathan Goldstein and distributed in the United States by   Act Two Witness for the Poo-secution. A surprising amount of Debbie Logan's workday involves dogs. I am being asked if you want the dog to be intermittently barking in the interview or not. We have a dog in the office. Debbie spoke to me from her office. She is the building manager for a development of apartments and townhouses in Nashua New Hampshire called Twin Ponds 364 units. And in those 364 units at least 250 dogs she says. Since they started advertising their dog friendliness about a year ago business has been unstoppable. We have no weight or breed restrictions. We have one small dog playground on our property. We are in the process of building a large one. And that is why a lot of people come to us and why our occupancy rate it so high. It is 99. Wow. People love their dogs. Take that economic recession. But of course there is a problem that goes with having lots of dogs around and that is human beings who do not pick up after their dogs. You see this pretty much everywhere in the world where there is large numbers of people and dogs living together. And here at Twin Ponds there is a woodsy area and a little brook and of course two ponds lots of potential places for wayward hidden poo. There was a lot of problems but it was impossible to find out who they were. They were very sneaky and they would go out at night or around a corner when nobody's looking. And the bigger problem was that it was showing up in grassy areas where kids were meant to play. Ew. I know. And around the ponds when people are going over there to enjoy the fishing. And one of the biggest things was I would get a call that said Well I cannot prove it but I swear it is so-and-so in whatever unit number. Well I cannot do anything with that. She tried the neighborhood watch kind of approach to the problem for a while put the residents on the lookout. We did offer to pay people if they could show us a video of another offender. It only worked for a very short amount of time and we found out very quickly that people are not comfortable doing that. Wait. It worked for a brief amount of time? How many people shot videos of their neighbors? It was a while ago. I would say I maybe had-- Let us go with half a dozen. Half a dozen? And most of those videos I could not even tell who the person was anyway. It just was not working and the more we thought about that that was not the right way to do things. So Debbie began researching. She spent four or five months looking for some alternative looking at what cities do and what dog parks do to get people to pick up after their dogs. What she found was that nobody seemed to be doing much at all. She could put in video cameras everywhere but that would cost a fortune. She did not want to have to pass that cost onto her tenants. Finally poking around on Google she found a service called Poo Prints which would DNA test all the dogs in her buildings and compare that DNA to DNA found in any errant poo. Watson and Crick when they discovered the double helix in a strand of DNA Crick supposedly announced We have found the secret of life. Now PooPrints was using that to keep the sidewalk clean. And I happened to come across it finally. And initially I thought that it was a little on the crazy side to DNA dogs. Really? Why did it seem crazy? Does not it sound crazy? Yeah it actually does sound crazy. Well it just seems like really? Things have come to this? That that is what we are going to do? And it is working. It is working though it took some effort. First step Debbie had to get samples of all the DNA of all the dogs in all of her buildings. She had the owners bring the dogs to her office. They swabbed the inside of each dog's cheek with a Q-tip paid 30.00 to cover the cost and sent it to the lab. Which you would think would be simple except that they are dogs. You have to schedule them one at a time. You do not want the risk of you are doing a dog DNA in the office and you have someone else coming in. And if those dogs greet each other then that is it. You have to reschedule that appointment. You mean because the dogs lick each other? That is the problem? They are swapping DNA. That is right. So we only do an appointment every hour. And we stayed open late and weekends. So one of the things that I love the most right now is of course is if somebody calls and they have found a pile quote unquote on the property we send a maintenance guy out and we have a collection kit. And it is like we play a little CSI out there. We get our sample send it in. And sure she says the poor maintenance guy who has to get a dab of poo and then mix it with a special solution and FedEx that sample to the lab in Knoxville. Not much fun for him. But just how exciting does Debbie find it? She finds it so exciting that she has a music cue on the ready on her computer. So pretty much when I know there is a sample to be picked up I cue up the music and crank it when one of my maintenance guys is walking through the door. He knows exactly what he will be doing when he hears this. Well I do not think we have as much excitement as Deb does on her end. And as your poo technician does he get excited when he actually gets samples to test? No. That is another day at the lab. This is Jim Simpson the president of the company that does the DNA testing called BioPet. BioPet was the kind of company that ran blood tests for veterinarians. Then a few years ago they realized that since the dog genome had been mapped there must be a way to make money selling DNA testing of some kind to dog owners. So they started doing doggy paternity tests. Yes there is a market for that. Also they sell a test that tells you pretty inexpensively exactly what breeds make up your dog though other companies offer those services as well. But then when somebody at BioPet read about a town in Israel that had a huge problem with dog waste and that hoped to solve it with DNA testing of dogs they wondered if it would be possible to get a DNA sample from dog poo and ship it to a lab in usable form. This turned out to be a tricky thing to figure out. Bacteria grows in the poo sample if you do not do it right. But finally about two months ago they had it down. And they started to market the product PooPrints in earnest. Only six places have bought it so far which is why the company president knows Debbie by name. She is his biggest customer for PooPrints. But Jim Simpson thinks the potential is huge. We think it is worldwide. We have got representatives all over the world that are the starting to push the product and then they are getting interest. But we think it is going to be a material part of our business at the end of one year. Now I would think that another problem in terms of just getting this product out is that there are lots of places where there might be dog waste in front of a building but it is in a city or it is on a street where all kinds of dogs come by who do not live in that building. And so testing all the dogs in that building is not going to help you. That is correct. Yeah it definitely has to be a defined area. Most apartment complexes are a gated type community and they have a defined area for the dogs to go to the restroom so it seems to work quite well. We do have some small islands that are looking at the program as well. That is right. He said islands specifically on the island of Cypress in the Mediterranean the town of Limassol. An environmental health official inquired about bringing in PooPrints to solve their poo problem. Meanwhile an executive in Copenhagen read that perhaps they could collaborate with BioPet and offered to help with the politics to institute mandatory adoption of PooPrints either all through Denmark or at least in its biggest cities. Though it has to be said that when people start debating mandatory DNA dog testing they do not always end up choosing it. I think what ended up happening in our building was people fell into camps. Richard Hopp is a resident of the Scarlett Place Condominiums in Baltimore a fancy address near the water at the Inner Harbor. And this spring a rash of doggy droppings in the hallways and supposedly even in the elevators of their high-end building led the condo board to consider DNA testing and 500 fines for violators. Richard tipped off a reporter for The Baltimore Sun. He was squarely against the testing. He says that two puppies were being house-trained in the building at the same time and that might have been a lot of the problem. What was the big deal? He asked. Why start complicated new rules? What happened at the very beginning was the board had come up with this set of rules what the fines would be. The guest dogs. In order to bring a guest dog into the building they would have to be DNA tested. And the people at the front door were supposed to check every dog that came in the lobby to see if they had a tag. This very elaborate set of rules. Everybody was just laughing about it. And I thought it was just funny. So in my mind I was thinking first of all how do you know that you have every dog in the building tested? My little dogs do not have photo ID so how is anyone going to know if I show up have my dog tested that it is really Sparky? Who would know? Wait a second. You are saying that people members of the building would actually try to evade the rules by bringing in a random dog for the dog test? That is what you are saying? Well I do not know what would happen but if you consider the kind of person you are dealing with it is the sort of person who would watch their dog make a number two in the hallway inside the building and not do anything about it. So if you are dealing with that kind of a person to begin with then who knows what they are going to do? And it just seems so silly to try and get a cheek swab from my little dog. I mean my dog does not even have a snout so I am not even sure that he really even has a cheek. He is not going to cooperate. The whole thing just seems so overly complicated and overly expensive. I do not know. It is a Q-tip that you put into his mouth and then you pull it out. I do not know. It does not seem so hard. I do not know. I guess I have never tried. And I suppose it is possible but I mean it seems like there was an easier solution which is either look at the closed-circuit cameras. Are there closed-circuit cameras in the hallways? Yes. Or deal with it on a neighborly basis. It is a condominium building. I know for instance on my floor that there are four other dogs. And if there was a mess I would be able to pretty well identify where it came from. And you just talk to people in a neighborly way rather than trying to use this technological advancement. The article in the Sun papers got picked up everywhere all over the country. There were TV stories. And this was not good for the building Richard says. Board members who had supported the DNA testing he says were made to feel ridiculous. The DNA idea was dropped. And the simple threat of action was enough to make the poo problem vanish too. So there are still some hurt feelings in the building. There is two board members who will not even acknowledge me at this point if our paths cross in the lobby. Yeah they were very upset by it. The apartment buildings up in Nashua New Hampshire are a very different situation. Lots more dogs. All of the illegal poo was outside where there were no closed-circuit TV cameras. And Debbie Logan says that the simple threat of DNA testing has had a huge effect. I would say it only took about a month's time to see a dramatic difference once we started going once the word started getting out there that we were doing this. The property has cleaned up not 100 99. Now since you have started this how many times have you had violations that you had to investigate? We have actually fined six pet owners and believe it or not one of the people was a two-time offender which is mind-boggling. It is a pretty steep fine when we catch you. What is the fine? 100. What did the person say the second time? The pet owner informed me that they believed they were having problems with another tenant and they thought it was a conspiracy and that it was a setup. It was staged. And did they lay out exactly how that would go? That somebody would abduct their dog squeeze poo out of it and then plant it? Did they lay out a whole scenario? Actually the scenario was that they knew where they disposed of their dog droppings and that they must have collected them in the middle of the night and then set it up on the property elsewhere dot dot dot. It was hilarious. In the last two decades DNA evidence introduced an element of certainty to our criminal justice system. Wrongly convicted men were sprung from prison. There was a clarity where things had been cloudy and ambiguous. And Debbie says that it is the certainty that is the most novel thing about doggy DNA testing and it comes at such a cheap price and removes her from the he saidshe said world of tenant disputes that is the bane of a property manager's existence. It is her favorite thing about the doggy DNA program the certainty. If people do not pay their 100 fines within a month Debbie says that she will start the eviction process. She is not kidding around. She runs a tight ship. But it has not come to that yet. Coming up what to do when your neighborhood watch is low-rent wise guys. We have practical tips. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our show of course we choose a theme bringing different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show Neighborhood Watch stories of people deciding if they are going to look out for their neighbors or not. And now we have arrived at act three of our show. Act Three Wary Home Companions. Emily Feldman has lived in the same house for almost 40 years a three-bedroom on a corner lot in the small middle-class suburb of Fair Lawn New Jersey. It is the same house where she raised her two kids. Her kids are not really kids anymore. Her son Scott is 39 and he has autism. And Emily is in a situation that a lot of parents like her get into. She is a widow. And though she is a robust 67 she is getting older so she needs to think about what is going to happen to Scott. Who is going to look after him after she is gone? The solution that she came up with is ambitious and it is unusual and it is going to be difficult. And it raises the question just how much should we expect from our neighbors? Ruth Padawer tells the story. Emily's plan actually has two parts and one of them is a real long shot. She is trying to recruit volunteers from all over Fair Lawn. Neighbors strangers anyone who is willing to sign up to be Scott's friend to serve collectively as Scott's surrogate mom after Emily herself is gone. But first she had to lay the foundation. She would already made sure Scott knew how to drive and cook and shop for his own food. But at 38 he was still living at home. So she bought Scott a house basically so he could have a trial run at living on his own. I wanted to be there for the mistakes because I felt that by the time something happens to me he would know that he is fine. I mean I am here. I can make sure it is going right and make those corrections that nobody will have that quote burden. I do not want anyone to have that responsibility. So this way I will see it. Emily could not have a better vantage point. Scott's house is smack across the street from her. It is a cute Cape Cod with essentially the same floor plan as the house where he grew up except this one's his. On the summer day when Scott gave me a tour of his new place he had lived there only a few days. This is the football pillow I got from Walgreens for myself and this ladybug pillow I got from Bed Bath  Beyond. I was going to use it for my bedroom but it looks better on this sofa here. The house became available last spring after the previous owner died. Emily's a school teacher on a limited budget but she snagged a 1 mortgage for Scott through a state program for disabled adults. He makes the payments with his Social Security income. The house is very tidy but the setup is kind of strange. It looks like what a 10-year-old boy might come up with if he had the chance to live on his own. There is a dolphin nightlight in the bedroom a list on the wall of US Presidents' birthdays and birth places that he got off the Internet and tons of Disney DVDs and stuffed animals throughout the house. In the kitchen Scott's taped hooks on the outside of each cabinet door and then hung a cooking utensil on each one. It is practical but it looks a bit surreal as if the ladles and spatulas simply floated out of the drawers and got stuck on their way to the ceiling. It is easier for me to know it is there when I need it and I do not have to mix it up in the drawer because we do not have enough drawers to separate all of these. Not surprisingly Scott's had a few mishaps since he moved in. Early on he ripped out the metal tracking for all the closet doors because he did not know what they were for and then dumped them at the recycling depot. And last month he strung an extension cord across the living room floor then threw a blanket over it to cover it up. It took a while for Emily to convince him what a bad idea it was and that he should just tuck it under the carpet. It is as if now that Scott's in his own place every day is the dress rehearsal for Emily's death another day where she has a glimpse of how Scott will live without her. Emily thought that once Scott got into his own house the hard part would be over. But Scott has a tendency to isolate himself and Emily worries the house gives him the perfect cave to disappear into. She is afraid that once she is gone he will withdraw spend days without talking with anyone and wind up feeling even more depressed which he is done in the past. So Emily wants to recruit people to check in on him help him solve problems take him out for a game of ping pong. She could use state funds to hire a caretaker or place him in a group home but Scott's always hated following someone else's rules so much so that used to hurl the TV and yank the toilet seats off their hinges when he felt boxed in. I do not like people telling me what to do. People just like to steal my rights by annoying me with commands and threats. Emily spent the whole summer working diligently for Scott trying to find volunteers who could create a safety net for after she is gone. She wants volunteers instead of paid helpers not just because of the expense but because she believes volunteers will be devoted to Scott not a paycheck. She is not expecting anyone to be his mom but she is hoping that if enough people step forward Scott will be OK. What I want to do is bring in as many people. I am going to even ask somebody from the police. I want them to know he is here. Believe me by the time I am not here I want to know that people are there for him in some way. And 