 I recorded this conversation with my mom three years before she died. It was for a Mother's Day edition of our radio show but only a tiny part of it made it onto the air and I listened to the rest yesterday for the first time since then 16 years ago. I was relieved to hear how well we were getting along how comfortable we both were because it was not always like that with us. Like for instance we are talking about mothers and Mother's Day and my mom was a therapist and she started telling me about her patients who were mothers and the problems they had with her own grown children. They thought they would be really close. They thought they would be appreciated. They thought they would be respected and turned to for advice. That is a big one. That is probably one of the great disappointments is that children do not come to you for advice. I was glad to hear that we did not pretend this did not apply to us. We went for it. I think only now would I be able to turn to you for advice. Mm-hm. I felt like for so many years you and dad disapproved so strongly in everything I was doing. It would have been hard. What I am not saying but she and I both know is that there were years like most of my 20s where she and I barely talked. I did not want to be in touch with her and my dad. I felt no connection to them for reasons I do not want to go into right now and I am not proud of. I held myself apart. So if you were to come to me for advice what kind of advice would you come to me for? I do not know. Suppose you were having a problem with your girlfriend. Well I mean I think with a girlfriend I think I would be defensive that you just think eh just another relationship I am messing up you know? So you have a need for me to see you as OK. Yes but I would argue that you also have a need for me to show you that things are OK. Mm-hm. That is true. Look at us listening to each other better than I remembered. But there were awkward moments too on this recording. I winced hearing myself explain to my mom that we had done three Father's Day shows but not one Mother's Day show because I told her people's relationships with their moms are just so much more complicated than their relationships with their dads as if that was some like universal truth and not just like me and her. And then there is this one question that really makes my mom pause I mean like literally pause for 15 seconds. The question is along the lines of have you ever met somebody who actually gets along with her mom? And I am sure it did not occur to me that the premise of that question might hurt her feelings but of course now I hear all that like in that pause. OK. Here it is. Mom can I ask you to just think for a second about your various clients. How common is it that people have relationships with their mothers where things are going OK? And how common is it troubled? I would say the majority of people that I see in therapy are ambivalent about their relationships with both parents. Yeah. Not one more than the other. Right. The question made her feel bad but I did not understand that back then. And I spent the last day just feeling this regret and affection for her which I guess is what I was hoping for when I listened yesterday that I would learn something I would see something I had not seen before that I would have some thought I did not have back then. Today on our radio show we have the story of somebody who yearned for that. She went back to a moment from the past something with her mom from 20 years before hoping to see something new. Though as you will hear it is a totally different kind of moment she is returning to this big difficult event that happened to them and changed their lives forever-- very different from me and my mom. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. The story that we are playing you today just won this huge radio award. It is one of the best things produced for radio this year anywhere in the world and we are proud to be the first ones to give it a national broadcast. It was created by the Public Radio website transom.org by Samantha Broun and Jay Allison. It is Samantha's story. A warning before we start that. Part of the story has descriptions of violence sexual violence. Consider this a trigger warning. It is not right for small children. OK. Here's that story. Here's Samantha Broun. There is no way to ease into this story so I will just start. In 1994 my mother was the victim of a violent crime. She was 55 years old and living alone in Nyack New York. On the evening of September 21st a stranger came into her backyard. The stranger attacked her from behind. Five hours later he left her lying on her bed hands and feet bound with tape alive. She survived. Whatever horrible thing you imagined happened to her in those five hours likely did. I still find it hard to believe to accept what she went through. I know that a lot of people have been the victims of crimes. I have had my car stolen my apartment broken into. I felt violated after those events but what happened to my mom was unimaginable undigestable. What happened to her changed our view of the world. When Reginald McFadden was arrested and charged with the crimes against my mom my feeling shifted from terror to outrage. I wanted someone to take responsibility for what went wrong which is how I ended up testifying in front of a Senate Judiciary hearing in Harrisburg Pennsylvania. I would like to thank Governor Ridge Attorney General Preate Chairman Greenleaf-- That is me in February 1995 in front of a panel of Pennsylvania senators and a roomful of reporters. And I am pissed. I am here today because last July Reginald McFadden a convicted murderer was released from a Pennsylvania prison. It turned out that the guy who randomly attacked my mom was a convicted murderer and his life sentence without parole had been commuted. After 24 years he walked out of prison in Pennsylvania and within days moved to Nyack New York less than a mile from where my mother lived. On September 21st while my mother was taking out her garbage Reginald McFadden-- Just take your time. Reginald McFadden brutally attacked then beat robbed repeatedly raped and kidnapped my mother during a five hour ordeal. I could not understand how Reginald McFadden had been let out of prison and I wanted to be sure whatever crack he slipped through was sealed shut. And it seemed as if that is exactly what happened. The Pennsylvania State Constitution was changed commutation for lifers became nearly impossible to get. My testimony helped make that happen. My mom's case was a big deal. McFadden was a big deal. It was one of those crimes that makes people angry and scared that becomes a symbol for a lot of things. And because it happened during an election it even had an impact on who became the governor of Pennsylvania. A few years ago nearly 20 years after all this happened my mother moved from her home in New York to one near me on Cape Cod. I thought it would be an easy adjustment for her less congestion more ocean but it was not. Every little sound she was convinced was a stranger in her house. She imagined walks in the woods would have some violent end. She lost sleep. She was scared to death. It was the aftershock from her assault of course from McFadden. Seeing my mother struggle rattled me. I was surprised at the intensity of it after all these years. I could not stand to see her suffering still. That is when I decided I needed to do something. I started digging around reaching out to people related to the case. I was not sure what I was doing exactly or why. I just wanted to get us un-stuck maybe move the story forward rethink it something. I have already told you this is not an easy story to tell. It will not be an easy one to listen to. I suppose I could start with how the system failed or with McFadden's family in Philadelphia. I could start with the thousands of prisoners whose lives were affected by McFadden or I could tell you about the political careers both launched and destroyed. But instead I think I will save those parts and start where I usually start which is with my mother. And how are you feeling about today? Well I am curious what you are going to ask me about. Well I thought today we would talk about September 21st. I have to say I am feeling nervous about talking about it because I do not know that you and I have ever sat across from each other and had this conversation. I guess for me it is easier when I am talking to strangers or when I am just talking about how I survived but when I tell a loved one it is much deeper it just goes deeper into what really happened to my spirit my soul. Are you OK to do this? I would like to try. I would like to try. I would like to try too but I worry about it being hard for you. Like I guess I worry that it will bring it to the surface in a way that maybe it has not been or it does not have to be or that might be hard for you. No I think we need to try this because we have decided to do it and we are not quitters are we? Let us try it. By the way my mom is Jeremy Brown. She is in her mid 70s now but you would never know it. She looks 15 years younger she is bright eyed and elegant and full of life. In the fall of 1994 she was living in a little house she had bought after she and my father divorced. I lived there with her for a year or so working and saving money for graduate school. I moved out at the beginning of September. It was the first time in my mother's adult life that she was living alone. I was never afraid of anybody. I felt very safe. Do you remember the day of September 21st? Do you remember was it sunny? Did you go to work? Do you remember anything about the day? My memory is that it was a very ordinary day of going to work When this happened my mom was working as a drug and alcohol counselor helping people kick addictions. When she got home that night-- It was time I thought to get the recyclables outside and the garbage down to the curb. She went out the kitchen into the breezeway-- Through the door and the moon was out and it was lovely out. She bent over to pick up the box of recyclables and was struck with a fist a pipe-- It was like if somebody threw a bowling ball at your back. That is how hard it hit me. Her arms were pinned behind her. This person put his face right in my neck next to my ear. My mother screamed. He kept yelling shut up in my ear shut up. She struggled. She even bit down on the gloved hand he put over her mouth. Did you see him? No. He was behind me. And after I bit him was when I believe he began to hit me in my head and only in my head until I passed out. My mom grew up about 20 minutes from where she was living in 1994. She is the youngest of five children. Her father was an apple and peach farmer. The story goes that she was supposed to be a boy which is how she ended up with the name Jeremy. When she was old enough to leave home she tried college but dropped out and moved into New York City to make a go of it as a singer. She was in the course of My Fair Lady on Broadway when she met my dad. My mom stopped auditioning in the city once she had my brother and me but she never gave up singing or the theater. It was not until her early 50s that she became certified as a drug and alcoholism counselor. She was really good at it. McFadden pulled my mother up and pushed her toward the house. One of her eye sockets was broken her nose fractured her teeth knocked loose. Her eyes were swelling shut. McFadden demanded she not look at him. When they got in the house he draped a towel over my mother's head. And he started to take my pants off. And I remember so clearly thinking what in the world is he doing. By then I was a typical rape victim. You go to a place where you have no idea what is going on. None of the words that apply to what is going on come into your head. You are in a space that just does not understand anything so that you can look down at a strange man pulling your pants off and think why is he doing this? What is this? I do not remember specifically much after that except that he did rape me on that bed my bed. McFadden started to ask my mom all sorts of questions. She decided not to lie about anything. Her sense was if she was honest she might connect to something in him. Something beneath the violence innately I just knew that I should talk very straight and calmly to this guy and not let him get me hysterical because I just sort of had a feeling that if I got hysterical I would die. What my mother had no way of knowing then was that McFadden did plan to kill her. In fact he had murdered Robert Silk on Long Island just two weeks before. The week after he attacked my mom he sexually assaulted and killed 78-year-old Margaret Kierer also on Long Island and Dana DeMarco in Rockland County the week after that. She was 39 years old. The police eventually referred to McFadden as a serial killer. My mother it turned out was his only surviving victim. Stories like these get shortened over time to sentences like the one I started with my mother is the victim of a violent crime and usually you leave it at that. I know it is hard to hear the details but you will not understand why this crime got so much attention and why it is so hard for my mom to get it out of her head if you do not hear what actually happened. So let me try to tell you in a condensed version for all our sakes the rest of what happened to my mother that night. McFadden put my mother in a sleeping bag and took her in her own car to various ATMs to steal her money. He beat her when she tried to escape. There was one point during the night and this is key that my mother finally saw him. They were standing in front of a bureau that had a mirror hanging over it. They were looking through her jewelry. And I just tipped my head up enough so that my eyes came out from under the towel and in the mirror I saw him behind me. And he was a black man and he needed a shave. What did you think when you saw him? I remember thinking he is cleaner and neater than you would think a criminal doing all these horrible things would be. To me he was not the stereotypical criminal. At the end of the night he took my mother to a place we now know was off the Garden State Parkway. It is the same spot he took Dana DeMarco two weeks later and where they later found a DeMarco's body. He raped my mother again and then-- He put both his hands on my neck and started to strangle me. But here's the miracle of all times. I put my hands on top of his and I said in a little voice what are you doing? You are hurting me. And he let go. What do you think happened? What do you think happened in that moment? I hate to use the words like bond or love or anything like that but by then he felt bonded somehow or other enough to me to respect me. I think he lost the drive. If you are going to kill a lamb you are going to have to do it very quickly right? Because if you start to look at the lamb or listen to the lamb or play with the lamb you are not going to hurt it. And I think that is what happened. McFadden brought my mother back to her house bound her hands and feet with tape and eventually he walked out. It was close to 300 in the morning when my mother reached for a phone. She called my brother who lived nearby. And I just flew down that stairs. I do not even remember my feet hitting the stairs into his arms. And he was screaming and he was spinning around for some reason. He sort of put his arms up over his head and he was just running around and around I am holding him and grabbing him and trying to stop him. And just kept saying it is OK. It is OK. Get me to the hospital. When I got the call that this happened I packed up my belongings at graduate school and I headed home. When I arrived at the hospital the next day and saw her barely recognizable face my mother tells me I screamed. My heart had never been broken like this before. I had never been exposed to such violence never felt the rage that it inspired in me never imagined I would want revenge like I wanted revenge on Reginald McFadden. It is difficult to look beyond the devastating details of what happened to my mother that night but when I do I see that in the big picture other things matter too. The fact is crimes like these are rare but it is crimes like these-- a black man a repeat offender attacking a white middle class woman-- that inspires fear and outrage in communities across the country and crimes like these that change things which is exactly what happened next. But in the moments before this became swept up in the media before it became a manhunt before a jury was selected and a verdict issued before it ruined some careers and made others before it was used to change laws in the moments before all that and in every single moment since there is simply the unbelievable truth that this happened to my mother. Reginald McFadden was found guilty of raping robbing and beating a 55-year-old woman. McFadden-- It did not take the jury long to return a verdict yesterday 15 minutes. Today's verdict means an end to a long and painful ordeal for the victim in this case. Most rape victims prefer to remain anonymous not this 55-year-old social worker. My name is Jeremy Jeremy Brown. How wonderful it feels to tell you who I am. Once the trial was over my mother went public. She gave speeches made appearances on TV she was named the Woman of the Year by CBS. Has Jeremy Brown earned the place of honor in the history of rape convictions? She certainly has and she is certainly I know an inspiration to many of the women who have not had the ability to go forward. Beyond the amazing fact that she had survived the attack there was another reason my mother wanted to speak out. It is that she had survived the trial too. In one of the most surreal twists of this whole ordeal Reginald McFadden defended himself in court which meant he cross-examined my mother. Trial transcripts show exchanges like this. McFadden asked but at some time in that night your attacker got out the car and walked around and closed the door and hollered at you? My mother replied I think he did he-- you beat on me from the front seat and I was very scared. I thought you were going to kill me right then. Basically I am mad as hell and I got to talk about it. Think about being tortured by a stranger for five hours think about listening to his voice telling you all those disgusting things to do for five hours. And then you have to sit in a courtroom listen to people call him Mr. McFadden. Think what it would do to you to have him say your name. My mother shared her story because she felt better when she did or at least less alone. And because she hoped that by speaking out it might change things for herself for others. The day after McFadden sentencing I returned to graduate school. Eventually my mother started working again as an addiction counselor. She even moved back into her house. It was not easy but it was important she said that he not take the house away from her. When I set out to interview people I started with my mom and then I drew up a list of names-- cops politicians journalists academics other victims and my brother. Are you nervous? Not really no. Are you uncomfortable? I am a little impatient so yes. OK. OK. Anyway I wanted to say-- so you are chewing your gum. I know but you are talking. But I can hear it. OK. Tim is older than me but only by 15 months. It is an age difference that has stopped mattering now that we are both approaching 50. You probably remember that Tim was the first person to see my mom the night she was attacked. In 20 years we have never discussed any of it. Do you have any questions about it that you have never had answers? No. I do not. You know part of me is like I guess maybe I am in denial about it. I do not know. But a lot of people have been through a lot of really bad shit and that includes seeing people killed car accidents going to war physical abuse you name it. It is all out there you know so I do not think about why or why my mother or it is a fucking horrible thing that happened really bad but she is alive and you know she is completely physically capable person who is living a full and rich life. And it was a long time ago. But as far as I know I do not carry it around with me as some weight or stone or what have you. I do still carry it with me. Sometimes it sits so quietly I think it might be gone. But other times it courses through my system with such surprise and force it makes me dizzy. It happens in mundane moments. Like recently my mom called from a highway rest stop to say hello and that she just bought a hot dog. It suddenly hits me she survived a serial killer. And the reality of what could have happened overwhelms me. I explained to Tim that I am headed out to find the others who were affected by this event. I tell them I have questions I want answered and I think talking to others will help somehow. I tell him I think about forgiveness. I hope that does not seem crazy but that is what we are taught right? That if we can forgive we get some sort of relief. But how do you do that? I know my mother is very clear. She will never forgive McFadden and I could guess about my brother. Do you think you have forgiven him? No. Do you think you need to or want to? Me? Not particularly. Fuck him. I do not give a shit about him. I do not even really like discussing it to be honest with you although this has been OK. Why do not you like discussing it? I do not really see the point. I wish I have a little bit of that. I mean I am doing the opposite thing here. I am like talking to lots of people. What do you think of that? What do you think about me talking like-- I am kind of curious what the point of the whole project is but go for it you know. Let us see where it goes. I do not know. Good for you. Better you than me. I hope he is right. Near the top of my list of people to talk to were the men who had voted on McFadden's commutation from prison in Pennsylvania. Some background first. Pretty much the only way out for lifers in Pennsylvania besides escape or death is to have their sentence commuted. Historically commutation has been common practice there. It serves as a release valve a way to reward good behavior and give prisoners sentenced to life hope for a second chance. After serving 25 to 30 years of a life sentence if lifers show remorse and behave themselves in prison they have a shot at commutation. The crime McFadden was seeking commutation for happened in 1969. He was convicted of the burglary and murder of Sonia Rosenbaum a 60-year-old woman in Philadelphia. McFadden committed the crime with three other teenagers. He was 16 at the time. His record was already filled with over a dozen arrests. And for this crime he was sentenced to life without parole. By 1992 McFadden had been in prison for just over 20 years. He had applied for commutation seven times with no luck. The eighth time was different. He succeeded. I was very skeptical to my fellow pardons board members. Republican Ernest Preate was the Attorney General for Pennsylvania in the late '80s early '90s. He was the only person to vote no on McFadden's commutation. I said I do not like this guy. I do not think he is ready to go. Very very hesitant to recommend him to the governor. Preate thought McFadden was too young just 39 and that he could easily go on to commit other crimes. He told me something else that shed light on the case. Apparently the Department of Corrections supported McFadden because McFadden had ratted on fellow prisoners during violent riots that erupted at the Camp Hill prison in the 1980s. The department was recommending the Department of Corrections was recommending him so that this was part of the payback to McFadden was we will recommend you for a commutation because you have been helpful to us in dealing with the riot at Camp Hill. Nearly everyone I spoke with mentioned that McFadden's cooperation at Camp Hill helped him get his commutation. I have a feeling it is going to be grueling I get the sense that you are scared. I am scared of something. I do not know what it is. Well I am nervous about this. I mean I have thought a lot about you over the last 20 years. Five people sit on the Pennsylvania board of pardons. When McFadden applied for commutation in 1992 Democrat Mark Singel was the Lieutenant Governor and the head of the board. Although his vote counted the same as everyone else's it was Mark Singel more than anyone who was blamed for what happened once McFadden got out. He was the former board member I most wanted to talk to. When I thought of other people who must be haunted by this event I thought Mark Singel. The Board of Pardons was always skeptical. I mean the numbers of people that we even consider was minuscule microscopic. The board never met Reginald McFadden. Amazingly that was not part of the commutation process in Pennsylvania. But others spoke on his behalf and McFadden had to submit piles of paperwork including descriptions of past crimes names of current sponsors and accomplishments in prison. What I recall about the McFadden presentation was that everybody was on board. The psychologist and the warden and the corrections people were all saying that this is somebody who had done extraordinarily well. The board voted 4 to 1 in favor of McFadden's commutation. Singel voted yes. He believed he was doing the right thing. I have to tell you that my own personal background I grew up in a very Catholic and a specific type of Catholicism Byzantine Catholic. When we were very young the whole family would go in and sing the mass every day in old Slavonic and the phrase that we would sing over 100 times during the liturgy was Gospodi pomilui Lord have mercy Lord have mercy. And my family believed in that. That makes you emotional. Yeah yeah. So you felt like here you were in a position to have mercy on people. To do my job as a human being not just as the Lieutenant Governor. When McFadden walked out of prison he was 41 and had never spent a day of his adult life as a free man. Surprisingly McFadden did not go to a halfway house a bureaucratic oversight. McFadden's transition did not go well. Within a month he went through two or three jobs and started stealing from his roommate. Within two months he started to spiral out of control killing Robert Silk Margaret Kierer and Dana DeMarco and of course attacking my mom. During the first week of October just 92 days after he was released from prison Reginald McFadden was arrested as the prime suspect of these crimes. News of McFadden's arrest arrived in Harrisburg Pennsylvania where Democrat Mark Singel was ahead in the governor's race against Republican Tom Ridge. In October of 1994 Tom Ridge was not well-known not even in Pennsylvania. He was a Congressman representing a small rural district. Mark Singel on the other hand had been the Lieutenant Governor for nearly eight years. The feeling across the state was that Mark Singel was a shoo-in. So they were ready to just simply transfer the mantle and I could feel it all across Pennsylvania. Tom Ridge never got close never got close. And then McFadden happened. And all they had to do was to put an ad up and put McFadden's picture out there say see? We told you. This is what happens when you are weak on crime. Mark Singel votes to free a convicted murderer. The man Mark Singel voted to free is arrested for rape and murder. Mark Singel bad judgement too liberal on crime. How can we ever trust him again? There is a better choice Tom Ridge. The judgement and character we trust. And then everything shifted. The whole tectonic plates of my universe changed and we watched that campaign disintegrate. It went from an eight point lead to us being seven points behind in 48 hours. 15 point swing. I have never ever seen that in politics. Mark Singel's career as a politician was over and Tom Ridge's was about to soar. It took months and a lot of persistence to land an interview with Ridge. My understanding is that from what I have read and from what I remember that Reginald McFadden was a real turning point in the election. Do you see it that way? Well I cannot I mean I cannot doubt that it had an impact but from my perspective what it did for me was put an exclamation point on what I have been talking about for over a year. I met Tom Ridge in a huge suite of offices in downtown Washington DC where he now runs a security consulting firm. In 2001 George W. Bush asked Ridge to leave his post as Governor of Pennsylvania and to join him at the White House to head up what would become the new Department of Homeland Security. But back in 1995 having beaten Mark Singel in the election Tom Ridge was being sworn in as the Governor of Pennsylvania. The main thing that won the election was his stance on crime. And so once elected what did you feel your mandate was then on this issue? Well I told cloaks if you elect me one of the first things that I am going to do I am going to call a special session on crime and that is exactly what we did. The same special session on crime that I testified in the same special session that focused on getting tough and essentially putting an end to any chance of commutation for lifers. Here's the thing this was the mid '90s. Crime was one of the top issues on most voters' minds in Pennsylvania and across the country. People wanted to feel safe. For Tom Ridge who was already running as a tough on crime candidate Reginald McFadden's spree was strange to say perfectly timed. Although sprees like McFadden's are extremely rare it had the exact class and racial components to draw in the media and incite public hysteria. A lot of people who I have spoken to talk about the constitutional changes that went into effect as a result of the special session and that that makes it nearly impossible for people to have their sentence commuted. And I as a person who testified at that special session and perhaps contributed to those changes being made I think about that a lot because I think about the lives that are being impacted. Do you ever think about those changes and wonder if perhaps they are too strict or wonder about the impact of those changes and the reduced number of people getting commuted? Candidly that is a fair question and I have not given it much thought. But most of my opinions I hold today I held 20 or 30 years ago but not all of them. So. I have asked everybody this question and I think all the people that I am meeting with are-- I am choosing because I believe this incident changed their life personally and I am wondering how you think this incident McFadden changed your life personally? I hope you are not disappointed but I am not sure it did. It changed your mother's life it changed the lives of many families. It is certainly in a positive way I would like to think changed the lives of hundreds if not thousands of other families and victims but for me personally the only thing it did was to re-affirm in my own mind that the approach I took towards reforming some of the criminal justice system was the right thing to do. I think my personal connection to all this made some of the people I interviewed nervous and careful. That is understandable and it made me all the more grateful to Mark Singel the guy who lost the election for the way he talked to me like when I asked him difficult questions like this one. If you had the chance to say something to my mom or to the family members of the other-- Just that I am terribly sorry. That I feel to the people who were the immediate victims I hurt them and I did not mean to. So there you have it. Hearing Mark Singel say this eased something in me. My mother felt the same way when I played it for her. That is wonderful that he expressed such personal feelings with you because that is the human being. The last time we talked and we went through what happened on September 21st how is that for you? I think it went pretty well. I do. Is it difficult for me to share it or to revisit it? No. It is a reality for me. I guess some difficulty is carrying it around and-- What are the scars you have from this? I do not know if you actually have physical scars but any kind of scars. What are the scars that you have? I cannot sing. That is it. It is huge. What does it mean for you not to be able to sing? Well I was a bird who could sing. I can sing right? But I cry so it stops me and that is very painful because that was who I was. I was a girl who was born with a voice and I could sing and I cannot now. It is true. My mother was not only a singer on Broadway but she used to be one of those people 