A few years back I gave a talk at Chautauqua in upstate New York which if you do not know what that is starting in the 1870s it was this high-minded lecture circuit like TED Talks but before the internet or Public Radio before the invention of radio. With a big religious component which is how I fell into this long conversation about the literal word of the Bible. It happened because the staffer who drove me to the airport was a retired Methodist preacher and associate pastor of one of the churches in Chautauqua named John Jackson. And we had this hour and a half long drive. And somehow we got onto how he does not believe that every word of the Bible is literally true which if you are a Methodist that is no big deal. And John said that as he gets older the literal words of the Bible seem less important to him than the big picture-- love your neighbor as yourself and love God above all. And I told John I totally get the love your neighbor as yourself part of that. I can see how that can reshape just everything about how you treat others and really everything you do in your life in the world. But I told him like I have never really understood why is it important to love God above all? Do you know what I mean? If you do what God wants and you try to be good-- you try to treat others right-- what difference does it make if you love God? What does God care? And I got to ask John about a variation on this question that I have wondered about for a couple of years ever since the last time I was in synagogue. This was I do not know this was two or three years before this conversation. I had not been to synagogue in forever. And it was the anniversary of my mom's death. And we are Jews so you are supposed to go say Kaddish this old prayer that is one of the central prayers in Judaism at the anniversary of somebody's death. And so my dad and my stepmom and I were at one of the daily services that observant Jews go to every day in Baltimore where I grew up. And I always liked going to synagogue as a kid. We went a lot. And so it was nice going back. I know all the Hebrew prayers by heart. And I do not know if this is good or bad but not having sat in a synagogue in over a decade it really hit me how every day is a rerun. Do you know what I mean? They never do a new episode-- every day the same words same songs in the same order stretching back hundreds of years. They read a new part of the Bible part of the Torah some days so there is that. But all the rest-- basically exactly the same every day. And everybody is singing and chanting. And I started looking in the prayer book on the side of the page with the English translation of the prayers which I had not done in years. And I really was struck at how many of them-- the Amidah the Ashrei are about praising God at length. That is what the words mean even the Kaddish which you say over and over during services.   It goes on and on. And the words basically are may His great name be exalted and sanctified blessed and praised glorified and exalted extolled and honored adored and lauded be the name of the Holy One. And that is what they have say when your mom dies-- comforting huh? It is basically God is great over and over building to this beautiful line really beautiful that is basically God is so great it is beyond the power of any prayer or word or song or praise. It is beyond the power of language to capture it. And it really hit me sitting there. What does God get out of that? Why does he want us sitting down and telling him how great he is for 45 minutes a day? Is he that needy? If some parent demanded that of their kids-- OK I want you to praise me for 45 minutes a day every single day of your life we would know they were nuts. And it is like what I was saying to John-- what does God care if we love him? And John had such a lovely answer. He said first off he thinks lots of people make the mistake of picturing God as being like us like humans like he is somebody who we are calling on the phone or something when we are praying. But the way he sees it he understands God to be all the values and principles that he sees in scripture-- the obligation to love each other to be honest and decent in our dealings with each other all of those things. And when he is praising God he said that is what he is praising. He is basically re-pledging himself to those principles which he loves. In other words the literal words of the Bible the literal words of the prayers are not as important as that pledge a pledge to act a certain way in the world. And reading and calling around in the days since we had that conversation I have learned that other clergy-- Christian Jewish Muslim-- some of them say the same things especially that God does not need our prayers. The prayers are for us. One of them told me the Kaddish is supposed to comfort me after my mom's death by pointing me to this idea of God's presence in the world the goodness in the world which if I believed in God I guess could be a comfort. But I do not believe. But weirdly even without that without believing any of the words I do find it is a comfort to say the prayer. It is just it is familiar. It is familiar as the nursery rhymes my mom sang to me as a kid as the Shema the prayer that she had me and my sister say every night before we went to sleep. It is comforting despite the fact that it is in another language and part of a doctrine I do not believe anymore. Just the fact of it handed to me by my parents and to them by their parents-- Freida and Lou and Melvin and Molly and their parents before them-- David Elizabeth and Isidore and people whose names I do not even know and before them their parents for hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of years and standing in synagogue that day standing and saying these words in unison with other mourners it was comforting.   Today on our show the sometimes very old words that we turn to for comfort in moments of adversity and at other times they can be very random-- the novel Little Women A Tribe Called Quest and other old school hip hop-- we have stories about each of those. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act 1-- Go to the Mattresses. Shamyla always loved books. Back in 1989 like lots of other 11-year-olds she also loved Punky Brewster and Paula Abdul. But her main thing was reading-- The Baby-Sitters Club books Little House on the Prairie. It was all about words and books. And then something happened which totally changed what she read and how. Elna Baker talked to her. This is a story we first broadcast a few years ago. Today's show is a rerun. Here's Elna. OK so you meet somebody at a party and they ask you what is your favorite book? What is your answer? My answer is Little Women is my all-time favorite book. And then if they were to ask you why? What would you say? Well I probably would have a very long conversation with someone about that. But it goes back to the '90s when I was living in Pakistan. And this was the only book that I had in my possession for a couple of years. A couple of years when she was basically held in captivity in Pakistan. I will tell you how she found herself holed up with only one book in a minute. But first here's how she ended up in captivity. She was raised in suburban Maryland. Her father was an economist her mom a teacher. She went to an all-girls prep school. At 11 she learned her parents were not her biological parents. Her mom the oldest daughter in her family could not have kids and really wanted to. And so Shamyla's family came up with a solution one that is not unusual in Pakistan. Since her mom was the oldest it was her younger sister's obligation to give her a child. And because of this family pressure and a sense of duty the younger sister did it. But then it got complicated. Well my adoptive parents had kids. They had a son. And then they had another son. And that really made my biological family confused and angry. And they were like we gave you our child and now you have your own children. Give us our daughter back. And my mom said I am not going to give her back. She is not a ball. I cannot toss her back. For years they fought over this. When Shamyla was 12 on a visit home to Pakistan her birth parents asked if they could take her on a trip. Her mom agreed as a gesture of goodwill. It would just be a week long and she would get to know her cousins who were actually her brothers. And at first it was really fun. Until I got really sick at someone's house. And it turned out I had malaria. And what I did not realize at the time was that they had taken me there on purpose because it was way out in the country where no one could find me. Two weeks go by then three. She is all better asking when she can go back. And they kept making excuses-- um not-- you just need to wait. We have some other places to go. And I remember at some point my biological father taking me aside very kindly and saying you know we are your real family. They never loved you. We love you. They loved you like the way people love slippers like an old used pair of slippers. But they love their boys because that is their blood. And we are your blood and that is how we love you. So you are staying with us now. They do not let her leave and she is really confused-- of course my US parents love me. They must love me. But then if they loved me why are not they coming to get me? Unbeknownst to her her US parents are trying to find out where she is. But no one will tell them. To make matters worse her US parents are not legally Shamyla's parents. The adoption was never formal. She was just handed over. So they have no legal claim to their daughter and there is nothing Shamyla could do. She was 12. Even if I fantasized about running away to another city and seeing other relatives I was like how will I do it? What will I do? Where will I get the money? How will I get on the train? How will I get on a plane? What will I do? You were trapped. I was trapped yeah. She says her birth parents told her when she was growing up whenever they saw her it was upsetting to them. They thought she is too Americanized. They were incredibly traditional even for Pakistan which is already very patriarchal. Women are expected to be subordinate. And if their purity is questioned like if they are even seen speaking to a man in a public place their family's reputation could be ruined and the whole family could be ostracized from the community for it. This is especially the case in Peshawar where her birth parents lived. And Shamyla a suburban Maryland tween did not understand that this was the world she lived in now. She says everything about the way she acted was wrong in their eyes. They did not approve of the music she listened to or the books she read. They thought they were teaching her to be far too independent for a girl. At this rate she would become promiscuous any day now. And since they did not trust her not to be they kept her under house arrest confining her to a corner of the house that consisted of a bedroom and a bathroom. And they confiscated her cassettes and her books. Her birth father would lecture to her for hours. His favorite three topics were America is a bad place especially for girls. American women are loose character and horrible. The second topic was your adopted family never really loved you never. And the third topic was so here's what you are going to do when you get married. These are your wifely duties including your sexual obligations to your husband. He would also lecture her about the rules she needed to follow. Some were the normal rules of an observant Muslim home. She could not go out without being covered make eye contact wear her hair down. Others were cultural-- she could not hug people wear glasses when guests came over speak English or Urdu which would be seen as a sign of modernity. Only Pashto the language of the region was allowed. She could not serve herself food before her brothers. She was barely allowed to eat. They thought she needed to be thin to get married so they locked the fridge. She says if she messed up she was beaten with a kitchen squeegee which cut her face open or a walking stick. That was the worst one she says. The second worst one was with a golf club. And the third worst one was with cleats near my eye. They took cleats and hit you with them. And I think I got kicked. She asked me not to reach out to her birth parents to confirm these details because she was worried for her safety. And I did not. But members of her family here in the States confirmed that this is what her birth parents are like. And her mother and therapist corroborated that her story of being abused has always remained consistent. I remember after every time they would beat me I would put an X on whatever calendar I had and be like this will never happen again. I will be so good now that this will never happen again. Like from this day forward I will finally be a good girl. Yep. Did you feel like you would never be the girl they wanted you to be? No I thought eventually I am going to get there. I just have to keep trying. I really thought that eventually I am going to become that person. And you wanted to be that person? I think that I thought I had no choice. She was not just physically abused. As she got older she says she was also sexually abused by her brother. And finally into this bleakness comes a book the book Little Women. So one of my friends noticed the book at a book fair at our school. All these books had come from Singapore. And there was Little Women. I said I know this book and I want it. And I remember thinking oh my god I read that book when I was little. I had a huge beautiful illustrated copy growing up. And I said to my friend Mirjana I was like Mirjana can you please buy it? It is 10 rupees and I will pay you back. She would tried smuggling books home before but she would always been caught. She hid the book inside her mattress pad underneath the bed. And she broke it into sections roughly eight piles so that it did not make the mattress stick up in any way. When she heard her family go out she would wait and then carefully unzip the mattress pad and take a section of the book out at a time. Whichever one she pulled out first she read. It was the book of my life. It was the only book I had to escape. It was the only book that I had to actually read over and over again. And I kind of memorized it. I am going to read you like some quotes from the book. OK. And just interrupt if you know where it is or what this is about. And then I am going to just random open book.  This feels like a pop quiz. Yeah yeah. Ooh Mercy on me. Beth loves Laurie she said sitting down in-- Oh this is when Beth is ill. And Beth is changing and she thinks the secret is that Beth is in love with Laurie. Mrs. March and Jo were deep in their own affairs when a sound from Meg made them look up to see her staring at her note. Oh that is when--  that is when Meg has written to Mr. Brooke and he actually writes back. But it was Laurie pretending to be Mr. Brooke. We did this eight times and she is able to get everything I read within seconds. You are good at this.  I told you I read this book over and over and over. How many times? Oh hundreds. By now it is probably thousands. If you have not read Little Women it is basically about four sisters the March sisters. Meg the oldest is the responsible one. Jo is the rebel and the writer. Beth is sick. And Amy the youngest is a spoiled brat. Their father is serving in the Civil War and their mother is raising them alone. The book follows these girls from childhood into adulthood. Were there parts of the book that you would just read over and over like your favorite parts? I loved reading the parts in the beginning when the two sisters would talk to each other Meg and Jo and their bond. Because I did not have a sister and I had no one to talk to. And I really loved the scenes about parties and stuff. She loved these scenes because they mirrored her life in a really specific way. Her birth parents were upper middle class and they wanted to use Shamyla to marry into a higher class. So they dressed her up and took her to social events to show her off. In the book there are events like this that the March sisters go to. There is a chapter about Meg and Jo going to a party in the very beginning. And they are not out yet in society. And I was like Oh my god this 1860-something book is what is happening in Peshawar in 1990. Oh my god it is the same thing. I am not out yet in society and I have to be very careful how I present myself. In a way Little Women was the perfect book for Shamyla's situation because it is like a how-to for girls a survival guide. Like most women who read the book the sister Shamyla relates to the most is Jo. She was my favorite too. I was raised in a strict religion and my life was supposed to be about marriage and motherhood. And then Jo came into my orbit and showed me I could have ambition and be improper and break the rules. And I loved her for it. And that is how Shamyla felt. Jo helped Shamyla hold on to the identity her family was trying so hard to squash. There is a part where Jo and Laurie go running. And Meg scolds her and says when will you learn to be ladylike? And she says I hope never. I always want to run and I always want to romp. And I thought me too. I never want to have to stop being spirited and independent. And I remember Jo had a temper in the book. And I thought I have a temper too. And she is working really hard to curb it and I was like I am too. I did not have any of the freedom Jo had. But in my heart I was just as feisty and independent. So I think it is very funny when nowadays my friends are like well you were so meek. And I was like I was never meek. That is just a facade.  I am Jo. I get her. But in a way what is so interesting is it is so literally like your way of being Jo was reading about Jo. That is where you actually got to be Jo. Yeah I could not really do anything else. In the book Jo writes stories. Shamyla loved to write too. But she says the second year she was there her birth father declared girls are not supposed to write and took a notebook filled with her stories and burned it in the backyard and made her watch. In the book Jo writes her stories alone in the attic. This gave Shamyla the idea to sneak into her bathroom with a fountain pen and paper and write. And then I would wash all the ink off the paper crumple up the wet paper and throw it up the hole in the window mesh. Wait you would write the stories and then erase everything you would written? So there was a hose that attached from the tub to the sink. And so I would take that hose and wash all the ink off. Down the drain of-- There was a floor drain and I would make sure that the floor drain was not blue with the blue ink  and that there was no sign of ink that had fallen off the papers. Shamyla knew how our family would react if they caught her writing or if they found her copy of Little Women and read any of it. Like there is a boy in the book. His name is Laurie. He and Jo have an innocent flirtation. But Shamyla says if her birth parents read that part they would think-- You do not go over to adolescent boy's house ever. There is no innocence in this. In real life Jo and Laurie would be doing very bad things. This is not right. Well they are saying in real life Jo and Laurie would be getting it on? Basically. I mean that would have been a better book right?  I loved that. Oh my gosh I was like in my fan fiction I would write that. That is so funny. After a year Shamyla's American mother was allowed to visit her. Shamyla told her what was happening. Her American mother cried and begged for her extended family to intervene and send Shamyla back to the States. But it was useless. Shamyla felt abandoned and hopeless. So she gave in did her best to make herself into the obedient Pashtun girl they wanted her to be. There is a scene in the book one I hated because it was so sad that Shamyla read over and over again. I reread Beth's dying a lot because there was this sense of helplessness. And I really understood that in a way that a lot of people do not. Because I knew when something's inevitable and it is going to happen they keep saying the tide is going out in the book. And I was like yeah when the tide goes out you just have to go with it. You cannot fight it. I understood that on a level I could not even explain. I just knew what that meant. It sounds like their world feels so real to you.  I know. It really does. I felt like I lived with them sometimes. What do you mean? I felt like I was watching them like I was the servant or something watching. I felt like I lived in the attic and I could go downstairs and see them. They could not see me but I could see them. And I would join the world. I would join in. Her real world of course was much darker. By the time she got to 17 or 18 she concluded that there is really only one way out to escape her family and maybe even have a happy life. I was like OK so the way out is marriage. So I have to play this game to get married. And I started to actually kind of be like OK so in Little Women you know how Meg goes to society dances and wears her glove and starts putting her hair up? I was like I can do this. I can do this to get the best possible way out. I was really thinking about how to create my life with someone else and what that would look like. And so I had stopped so much caring about going home or going back. And marriage is actually what the second part of Little Women is about. The second half of the book is very different from the first. It covers domestic duties and how the girls let go of their wild ways to become good wives. Shamyla not a big fan of Part Two. The book the second book I remember thinking I do not like this part. I like going back to their childhood and reading that part again. Oh the second part is the worst. I know. It is so so so sad. I think I would really forgotten the message of the second half of the book. And it is kind of infuriating when you realize how in some ways it feels almost like a propaganda for becoming the way you are supposed to be. Yeah. I remember thinking when Meg gets married they have a whole chapter about how she loses her freedom. And I was like Oh god I do not want that to be my story when I get married. I understood a lot of that because that was what was being asked of me at that time to give up give up give up in order to be a woman to live in the society and be married and have a family. A friend at Shamyla's school told her she had a brother that Shamyla could marry who would treat her well. So she began corresponding with him via her friend. But her family found out. And they were terrified that their reputation was going to be destroyed by it. Girls do not communicate directly with boys. And they did what lots of families might do. They pulled her out of school and quickly started arranging her marriage to a 30-year-old man. As part of their damage control they decided to send Shamyla away for a few weeks. But their only relatives who were not in Peshawar were in America. So they made arrangements to send her back. And while she was there her birth father and mother wanted her to learn new skills that would add to her bride price the money the groom's family would be expected to pay them. He sent me with a whole list. He was like you have to learn driving shorthand swimming.  It just seems like after all the work they did to get you to stay and also their plans to marry you off it just seems crazy that they would let you go back. Well it is funny because she even said something crazy. She is like if they are going to do anything to fix your face-- because remember they cut my face open-- she is like ask them if they can put a mole down there like Cindy Crawford. And so I was like OK let us add mole to the list of things that will happen.  They send her to stay with her US parents. Her birth father is so confident that Shamyla is one of them now that she will obediently return to Pakistan. He does not question letting her go. A female chaperone traveled with her. So we walked onto the tarmac. I climbed up in the plane. And as the plane took off I just started crying nonstop. Because I knew I was not coming back. I just knew. I did not know how I knew it. I do not know why I knew it. And I am watching Pakistan slip away and I am like I am not going back here. It is never happening. And was it relief? No. I was sad. I was really really sad. And I was like goodbye life that I knew. At first she had a hard time coming back to America. She was in total culture shock. She could hardly speak English. She did not recognize her little brothers. The internet existed now. It was like she would woken up from a coma. I remember thinking I still like big hair. And everyone's like that ended in 1989. No one does that anymore. And I was like but I like that. They are like no now we straighten our hair. And I was like I do not like that. Well you have to. She enrolled in community college. But she would been so indoctrinated it was hard for her to just switch it off. She would see women in skirts and catch herself judging them. For the first few years she was a mess. Trying to switch off the ideology was nearly impossible. She started to see a therapist who helped her process the extent of what happened to her. There is something her mother said to me on the phone I cannot stop thinking about. It is something she told her little sister once. Between you and me we have ruined Shamyla's life. It is been 23 years since she returned. Her life actually diverged from the second half of Little Women the part she did not like. She did not get married and she is independent. She runs her own practice as a therapist and social worker. She specifically works with people who suffer from trauma because she understands it so well herself. But sometimes she still returns to Little Women. Well it comes up in different situations. I will be like OK so-- the other day I actually-- this is funny. My friend has twins. And she was telling me like god I am so tired and they do not listen and my husband is so busy. And I referred her to the chapter of Meg trying to discipline her twins. And I was like read this. This will help you.  Wait are you constantly-- do your friends have a joke or like Oh not another Little Women reference. No I think that they think it is funny that I like the book so much. But I do not think anyone really understands why. Wait so it is like your only frame of reference? Yeah. When she is having a hard time or making a decision she asks the question opens the book and whatever passage she reads it is her answer from the March sisters. And she also has this ritual. So every year on my birthday I find the corresponding age that I am for the chapter I am and I read that. In other words chapter 30 when she turned 30 chapter 31 when she turned 31. To be like so what is this life-- this year going to be about in my life? What is it telling me? So it is almost like your magic eight ball? Yeah kind of. It is like my Bible. What did you turn this year? I am 41. And what chapter? Oh Amy-- it is called Learning to Forget. It is when Laurie's trying to forget Jo and he starts falling in love with Amy. And how do you think that is going to relate to this year of be-- Maybe this year finally someone's going to fall in love with me  the right one not all the wrong ones. There are 47 chapters in Little Women. In six years she will turn 48. And she does not know what she will do. She says maybe she will start from the beginning again. And whereas the book used to be a way of escaping her room in Pakistan now it is a way of returning to that world she built alone in her room. It is as if the March sisters are all still living there and she is the one who left them behind. Elna Baker is one of the producers of our show. Shamyla told a version of this story herself on the storytelling podcast Risk which tapes for a live audience. You can hear that version and all those stories at risk-show.com. Coming up Wu Tang Is For The Children children are the future. So is Wu Tang the future? That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. This is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our show of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show-- The Weight of Words stories about the words that people turn to for comfort or strength. We first aired this show in 2019. We have arrived at Act 2 of our show Act 2-- Daddy Lessons. So the most recent bit of serious parenting that my dad did with me-- and I say this realizing that this really might be the very last life lesson he might give me we are both getting up there in years-- was a protracted month-long campaign to switch from Excel to Quicken to keep track of my personal finances. He felt very strongly about this. And I just want to say yes the numbers add up the same no matter what software you use. But Quicken I mean do not get my dad started. He is a retired CPA. He had already trained me to save all my receipts. Please that is basic. And he went on with this at such length that at some point I realized Oh switching software was not a piece of friendly financial advice. This was actual parenting happening. Not switching to Quicken meant an actual repudiation of him as a father. It would actually be a failure of parenthood. Parents try to shape who we are in their own image so often. They make sure their kids are exposed to whatever-- modern art sports nature science theater whatever they love. They train them to be the world's greatest tennis player or golfer that kind of thing. My friend Adam came up with a scheme like that. This is Neil Drumming. His friend Adam is Adam Mansbach a writer. Adam is a DJ a record collector and he wanted his daughter Vivien to love music the way he loved music exactly the way he loved music. One of the things I feel like I got right about parenting is that I never played Viv any kids music. Because I understood that any song that you played a two-year-old a three-year-old might become their favorite song and then you would have to listen to it 20 times a day. So I never played her anything I was not willing to listen to 20 times a day. So she from a very young age was listening to a lot of music I liked. Is that a thing that you got right about parenting? Or is that a thing that you just did for yourself? I mean  I mean are not the two synonymous really Neil? I am not sure what the difference is. Adam likes '80s and '90s hip hop perhaps more than me which is saying a lot. Anyway he fed Vivien a steady diet of classic material-- A Tribe Called Quest Public Enemy Run-DMC. Das EFX. There was probably a year probably two years where the Stetsasonic record In Full Gear got more play in our house than any other record. We may be the only household in North America that can say that that in the year 2014 we listened to In Full Gear more than any other album.  What is that record '88? Yeah it came out in '88. This exposure therapy approach to parenting has been known to fail. I grew up surrounded by beds that were always made. But if you walked into my apartment now you would see no evidence of that. In Adam's case though it worked. He noticed that by the time she was six years old Vivien could rap along to any hip hop song you played her. She would memorize it and she would be very much in the pocket and just not missing a beat. I remember one of the songs that we played a lot was The Choice is Yours remixed by Black Sheep. I remember recording her just on my phone doing the third verse of the song the famous third verse of the song Engine Engine Number 9. If my train goes off the track pick it up pick it up pick it up. Back on the seat crispy and clean. You can try but know what-- And she had it perfectly down. And it is not an easy verse to do. And I remember sending it to our friend Jay Period who in turn sent it to Dres from Black Sheep. And he was like Yo this is incredible. Like tell her-- give her my props. And I was like Yo Viv you are six so this means nothing to you. But Dres from Black Sheep said that you are dope. This is his song.  RAPPING Engine engine number 9 on the New York transit line if my train goes off the track pick it up pick it up pick it up. Come on. Like a lot of guys our age Adam tried his hand at being a rapper when he was younger. He joined a group. They made some songs that never quite went anywhere. He stayed in the hip hop world though. He still ha