OK you are a middle school teacher. Here's a situation that apparently happens all the time. A kid walks into your classroom wearing a hat. There is a rule-- hats are not allowed in school. You tell him to take it off. He does. Ten minutes later you are teaching you look at the kid he is wearing the hat again. Again you tell him to take it off. This time he does not. And then he escalates the situation. He curses to himself. What do you do? Right then and there I would say That response was not acceptable and I will not tolerate that. Take off your hat and put it into your bookbag. Serena Nickle in Connecticut says that usually works. You demand compliance. Though one of our producers Chana Joffe-Walt asked over a dozen middle school teachers. Jose Vilson in New York would have a very different response. Let us have a conversation. So like you are in the middle of teaching and you would say John let us have a conversation about your hat? Yeah. Absolutely. Jeff Reamer says that the key is no conversation no stopping instruction at all as he gives the kid a demerit on the kid's weekly behavior report. If I am saying Ladies and gentlemen today we are going to talk about three different styles of argumentation-- John right now you are choosing to earn a major deduction because you put the hat back on. Please take it off. We are choosing to learn about the three different types of argumentative styles-- ethos logos and pathos. It would be like that. Smooth right? Jamien Jacobs in Maine would not use any words at all. She would give the kid a look. She would do the whole thing in a look. If he does not take off the hat one of my techniques is I take my shoe off and I chuck it. What? . You take your-- wait. You take your shoe off? Yeah. Like if I am wearing clogs I would take off my shoe and I would put it in my hand and I would say OK take off the hat or I am going to chuck it. Like I am going to chuck it at you? Well they never know. But I have thrown plenty of shoes and kids love that too. All across the country across different schools in different states when it comes to disciplining young people teachers are winging it. In 19 states you are still allowed to hit kids if they think that'ill work. And lots do. Chana asked the teachers what they learned about controlling their classrooms in their teacher training programs. Most of them said not much. There is this great book that is out now by a reporter named Elizabeth Green about teacher training. It says Incredibly at some education schools disciplining kids managing your class it is not even a subject on the curriculum. When you ask teachers OK so really how did you learn to do that thing that you do with your voice your face your shoe they often answer with a name a kid's name-- that kid taught me so much. I had this one student Alex who-- I would tried everything. His name was Jeff. I will call her Z. I will give her the name J. Yeah J. We will call him Johnny. We will call him Johnny. Johnny and Z and Jeff and Alex are our nation's education school. These are the kids who were so hard to discipline that teachers just had to figure out what to do. So each teacher finds an approach that works for them. Does it work for the kids? Who knows? There is no clear answer. There is no best practice that educators agree on. Which is weird since this is where kids should be learning to control themselves and how to live with others in the world. It is so essential. This is so basic. And there are lots of educators out there who are convinced that the way that we do discipline is not just ineffective. They think it is actively messing kids up. So today we are going to talk about schools but not about curriculum or testing or standards or any of the other stuff that people usually talk about on the radio and in the media when they talk about schools. Today we are going to talk about discipline because you know you kind of have to nail discipline before you can do anything else in a classroom. Chana Joffe-Walt has been looking into this for months. She has learned things are not going so great with discipline. And lots of educators and parents are asking is this working? Is this the best we can do? From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One Time Out. OK so let us start this show about discipline in schools at the very beginning of a kid's school experience in preschool with kids so young that you would think it would be pretty straightforward how to handle behavioral problems when they act up. Like how bad can these kids be? And at this young age this is where the question first emerges of whether the wrong kind of discipline in school will screw up a kid maybe for years to come. Here's Chana. JJ's conversational style is to tell you things he knows for sure. He is no fan of ambiguity sticks with the facts. He is five. He does not like salad. His new house is OK but it does not have a pantry. He can spell the word loss. His mom has a belly because there is a baby in there. The baby will have brown skin. And he knows this because his mom said it is for sure for sure. He does not like salad. I do like the onions in it. I eat them a lot. But I do not eat the salad. I just eat the chicken 'ecause the chicken goes with the salad. And I do not eat the salad. JJ just started kindergarten. I ask him what preschool was like before kindergarten. He tells me I was in green room with Miss Bethany and I-do not-remember-her-name lady. There were three racecars. More blocks than a number he knows. Later I talk to JJ's mom Tunette Powell. And she told me a very different story about JJ's time in preschool. She says last January she was in the car on the way to a meeting. They called my husband and my husband called me. And my husband said We need to pick up JJ. And I said Pick him up? And he said Yeah. They said he threw a chair and he needs to go home. And I am like are you kidding? That he threw a chair? I am not saying that he cannot do anything but he is the little guy who I worry about because even if him and his brother who is two years younger than him if his brother hits him he will cry. Very very sensitive and not very aggressive at all. Still as she exited the highway she did a special form of mental gymnastics I believe is familiar to parents everywhere. You know automatically then you are thinking wow I failed as a parent. It was difficult. You went right there? You went to I failed as a parent? I did. That is immediately where I went. When Tunette got to the school the woman at the front desk gave her a form that said JJ threw a chair. She asked Tunette to sign it. So she did. We are not people who just say oh blame the school or blame the teacher or oh it is somebody else's problem. I mean we immediately looked at what do we need to do to right the ship. This is not OK. I mean we told him you are going to go to your room. And I talked to him about everything. And we thought OK he seems like he understood. And so I thought OK this is a one-time thing never happen again. And then in the same week JJ was at school for about 30 minutes. And they called me. They said that he had been crying at the breakfast table. And they did not know why he was crying. That they kept asking him why he was crying and he would not tell them why he was crying. And then he pushed a chair again. And neither of the times he did not hit anybody. But of course he could have. JJ was sent to his room again. No cartoons no fruit snacks. A couple weeks after that JJ spit on another kid. He got sent home again. Tunette asked for more information this time. And there was a long back-and-forth about the definition of spit on. It was not projectile more like dribble. And at home they did the same routine-- you are going to go to your room no treats. But Tunette worried JJ did not seem to understand that when he was bad at school being sent home was a punishment. Tunette did not think he got that connection. I do not. I think he almost saw it as a good thing where yes it was sad because Mommy was not happy with me. But at the same time when I pick them up at school they are not running away from me they are running to me. Do you know what a suspension is? I do not know. Have you heard that word before? Yes. And what does it mean? I forgot. But I do have Captain Damerica. He is the guy with the shield. Captain what? Captain Damerica. So yeah I do not think he got it. And of course he did not. He was four years old at the time. To me it sounds crazy to suspend a four-year-old. Like there has got to be a better way to get your message across. It did not seem like it was messing him up or anything. JJ did not seem traumatized. It just did not look like it was working. Then after the third time he was suspended Tunette started to feel like there was only one explanation for why it was not working. And it was not her parenting or the school. It was not JJ. It was her. She was a problem student when she was a kid. And she felt like somehow she passed that on to her son. She disrupted class a lot got in fights. I got in trouble all the time as a kid. I was suspended frequently. So when my kids started getting suspended it is like-- But you were not suspended in preschool. Yes. Yes. I was suspended and expelled from preschool. Mm-hm. Like three four years old? Yes. Absolutely. Absolutely. And so when I see my own kids getting suspended from school you know my kids are me. So I got in trouble a lot when I was little. My kids are me. Does not matter if the situation's different. It does not even matter. They are just me. It had mattered greatly to Tunette that the situation would be different for her kids. She spent the last decade taking one enormous step after another away from her childhood. Her dad was in prison when she was a kid. Her children have a father. Her mom never had enough money. She and her husband moved to Omaha so Tunette's husband could be in the Air Force. They have a steady income four bedrooms and a lawn. Tunette went into kindergarten knowing she was a bad kid. And she lived up to that reputation all the way through school. But my kids seem so different. They seem like-- my kids are so good. They are so happy. They are so full of life. They just seemed a lot different than I did at three or four. And they are so well-behaved at home and in public when we go to restaurants and any of these places like that. Anywhere we take them to the mall anywhere people are just always stopping us and saying how are your kids so well behaved? So the fact that that was not very consistent at school just broke my heart. A few weeks after JJ was first suspended Tunette took him to a birthday party. And this is where at this point remember I am feeling really low on myself I guess my parenting skills. And so I go to this birthday party. And it is for his friend one of his little friends. And all the parents are kind of talking all the women parents. And we are talking about the preschool. And some of them are saying things that they like and do not like and all these different things. And then I said well JJ's been suspended. And they were like suspended? And I am like yeah. And they said they suspend kids? They were shocked. And I said absolutely. I said he is been suspended and I started telling them all the things that he had done. And then one parent's like I wonder why my kid has not been suspended. And I am like hm? What? So then she says well my son he hit this kid on purpose and they had to rush that kid to the hospital and all I got was a phone call. And I was like hm. And one after another they kept telling me different stuff-- my kid did this my kid did that my kid bit somebody my kid-- all these things. And my kids they are all the same age all the same class. And only JJ had been sent home. So I was like what is going on? That is when I thought to myself something is not right. The other parents were white at this birthday party? The other parents were white. It was three other parents and myself. And they were white. And where we live the majority of the kids are white. And I am not a person who does that oh everything's against black people or I do not wake up and look for situations where there is discrimination or racism or any of that. So I was not-- oh they are just doing this because my kids are black. I had no reason to believe that. After that birthday party it forced me to consider it. After the birthday party Tunette's younger son Joah got suspended. Joah was three though just barely three. He would just had his birthday that week. Tunette writes for a local Omaha parenting blog called Momaha. She wrote a post with the headline Is My Black Preschooler Just Another Statistic? I reached out to the preschool. And they did not want to comment or even allow me to talk to the director of the school. But Tunette's post got picked up by the Washington Post. And she started getting dozens of messages especially from black parents all over the country. In every part every little sector just saying that this has happened to me and I thought I was by myself. Tunette was very much not by herself. This is not a new conversation for lots of black and Latino parents noticing that their kids seem to be punished more harshly than white kids. That is not new. What is new is that some academics and activists have been taking these stories and attaching them to a new provocative term-- the school-to-prison pipeline. The idea is that what is happening to Tunette's son is happening to lots of kids of color all over the country. And once those kids are old enough the excessive punishment in school really messes them up and makes them much more likely to wind up in prison. Yeah you would hear stories from advocates who would talk about a school-to-prison pipeline. Michael Thompson is the director of the Council of State Governments Justice Center. It is a nonpartisan think-tanky type place. And Thompson kept hearing that term school-to-prison pipeline. His job is to advise lawmakers on crime policy. So he was getting asked a lot is this a real thing? Are black and Latino kids really punished more in school and ending up in prison because of it? It seemed a little far-fetched to Michael Thompson. Um you know I think everything's more complicated than that. Thompson likes numbers. He enjoys being in close proximity to Microsoft Excel. And this is exactly the kind of assignment he does not like because there are not consistent numbers on discipline in schools. Every school is different every district every state. And then Michael Thompson learned about Texas. Texas somewhat miraculously had followed every single public school student from seventh grade through graduation-- the seventh graders of 2000 2001 2002. And they had documented everything-- report cards if the kid was poor Asian switched schools gotten in trouble followed them all the way through graduation. So Thomson could ask the researchers in College Station at Texas AM how many white kids were suspended? For what? How many times? Which schools? I was just-- all these numbers. The image I have is these guys in Texas AM with white lab coats. We would joke that all the lights would dim in College Station each time they would run an analysis of this thing because it was such a massive data set. The lab coats peered down at a million students' lives-- the schools they attended how they did when they got in trouble. And they determined that African American and Hispanic students were twice as likely to receive an out-of-school suspension than their white peers for their first offense. When they looked at African American boys in Texas 83 were suspended at least once. And usually they were suspended a lot more than once. That includes anything a school calls suspension. But still take 10 black boys two of them made it through middle and high school without being suspended. And what kind of infractions were they getting suspended for? Most of the time these were not for big things like hitting a teacher or bringing a weapon to school. They were for things like disrespect insubordination willful defiance the kind of incident that often begins when an angry kid will not take his hat off. OK and one more striking thing you can see in the Texas numbers-- kids who were suspended were much more likely to be arrested outside of school three times as likely to come into contact with the juvenile justice system. To be honest it was a little bit of a spine-tingling moment because I kept thinking about how city advocates had been saying this is such a common event. And my instant reaction was this is going to give a whole lot more credibility to this conversation than we have ever had before. They are right. I mean what you are saying is you have just found that they are right. Yeah. At that point that is right. The idea of suspending a young person for bad behavior-- what is that? A kid who is disrespectful or insubordinate does not want to be in class. So you suspend them? Just saying that out loud that sounds weird right? A couple years ago the state of Maryland wrote a law-- state legislator sat down and wrote this law-- that says you cannot suspend students for being truant. If a kid skips school you cannot punish him by telling him you cannot come to school. They needed a law to make that clear. I talked to a sociologist named Pedro Noguera who told me that over the last few decades suspensions have become the go-to move in response to disruptive behavior for everyone actually but especially black and Hispanic kids. Denying them learning time which is I think the most ridiculous part of it. And because of the Texas numbers we now know that those same kids are at a much higher risk of being arrested. So is there a connection here? One way to look at this is just that our society gives tougher punishments to black and Hispanic kids when they are JJ's age when they are in preschool and when they are in high school and when they are old enough to go to prison. The issue is not school. It is just racism. But Noguera says school is an important part of this picture. And here's the theory he laid out for me. You suspend a kid he misses school he finds it hard to catch up he feels frustrated falls behind. And maybe just as important he learns he is bad. Because he feels bad when he is in school he acts bad. There is this assumption that if we get rid of the bad people that the good people will be able to learn the good people will be safe. What we continue to ignore is that we are producing the bad people. We are producing in school the bad behavior. Producing it through the system of punishment that convinces some kids that they are bad. In May 2011 Michael Thompson got a meeting with the Attorney General of the United States. And he showed him the Texas numbers. And two months later the Attorney General and the Secretary of Education were standing together at a press conference about discipline in schools. They started gathering their own numbers from schools all over the country this time. And those numbers were worse even in preschool. In March this year the Department of Education issued a report that said black children make up 18 of preschoolers but they make up 48 of preschool children suspended more than once. When I found that it was the same month as the birthday party. And I saw the story and the way it just said that black children are suspended at much higher rates. So I am thinking to myself in the same few months that my kids were being suspended I go to this birthday party and then I see this report. I asked Tunette what the report meant to her. And she found it hard to summarize so many things. First when I saw the report it made me feel like my kids were a target. It just felt like they were a target. I felt like my kids-- is this something that I have to worry about forever? Is this not something that I could just say was this one-time little thing? It is like something that I will always have to be aware of and always have to think about and always have to be more involved than the next parent in my kids' lives at school because of these studies. And then second the report just kind of made me feel like maybe I was not as bad. She is talking about herself there as a kid. Remember Tunette was a problem student herself preschool through high school graduation. Maybe I could have been-- maybe since there is such this overwhelming number maybe that meant that the teachers were not always doing the right thing. Even as she is saying that Tunette is not quite sure she believes it. She remembers being bad. She flipped over a desk in class one time. That happened. But she also remembers that after getting suspended in preschool she walked into kindergarten fully convinced the teacher was the enemy. And that never went away. All those times she was suspended she did not come back less angry ready to obediently follow directions. It was the opposite. Tunette says I went into kindergarten knowing I was bad. I went into first grade knowing I was terrible. And it just went up from there. Chana Joffe-Walt. Coming up two ambitious totally interesting and completely opposite attempts to do discipline differently in schools. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program discipline in schools-- is it working? Is it messing kids up? One of our producers Chana Joffe-Walt has been looking into that for months. And in this half of our program we look at two approaches to discipline that teachers are trying in schools in poor urban neighborhoods. There is a pattern that teachers see in a lot of these schools. The pattern is this-- the kids walk in on day one they are already stressed out by the environments they come from and they act out. So they get punished. They get the message that they are bad. They come to hate school. They act out some more. I had a kid throw a bathroom stall door out the window from the third floor. And I got in trouble because I let him go to the bathroom. Katie Furr first taught at a middle school in New York City in Washington Heights with tons of kids who acted out. There were fights. It did not really feel like anybody was in charge except this one eighth grader. He actually yelled down the hall one day I run this mother. And I realized he did. Often she would just lose control of her class because of this kid named Christopher a curly-haired 14-year-old with braces who gave her more trouble than anybody else in the class. Like one day Christopher left class to go to the bathroom. And Ms. Furr took his coat. And she locked it in a closet with all the other kids' coats. There was a school policy in that school to lock up coats like that to make it harder for the kids to leave school in the middle of the day. He came back in and he was like where is my coat? And one of the other kids was like Ms. Furr locked it in the closet. And he was like you steal my stuff I am going to steal your stuff. He walked over to my desk. He is taking staplers he is throwing papers. He is like throwing stuff around the room. He is putting stuff in his backpack in his pockets. And the security guard came in and he did not really know what to do. And I mean Christopher's running circles around the security guard my Post-Its falling out of his pants pocket. It was just ridiculous. In reaction to the kind of chaotic public school where learning is interrupted a lot and so kids fall further behind two decades ago some teachers launched one of the biggest recent experiments in American education a whole movement of charter schools designed for poor minority kids. The idea is that the classrooms are rigorous high standards long school days. When it comes to discipline they are strict they are orderly they are hyper-vigilant. There is a slogan they use-- they sweat the small stuff so things never get to the point they did in Ms. Furr's class. These kinds of charter schools have now been around long enough that the first generation of students who went through them are grown. And some of those students now look back on their time in those schools. And they think about did it work? What worked? What did not work? In this act Act Two-- we are calling this act The Guinea Pig Becomes the Scientist-- Chana talked with one of those students who grew up and decided to become a teacher himself. Being a human subject is a thing that ranks pretty high on Rousseau Mieze's who I am list. He grew up in Roxbury Mass. His parents are Haitian immigrants. And at age 10 years old Rousseau became a human test subject when his mom signed him up to be part of the first sixth-grade class at the Academy of the Pacific Rim. I like to think of it as first generation charter school. Students are silent. Students are sitting up straight. There is just no room in a classroom for students not following directions or following the rules or doing what they are asked to do. And version 1.0 of that was like my second day of school I got suspended sent home because I celebrated-- because I got 100 on a math quiz one of those Math Minutes. You got suspended for celebrating a math-- For talking talking out of turn. Wait. What'd you say? Yes! Yes! I got 100 on my Math Minutes. But I said it out loud. Suspension? Yeah. Rousseau's teachers had spent years coming up with the theories that created that first week of school. They wanted to close the achievement gap with long school days and high expectations. They have lots of slogans-- no excuses zero tolerance for misbehavior. And Rousseau's teachers believed this approach would motivate the kids to behave. Which it did for some kids. And for some kids it did not. I was definitely one of the-- how to put this? I got in trouble a lot like a lot. And so-- What kinds of things were you doing? Impulse control. Talking. Talking talking talking talking talking. Yeah that was most of it. A few of Rousseau's childhood teachers went on to start their own schools went on to scale up their vision of rigorous no-excuses schools for America's poor and minority students. Rousseau's former teachers now write books and talk about the mistakes they made early on and all the important lessons they took from those mistakes things like do not shame students by making them stand with their nose to the chalkboard for the rest of the class. Do not make them bark like a dog. It is not best practice to throw chairs in order to get kids to see you are serious. And when a kid is late do not do what a teacher did to Rousseau. He is like where were you?  And I am like sorry. I did not realize-- and then he is like get out He yells at me and screams at me to leave the classroom. And then I get up and I am walking. And he goes walk faster! And screams at me to walk faster. I was so distraught breathing heavy crying just uncontrollable anger and rage at that time. It felt like that. You are still mad about it. I am really angry about it like really angry about it. To this day I cannot say this guy's name. I cannot even-- yeah. It is really bad. For Rousseau there was a big upside to his charter school experience. He got into college. He does not think that would have happened otherwise. And it gave him the life he has today. But there were downsides too. For one lots of kids could not hack it left the school. Less than half of Rousseau's sixth grade class stayed till graduation. And some of the charter movement's leaders say too many of those who did make it to college ended up dropping out. One reason for that-- after all the strict control in high school they floundered when they had no structure in college. When Rousseau aged out of being a human test subject he pretty much immediately moved over to the other side and became a teacher. He got his first gig when he was still in college a sort of teaching internship at a charter school in Rochester. He was 21 years old. And he finally had the distance to see things from the outside. He chaperoned his first field trip to DC and it kind of freaked him out. And it was just so intense. Kids were single-file lines out of buses single-file lines lined up in front of a bathroom at a rest stop. Monitors had to go into the bathrooms. Kids had to silently use the bathrooms wash their hands. And Rousseau noticed that the kids were getting noticed. Grownups around them were smiling pointing them out. I think that there is some of it that is just like kids and teenagers? Wow I have never seen a group of teenagers silently walk into a bathroom because who sees that? But also I think there is a race thing that plays in there too where you are like wow look at a group of minority children in a rest stop sort of like behaving. Rousseau was good with kids especially the problem kids. When he graduated from college he got a job through his charter connections. And Rousseau proceeded to be maybe the only rookie teacher in America who did not struggle with classroom management. Seriously he was a genius at controlling the kids. The thing Rousseau struggled with was letting go of control. By this point the strict charters had pulled back some on the extreme discipline model. The slogans were still zero tolerance no excuses. But Rousseau also heard a new one-- power versus purpose. Make sure when you are exerting your power there is a reason for it. Is there a reason kids need to walk quietly into a rest stop on a field trip? Is there a reason you need that kid to unpack his bookbag silently? There might be. But you know ask the question. Rousseau said school felt so different than he remembered. I saw kids laugh and have fun in school. I saw kids learn about commas through-- like one of my coworkers Angar he came in as Barack O-comma. And I saw that. I experienced students learn and did really well on the Rhode Island state test killed the state. But they were having such a good time. And was that the first time that you had seen that? Yeah. Yeah it was. And you were like oh my god school can be this way. It can be fun. And it was crazy to me. Rousseau and I talked in a small workroom at a school. And he had to interrupt our interview because he said he needed to help with a transition. I did not know what that meant but I followed him into the hallway. And about 30 kids walked single-file line completely silently out of their classroom down the hall down three flights of stairs to lunch. This is what that sounds like.  30 or so 11- and 12-year-old children are streaming past me down the stairs single-file. No arms are flapping no mouths are open no one is tripping or falling all the way to the cafeteria. That was a pretty silent line. Yeah well somebody earned a demerit for talking in that line. Somebody earned a demerit just now? From me yeah. For talking. I did not hear any talking. I listened back to try to find the infraction. And I think it must be this.  demerit for talking. Yeah. That creepy feeling Rousseau had watching the kids at the rest stop I had that feeling. And it was super confusing because Rousseau had just spent an hour telling me about these eye-opening experiences he would had seeing kids laugh and Barack O-comma and how he could never stay quiet as a kid. So we talked about this for a while. And he says he is ambivalent about how controlling his school was about all the ways his school today is a lot like the school he attended as a kid. But the longer he teaches he says the better he understands a thing that he did not get as a kid about why his teachers were so harsh. And that is that they were scared. They were scared of losing control of the class. He knew that. That part was obvious to him even when he was a teenager. But what he did not realize at the time was they were also scared for him. He knows this now because he is a teacher of mostly poor mostly black students like he was. And he feels this for his students. He is afraid for their well-being. He is afraid of the odds they will not graduate. He is afraid they will not get to college afraid they will get suspended or arrested for horsing around or being rowdy at the wrong place at the wrong time. So Rousseau finds himself saying things teachers said to him. And it is like when you are a parent and you hear your mother's voice coming out of your mouth and you know what you are saying is such a worthless thing to say to a child but you say it anyway. Do you not get why I am on this level? Let me get you on the level that I am on. This is why I am freaking out right now. I am so worried because I look at them and I see myself or I see my friends. You know some of those people are in prison