There is this political parable about Hillary Clinton that made the rounds during the primaries this year a parable with many layers to it. One of our contributors Jack Hitt wrote about this recently for the New Republic. Elizabeth Warren is the person who tells this story. So this goes all the way back to the late 90s when Bill Clinton was still in office. Hillary Clinton was First Lady. Elizabeth Warren was not a senator yet. She was a law professor at Harvard. And she had written I think an op-ed piece about this one bankruptcy bill. And Warren tells the story of the First Lady making contact. And they sat down. And she said it was just amazing talking to Hillary Clinton. And just the two of us. They closed the door. Mrs. Clinton sits down. We have hamburgers and french fries. You tutor her. This is Elizabeth Warren telling the story to Bill Moyers on television in 2004. One of the problems with this bill she explained is that if a man went bankrupt he would have to pay off his credit card companies and his banks before he would pay off an ex-wife or child support and alimony. She explained this to Moyers. And I got to tell you I never had a smarter student. Quick right to the heart of it. I go over the law. It is a complex law. Went over the economics showed her the graphs showed her the charts. And she got it. Within 20 minutes she could play where the rest of it would come. Well then that will mean this part's happened. That will mean this is happening. And she got right to the heart of it totally understood it and went back and convinced Bill to veto this bankruptcy bill. Warren said Bill Clinton had been planning on signing the bill. She credits Hillary with turning him around. And that is the Hillary that we all recognize if you have read any of the magazine bios of her that go all the way back to college the valedictorian the A-plus student the woman who does her homework figures it out and has the best understanding. But then Warren tells a second part to the story. This part happens just a few months after the bill is vetoed. It is 2001 Clinton is no longer the First Lady. So this time she is a United States senator. She is been elected. A lot of her campaign money came from Wall Street as Warren points out when she tells this story. And one of the first bills that came up after she was Senator Clinton was the bankruptcy bill. This is a bill that is like a vampire. It will not die. There is a lot of money behind it. And it-- And Bill her husband had vetoed. Her husband had vetoed it very much at her urging. And? She voted in favor of it. And of course that is the Hillary that is often described as the opportunist the woman who will do anything to keep power. The schemer. Yeah the captive of Wall Street. But then there is yet another turn to the story. And that is in Hillary Clinton's version of the story. Hillary Clinton says yes. She voted for the bill. But she did not do that to suck up to Wall Street. She says-- She had quietly lobbied to insert language that would protect the vulnerable populations that Elizabeth Warren had warned her about like single moms. I took that on. And I went to the floor. And I buttonholed the Democrats and the Republicans who were leading that bill. I said you cannot do this. You-- And so when you hear this version of the story then you see oh yes. Right. Well this is the Hillary Clinton that many liberal commentators love to talk about the really smart sharp the legislator the one who understands that so many of these legal battles these legislative battles happen inside the parentheses of some footnote somewhere a detail-oriented shrewd-- In this version of the story Hillary gets to have her cake and eat it too. When she votes for the bill it pleases Wall Street. When she adds the provision for divorced moms it pleases her liberal base. Everybody's happy. But there is yet one last turn to the screw. In 2005 the bill comes up yet again in the Senate. It still has not become law. And this time the protections that Clinton had fought for for mothers and other vulnerable populations those were not in the bill. So there is no way out for her on this one. She has to declare her side who she is really defending in Congress Wall Street or these vulnerable populations that elect her to office. Mm-hm. And what happens? Bill is in the hospital for something. And she goes to his bedside and claims that she cannot be present for the vote in Congress. Essentially she goes AWOL from the decision and is not there to vote either way. She does issue a statement saying that she is against the bill. But she does not actually vote against the bill. It passes. And this is the Hillary that drives a lot of people insane. Because this one seems even more Machiavellian whatever it takes to save my skin. In his article Jack had list the different Hillarys that we see in different stories about her. There is the A-student the opportunist. There is the mastermind the rat-fink the pragmatist the truth-twister. Almost any story you hear about Hillary you can kind of break down these various Hillarys in that story. We run across her in all of these variations all the time. I have to say one of the things with Hillary is that she can seem like all of these Hillarys at once sometimes. And then occasionally you get a glimpse of a side of Hillary Clinton that is none of those that does not fit any of the regular pictures we have of her. We have a story like that for you today. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Here's what we are going to do on today's program. We have this story about Hillary Clinton that when I saw it I feel like it gave me a picture of her that-- first of all it comes from completely credible sources FBI interviews in fact. And it painted a very different picture from what we have all been hearing from both sides in this election. And then after that story all of us here at our show all thought OK everybody is so tired of this election and so stressed out on the left and the right-- like everyone is so freaked out. What is going to happen if their candidate loses? We thought here at our show let us just have something funny on the radio and on the internet. So we are going to have that too. Stay with us. Serve or Be Served-- so Hillary Clinton's polling numbers took a dive this week of course after FBI Director James Comey said agents would be reviewing more of her e-mails. There are two basic stories out there about Hillary Clinton's e-mails and her decision to use a private server for her e-mails when she was Secretary of State. The Clinton version of what happened is that she made a mistake. There is nothing in those e-mails. This is her enemies making a lot of noise about nothing. The Trump version of what happened is that she is a criminal and that she will be prosecuted she will serve time over those e-mails and the way she is handled them. This was her using a private server to keep secrets from the American people. But I was really struck a few weeks ago reading this article on Politico. If you do not know Politico it is a nonpartisan political news site and magazine. And this article told a history of the e-mails that for all the commotion about these e-mails over this past year I had never heard this. What they did was simple. After the FBI released its summaries of the interviews that its investigators did with Hillary Clinton and State Department officials and intel experts and CIA experts and some of Clinton's closest aides a political writer named Garrett Graff read through the 247 pages of summaries. It is a public document. You can get a copy online yourself. But I think maybe only a handful of reporters have actually read through the entirety of it. And then Garrett Graff put together an exhaustive and frankly very page-turney account of exactly what happened according to what the FBI found. That is how Hillary Clinton and her aides ended up doing her e-mails this way. What were they thinking? How did this happen? How did she end up running her e-mail from a private server in the basement of her house including e-mails with classified information on them? Garrett Graff talk to one of our producers Sean Cole about this. Here's Sean. Garrett Graff spent three days reading the interview summaries. He is been covering the FBI for almost a decade. And he is pored over a lot of documents like these. And his conclusion after reading the 247 pages is this. The way Hillary and her top aides dealt with her e-mails is indeed scandalous. It is just a totally different scandal than people thought. I think a lot of us thought that this was done out of sophistication. That it was done out of this very advanced Machiavellian understanding of federal records laws and advanced knowledge of computer technology. But by the time the FBI got done with all of these interviews it becomes really clear it was actually done out of technological ignorance. Garrett writes that the documents quote depict less a sinister and carefully calculated effort to avoid transparency than a busy and uninterested executive who shows little comfort with even the basics of technology working with a small harried inner circle of aides. Reading the FBI interviews he writes Clinton's team hardly seems organized enough to mount any sort of sinister cover up. So beginning at the beginning. When Hillary took over Secretary of State she and her staff had to figure out how she would handle e-mail. Hillary had always checked her e-mail on a BlackBerry. And she requested a secure government-issued BlackBerry. But she was told she would not be able to use her personal e-mail account on it. That was not allowed. And using government e-mail for personal stuff was discouraged. And if you remember one of the first things Hillary Clinton said when this scandal broke in 2015 was well I did not want to carry two devices. And everyone in Washington started laughing at that. Because most officials most people in Washington carry two or three devices. Because there are strict prohibitions against using government phones or computers to do political campaigning. So multiple devices is normal. But when we actually read through these documents you can almost come away with a sense that that is actually why they did it that Hillary seems to actually be a very persnickety technology user. She is not very comfortable with most technology only liked to use a BlackBerry and more specifically only liked to use a specific type of increasingly older and more out-of-date BlackBerry. She does not know how to use a desktop computer. She-- Wait wait wait. Back up. Back up. She does not know how to use a desktop computer. Hillary Clinton the Democratic presidential nominee in 2016 does not know how to use a desktop computer according to multiple sources interviewed by the FBI. How is that possible? The short answer is I do not know. I mean I can get not knowing how to play an X-Box or a virtual reality machine or something like that. Right. But a desktop computer this is literally the oldest piece of personal technology available to us today. I looked into this. It is actually the abacus. At the same time says Garrett you have to think about where the Clintons were at the advent of the everyday internet. When Bill Clinton was elected in 1992 you could count the number of websites in the dozens. Bill himself did not really properly use the internet until 1998. They just did not live regular lives and never would again. When Hillary became Secretary of State she asked one of her predecessors Colin Powell how he dealt with e-mail. He wrote to her quote I did not have a BlackBerry. What I did do was have a personal computer that was hooked up to a private phone line-- sounds ancient-- --so I could communicate with a wide range of friends directly without it going through the State Department's servers. I even used it to do business with some foreign leaders. Powell advised her not to let the rules get too much in the way of communicating. But he also told her to be careful about using e-mail in general as anything you write can become a matter of public record. He said all of this in an e-mail. He signed it Love Colin. Powell has also said he used a secure government computer for classified information. Anyway his solution-- checking e-mail on a desktop computer-- would not work for Hillary Clinton because again she did not know how to operate one. So her staff embarked on a series of thrown-together work arounds. They kept buying her the antiquated type of BlackBerry she preferred the Curve 8310 with the trackball. One staffer remembers having to buy one either on Amazon or eBay around 2013 after BlackBerry stopped making them. To complicate matters further her office at the State Department was in a secure area where no BlackBerrys or cell phones were allowed. The worry was that spies could remotely turn them into listening devices. So the Secretary of State would leave her BlackBerry with a guard on the way in. And then when she needed to check an e-mail she would get up from her desk go get her phone and wander around the eighth floor balcony. One more quick word about Colin Powell. He sometimes used a personal e-mail address to do State business. He used his AOL account. And his argument at the time was a personal e-mail address is basically like a home telephone line. You can make personal calls on it. And you can make business calls on it. So the Secretary of State using a private e-mail account was not anything new. It was frowned upon by the State Department but it was not forbidden. And Garrett says reading through the FBI files using personal e-mail for government business was also rampant. State Department workers regularly across the board across all levels of the organization regularly relied on personal e-mail in order to be able to conduct the business that the State Department needed to do because they were traveling or because it was night time or it was a weekend or they were overseas away from an embassy. Or for a much simpler and much more important reason-- the State Department computer network did not work very well. Part of what we learn in these FBI files is that that system actually was not compatible with the Wi-Fi that the Air Force uses-- Oh my god. --on the planes that the Secretary of State travels on. So her staff would sometimes use private e-mails just when they were sitting on the plane with Hillary Clinton. People did not think that the printer function worked very well within the State Department's regular e-mail system. So in order to print documents they would often just forward documents to their personal Gmail or Hotmail because it was easier to print out of that than it was to print out of the State Department e-mail system. This is one of the big if accidental revelations in this investigation-- just how crappy and backwards the State Department's computer system was. It is shocking for anyone who is ever worked in a normal business. Moxt Americans would be absolutely horrified at the state of government technology writ large. But the State Department seems to be a particularly antiquated user of technology. When Colin Powell showed up at the State Department in 2001 he was given in his office a laptop that still relied on a 56K modem. If you are under 25 that was a way to dial into the internet over a phone line. And a phone line that used to-- it does not matter. And Colin Powell made a really big effort to try to invest in actually putting computers on people's desks across the State Department which did not exist in 2001. People did not have computers on their desks in the State Department in 2001? The average State Department employee at headquarters in Washington DC in 2001 did not have a desktop computer. Or any kind of computer. No laptop. Nothing. And Colin Powell was indeed shocked by that. So he bought 44000 new computers. And when he would travel the world as Secretary of State he would always sit down in embassies when he was visiting. He would find a computer sit down and check his own e-mail in part as a test to see how well the organization and the embassies overseas were actually using the computers that he was giving them. The shame of almost all of government is that government is in many cases the least sophisticated technology user in American society. You see this in our nuclear missile systems where our nuclear ICBMs in their missile silos still rely on like floppy disks which the average person in America has not used since they played Oregon Trail in elementary school.  So Hillary's staff decided that it would be easiest for her to use her personal e-mail account for everything the e-mail that was governed by her own private server. It really just does not seem like anyone thought that deeply about this. Just no one was really paying attention to the big picture. Collectively Hillary Clinton's inner circle and the State Department leadership stumbled into this set up that very few people seem to have actually given any thought to the political implications of it. Her aide Huma Abedin said she did not recall any conversations about whether this was permissible. And as far as the rules for preserving e-mails under the federal laws both Hillary and Huma told the FBI they figured any e-mails sent to an official State Department address by Hillary Clinton would be captured and preserved. They were later told that is not how are you supposed to do it. The main accusation against Hillary of course is that she set up a private server to avoid scrutiny and cover her tracks. But what the FBI investigation found was that her aides were mostly uninterested in how or where her e-mails would be preserved. Huma Abedin who herself had an account powered by the server told the FBI she did not know the server existed until after Hillary left the State Department. Cheryl Mills who was Hillary's chief of staff at the State Department says she was not even sure she knew what a server was at that point. Which brings us to those two words you hear all the time in the coverage of E-mail-Gate-- private server. That sounds shady right? The Clintons have a private e-mail server in their basement? Except what that means is that they had a computer that runs their e-mails sends and receives and stores them. Lots of small businesses have an e-mail server. This American Life has one in a closet about 15 feet from where I am sitting. And after Bill Clinton left the White House he basically had a small office with a staff who needed e-mail accounts. So he had an e-mail server an old Apple machine. When you hear in the news that a server was installed in their basement just for Hillary that is not true. A server was installed but it was just an upgrade to the gear Bill Clinton already had for his staff. Less than a year into Hillary's tenure at the State Department a couple of IT folks started to catch on that she was using a personal e-mail account. And there was some generalized brow-furrowing about making sure her staff was complying with the Federal Records Act which requires all official communications be preserved. And it was after Hillary left office in 2013 that the trouble really started. Some Russian and Ukrainian hackers found the server and tried to break into it. They did not succeed. But Hillary's aides were spooked. And they scrambled to secure her e-mail. They decided to change her e-mail address. But then they worried that they would lose all the existing messages. It had happened in the past. When Hillary was a senator she used an ATT e-mail account. And ATT did not archive old e-mails. So whenever she got a new BlackBerry she would lose everything. So this time again it is 2013. It is up to her staff to save the e-mails not a very complicated process. But rather than give it to an IT guy an aide named Monica Hanley grabbed a laptop from Bill Clinton's Harlem office brought it back to her apartment. And another staffer walked her through the steps of backing up the e-mails over the phone. She backed them up to a thumb drive too. After which she lost the thumb drive. Then the server was moved out of Hillary Clinton's basement to a tech management company in New Jersey called Platte River Networks or PRN as the guy who originally installed it and ran it was not working for Clinton anymore. Monica Hanley then tried to upload all of the e-mails she had transferred onto the laptop-- five years worth-- to the new PRN server remotely from afar. She tried this a couple of times. But it kept not working. So she ends up just FedEx-ing the whole MacBook to one of the IT staff. And then-- Wait wait wait wait wait. There are e-mails on a laptop that potentially have State secrets within them that are being FedExed across the country? Yes. Although I do not think it seems clear that anyone involved actually thought that there were classified information inside of these e-mails. But there was. At the end of 2014 the State Department made a formal request to former Secretary Clinton to hand over all of her work-related e-mails. The House Committee investigating the attack in Benghazi wanted to see them. Also the State Department just did not have any record of her communications while in office. Hillary and her staff handed over 30000 e-mails printed out which amounted to 55000 pages 12 bankers boxes full of messages. Her legal team determined which ones were work-related by using search terms like .gov and names of Hillary's staffers. When they were done they asked Hillary do you want us to keep the personal e-mails? She replied I have no use for them anymore. So they got rid of them. And this is where the narrative in the FBI interviews becomes like many other stories about Hillary Clinton in that how you understand it depends on what you think of her. If you believe she is a sneaking corner-cutting conniver who does whatever she wants this part of the story will totally convince you of that. After all she destroys emails. But if you think she basically means well and is the focus of a seemingly endless witch hunt to pick apart every single thing she does what she said about this in a press conference might seem entirely reasonable to you. Quote No one wants their personal emails made public and I think most people understand that and respect that privacy. Hillary Clinton's team ended up deleting 33000 messages. You have probably heard this part. Then the FBI resurrected about half of the deleted e-mails and discovered some of them were related to her time at the State Department. But FBI Director James Comey testified to Congress that the FBI quote did not find any evidence of evil intent and intent to obstruct justice. In the e-mails that were not deleted there were 52 e-mail chains that contain information that was classified to some degree at the time there were sent. Eight of those e-mail chains contain information that was classified as Top Secret. By definition we do not know what that information is or how damaging it might be to national security. But Garrett Graff says a lot of times with our government it is hard to pin down what the term classified even means. The average American when they hear classified information thinks that that is a black-and-white term. Right. That is binary. It is either classified or it is not. Right. And the government classification system is actually much messier than that. Different corners of the government may consider different things classified. Information on one day might be unclassified but might be classified on a later day or vice versa. Like retroactively classified basically. Yeah what in the business is called up-classified. For instance if something unclassified went to the National Security Council someone there could decide to classify it. And that designation could not be changed back by someone downstream. And then some information was classified even though it is common knowledge. Under government secrecy law Hillary and her top aides discussing a New York Times article about the drone program-- that is considered a classified correspondence because it is tacit admission that the drone program exists. Which everybody knows. Because it was in the New York Times. There is this one e-mail-- probably the most famous e-mail of all of them-- involving this condolence call to the East African nation of Malawi where the president had just died. And the Vice President had taken over. And Hillary Clinton was supposed to call. And it is this very innocuous e-mail. The line says the purpose of call-- express condolences. And Hillary Clinton looks at that and says I cannot believe that that was actually classified. Like that does not really make any sense to me. I have seen this e-mail. And it is confusing. It says unclassified at the top and a case number. And then it says classified lower down. The innocuous part is marked with a C in parentheses which means Confidential the lowest of the three levels of classification the government uses. And then at the bottom it says unclassified again. Hillary Clinton has said she did not know that the c in parentheses meant the paragraph was classified. Again what you make of that depends on how you see her. Either she is lying or she just didnt know something basic about classified materials. On Sunday James Comey wrote to Congress saying the FBI had finished going through a whole slew of newly discovered emails. They were on a laptop that was confiscated in the investigation of Huma Abedin's husband Anthony Wiener. Comey said nothing in the emails changed the conclusion that the FBI came to in July. That there was no criminal intent. But that Secretary Clinton and her colleagues quote were extremely careless in their handling of very sensitive highly classified information. I should mention something Garrett Graff told me a few times. He is a reporter he said. And somewhere in the darker part of his heart he always kind of wants to uncover some sort of wrongdoing some juicy conspiracy. And he is almost disappointed when he does not. But the times that he does not those turn out to be all of the times. Well this scandal underscores to me so much of what I have experienced in covering politics and national security for a decade. Which is whenever you hear a government conspiracy theory the almost universal truth is that the explanation is more likely either bureaucratic bungling or outright incompetence. In a sense this would be the easiest and most candid way Hillary Clinton could explain herself. Please forgive me. I and my staff we just were not that focused on my e-mails. We did not care very much about that. We had other things to think about. Yeah I guess it is not surprising she does not explain it that way. Sean Cole is one of the producers of our program.  Knowing What We Know-- so if you are following the news at all you know that Huma Abedin one of Hillary Clinton's top aides is married to former congressman Anthony Weiner who just this week reportedly checked himself into a sex addiction clinic. Because after two public apologies when he was caught sending pictures of his crotch to random women online he then went on to send a crotch shot to a 15-year-old girl and allegedly had a whole online sexual relationship with that girl. That triggered investigation. And as you probably know his laptop and phone were seized. And then while authorities were looking on his computer they found e-mails between Weiner's wife Huma Abedin and Hillary Clinton. And those e-mails of course are what led the FBI to investigate another round of Clinton e-mails. And that of course is what led to the dramatic drop in Clinton's poll numbers and incidentally to Donald Trump saying thank you Huma. Good job Huma. If there is one person in the world who might understand what it is like for Huma Abedin to be a public figure and a woman repeatedly paying a public price for her husband's extramarital sex life-- she is in luck-- the one person in the world who might understand this best is probably her boss Hillary Clinton. What is it like when they talk about this? OK obviously they are not going to do it over e-mail. This requires face-to-face conversation. This then is the conversation that we imagine they had last Friday. That is the day the news broke that Weiner's laptop-- because of his lap-- would change the focus and direction of the presidential election. Or should I say the presidential-- never mind. This then is the first conversation they have with that news hanging between them. Huma is the first one to speak. I-- . I know. I know. I know. I know. I know. I know. I know. EXASPERATED I know. I know. You know. I know. You know. Ugh I know. I know. You know I know! I know. I know.  Who knows. Hm. I knew. Mm. You knew! I know. I-- I did not-- I know. I did not know. I did not know-- you know I did not know-- I know. I know. Thanks for the talk. Actresses Tami Sagher and Cady Huffman playing the parts of Huma Abedin and Hillary Clinton.  More coming up. Cops try to catch a squirrel in an attic and other stuff that has no national importance at all that will not affect the fate of the nation in any way stuff we have dug up from our archives to provide a break from current events as we head into these last days before this election. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. And with that in mind we have arrived at Act Three of our show. Of Mice and Men. This story is from a live show that we did on stage in New York. It is from comedian Mike Birbiglia. I think that my favorite thing about being married is actually that you can share jokes with your wife or husband that are funny to you and that person and no one else other than maybe your cat. Because when you have a cat your barometer for humor-- phh!-- out the window. Last summer my wife and I went on a trip to Massachusetts. And I called it Catsachusetts which is not funny but in our house was the joke of the year. I was like we are going to Catsachusetts! My wife is like ahh! I was like ahh! Our cat was like ahh! Everyone loves a good pun when you have a cat. And so we drive the Catsachusetts. And when we arrive my wife has a headache. And she asks me if I will acclimate Ivan-- that is our cat-- to the bedroom. Because you cannot just put an indoor cat into a house because he will explode. And so I bring in the bedroom. But I am so tired from the drive that I fall asleep which is the only thing you cannot do when acclimating an indoor cat to a house. And so I wake up an hour later. Ivan is gone. He got out. And so now I am running around the house. I am like my cat's going to explode. I wake up my wife. I say Clo-- her name is Jen. I say Mr. Fantastic is gone. His name's Ivan. And Clo gave me a look that I can only describe as divorce eyes. Because before that point I was convinced that we would be married forever. And then once I saw the divorce eyes I was like oh I guess this could end. And if it ended it would look a lot like that. And so now the two of us are running around the house. I am like my marriage is falling apart! My cat's going to explode! And we find Ivan. But we had another major problem in the house which is that there were mice in the house. It was actually worse than that. Because they were parasitic mice. They have what is called toxoplasmosis which means they have a-- yeah you might know what this is. They have a parasite in them. And as a result they are unafraid of cats. And they are unafraid of people. And the way we discovered this was that my wife was watching TV. And she looked next to her. And there was a mouse. And he was watching TV also. And she sees screams! And he just looked up at her like Stuart Little like hey what is going on? I do not like this show either. I do not know why all those women would want to marry that one guy. And then she pushed him off the couch. And he did not even run away. He did not even scurry which is a verb invented for mice. He just walked into the kitchen like a roommate. Like fine I will go in the other room. I just think you are overreacting. And then he did a confessional into the mouse cam in the kitchen. He was like I am not here to make friends. I am here to win. I was here before they came. I will be here when they are gone. I am a mouse.  That is The Real Mouse Lives of Catsachusetts. That night I am sound asleep. And my wife wakes me up by grabbing my face. She says Mo-- my name's Mike-- Mr. Fantastic found the mouse. You need to get the mouse. And I sit up. And I say Clo. We have a cat. We do everything for the cat. We give him food. We give him an apartment that he thinks i