I was in the kitchen cooking some food for my dog which I do not say with pride. I do not even approve of people cooking for their dogs but he is got health problems and without boring you with a lot of details there is no getting around it. And I was listening to Marketplace which is actually the point of this story I am telling you. I was listening to the radio on Marketplace and I heard this commentary by one of the regular commentators this conservative commentator David Frum who said that new numbers had just been released by the government. Showing that when you look at family incomes-- and what happened to family incomes during the Bush presidency. George W. Bush has the worst economic performance of any two-term president since the numbers were collected. Jimmy Carter did worse but he only had one term. I asked Frum to come onto our show to talk about this finding. This is a little painful. I was part of the Bush administration. In fact I was part of the Bush administration's economic team. So I take this a little personally. But Frum says and this was his point on Marketplace that it is important to understand why Bush's performance was so bad. Frum says that over those eight years what employers actually paid for each worker rose. And it rose a lot 25. But-- Employees received none of that money. The median American worker was earning less in the year 2007 than that worker was earning adjusting for inflation in the 2000. And yet his employer was paying 25 more. So where did that money go? And the answer is it all went to pay the rising cost of health care. The average cost of a health insurance policy for a family of four between 2000 and 2007 more than doubled from 6000 to 13000. A 7000 climb. Coincidentally during the boom years of President Clinton when Americans did so well family incomes rose about that same amount 6500. This is just how quickly health care costs are rising in this country. If you take into account health care George W. Bush stops being the worst two-term president in the modern America era for family incomes. If you were to compare say President Bush's performance to Harry Truman's or the Ford-Carter years it looks good. If you compare it to the Clinton years the Reagan years or the Johnson years it does not look so good. So basically he is somewhere in the middle? He is kind of like-- No I would say the lower part of the middle. I do not want to oversell the record. Rising health care costs are affecting everything in the economy. Rising health care costs are the thing that is driving our health care system off the rails. It is what is led so many people to being uninsured. It is making it hard for US businesses to compete. It is gobbling up more and more of all spending in the United States. I saw this number recently that said that at the current rate of growth in just 9 years the amount that the average American family is going to spend on health care each year is going to be 38000. 38000. That is more than half of what family income will be that year. What was striking about that was that this is not one of those projections that the government does looking at health care costs 75 years from now showing how grim it is going to be far in the future. This is nine years from now at the current rate of growth. Basically this is going to happen. Half of our incomes are going to be going to health care very very soon unless somebody does something. At this point we Americans spend 50 more on health care than any country in the world and the money is not buying us better health. If you look at the numbers when it comes to infant mortality compared to other countries we are 45th. Worse than Cuba. When it comes to life expectancy we are 50th. Behind by the way Bosnia and South Korea. And so today we ask the question why is this happening? What is going on in health care that makes it so impossible to hold costs down? We are tackling these questions now this week as health care is being debated in Washington. Because fixing our health care system means fixing two different things getting more people covered by insurance and slowing the increases in health care costs. And the bills on Capitol Hill right now seem much more about solving the insurance problem than about controlling costs. So we are going to do something we have never done. We are going to two shows about this this week and next week. This is a co-production we are doing with NPR News. Next week the most entertaining hour I guarantee that you are ever going to hear on the insurance industry. This week we ask why costs keep rising. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International I am Ira Glass. Our show today in four acts. Act one Dartmouth Atlas Shrugged in which we examine whether doctors are the ones to blame for rising costs. Act two Every Cat Scan has Nine Lives in which we wonder if patients are the problem. Act three Who Would Win in a Fight Between a Polar Bear and an Insurance Company? Is the problem the insurance companies? And act four Now What? In which we learn what the new health care bills do to fix all this if they do anything. Stay with us. Act one Dartmouth Atlas Shrugged. There are all kinds of reasons that health care costs have risen so quickly over the last few decades. We have higher administrative costs than other countries because our health care system with its insurers and providers is so complicated. We use more expensive high tech gear our drugs cost more. But there is a whole school of thought that blames a lot of the rising costs on doctors. Prescribing drugs that people do not really need doing too many procedures. And the reason people think this all goes back to the work of one person a health researcher named Jack Wennberg. NPR science correspondent Alix Spiegel explains what that is all about. To understand the work of Jack Wennberg let us start with one patient and one medical problem a young woman with a sharp pain in her lower uterus. I was having a lot of problem just a constant ache right here that never went away. And my boss kept saying you should go get that checked. You should go get that checked. Because I was like doubling right over. It was like a really really deep ache all the time. In 1974 Roxanne Tremblay was 29 years old. A single mom living in a small apartment in Lewiston Maine. Because Roxanne was the only one supporting her young daughter she had to be able to work and the pain was getting in the way. The pain was a problem. So Roxanne went to see her gynecologist a nice man who did a short exam and then kindly explained that Roxanne would need an operation. Three weeks later Tremblay had her uterus and ovaries removed a total hysterectomy. It was what he called the seed of cancer. It was not cancer but it had the potential of developing into it. Now Roxanne did not mind losing her uterus. She never planned to get married or have kids again. But she was slightly surprised that her doctor had been so quick and before surgery had not taken any x-rays or anything. No pictures. No. He just felt you were-- And based on what I told him that it should come out. 29 years old is pretty young for a hysterectomy. But in the mid '70s in Lewiston Maine lots of women were getting them. Roxanne herself knew a bunch. My boss that I had when I worked at Kmart she had one shortly after I did. One of my friends that I have had since I was six years old she lives right five minutes from here she had one. Just about anybody you talked to would say oh I had a hysterectomy. Oh yeah. So I did. So and so did mine. Our I just remember there was a lot of them. I do remember that. Now most Lewiston women including Roxanne were not suspicious about the hysterectomies. And this is where Jack Wennberg's research comes in. Until Jack Wennberg made Lewiston and its hysterectomies famous no one had even noticed. But in the late '70s Wennberg published a paper A Study of Health Care in Maine. And in it he showed that an unusually large number of women in Lewiston were having their uterus removed. He projected that 70 would have a hysterectomy by age 70. While a couple towns over the number was much smaller-- 25. That paper was one of a series of studies of Maine and Vermont published by Wennberg in the '70s and '80s. Studies which ultimately completely transformed our understanding of what is going on in health care in this country. Which is how come I ended up in Wennberg's dining room. Hello. Hello. This is me trying to set the levels on my recording equipment. To do this I asked Wennberg what I ask most people could you say a little something? This is what I got.  19th century German poetry. Apparently for fun in college Wennberg committed foreign verse to memory. Wennberg's that kind of guy. The kind of guy whose side projects tend to be unusually rigorous. This was certainly the case in health care. You see when Wennberg started out in the late '60s what he was trying to do was improve medicine in the state of Vermont get better medical services to rural communities. He would gotten a grant to overhaul Vermont's health care system. But because Wennberg is such a thorough type of fellow he made a pretty extreme decision. He decided he would try to collect information about every medical transaction of every person in every town in the whole state. That way he would know what was going on. What was going on in home health agencies what was going on in nursing homes hospitals doctors' offices. And we need to know for each patient what their diagnosis is what their treatment was how much money was spent and what the outcomes were insofar as we could actually measure them. Now to collect these records Wennberg hired a bunch of researchers people dubbed the Pit Crew who year after year were sent out to medical records rooms to collect records. It was a massive undertaking. Every medical transaction in the state of Vermont. It took two years of road trips just to collect the records for 1969. But once he had all the information Wennberg began to slice it and dice it in all kinds of ways. And what immediately jumped out was that medicine from town to town in Vermont was practiced in entirely different ways. As soon as we set out to do the analyses we began to see these extraordinary differences. In one town say 50 of the men would have a prostate procedure. But in another town only 30 miles away only 15 would. Ditto with mastectomies hemorrhoid removal back surgery. Basically town after town was a version of Lewiston Maine in the sense that some procedures might be incredibly numerous or conversely incredibly rare. It just did not make sense. We lived right on the boundary between Stowe and Waterbury Center Vermont. And if my kids had been going to the school system in Stowe they would have had a 75 chance of getting their tonsils out. If they would gone to the Waterbury School-- where they actually did-- it was about 20. So what was going on? Why the differences? Well there are two possible explanations. The first explanation is that it was the doctors. Doctor behavior was somehow to blame. The second was that it was the patients. That people in some areas were just much sicker than people in other areas. Or maybe they just wanted more services for some reason. Which brings us back to the city of Lewiston Maine and yet another woman who had a hysterectomy. My little dogs are freaking here. Oh hi there little dogs. Come in. You found me. A couple miles down the way from Roxanne Tremblay on a quiet Lewiston street is the home of Carol Bradford. Carol is another Lewiston woman who had her uterus removed in the 1970s. She had fibroids. And like Roxanne she is happy with the result. But when I asked Bradford had a theory about the high hysterectomy rate in Lewiston back then. Lewiston she explained is mostly Catholic. Some women were having too many children. There are families here with 10 12 children. It is a possibility that women came to the point where they just really could not deal with any more children and were begging the doctors to do something about it. That is my personal opinion. Not just her opinion. Most people assume that when you go into a doctor's office the doctor is simply responding. Responding to sickness in your body responding to the needs and concerns you have. But in the studies he did in Vermont and Maine Wennberg demonstrated that it is a lot more complicated than this. The women of Lewiston were not having more hysterectomies because more of them were Catholic or because more of them were sick. Wennberg showed that in terms of sickness and demographics the populations of the communities in states like Maine and Vermont were actually incredibly homogeneous. Which according to Jack Wennberg could mean just one thing it was not the patients. It was not true. It was not correct. Because we could easily see that it was not that patients were different between regions. So it was not illness that was driving this. This must be coming from the provider side. The provider side the doctors. That was the first insight. That it was doctors not patients that drove medical consumption. And that there are all kinds of things that influenced the decisions a doctor makes when you go into his office. Sickness plays a role but a much smaller role than we originally thought. So what are the things that influence doctor decisions? To answer this question I went back to Maine to talk to doctors themselves. Doctors who explained that the work of Jack Wennberg inspired a small revolution in the state. You see after Wennberg published a paper on his early discoveries a small group of Maine doctors gathered to take action. They decided that physicians in Maine should and could themselves figure out why these strange geographical variations in care were taking place. And the best way to do that this group figured was to get all the doctors in Maine to sit down together on a regular basis look at Maine city by city and then hash out together why the care they were giving was so different. Bob Keller is a back doctor who worked on this project. And he told me that in the beginning there was only one small problem with the plan many of the doctors in Maine hated it. Number one they were insulted. They were angry. Their judgment was being challenged. That was not allowed. There were variable responses. In some cases they just did not believe it and they would try to find holes in the data. One of the classics. Oh we have more workers' compensation here. We have more heavy industry here. And we were able to work through most of those things and demonstrate that was not the case. But they would-- our population's older. More of them need prostatectomies. Well we adjust for age so that is not an argument anymore. And some doctors never could deal with that. And they would leave the study groups. They just said this is baloney we are not going along with this. But in time says Keller many doctors did warm to these ideas. They began to accept the data and they began to accept that indeed different physicians were using different thought processes or decision-making processes in dealing with patients. And so in the state of Maine for years there was this incredible experiment. Four or five times a year each medical specialty got together for a kind of Talmudic dissection of doctor choice conducted by the doctors themselves. They wanted to look at all of the geographical differences figure out why they existed and then try to bring their medical decisions in line with one another. They figured that by doing this they could eliminate unnecessary care. Now when talking in these groups the Maine doctors usually seemed to agree on what criteria they would use for making treatment decisions. So for instance everyone agreed that you only operate on a back after there would been three months of pain. But when they went back to the data it showed that in the privacy of their own offices many doctors were doing something completely different. Why? One possible reason was fear of lawsuits. Some doctors felt that criteria be damned if they did not do every possible thing they might get sued. Another was temperament. Some doctors were just much more eager to take action. Then there was the role of medical culture. In some communities it had evolved over time that let us say when a kid got a temperature of 102 he was sent to the hospital. Well in the next town over kids with that temperature were advised to just stay home. And then there was the number of doctors in a community. One of the many doctors I talked to while I was in Maine was this eye specialist named Frank Read. He is another doc who participated in these groups. And he told me this story. My old partner that I joined here in 1971 was asked by a friend of his you know at what level of vision do you do a cataract operation? And he said well if there is one ophthalmologist in town it is 2200. 2200 is pretty bad vision. If there are two ophthalmologists in town it is 2080. Not so bad vision. If there are three ophthalmologists in town it is 2040. Pretty good vision. In other words the criteria easily shifts. According to later work done by Jack Wennberg the number of doctors in an area can influence the amount of medical services consumed. The more doctors the more appointments the more procedures the more money spent. You could actually see this dynamic especially clearly during the '70s. Because to drive down costs in medicine the federal government created a program to send more people to medical school. The theory was that when there were more doctors doctors would be forced to drop their prices to compete for patients. Basic economics. But that is not what happened. The doctors just adjusted their criteria for doing stuff and had the patients they had come in more often. Because in health care supply drives demand. So when the supply of doctors and clinics increases the demand for medical services goes up. Often Frank Read says for a completely innocent reason. I do not want to be sitting on my thumbs all the time. I want to be busy. And that may unconsciously loosen my criteria for doing a particular procedure. Which brings us finally to the subject which incredibly was never ever discussed during the nearly 20 years the doctors met money. Specifically the idea that doctors might be prescribing more visits and more procedures so that they could make more money. Frank Read and Bob Keller told me that this subject was completely verboten. We did not want to talk about money. That is something that we would not want to acknowledge because it would have been a show stopper. I mean it would have then gone right to the question of greed. And you are not going to keep a doc at the table if you say you are greedy. Doctors are uncomfortable acknowledging the role of money but every doctor I talked to admitted it affects medical decision-making. Including Gordon Smith head of the Maine Medical Association. Of course it does. That is just common sense. That is human nature. The payment system is an important influence. You see the majority of doctors in this country are not on salary but are paid for each thing they do a la carte. That is what they mean when they say fee for service. A phrase you have probably heard a lot. And the way fee for service affects doctor behavior is clear. Gordon Smith. If you pay people more the more things they do they are going to do more things. Bob Keller points to his own specialty-- he is a back doctor-- and says one of the most popular operations among back doctors these days is this complicated procedure called an instrumented fusion. When a patient has a back problem the doctor can go in and insert metal rods. Keller says in the old days the doctor used a much simpler and safer operation but the new more complicated one costs more. Surgeons could charge more because they were doing these complicated procedures and so they were putting the screws in. They billed for putting the screws. They were putting the plates in they billed for putting the plates in. Doing all these things. In the old days a fusion was very much a simpler operation with no external devices. It was all done with the patient's own tissues and bone. So you had a whole new high-tech procedure that was enormously attractive to spine surgeons. And it literally took off in this country. At the same time as most good spine surgeons will admit they had no research to support what they were doing. In fact says Keller the one high quality study that did exist was not so positive. It showed that it is not so great actually as people thought it was. And they also showed that interestingly enough that the old fashioned non-instrumented fusion was as successful as the instrumented fusion. Which was a real blow. And here in miniature is one of the big problems with the way our current system is set up. It is a problem some call more is not better. Doctors exist in a system that encourages-- and really because of their fear of malpractice suits-- actually forces them to do more. More surgery more tests more stuff of every kind. And while most Americans just assume that more care is good it turns out that more is not always better for patients. Because every time you get a medical procedure you risk the possibility of complications and doctor error. In 2003 there was this enormous landmark study published by a Jack Wennberg protege named Elliott Fisher. He compared areas throughout the United States. Areas where elderly people got relatively small amounts of health care services to areas where elderly people got a lot of health care services. A lot. Here's Fisher. The patients in the high spending regions were getting about 60 more care. So 60 more days in the hospital twice as many specialist visits. And yet when we followed patients for up to five years the mortality rate whether you were poor or rich urban or rural if you lived in one of these higher intensity communities your survival was certainly no better. And in many cases worse. After Wennberg's original work in Vermont and Maine a group of health care researchers set up a shop at Dartmouth College and created something called the Dartmouth Atlas of Health Care. Basically a countrywide version of what Wennberg did in New England. The huge warehouse of data compiled by these researchers has led to a lot of insights about our system. Including this very disturbing statistic that you sometimes hear in the health care debate. They have estimated that about one-third of the medical care delivered in this country is unnecessary. One-third. Doctors and hospitals doing things to you and me that we do not need. Stuff that does not make us any more healthy. Care delivered by a system that pushes doctors to do more when less is probably better. Alix Spiegel. Coming Up patients are told that they should do with less. That the test or procedure that they want for themselves is unnecessary. And surprise they are not too happy about it. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life I am Ira Glass. Each week on our show of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show More is Less. This is the first of two shows that we are going to be doing this week and next explaining the health care system or parts of it anyway. Today we are asking the question why are health care costs rising so much that they threaten our entire economy? We have arrived at act two of our show. Act Two Every Cat Scan Has Nine Lives. This summer at a press conference President Obama described how he wants to slow the increase in health care costs. He is going to do it by having patients everywhere adjust a bit. They are going to have to give up paying for things that do not make them healthier. Why would we want to pay for things that do not work? Of course when he says it that way it sounds like it could not be easier. According to the Dartmouth Atlas of Health as you have just heard before the break one-third of medical spending is on treatments and tests that are not actually necessary. And in some cases may actually harm us. And President Obama's stimulus package devotes a billion dollars to studying and determining which procedures those are. So let us just eliminate the stuff that does not work right? Well one of our producers Lisa Pollak explains why in practice that is not so easy to do. In the spirit of the president's advice here's a story about what happened at one hospital when one doctor tried to resist ordering a test for a patient. The patient was a teenage girl who'd been in a minor car wreck. As a precaution she was brought into the ER on a backboard with one of those collars around her neck. The doctor was Jerome Hoffman. He is a professor of emergency medicine at UCLA. And the first thing he needed to do was rule out the risk of an injury to the girl's cervical spine. He was able to do this without taking an x-ray. Because when he examined the girl her condition matched this list of five criteria. For instance she had no tenderness in the middle of the back of her neck that indicate to doctors when a fracture is extremely unlikely. Hoffman told the girl's mother that her daughter was fine no need for an x-ray and the mother seemed OK with this. But a couple minutes later the dad showed up. Dr. Hoffman. And the dad was a very tall very powerful figure who was very upset and spoke very loudly. And he also happened to mention that he was a lawyer and that there would be consequences for any error that we made. And he said that he wanted to get not just an x-ray but a CAT scan of her neck. A CAT scan. Which is not only more expensive than an x-ray but uses much more radiation. So I tried to explain to him that a she did not really need the x-ray or the cat scan. And b that there was some harm with it. In fact if you do a thousand CAT scans to a young woman like this there is a pretty good chance that some small number-- one two something like that-- may have harm from it. And the harm is not trivial harm it is important harm. She could get a cancer of her thyroid that in 15 20 years might actually be fatal. So while I cannot say with 100 certainty that her neck was fine I was pretty sure-- 99.9 at least in my judgment it would be more harmful than beneficial to her to do the test for her. So I tried to explain this to the dad and I tried to be really nice and patient but he was having none of it. He said things like you will do a CAT scan. And then I said to him something that actually I had long known but it never crystallized for me exactly in this way until that moment. I said to him you know for me it really is the right thing to do the CAT scan. I said you know if I do not do the CAT scan you are probably going to lodge a complaint about me. If I do the CAT scan you are going to be really happy with me. I said in addition I am almost certain that your daughter is fine. But there is maybe a one in a million chance that she is not. That there really is a hidden fracture and I am missing it. And if that is the case the CAT scan will save my butt. And on the other hand if I do the CAT scan and your daughter gets a cancer 20 years from now no one will blame me. I said in addition I am spending a lot of time talking to you here that I need to be going doing other things. If I get the CAT scan I could do it in a second. It would be done with. It would be easy. And I said finally the really strange thing is that I will get paid more if I do the CAT scan. Because the way that bills are made you get paid more for more complex patients. And the insurance companies of the world think that it proves that the patient was more complex and more difficult if you had to do a CAT scan. So everything about this was pushing me to do the CAT scan. I said that to him. And I said there is only one problem which is that when I decided to become a doctor I made a pledge. And the pledge was that I would put my patient's interest in front of my own interest. And in this case my judgment was that it was not in my patient's interest to do the CAT scan. And therefore I cannot do it. And it was really strange. It was interesting because this big guy very powerful guy who had been really yelling and angry and screaming his jaw dropped and he was silent. He did not know what to say. And you did not do the CAT scan? Oh no. That was the end of the story. I hope it is the end of the story. It is been over a year now and I have not gotten that famous embossed letter with the lawsuit so I am assuming that everything turned out fine. Hoffman told me this story is not an isolated example. Things like this happen all the time in his department. Whether it is people wanting antibiotics for illnesses that antibiotics have been proven not to help or tests such as x-rays and CAT scans. Where a patient thinks well do not I need to be sure that I do not have appendicitis? Or this that or the other thing. And really the right thing for the doctor to do is to think. And in many cases not to do any tests. At least not right now. There is a place for tests and there is a place for interventions. But not in every case. And yet the incentive to the doctor is often just do everything. And the truth is a lot of us like it that way. It is hard to understand how doing everything could be bad for us. We think better safe than sorry. Do everything possible. In a study published earlier this year half the public believes someone's getting unnecessary health care. But only 16 thought it was them. We are so wired to think that more health care is better that when someone suggests we might be better off with less it is upsetting. Even daring to raise the question is this device or test or pill really making us healthier can send people into a panic. Consider the PSA test the blood test used to screen men for prostate cancer. The question of whether the benefits of this test outweigh the risks is one of the most controversial issues in medicine. Some doctors worry that the test is leading to unnecessary treatment. Because it catches many prostate cancers that are so slow growing they would never be harmful if left alone. In 2002 two medical journal editors both doctors made this point in an op-ed for the San Francisco Chronicle. Gavin Yamey and Michael Wilkes wrote that since early detection had not been proven through randomized control trials to reduce a man's risk of dying from prostate cancer getting the test might not be right for every man. Their op-ed published under the headline Prostate Cancer Screening Is It Worth the Pain did not go over so well. Lots of people wished that we would die. That is Gavin Yamey. Since many of the readers believed the PSA test had saved their lives they did not appreciate being told that the test was not effective. Lots of people wished we would have a very slow death from a nasty cancer. People accused us of having the deaths of thousands of men on our hands for writing this piece. Of geriatricide. Michael Wilkes Yamey's co-author. People wrote both to us and to our bosses accusing us of being sort of like the Nazis. And specifically accusing us of being like Mengele. Others accusing us of truly being men-haters and wanting to wipe out the male population. When the president says we can cut health care costs by eliminating things that do not work things for which there is no evidence it sidesteps the fact that in medicine the evidence is not always so clear cut. And that is true with the PSA test. There is a lot more evidence about PSA now than there was when Yamey and Wilkes wrote their op-ed. In fact two long-awaited studies came out this Spring. One showed that the PSA test did not reduce a man's risk of dying from prostate cancer. The other showed it reduced prostate cancer deaths by 20. But it also showed that for every life saved because of PSA screening 48 other men were diagnosed and treated. In other words for each prostate cancer death prevented dozens of men endured surgery or radiation risking serious side effects like impotence and incontinence. Doctors interpret this evidence differently. Some I talked to said it is proof that the test saves lives. Others said it shows we might be hurting more men than we are helping. Because the evidence is ambiguous and the balance of risks and benefits is really a judgment call most national guidelines say that doctors should let men know the pros and cons of PSA testing and let them decide whether to have it. But most of the time this is not what happens. Studies show that the m