 Years ago the senior producer of our program Brian Reed worked for a few months in Homer Alaska as a fish hauler. He still knows some people there. And that is actually how I heard about this. Basically there is been this huge political fight going on in the town. Everyone's at each other's throats. They are going crazy on social media. They are up in arms. You know my friend who is lived there for decades three decades says she is never seen the town like this before. And what is the issue? Well it started over illegal immigration which is a weird thing for Homer to be fighting over because it does not really have any immigrants. Which makes sense given where Homer is. Yeah Homer's far. Yeah it is literally the end of the road in America. That is like what they are known as. What does that mean? All right so say like you were to drive like cross over the Canadian border from Washington State say. OK so I am in Washington State. I have crossed into Canada. Yeah you are driving north. You are driving for like 2500 miles like it is like basically the same length as crossing the US coast to coast. All right so you go all the way up Canada that way. You cross back into Alaska. Can you picture that? Mm-hmm. All right then you got like another 11 hours. You are going to drive on to the peninsula the Kenai Peninsula. You keep driving. And then it is right on this bay called the Kachemak Bay. And stretching out into the bay is this little strip of land called the spit. Mm-hmm. That is the end of the road. It is the furthest you can drive in America. And that is Homer. What that means is if you were to cross into the United States from Mexico this is possibly the least convenient place in America you could end up. If you are a member of ISIS conceivably I guess you could fly to Alaska or cross the Bering Strait from Russia. But Brian actually checked with federal authorities the official from US Immigration and Customs Enforcement who is responsible for Alaska who said that this does not seem to be happening. And people in Homer know this. They know that illegal immigration is not their issue. Are you aware of any undocumented immigrants in Homer? No. Do you have any memory of there being an undocumented immigrant in Homer? No. Have you ever heard of an undocumented immigrant in Homer? No. Have you ever heard of an undocumented immigrant being in Homer in your almost 40 years here? No. I have asked pretty much everyone I talked to the same question. I heard a couple stories about some people in town who were undocumented at one point or another. But it is rare. I asked the Homer police chief about it. He sent me this email. Quote Brian Homer is not a destination for immigrants illegal or legal and it never has been. The Homer Police Department is not aware of any immigrants in our area. Mark Robel Chief of Police Homer Police Department. That seems pretty categorical. Yeah. But people are still fighting over immigrants coming to their town? Yeah because it was mentioned in this resolution in the town council that would have welcomed immigrants to Homer. No do we need a resolution? --in our parking lot. No do we need a resolution? Yeah. This is two people from opposing sides of this issue. They are each holding opposing signs in their hands. One's red one blue. They are standing on a street corner on Pioneer Avenue the main drag in Homer. They have never met before. Arguing over this. I think they need a-- You would like to see in a resolution-- I would like to see an inclusive-- Everyone's welcome. Please look-- Everyone's welcome. Human rights are civil rights civil rights are human rights. Do we have somebody saying that they are not welcome here? Do not we have an America where everybody's welcome? Why are you doing this? Why are you pushing this kind of crap? So what got them to this point? All right so basically after the presidential election liberals in town they were not happy that Trump was elected. They were wanting to do something and they drafted this resolution. And what it said among other things was that Homer stood against discrimination and they mentioned undocumented immigrants and Muslims as people who would be welcome in the city. So they would be welcome. Like what does that mean? In practice nothing. It was not a law. It was not even an ordinance. It was a resolution. It was just like a statement of how the town feels as a city what it stands for. So Trump voters saw that and they felt-- They were pissed because it was a slap in the face against their guy basically. And an early version of this resolution actually called Trump out by name a bunch. So here I have a little bit of it here. It says like Whereas a new administration is in power in Washington D.C. without a popular mandate whereas during his campaign President Donald Trump made statements offensive and harmful to the rights of women immigrants religious racial and ethnic minorities. That kind of thing. And the early draft also said that the city would not always cooperate with federal agencies when it came to detaining undocumented immigrants. Wow so I see why Trump voters were mad. Yeah and there is a lot of Trump voters in Homer. About half the city. So and then this resolution came before the city council? Yeah. So at this time we can take public comment on any matter on the agenda. Please come forward and sign in. People like descended on this town council meeting in droves back in February. The council chambers were packed. People were lined up against the walls. They were sitting on the floor. They were lined up out the door and down the hall into an overflow room where they piped the meeting in. It was broadcast on the radio. I talked to bunch of people-- people actually listened to it on the radio all over town which was amazing to me. It was intense. It was very emotional. Four people have cried as they were talking to me about this meeting months after it happened. It was that emotional on both sides of the issue. Why was it so emotional? I just think this meeting was kind of a moment where everyone in town declared for the first time where they stood on this publicly to their neighbors. If you vote yes on this I will be your worst nightmare. Because I will push for a recall. People at the meeting were overwhelmingly against the resolution. You bring in illegals OK by definition they are criminals. OK they live in the underworld. They do not have a stake in the game as we do. About the first time somebody gets raped or killed I hope they come straight after the Homer City Council and sue the City to the point of bankruptcy. If you make this a magnet for that type of people then you know shame on you. So people are really scared. Yeah and angry. And the people on the other side they felt scared seeing what their neighbors think and what they were willing to say-- because they felt like people were being hateful and discriminatory-- or what they said aloud at the meeting. Three weeks ago I stood on the corner of Heath and Pioneer with a sign that read Muslim immigrant Homer local. This is a guy named Shamir. He is possibly the only Muslim in town. In response drivers made obscene hand gestures called me a freak and this same car whipped past three times to splash as much rain water on me as possible. I am here to refute anyone who believes that we do not need this kind of resolution because we do not have these kind of problems in Homer. Let me assure you that we do. The resolution was voted down but it did not stop there. After that there was a recall election which failed. That whole email scandal. The ACLU got involved with a lawsuit against the city. OK so here's what I am getting from this. People are really mad at each other and they are not stopping this conflict and it is all about immigration. That is how it started at least yeah. In this town that does not actually have an immigration problem. Exactly. And actually you know I pointed this out to people in Homer as I talked to them. And you know I get all sorts of different reactions. Like some people definitely saw the absurdity in it. Some people thought it was not crazy to think that if that resolution was passed or if Homer somehow became a sanctuary city they thought sure undocumented immigrants or refugees could totally start coming here. And then plenty-- you know a lot of people told me like yeah this is not a fight actually over immigration. It is over something bigger. And I talked to this one woman Hannah. She is a boat captain. She put it I do not know-- I thought the best of anybody. She said this. It is like we are acting out this play that reflects our deepest anxieties but none of it is based on anything real. It is based on what-ifs. It is based on I do not think the same way as you. Things that could happen things that have happened in other places fear. And the fear of something becoming real. But none of it is based on things that are actually happening here. Right now all over this country lots of people are wary of immigrants wanting something done about immigrants they are fearful of immigrants whether or not there are immigrants in their lives. Today on our program we have stories of two places where people got really upset about immigrants even though immigration did not seem like it was the most important thing there going on at all. One of these places is Homer a small town that is about as remote as you can get-- as you have heard-- with almost no immigrants. The other one's in the suburbs in the densely developed east coast-- Rockville Maryland with lots of immigrants documented and undocumented. And what is interesting in both places is that we see why people's feelings on this issue just spiraled bigger and bigger and bigger beyond the facts at hand. From WBEZ in Chicago it is This American Life. Stay with us. Act One Fear. So Brian spent some time in Homer Alaska talking to all kinds of people involved in this debate that the town has been having over whether it should welcome immigrants or not. And he became especially interested in this one guy. I found this guy because he testified at that Homer City Council meeting the one where everyone was so upset. I spoke to lots of people who attended the meeting or listened to it. What everyone had in common was that they all seemed so sure of their sides like of course I support the ideas in this resolution or of course I do not. Know one sounded uncertain about it. Until I met this guy. Believe it or not I am kind of an emotional person. When I see people in conflict with each other it just kind of upsets me and I would really rather not deal with it so I do not have to take any more antacids. This is Ben Tyrer who generally avoids politics and news for that very reason. News stresses me out if we are being honest. I hope we are. Yeah. Ben Tyrer jazz musician and janitor at Kenai Peninsula College and to me the most interesting person in town because he is the only person I met who seemed to actually be struggling to figure out what side to be on. Ben was born and raised in Homer. Now he is 27 married with a two-year-old daughter which has given him a talent for dad humor that is ahead of his years. My favorite joke from his Facebook page-- What comes after Colin Firth? Colin Thecond. When all these people in Homer were suddenly up in arms over whether to welcome immigrants Ben did not want to jump to any unfair conclusions. I am not just going to willy-nilly make generalizations about an entire group of people based on my feelings. We really have to be careful of that kind of thing because in the past that has led to some pretty unpleasant consequences. Before I make a decision like that I really need to be sure that I am coming from what I consider to be an informed place. Ben considers himself a moderate. Says he is voted pretty evenly for both parties. Last year he was into Bernie Sanders. But when the presidential election came around he ended up just sitting it out because he found it too unpleasant. He says he never paid attention to immigration as an issue. It was not something that really crossed his mind until the resolution. It was all over social media being talked about all around town. So he read it. And it scared him. Ben describes the feeling he got as an amorphous blob of fear. That is what crept up inside him. And he immediately thought of this story he would stumbled across a few weeks before maybe in his Facebook feed or just poking around online about this one attack in Europe. Cologne. It was Cologne that happened in Germany the New Year's thing. It was an incident from New Year's the year before 2016 when hundreds of women in Cologne Germany filed reports with the police saying they would been sexually assaulted while they were in big crowds during celebrations. Many of the women said that the men who'd assaulted them were Arabic speakers and appeared to be from North Africa. It was a very disturbing event which had shaken Germany and it shook Ben too. Wow in Europe? Of all places this is happening in Europe? Like I said I had not really been paying attention. And it just shocked me. So you had not followed the news through like the attacks in Paris or the Charlie Hebdo attacks? You just had not been watching the news on that stuff? No. I am not judging you I am just asking. No like I said no. So that is what was fresh in Ben's mind when he read the resolution-- Cologne. And it freaked him out. Even though Ben admits that immigration is not exactly the biggest issue in his town no one is sharpening their knives and thinking of Homer he tells me. And even though much of the resolution was about fending off discrimination and protecting vulnerable people things Ben agrees with in principle when it came to welcoming undocumented immigrants to Ben it seemed like the city might be opening a door to people who could possibly do harm. Everyone around him was so riled up about this. It felt irresponsible not to have an informed opinion on it. So Ben started staying up late night after night spending hours on the computer long after his wife went to bed doing something I imagine few of the millions of people who are up late on the internet every night are doing-- researching global migration. He does not have a printer. So he would go back and forth to his parents' house which is right in front of his place to print out articles and reports. Ben may not be a big news guy but he does like to research. He is been slowly building the house he and his family now live in pretty much singlehandedly with no experience in construction based largely off research he is done online. So he figured he could take those research skills and apply them to this question of whether immigration is a good thing for a place to encourage or bad. And did you feel like you had an open mind about it? Did you feel like-- If we are being honest I did not have an open mind about it. But I knew that and I knew that that is not a good thing to have if you are trying to have an actual view of what is going on in the world instead of just what you want to have going on in the world. So I kind of took it upon myself to question-- actually question-- everything that I think. Ben set out to do something many of us believe we have done in our own lives but I think if we are being honest rarely actually have. He set out to do what a good citizen in a democracy is supposed to do-- delve into the facts aware of your preconceptions but with as much of an open mind as possible and form a knowledgeable opinion based on the evidence. And when he did that it took him to a place that really surprised him and made him question how he views the world. Ben opens his laptop and tries to replicate for me best he can remember how he began. He started with a simple Google search-- something like What is the refugee situation in Europe? Migrant crisis-- migration to Europe explained in seven charts. The EU and the refugee crisis. They like to use the word crisis a lot which was kind of a red flag. And before he knew it he was down a rabbit hole of frightening stories-- stories about no go zones outside Paris. Immigrant neighborhoods where native French people supposedly could no longer enter. He bumped into more stories about the sexual assaults in Cologne.  Watching and reading all this stuff late at night in the dark Alaskan winter trying to forge an understanding of a place very far away that Ben has never been-- Europe-- and of people from even further away than that that he has never met Ben felt upset and worried. But also not entirely sure whether he could trust the information he was getting. The immediate gut reaction was that is awful. But it is also like OK they are using these specifically to get that gut reaction out of people to really get people to one side. You have got that kind of sub-narrative or something going on in your head or sub commentary as you are reading through this stuff? Where is this coming from? What is the agenda of it? Exactly. Who is benefiting from me seeing this? Is it purely altruistic? Or is there something else going on? So Ben sought out information from other perspectives. He watched interviews with refugees and asylum seekers telling their stories firsthand of fleeing persecution or war in their home countries and embarking on harrowing journeys to Europe. This guy he seems like a nice guy who was just trying to do the right thing. You know I would be more than willing to help a person like that. He is a very brave man. But then he would feel unsure about that stuff too. If you watch this stuff kind of stuff enough for a long enough period of time there is almost this paranoid reaction that you get. Is this real? Is this staged? It is a really dark strange place you get to in your own head when you watch enough of these. Remember Ben was new to news. I was basically a baby learning to walk he tells me. His understanding was that publications like The New York Times and The Washington Post had a bad rap so he did not really spend too much time there. He would go to a site like the BBC but worried maybe they were giving him a liberal bent. So then he would go to a site like this conservative Canadian one he found The Rebel. But he knew he could not fully trust that either. The whole experience was head spinning. So he started digging up primary sources as well. He is got a bunch of papers that he is printed out for me documents and reports that he is compiled. He went to Cornell Law School's website to read up on immigration law trying to figure out if sanctuary cities were legal. He determined that they were not. He also pulled crime stats directly from the German Ministry of the Interior. He did that after reading this one article which he shows me with the headline Report Migrants Committing Disproportionately High Crime in Germany. What source is that from? This is-- oh Breitbart. Breitbart the right wing nationalist site formerly run by Donald Trump's chief strategist Steve Bannon which is proudly anti-immigration. The article states that crime rates would have remained static in Germany if not for migrants coming in-- that the country recorded an extra 402000 crimes by immigrants since 2014. How do you feel about Breitbart? I mean that is a place people have a lot of feelings about in terms of as a news source. I am curious what you feel? Yeah. If I had only used Breitbart I would have been a little bit more suspicious. Ben says he went to the website for Germany's interior ministry specifically to fact check this article's claims that crime by immigrants has increased dramatically. He also has this other document that he discovered online which he says put him over the edge in terms of making his decision. Let us see what is this? Gatestone Institute. It is a long report by a think tank I have never heard of called the Gatestone Institute titled The Islamization of Germany listing crimes and bad acts supposedly committed by migrants and specifically Muslims in the country. It goes nearly day by day through 2016 enumerating ugly incident after ugly incident of flashings stabbings shootings sexual assaults. I mean the first one right off the list is just January 1st mobs of Muslim men of Arabic or North African origin sexually assaulted hundreds of women in Cologne and other German cities. Again the Cologne attacks which had set Ben off on this journey. Cologne Police Chief Wolfgang Albers called it a completely new dimension of crime. And that is just the first one on the list. There are 19 pages here of stuff like that. Mmm. Wait why the mmm? Or whatever noise you just made. Well I have not really gone through a lot of this information since I used it and kind of going back through it again it is kind of-- it is making me a little bit you know uneasy a little bit upset. Trying to keep it under wraps but-- Right now you are feeling upset and trying to like tamp it down. A little bit yeah. Because you feel like you are feeling something ugly. When you read this stuff you feel something ugly. Yeah And I do not like it. Like I said I have read a lot-- Do you feel scared of people based on their ethnicity or background? Yeah. I mean it is kind of an age-old conflict between your brain and your heart. My brain is telling me to at least be cautious to really keep an eye on this and to keep an eye on-- to keep an eye on them for lack of a better sentiment. And then there is my heart that says these are people too. I mean if the shoe was on the other foot if the United States was a third world war torn country I would do whatever it took to get my family out of here legally or illegally. Like it really-- he was like really torn up. Ben's wife Hope said she was not prepared for how emotional this decision would become. It was an intense week. Was it really? Yeah it was. Hope and Ben have known each other for seven years. They have been married for three. And she says it is up there among the most intense things they have gone through as a couple close to having a baby and building a house. Immigration into Homer. It took them both aback. I did not expect it to be that draining. Finally after about a week of reading and searching and thinking and talking it through Ben arrived at a conclusion. He decided that he was opposed to the resolution. I prefer to air on the side of caution in this case. At this specific time in history I believe a certain amount of caution is warranted. And then he also decided-- I was going to bring it before the council. Microphones are already on. State your name. My name is Ben Tyrer. Hello Ben. Welcome. You will have to excuse me. I just got off work a little while ago. I do not know what all's been covered here. Ben got to the February council meeting near the end. He would had to work late at the college where he is a janitor right next door. He says he pumped himself up to speak while he was mopping bathrooms. When he got to town hall the public had been speaking for more than three hours. The council members were exhausted. The place was still packed. He was the last person to address the council. I do not necessarily think-- what we have to consider is what these people will be-- you know what I am not going to talk with emotion anymore. I am just going to read a few of these things that I have brought with me because I think facts outweigh emotion. This is from Breitbart. I found it on The Drudge Report web site. A massive migrant crime wave is surging across Germany. I wanted to just present something a little bit more solid. I did not necessarily want to just go in and say this is good or this is bad. I just wanted to present information to the people listening and to the council. And I brought copies of all the stuff that I have here. The data reveals that without migrants considered crime rate in Germany would have remained roughly static since 2014 Ben read what he could from his research. And then before he knew it his three minute time limit was up. The womans rights minister declared there are now areas in our country where women can no longer go  Thank you Ben The mayor cut him off. If you would like to leave any of the material with the clerk she would be happy to enter those into the public record for what you were not allowed to finish there. Anybody else from the community that would like to come forward? After the meeting Ben got in this car. He would done what he set out to do. But as he drove home he realized he still felt very mixed up about it. Honestly after I came home that night I was so torn up about the decision I was actually crying a little bit. Why were you crying? Believe it or not it kind of changed my world view a little bit. Because honestly I have this part of me that I want everybody to get along and I want all of us to be together and just-- I do not think it is realistic necessarily. But the utopian ideal. I just want us all to-- we are the world kumbaya holding hands. And the fact that I was making a decision to kind of crack down on a certain group of people really tore me up bad. This hope in everybody that eventually we will all just kind of get along. I do not know if it is possible. And it is just kind of sad really. What did you say to your wife when you came home? I just asked her do you think I did the right thing? He was saying you know-- was this the right thing to do? Was this the right decision? It was an interesting night. We were up late that night. He said he was crying a little bit? Yeah little bit. I think that was maybe the third time I have ever seen Ben cry. Yeah he does not cry. So I knew it was a very serious thing for him. One day as I was leaving one of my interviews with Ben he was giving me the articles and reports he would printed out. I would love to take this stuff. Did you want to-- I would love it. And then he said this. I would love for you to tell me that I am wrong. If you can read this stuff and tell me that I am wrong I would love that. Really? Yeah because man I do not like thinking this way about people. OK well I can do that. Like I could-- well I can try. Maybe I will go home after my trip here and see if we can fact check some of the stuff. Please please do. So I did. Damien in Berlin can you hear Ben? Good morning Ben. Good evening for you. How are you doing? I am quite well. How are you doing sir? Because of his research Ben now had this whole new view of reality that was making him kind of miserable. And he still had doubts and questions. So it seemed worth double checking what he would learned. I have never been to Germany. I am not an expert on the migration situation in Europe. So a few weeks after I met Ben in Homer I arranged for him to have a conversation with someone who is-- someone who is actually in the place Ben was looking to-- to try to understand the impacts immigration can have. Damien McGuinness a BBC correspondent in Berlin. He spent 14 years reporting in Germany and one of his main focuses in the last several years has been the influx of migrants into the country. I know the BBC was one of the sources Ben was not sure if he could trust because it might have a liberal bent. So I asked him if he believed Damien. And he said he would definitely be looking up what he said afterwards fact checking the fact checking. But he seemed to take seriously that Damien lives in Germany and has reported a lot on these issues. So Damien went into a studio in Berlin and Ben went into one in Homer. We are very far away from each other so it is a pleasure to talk to you on the other side of the world. You know I am just a small town boy. This is the craziest thing that is ever happened to me. I sent Damien all the research Ben had given me beforehand-- the articles and reports and statistics he compiled. Damien reviewed it and then we went through it all together. So the first thing I thought we would talk about is the sexual assaults in Cologne. This was the New Year's incident that Ben kept encountering again and again in his research. He would read and seen that lots of women have been sexually assaulted by Arab men. And he believed it to be true. After I met Ben I read up on this. And if we are being honest I found the numbers that were being reported hard to believe. The Washington Post and others wrote about more than 1000 women primarily in Cologne but also other German cities being assaulted by upwards of 2000 men according to some reports. Men who were largely migrants. I did not understand if the assaults were coordinated or more like a spontaneous mob. Plus there were headlines on sites like Breitbart such as New Year Rape Horror and Rape-fugees Not Welcome. I just was not sure what to think. But Damien explained these attacks were real. They happened. He reported on them. There were in fact about 1000 criminal complaints filed with Cologne Police about half of those for various levels of sexual assault including allegations of rape. The other half include theft of purses and phones and other violence too. There are terrifying accounts of women being surrounded and attacked by men. Damien thinks it is important to understand the pandemonium in German city centers on New Year's Eve which he says is unlike public parties elsewhere in Europe. There are huge masses of people. It is dark. People were setting off fireworks in the crowd. Damien says what occurred was somewhere between a wild drunken party and a riot that police could not control. And the drunkenness on the streets is of a level I do not think you would really see in the states. And it is not to minimize the trauma that these women underwent or to say it is any less shocking. But it goes to explain why the police found it hard to control and helps explain why then criminal elements took advantage of that to do something appalling. It makes it seem less crazy. Most of the suspects were identified. About 150 men were immigrants and asylum seekers particularly from North African countries. There are accounts from people who were there of many more men being involved. So what Ben saw about Cologne while it was sensationalized with words like rape-fugees was for the most part true. Next Ben and Damien and I looked at one of the Breitbart articles that made a big impression on Ben. It starts quote A massive migrant crime wave is surging across Germany end quote citing a report from the interior ministry that is over 100 pages long and entirely in German. The article says Germany recorded roughly 402000 crimes committed by migrants in 2015. Damien read the underlying report and he says that 402000 number-- That is correct. That is a correct figure. Except-- This 400000 figure is actually including the crime of crossing the border as an asylum seeker. Now by definition that can only be committed by migrants and in fact is how most refugees by legitimately accepted international law actually apply for asylum. Now when you take away that particular criminal act of crossing the border what you then find is actually-- and the government report very clearly says this-- in fact the crime rates remained pretty much the same 2015 compared to the year before. The Breitbart article does say that many of these crimes were border crimes. They do not leave that information out completely. But in reality that is all that 400000 number is-- immigration infractions like border crossing or overstaying a visa. It does not include any other type of crime. They are using proper statistics but not putting them in the right context. And then they are using alarmist language like A massive migrant crime wave is surging across Germany. Wow. Did you understand that Ben from reading this article? Man I did not get that at all. I did not get it either. I mean I had to-- I clicked on the link to what they were sourcing and it is a 135-page report in German. And it is a complicated report. You know it is a slog to read through. It is a government report. It is not necessarily very clear itself. So is a migrant crime wave surging across Germany? Damien tells Ben when you take out those crimes like crossing the border or overstaying a visa the amount of crime committed by immigrants overall has gone up in the last three years. It is nearly tripled from 3-12 of all crimes to 9. Granted that is at the same time that a huge number of immigrants have been coming into Germany a million and a half people. But the increase in immigrant crime still appears to be outstripping that population growth. There are caveats to that too though. The German government has cautioned that the research on this is not yet sophisticated enough to draw firm conclusions. Also Damien tells Ben-- A