Last week I went out in the woods in Oregon with this bird expert Noah Strycker looking at birds. Every day he goes out for at least an hour-- often it is a lot more-- on trails around his house that he and his parents cleared back when he was a kid. And I would never been birding. I had no idea how much of bird watching you are actually just listening for the birds. When we would set out in the morning it was still foggy. Already I can hear some birds calling now. So there is a spotted towhee  calling just behind me. That  was a California quail waking up. Did you hear that little ?  That was the sound of a Steller's jay imitating a red-tailed hawk. Wait you know the birds well enough you can tell when a bird is imitating another bird badly? Yeah it is not a real red-tailed hawk. Steller's jays are just kind of bullies in general and they imitate red tailed hawks as far as I can tell just to terrorize other little birds in the forest.  Does it work? I do not know honestly. What is weird about this is if Noah can tell that it is not a red-tailed hawk and he is not even a bird cannot other birds tell? If they can why would the Steller jay keep doing it? To answer that question Noah tells me about how a couple of years ago he bought this powerful microphone a parabolic microphone that could capture bird sounds from a great distance. The first bird I ever aimed it at was a Steller's jay sitting up on a branch. So he turned on his recorder put on headphones and waited for it to make some noise. And I realized it was sitting up there with its beak closed singing a very quiet whisper song to itself that only itself could have possibly heard because it was so quiet. That just blew my mind. I have never listened to birds the same sense. So I think they do make noises just for their own sake a lot of the time. Going out birding with Noah is going out with somebody who is insanely knowledgeable about birds. He is written five books about their behavior toured the world seeing 6000 of the nearly 11000 existing bird species in just one year in 2015. So he knows a lot. But he is also still completely excited about birds. Cannot get enough. He told me this story. He goes to Antarctica for months studying penguins and sometimes he gives tours to visitors of the penguin colonies. At first he says they love it. They go into their colony they see the baby penguins which are super cute. And then like day five or so people get up in the morning and they are like where are we going to go today? And you say we are going to a penguin colony. And there is this look that I have learned to recognize. It is like I have just been to eight other penguin colonies in the past four days. How is this one going to be any different? But for me I have never felt that look in my whole life. I have never got penguined out. He happily goes back to the same colony or the same woods around his house every single day. Noah says this endless interest in birds began in sort of typical ways. In fifth grade he first noticed birds for real when his teacher suction-cupped a bird feeder to the classroom window and he could stare at the birds through the glass just inches away. He started reading the field guide looking for birds on his own joined a local birding club. Everybody else in the club by the way was in their 60s 70s and 80s. He was like 12. The one kid. This energetic birdy Doogie Howser. In person Noah actually does have kind of a Neil Patrick Harris vibe. But the thing he says that changed him from that kind of leisure time birder into somebody who organized his entire life around it happened because of turkey vultures one particular pack of them when he was 16. And he saw this episode of a TV show called The Life of Birds where David Attenborough goes into a Trinidadian rainforest. And he has this smelly old piece of steak in his hand. And then he buries the steak under the leaflet or on the forest floor in the rainforest. Let me hide it. And then backs off and then they cut. And then 45 minutes later this turkey vulture comes sailing down through the canopy of that forest and flies unerringly right to the spot where the steak is and digs it up moves the leaves aside and gets the meat. It seems almost unbelievable. When I saw that on The Life of Birds as a high schooler I just immediately had one thought which was I have got to try this at home. That is the like best bird feeding idea I have ever seen in my life. It seemed incredible to him that he might be able to lure these birds that you usually see from so far away. Turkey vultures are shy hard to get near and he might be able to see them close up? Then he thought if David Attenborough got one bird to show up with some old piece of steak maybe he would improve his odds if his bait was something bigger. Imagine how many turkey vultures I could attract with like a dead deer. There are so many deer here in rural Oregon on the side of the highways and freeways. I can now go out and find roadkill bring a whole carcass home and see how many turkey vultures we can attract. But it was kind of hard to find a roadkill as it turned out. It took me like a month to track one down. Another way to put that last sentence if you are not a 16-year-old very eager to see turkey vultures up close-- it only took a month to find a deer carcass. Noah wrestled the heavy bloated gaseous yellow jacket-covered putrid-smelling deer into the trunk of his Volvo sedan. Got home put the deer in a wheelbarrow wheeled it out to this very spot where we are standing in this pasture and dumped it. So it is like right here where we are standing? This is the spot I chose. At this point in our bird walk we were standing within eyeshot of the house that he grew up in but not too close. The cow pasture's overgrown Douglas firs and white oaks around its edges. I thought this would be a good spot because you can see it from the sky it has multiple approach paths from the air so they will be as attracted as possible to this deer carcass. It was dark so he went to bed no idea if this was going to work. Gets up the next morning-- And there were turkey vultures everywhere. They were sitting on these trees right here. There were vultures sitting on the roof of our house like 10 of them lined up on our roof. There were vultures circling overhead. There were probably 30 or 40 turkey vultures hanging around the yard. And when I woke up and realized that this had happened I was so happy. I rushed out here. And I had set up a little camouflage tarp next to the deer carcass. The tarp was just kind of in this wet grass. So if I come over here I was hunkered down right about here. So if I get down I was sitting under the tarp with a hole in it and my camera lens sticking out. He is maybe 10 feet from the deer. He waited. And then finally it was like magic. The first one came down. And once one came down they all started just piling down. It was not like what he imagined. He thought it was going to be chaos like a pack of lions ripping into a zebra. What unfolded was very polite. They were just delicately walking around it standing on top of it and starting to pick at it gingerly. It was not a brute force kind of thing at all and they were very well-behaved I thought. There was almost like a pecking order involved. They knew which birds were going to eat first and they adhered to it. Oh so it was very orderly? It was an orderly scene of turkey vultures eating their breakfast. Where did they start? I thought it was so cool. So the softest parts of the deer that is where the turkey vultures would start sticking their heads into. I was expecting them to tear a big hole in the side and just go at it but that is not what happened at all. They actually started by pecking the eyes out. I guess those are the softest part of the deer. So they went for the eyeballs. And then they went in and very carefully ate the gums out of the deer like around its teeth. They had to go for the soft parts because they do not have very strong feet or beaks. Instead a turkey vulture just kind of sticks its head up inside the body. Its head is bald and red with no feathers. --which is handy for sticking inside of carcasses and not getting your feathers all messed up. The turkey vultures next start eating around the wound on the deer's shoulder from where it got hit on the highway. Took turns eating around there until they got a big enough opening to get access to the chest and guts and everything else. Noah would go off in the mornings and do tennis camp and other kid stuff then come back to his tarp for hours and hours. I do not know how many hours I spent out here that week but it was full afternoons pretty much every day all week long. So I got to see the whole process. At the beginning the deer carcass was relatively fresh and then gradually it was stripped away. And by day five or day six they were starting to disassemble the skeleton that was pretty much picked clean.  It was like being drawn into another world that exists in this world that we are very seldom a part of. Being so close to these birds that do not normally allow us to get that close to them was like passing through some kind of force field or something and emerging on their side of the divide and feeling that. Yeah. And their world is not the same as ours? No. And it has existed for much longer than ours has. I mean humanity is not that old. Turkey vultures have been around for quite a lot longer than we have.  Man when you stare into the eyeball of a turkey vulture and it blinks its third eyelid that birds have that is just unsettling. They are strange strange animals. They just have this weird very reptilian vibe. Before this of course he would seen lots of birds but it was like checking them off a list. He saw this one and that one that he would read about in the field guide. He would never just stared at one group of birds for so long and watched how they related to each other or what they did. Turkey vultures are what I would call my spark bird. For a birder a spark bird is the one you see usually in some kind of unexpected situation that grabs you in a way that you have not been grabbed before by birds and turns you on to a wavelength that you have not been turned on to before in the bird world. Like people would talk about what is your spark bird? Birders when we get together and go out on field trips yes we love to say oh yeah what was your spark bird? Oh that is a cool one. What was your spark bird? And you ask just about any birder out there what their spark bird is and they will probably have an answer for you. For me that week watching these vultures being in their world just gripped me. It changed my life. That week in the pasture by his house has basically turned into his entire life thanks to the spark birds. None of us here at our program had ever heard the phrase spark bird before we talked to Noah. And we thought there must be other situations where a bird arrives and changes everything. And we went looking for stories like that. We found a bunch a whole flock of them in all kinds of settings. This weekend when families are coming from far and wide to gather together around a bird this seemed like the perfect time to bring those stories to you. From WBZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us.  Act One Do not Chicken Out. So one thing about the birds in this show the spark birds is that they do not know how consequential they are. Know what I mean? They are just going about their day picking up worms and seeds unaware of the lives they are transforming. I am fairly sure that that is true for the bird in this first story though we were unable to confirm that independently with the bird. One of the people in the story is Carmen Milito. Back when she was 13 in 1960 growing up on Coney Island in New York one day she met this boy on the beach. Even today when she talks about him the words she uses are gorgeous beautiful. He had just the cutest face that I have ever seen-- dimples. He just swooned me. He swooned her. That is how they did it back in the '60s. Girls were constantly swooning back then over the Beatles and Elvis and whatnot. Anyway she and the guy talked for 10 or 15 minutes. He strolls off. Three years later she is at a social club in some random neighborhood far from Coney Island. There is music playing people dancing and the boy walks in. Fate. He is wearing a leather jacket slicked back hair as teenagers did back then. Carmen points him out to her friend. And she looks over and she goes oh my god he is gorgeous. Carmen goes up to him. The guy buys her a drink. They talk for a long time. He asks her out. She is 16. His name is Bobby. She is excited. But she is too ashamed of the apartment where she lives with her mom to have him pick her up there. It was run down she said under the elevated train tracks. So she has him pick her up at her sister's place. Her mom is furious about this. She was-- you are not proud of what we have here? I work my ass off all my life and you are embarrassed? Carmen tries to tell her that she just wanted to make a good first impression. Says do not worry she is going to have him come to the house when he picks her up for the second date. So that day was a Saturday. And I told my mom that he is coming again to pick me up. And she put this little face on-- so what do you want me to do? Put up the flags? So she said well tell me about this boy. What is going on with him? So I said well he is an Italian guy. He lives in Bensonhurst. I said he happens to be Sicilian. And she stopped. She said no. And I said what do you mean no? I mean you are not going out with any Sicilian boys. My mom is from Naples. So she had married my dad who was Sicilian and he turned out to be a real deadbeat of a man. He deserted her when she was pregnant to me for the babysitter actually. Wow. So when she heard that he was Sicilian she thought that life was repeating itself. And the thoughts that came into her mind were like you know he is going to desert you. And I said please you are jumping the gun here. It is the second date. Do not worry. She says I do not care. I do not-- so I said mom please. Carmen tells her just go out and do the shopping while I clean the house. Her mom says fine. She goes out. Comes back a little while later with a large cardboard box. And in this box is a chicken. The chicken of course is the spark bird in this story the one that is going to change everything for Carmen. And it is scratching that box all over the place. And I looked at it and I said what is that? And she goes it is a chicken. And I said what are you going to do with it? And she goes I am going to kill it and then eat it. And I said you never killed a thing in your life. What are you talking about? You cannot have this thing here now. He is going to be here any minute and you have got a live chicken. He is going to think we are farmers or something.  I just went off. And she goes oh do not be ridiculous. I will put the chicken in the bathroom. Now the bathroom was right next to the kitchen. So you close the door and you hear everything-- everything in that bathroom. And so do you figure like oh this is her revenge on me? She thought I was ashamed to bring him to the house and so here's what she is doing. She is brought a live chicken in. Oh yeah. I said that. I said are you getting back at me for something? And what are you doing? She goes oh do not be ridiculous. She said just go. Go. Go finish getting dressed. Do not worry. He is in the bathroom. He will not hear a sound your precious Bobby. Well as we are arguing we hear footsteps coming down the hallway and then there is a knock on the door. So she said go ahead open the door very calmly. And it was like-- such an assurance about her. Like she had a plan. In walks Bobby well-dressed handsome as always polite calls Carmen's mom Mrs. Nicastro. Call me Ida she says and escorts him into the kitchen. She offers him a drink. You are allowed to drink are not you? Bobby was 19 but it is a weird move with the boy who is going to be driving your daughter. Carmen wonders what she is up to. So he sits down and she gives him a drink of scotch. And she asks him questions like where are you from? What do you do? Now in the meantime that chicken is scratching its way out of that box in the bathroom. And he was so kind. Never said a word. He heard it. You could see it on his face because he would look around like where is this sound coming from? Oh my god I just wanted to die. And every time the chicken would scratch at the box I would  cough or I would say you know we have got to go. We have got to go. And my mom would say just a minute. She had this way of saying just a minute. Just a minute hold your horses. Bobby come on finish your drink. How about another one? OK just a word right now about Carmen's mom Ida and what she is doing here. Ida has been described to me as kind of scrappy and sharp-witted and willful somebody who had to figure out how to make her way in the world. And if she wanted to convince you to do something apparently she was very hard to resist. In the summer she would pick up extra money as a barker on Coney Island urging passersby to come in and buy tickets for the wax museum. She had worked low-paying factory jobs all her life on her feet all day starting when she was 13 when her parents pulled her out of school to go to work and make money for the family. When Carmen's dad her for the babysitter she lost all of her friends her family turned its back on her and she had to fend for herself learn to survive. And she was a very sensitive woman. She would wear her heart on her sleeve. Very protective of Carmen who was the baby of the family. Oh but this boy in her kitchen? She just saw Sicilian. That is all she saw. Right. And she had a plan. She was like a little-- crazy as a fox. And then she said wait a minute I have to ask Bobby something. Tell me Bobby did you ever kill a chicken? And he looks around he looks at me and he goes why is there a problem? And she said no no problem. She said I just want to know if you ever killed a chicken. And so he looks at her and says-- he lied. He said sure yeah. I killed a chicken. She goes oh I knew you did. And she goes Bobby listen. Do me a favor honey. I have this chicken in the bathroom. Would you do me a big favor? Can you kill it before you leave? Well you could have heard a pin drop in that room. It was silent. And I said mom what-- no. And I am screaming. I am carrying on. No you cannot do this. He is all dressed. She goes do not worry about it. I will get him an apron. And then she grabs the chicken she puts the apron on him she goes in the bathroom and she puts the box with the chicken on the table. And she says here. So he opens the box up and this chicken's running around the box and he closes the flap right away. And he goes I do not know if I can do this. And she goes you said you could. Do not disappoint me now Bobby. Please you promised. And he is like looking at me and I am looking at him and all of a sudden I started to say will he do this? And he closes the flaps and he said . God do you have a knife? OK I am going to spare you the details of how he killed the chicken without getting blood on his white Ban-Lon shirt or anything else. But it was swift and surprisingly deft for somebody who had never killed a chicken in his life. And I was like in shock. I could not move. And my mother was dancing all over the kitchen. You are a gem. I think I am going to love you. You come back on Sunday and I am going to make you the best chicken cacciatore you ever ate in your life. She gives him a towel to wipe his hands. She was treating him like some god of sorts. I mean she was like in heaven. And she looked at me and she gave me this big wink and a thumbs-up sign kind of. It is like you have a winner here. She goes go ahead. Go out now and have a ball. She said you will come back on Sunday? And he said I think so. Yeah I guess. And we left and did not say a word to each other. You and he did not say a word to each other about-- Not a word. A word was not spoken. We sat in the car. And I just stared out. He stared out. And we started to laugh. And that was the end of the conversation. Never again was it mentioned.  What happened was we continued to go out and see each other. And 56 years later we are still married. This is the man of my dreams. We are still married after 56 years.  Carmen says asking him to kill the chicken it was a test. Any other guy would have said you are crazy lady. I am not going to kill this chicken. She believed that that would have been his response but he just I guess was in love with me and just said I have got to do it for her you know? Oh that is what the test proved? It proved his feelings about you? Yeah. Oh yeah. Oh totally. He killed something for me. She knew that if he was not the guy for me he would have never done this. You know I never really looked at it that way. I looked at it like my manhood was being questioned. This of course is the man in question Bobby. Though Bobby was a nickname. As he got older he switched to using his given name Sebastian. You know like did I have the stones to kill a chicken? I was 19. And see when you are 19 you are insecure. And she sort of threw a test which I thought maybe was some primitive ritual that came from the village that-- they were from Naples from Sorrento. And maybe that is how they did it in Sorrento. Oh my god. They devised a test for-- Please do not call it primitive. Do not say primitive. I do not want to get letters from people from Sorrento. Anyway I did not want to be embarrassed in front of-- I do not want Carmen to think of me as not being manly enough to do something like that. But at that point I do not think I did it out of love. I mean it is funny because I think they both took it-- or at least her mom took it as a sign of oh you really like her. And it is funny to think that she got it wrong. Well I did like her. I mean I was crazy about her. But I did not say I am going to do this for Carmen. It was just their second date after all. Would you have done that for any girl's mom? You know Ira I cannot think of any other girl's mom would ever ask me to do that. She was very wily and a good person. I mean I loved her. I loved her dearly.  When Carmen was 16 and her mom pulled off this plan she was horrified. But now she is two decades older than her mom was that day in 1963 when this happened and she has kids and grandkids of her own. And she sees her mom's actions that day very differently. I adore her for doing that. I could cry wanting that night back. The bravery of her to do something like that. I cannot imagine her doing anything else actually. She was not a talker. She would not have sat down with him and said listen I want you to respect my-- she was not going to say anything like that. She was going to give him a test. And in that test even though she was wrong about whether Sebastian had killed that bird out of love for Carmen if you look at her mom's bigger conclusion that he was going to be a reliable man for Carmen that he was going to stick around and be there for Carmen a half century later it is probably safe to say she got that part right.  Coming up the rarest bird species in the world-- so rare that only one family in Massachusetts has ever spotted them or until right now even knows about them. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's show Spark Bird. During this week when the tradition is to gather together at a table around a bird we have stories of spark birds the birds that get it all started for somebody that make you see things differently. And if you are just tuning in we began our program today with Noah Strycker who is the author of The Thing With Feathers and other books on bird behavior somebody who is spark bird was the turkey vulture. And one of our producers Chloee Weiner and I spent hours tromping around the woods with him in Creswell Oregon which was hours of actually doing the thing that today's show is about-- learning to see things differently through birds. And I just want to play you a little more of this because so much of what Noah told us along the way was new to me and Chloee. For instance Noah was telling us how this summer late one night he was home and he heard this bird sound he would never heard before. I do not even know. It was like . And I came running out here with my flashlight because it was dark because I had no idea what it was and tracked it down. And it was a fledgling screech owl sitting on a branch. And it is just like-- it had not learned yet how to make the proper screech owl noise? Yeah. Birds babble just like human babies do. Scientists will call it subsong and have these other technical terms for it but it is just birds learning how to sound like birds. Birds babble like human babies do. I did not know. I honestly never think about the fact that I live in the middle of a whole world of birds. I do not notice them. I do not hear them singing. But of course Noah cannot stop himself from hearing them and instantly recognizing that that is a Pacific grand that is a chestnut-backed chickadee or whatever. And he does not just hear the bird sounds when he is walking around outside. Becoming a birder ruins Hollywood movies for you forever because whatever bird sounds are in the background in the soundtrack whether they are just natural or whether they have dubbed them in even they are never the birds that would be in the place that the movie is set at the season that it is set in. And it drives me nuts. I mean how hard would it be to put the proper bird sounds in there? Like what is a movie that this happened to you in? Well just yesterday I saw the movie Spencer the new Lady Di movie. They had red-winged blackbirds in the background. This is supposed to be what in like Europe in the UK somewhere. Red-winged blackbirds do not live in Europe. That is a whole continent away from where they would actually live. They had Steller's jays in the background and all kinds of North American species. So obviously this movie was filmed by North Americans who were dubbing in North American birds into a completely wrong background. And just the lengths to which they go to get all of the historical details and period pieces accurate the shape of the headlight that no one is ever going to know honestly when you watch the movie. And yet the bird sounds are all over the map. And there are so many birders out there like me who know what they are listening to. That is not unusual. This I guess would be the downside of having a birder open your eyes to something about the world that most people do not notice. It would not be hard to fix this Noah says. There are archives with most bird sounds. Movie sound editors Noah would love to hook you up. Drop him a line he says. And of course the problem is the world does not care about birders. Hollywood knows that they will continue to show up with their factually inaccurate movies and stream their error-ridden television shows because where else are they going to go when they need to watch something that is indoors and not wild alive and feathered?  Act 2 A Scrub is a Bird that Cannot Get No Love from Me. So we now turn to a spark bird that started a political fight a fight that has lasted for a very long time concerning one state's official state bird. Bim Adewunmi tells the tale. The thing about an official state bird is that it just really does not matter. I say that with no intended disrespect to birders across the nation. Some of my best friends are birders. But think about it. When was the last time you sat down and truly considered the scissor-tailed flycatcher who is the avian embodiment of the state of Oklahoma? Exactly. It is absurd. A state bird has nothing to do with the state's GDP for example. It does not tell us how happy the children are. It makes no one's life materially better or worse. And yet in Florida the debate about which flying animal deserves the title of official state bird has been ongoing for more than two decades. The state bird means nothing. But somehow in Florida it is come to mean a hell of a lot. Florida was actually one of the first states to designate a state bird back in 1927. It was probably a simple choice. The northern mockingbird is a good bird as birds go. It likes to sing. It has an incredible talent for mimicry. And with its gray coloring it is cute. Here's the thing though. The northern mockingbird is the official bird of another four states besides Florida. It is actually the third most popular state bird behind the northern cardinal and the western meadowlark. After 72 years some people have had enough of this spread-thin state bird. Enter the spark bird of this story the scrub jay. The Florida scrub jay is the only bird on the planet that is found only in Florida. It is a sturdy-looking bird with a dull blue head and wings. It is unclear exactly why the late Republican Rep. Howard Futch was such a champion for the scrub jay but in 1999 he co-sponsored a bill for it to become the state bird. Maybe it was the fact that Futch represented Brevard County which used to have the highest number of scrub jays in the state. But I think he just liked the bird. As he puts it It is got good family values it is kind and it is a bird that likes people. Scrub jays do something called cooperative breeding which means that each nest has an adult pair but it also has helpers usually the older siblings of the newest jay babies who help feed the young and defend territory. Very different in Futch's opinion from the mockingbird. The mockingbird a lot of people love that sucker he said but it is pretty mean.  There is nothing human beings cannot make about themselves even birds. And the fight over the Florida state bird very quickly became loaded with familiar political tropes. On the side of the status quo the side of the incumbent mockingbird was one of Florida's most famous seniors Marion Hammer. Hammer is a long-time lobbyist with the National Rifle Association and the architect of Florida's stand your ground law. And she is no fan of the Florida scrub jay. In her committee testimony Hammer dismissed the bird as a thieving scrounger in the strongest possible terms. They eat the eggs of other birds she said. That is robbery and murder. And in response to the scrub jay's alleged friendliness exemplified by the way it eats out of humans' hands she had a rebuttal. Begging for food is not sweet. It is lazy and it is a welfare mentality. The response from the other side was just as harsh. Democrat Rep. Mark Pafford called the mockingbird an obnoxious plagiarizing and promiscuous bully.  State Rep. Futch and the scrub jay have the Audubon Society on their side and they also had a chunk of Florida citizens-- schoolchildren. Thousands of them signed a petition in support of the scrub jay. Hammer had a hunch about who was behind these passionate schoolchildren. She suggested they had been influenced by environmentalists trying to secure extra protections for the scrub jay. It is adults hiding behind impressionable children she said. If they get it on the endangered list you can kiss your property rights goodbye. This had begun as an argument about something that means nothing but now it had become an argument about the biggest things. It would have been neater if the camps were strictly Republican versus Democrat but bird choice and party affiliation did not always align. The choice of state bird became a proxy referendum about what traits Floridians should find admirable. Depending on which side you were on the mockingbird was either a stand-in for rugged talented individualism or it was a raucous bully. And the scrub jay seen through one lens as nurturing family values and sweet enough to pal around with humans somehow also became the poster child for a reliance on big government and its handouts. Here's where it is now. In the 2022 legislative session there will be three new bills from Democrats and Republicans alike to change the state bird. By the way there are other candidates besides the scrub jay. Every previous bill has died in committee. It always dies in committee. But hope dies last. As recently as last month Hammer was defending the mockingbird and making the scrub jays sound like phantoms from a '90s crime bill calling them evil little birds that rob the nests of other birds and eat their eggs and kill their babies. One might call that street gang behavior in the avian community.  I am ver