In New York like in lots of cities you can call 3-1-1 for help with city services but also for all kinds of other stuff. The most common calls they get are about landlords not heating apartments properly. But they will also help you get hold of a W-2 form you need from 2009. They will tell you what streets will be blocked off for a presidential visit connect you with the gas company and a stunning array of other things-- 55000 calls a day. Actually I had a call today. This is 311 operator Victoria Dusini. The woman said that her fiance died in their bed and she was pregnant and she wanted to identify his DNA in order to get social security benefits. So she wanted to know who to contact. She got a referral to family court which can establish paternity to the Social Security office to find out how to get the benefits and a legal referral to the New York City Bar Association. Here's 311 operator Angelique Pantoja. Well a woman was cleaning her garage and she moved a box and there was a crocodile. So I had to ask her like a crocodile like big with-- she is like yeah it is going snap snap at me. She says that was an easy one of course-- call Animal Care and Control. But she also helped with this call. I had a woman who was-- I guess she had an unruly teenager. Even on the phone they were arguing. And she just could not take it. She could not take the disrespect and she wanted help. That woman was given a referral for counseling services. The way all this works is that the operators sit at computers with a massive database of answers on thousands of different topics. They can help you locate where your car was towed. They can explain the changes in your property tax. They can help you find something you left in a New York City taxi which by the way they can do even without the cab number now that taxis have GPS. But lots of people call for things that are not in the database. You see a UFO? 311 has no answers for you-- not in the database. You drop your keys in the sewer grate at the corner? New York City is not going to help you with that one either. And people call with all kinds of stuff. I know a guy. He and his wife were in a taxicab riding home late at night from a Halloween party. He was dressed as a Teletubby. She was a sexy creature from the deep sea-- fishnet stockings short skirt fake seaweed. They got to their apartment. It is late at night. His wife told him get out. She would continue in the cab. She wanted to spend the night elsewhere. So he got out of the cab. And not sure exactly what to do he dialed 311. Operator picks up. He says I do not know where my wife is. The operator asked is she missing? He could be connected to the police. No no the guy says. And at that point he realizes. Right she is been staying out a lot. Right. She is having an affair. He did not know exactly what it was that he wanted to get from 311. It is just he found himself suddenly not sure what had happened to him or how he got there. He had never been in this situation. It was not clear what to do. We get those types of calls because we are known for a place that gives answers. So I guess why not try 311? 311 operator Natashia Townsend. I have had a caller-- she called to speak about her boyfriend. She felt like her boyfriend was going to leave her because he was a model and she just felt like he had a lot of attention from other women. So I would try to offer her different services like maybe some counseling for their relationship and she did not want it. She just wanted to speak to a 311 rep. She is like no I do not want to speak to anyone else. I just want to speak to 311. And there is nothing in our database that we use to say OK. Well if he is doing this this is what you should do. Natashia found herself off the grid so she improvised. She is not allowed to give personal advice which she told the woman. So she basically said the only thing she could say in this situation that they did not train her for-- I understand. She said I understand over and over. The woman kept her on the phone for 45 minutes and it seemed to help. I think she felt better after she got off the phone. How do you know? She said thank you. She said thank you for listening to me. That is really what it was. She really just wanted to talk. Well from WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today on our program what happens when you find yourself off the map far from all the normal things you are used to and that you do and things are way way more extreme than they were for this 311 operator. You are lost in some situation you have never been in and you have never heard of anybody else in either and you have to improvise which either brings out a resource heroic side of people or just the opposite. Stay with us. Act One-- Marriage of Inconvenience. This first story is about a couple who are in a relationship that is unlike the homes that either of them grew up in unlike actually anything in either of their experiences. They are married and it is a prison marriage. It is the guy who is the prisoner and was a prisoner when they met. If you are listening to our program on the podcast or on the internet I just want to give you a heads-up. There is cursing in here that we have not beeped. If you prefer a beeped version of our program you can hear that at our website thisamericanlife.org. Christopher Rhoads tells the story. Prison marriages are not so unusual. They happen. Michael Jewell was serving out a life sentence for murder in Texas. Joan Covici was a widow living in Dallas who volunteered with the ACLU. They never thought that Michael would get out and they were OK with that. But sometimes they would talk about what it would be like if he were released to spend time together at her summer cabin in New Hampshire go fishing together be married for real. And five years into their relationship when Michael decided to appeal his case in the very unlikely event that he would win Joan wanted to be prepared so she drew up a contract. We made kind of a pact-- and I still have that document-- that we would try it for two years. Whenever he got out we would try it for two years. And if we were not happy after two years that we would separate. Joan keeps the contract in her desk at home. We the undersigned agree to the following arrangements following-- The contract explicitly lays out all the very practical things that usually go unspoken in a relationship. Joan agrees that she will provide Michael with a place to live and money for food and clothes. Michael agrees to take care of Joan to be her companion. The contract is like a couple's fantasy of the most ordinary details of everyday life together. It gets amazingly specific. Here are some of Michael's duties. House chores-- 50 participation in cooking cleaning trash-takeout bed-making and minor household repairs. Outside chores-- yard and garden maintenance dog-walking shopping driving and car and air travel assistance. Here follow some specific obligations for Joan. House chores 50 participation in cooking cleaning bed-making and laundry providing-- Without prison it is unlikely that Michael and Joan would have ever met in the first place. She is 16 years older than he is from a completely different world. Michael never knew much more than crime. When he was about seven his father had him steal a pair of shoes. Things went downhill from there. Michael robbed grocery stores cracked safes he was in and out of prison. Then in 1970 he killed a man during a robbery. We spooked him you know? We scared the hell out of him. And the wind was howling and I was standing in front of him trying to tell him this is a robbery. Cooperate and you will not get hurt. And he said oh oh and made a motion like Matt Dillon going for the draw. And my partner thought he was going for a pistol and shot him in the back. And when I heard the shot just reflexively I shot him in the chest. And when he hit ground I knelt down and searched him and he did not even have a weapon. What he was trying to do was give us the bank sack. Michael was caught and convicted which in Texas means he wound up on death row. He was 23. Joan's life in her early 20s was about as far from rural Texas as you can get in this country. She lived in Cambridge Massachusetts was married to a PhD student in English literature at Harvard named Pascal Covici Jr. Pascal's father was the editor and lifelong friend of John Steinbeck which meant that sometimes Joan got to go to intimate parties in New York City full of literary heavyweights. Saul was often there-- Saul Bellow and Arthur. Arthur Miller? Arthur Miller. When Arthur married Marilyn of course then everybody wanted to go to the dinner party. Marilyn of course was Marilyn Monroe. She was quiet. Did not talk a whole lot but she was so gorgeous. We all just sat there and looked at her and were happy that she was there. The men did most of the talking. And I was also quiet at those parties too. I did not feel as comfortable. They were often talking about things that were not familiar to me-- about their work and politics. I had the baby by then and that was taking up most of my attention. Joan's marriage to Pascal was pretty standard for the time. He was the breadwinner. She was the homemaker. Joan raised two kids eventually became a schoolteacher. And then many years later when Joan was 66 Pascal died of cancer. After his death she got more involved with volunteer work she would been doing at the local ACLU chapter. She answered prison mail and started corresponding with several inmates to find out about conditions in the Texas prison system which is how she would first met Michael. He was 52 nearly 30 years into his prison sentence and he sent a letter that found its way to Joan. It says Dear friends I am a prisoner on the Eastham Unit of the Texas prison system. I came to prison with the death penalty in 1970. I stayed on death row-- There was nothing special about Michael's letter. He was asking about getting involved with anti-death penalty work. His own death sentence had been commuted to life in 1973. And he would become something of an activist in prison-- heavily involved in prison reform issues. Joan read his letter and dutifully wrote back. Then Michael wrote back then Joan wrote and so on. Michael and Joan wrote to each other almost every single day for 10 years. Michael was self-taught but his letters showed how much he would read including most of John Steinbeck. And his intellect impressed Joan. She was constantly communicating with prisoners 5 to 10 at a time but Michael's letters stood out. He was a good writer. Take this letter he wrote to Joan after he intentionally injured himself-- cut his own Achilles tendon to protest work duty conditions. I had grown to love my body without narcissism almost as a friend a faithful companion. It was after all my only refuge from the filth and the stench and the scorn. As I sit there contemplating the harsh task at hand I felt like a traitor as though I were committing the highest treason. It was most difficult to see a higher good in-- To me he looked like James Cagney. He just was a perfect James Cagney except that he did not have very good teeth. He had just a few teeth on the bottom. So I saw him and he was James Cagney and I used to love James Cagney in his movies. But again it was not love at first sight or anything like that because I am not that sort of person. I go for the mind first. And he had a wonderful mind. And we just had lots to talk about. It was not all intellectual. In his letters Michael started using pet names for Joan. He would call her Sweet Baby Joan and other things too. Dear noble little squaw sweet baby. Dearest finger-licking-good sweet baby. Dear honey butt.   In her letters Joan loosened up as well. I think I will fix a big scotch and go sit in the back yard and smoke a cigarette and try to get you into perspective. God I wish you were here to spank. LAUGHING Can I stop there? Every Sunday afternoon Joan would drive the few hours to visit Michael in prison-- a book on tape playing on the car stereo. She would stay at the same fancy bed and breakfast near the prison became friends with the people who ran the place and then the rest of the week she got to go back to her own life and did what she wanted to do. It was romance but on her terms-- something she would never experienced. Michael and Joan would hug and kiss discreetly on their contact visits. This was all in a public visiting room. There was nothing conjugal about what was going on. The limits of their time together were clear and Joan was happy with the arrangement. I kind of liked being alone. It is very comfortable for a woman to know that somebody loves her and yet she has all this freedom to live her own life. Michael and Joan knew that no matter how close they became they would never really be together. Rarely if ever does a former death row inmate get paroled in Texas. So really what they had was their letters. Here's another one from Joan. A song that has always torn my heart is the 'September Song.' You remember-- 'And these few precious days I will spend with you.'    And especially in our case the days are few and we may never spend them really together. We must get used to this reality and not ruin what years remain. I love you precious Michael-- SBJ-- Sweet Baby Joan.  In 2005 they got married but that was mainly so that they would not lose their visitation rights. The prison had denied them visits before. And they lived this way happily for five years. Then in June 2010 Michael was summoned by prison authorities. He walked into a room and an official came to speak to him. He said are you Jewell? I said yeah. He said here I got a present for you. And he handed me a sheet of paper. And I started reading it and I had made parole. Michael was confused. Just a month or so before he would gone before the parole board and been denied just as he had been many times before. I think I stopped breathing for about two or three minutes. I did not really-- I was kind of-- my first reaction was this has got to be a fucking mistake you know? It was unheard of you know? Something like that happens once every 10 years in prison to somebody. Michael has no real idea why he was paroled. He thinks it might have had something to do with a lawsuit he filed against the prison system saying that it was understaffed and unsafe. Releasing Michael made the lawsuit go away. I think it was a surprise to both of us when he suddenly was put on the street. He was scared at the thought of coming out. He was not prepared for it. Neither one of us was really. I wanted him home and I knew it was going to be hard. I knew it was going to be difficult. And I knew that the chances of the relationship lasting were very bad. But I had agreed to try it and so-- Do you think that you would have gotten into the relationship as you did and to the degree that you did if you knew that he was actually going to get out one day? I cannot answer that. I really do not know. Now with Michael about to be released-- the contract we would talked about at the beginning of this story the one that laid out all the shared household and relationship duties should Michael a convicted murderer ever get paroled-- that contract was about to be put into effect. The contract stipulated a two-year trial period for their marriage. If it turned into a real marriage fine. If it did not they would go their separate ways. Joan could fire Michael or he could quit-- those are their words-- at any time. Nobody keeps statistics on how long prison marriages last on the outside but lots of prison people will tell you most end before a year is up. On August 21 2010 after 40 years in prison and 10 years with Joan Michael was a free man. Joan was waiting for him in a parked car at the prison gates wearing an earring Michael had made for her. Joan was so nervous and excited that she had not slept the night before. She had a whole romantic vision for the day. She would made a reservation at a five-star hotel. Michael walked out wearing his prison-issued jumpsuit nervous and overwhelmed to be out. And he did not kiss me or anything. He just got into the car and said let us go. So it was a very unromantic meeting and it kind of hurt me. I was elated but I was kind of bewildered. I do not think you can describe it. I thought he would be as warm to see me as he was in the visiting rooms where he would hug me and try to steal an extra kiss or something. Oh no. He was very businesslike. It was not what they show in the movies at all. As comprehensive as the contract was it did not cover everything. It did not occur to them to include anything about sex. A quick warning to anyone listening with kids this next bit of the story is about that. Michael had never had sex with someone he loved. And 40 years in prison left him pretty messed up on that subject. I did not expect him to be so afraid to cuddle. If we have our clothes on he hugs me all day long. But getting naked with somebody makes him very uncomfortable. Especially the last few years she had taken on more and more of a mother figure to me. And when we got in a hotel room together then I started pacing the floor identifying with Oedipus Rex if you know what I mean. I think what he means is their relationship had shifted over the years. And she was now 79 remember-- 16 years older than Michael. Once they were in a hotel room they realized that the nature of their feelings toward each other were really complicated. Over the years they would known each other Joan had gone from initially feeling like she wanted to adopt Michael to wanting to sleep with him to now that he was out a kind of mishmash of all those feelings. He is still an adopted child and he is still my best companion and I love him and he is my best friend. So it is all together. And I am comfortable with it. So Michael moved into Joan's suburban ranch house in Dallas and got to know her family and friends. There were lots of academics all sorts of people and settings he would never encountered before. She was surprised how well he did socially but they had their rocky moments. Joan took Michael to a wine-tasting party and he got fall-down drunk. Joan had to haul him outside to avoid making a scene. This happened two or three times. He never really drank socially before usually just to get hammered. And at parties with Joan he would go too far partly to calm his nerves. One of Joan's friends-- someone who'd been close to Joan's first husband Pascal-- was appalled by her choice of a second husband and ended their friendship. It is now been four years since Michael got out. They have made it way past the trial period in their contract. Michael still leaves the stove on and the front door open-- things he never had to think about when he was in prison. He leaves his stuff lying around everywhere. Joan says it is like having a teenager in the house again. But they have learned to deal with all this. Their lives are intertwined now. Somehow there is an equality of people in this marriage that I did not have before. I was too dependent upon my husband and his reputation. But with Michael it is just-- you know I figure I have become free in some strange way. The neighbors have to accept us the way we are now. They got a criminal in their neighborhood. I love to have him out there with all of his tats all over him. Now that Joan is in her early 80s she is started to wonder what is going to happen to Michael when she is gone. That was not in the contract. Joan figures maybe they have got another seven years together. We will have to find you another old lady to take you in. LAUGHING Prospects are going to be few and far between. LAUGHING I will find another kindergarten teacher who will really shape you up. Well we often say that we should die together. So maybe we will drive into a freight train or get hit by an 18-wheeler. Well what about a plane crash? Do not you like that idea? No. Oh no not that? No I would rather drown. Oh. LAUGHING I see. Until that day whether they go out together or not they like to watch Downton Abbey together. They go to plays. Recently they went to see a Tennessee Williams play at a community theater near their house. And these two people who have lived very different lives had the same reaction. They thought the play sucked. They left at intermission. Christopher Rhoads. It is been four years since we first broadcast that story and today's program. Joan and Michael are still together. They are dealing with some difficult things right now. She is going through chemo. He moved into a treatment center for alcoholism though he is back in the house two or three times a week and stays over on weekends. Coming up Brother Can You Spare a Lime? Siblings on a road trip through Mexico that is unlike anything either one of them imagined beforehand. Also comedian Tig Notaro. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose a theme and bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's program-- Wait-- Do You Have the Map-- stories of people in situations they have no preparation for whatsoever because most people have not been in those situations. In the second half of our program both stories take place where you need a map-- that is on the road. We have arrived at Act Two of our program. Act Two-- Final Rest Stop. Tig Notaro is a comedian who is been on our program before. Back in 2013 she went on a tour across the country that was filmed. It was a strange tour. She and this Canadian comic named Jon Dore went around the country performing in people's living rooms and their backyards and just lots of situations where they had to ad hoc their way through what they were doing. One of our producers Nancy Updike saw the film which has many many moments in it that fit today's theme. Here's Nancy. Tig and John are like door-to-door comedy salesmen in the film-- invited salesmen-- showing up at people's houses and knocking on their doors. But my favorite parts of the movie are just Tig and Jon in the car in between gigs-- the road trip part of the movie. Jon's always driving sometimes using special Canadian mind exercises to either stay alert or to annoy Tig. I am going to name as many-- No. No no no. --Montreal Expos-- No no no. --as I can. No no no. Andrs Galarraga Tim Wallach Tim Raines-- They talk in the car riff on each other's jokes. It is like watching dancers staying limber between performances. Tig shows off her incredible impression of a clown's horn.  That is really good.  They both look like they are having a really good time. Then as Jon is wrapping up his impression of Johnny Carson auditioning for Jodie Foster's role in Silence of the Lambs Tig suddenly grimaces in pain. Ow. What happened? I just get stomach pains. Is this something I need to be worried about or is this just like your stomachache? No nothing to be worried about. Do you need to take a moment? If it continued for a while then there would be trouble. Do you need to take a moment? Nope. I just have pains every now and then. Tig had cancer two years ago-- famously if you follow comedy. It was breast cancer advanced. She had a double mastectomy. A few months before the cancer was diagnosed Tig was in the hospital with a terrible sometimes deadly infection called C. diff. Over the course of the tour driving around doing gigs Tig and Jon log enough hours together that they get into all of that-- illness fear of death. They joke about it. They are serious about it. They navigate it. And at some point in the trip Jon and Tig pull over at a roadside store that sells fireworks and tombstones. Maybe two different people on a different road trip would not have stopped or would not have stayed if they stopped. But as friends who were also comics they both head into the field of tombstones and start improvising neither of them knowing where this is going to lead and whether it is going to be funny or maybe a terrible idea. Hey let us get you a headstone. Yeah. Let us get me a headstone. Tig explains to the owner of the store why she and Jon are looking for a headstone for her. I have had some health issues lately. Oh. This one's nice and cute. I just want to be smart think ahead. All right. Wow. So this one's 250? Yeah. I really like this one. Tig at this point is touching a modest flat slab on the ground. See now that is just the bottom. You could have that engraved right and just use that? Yeah. That is the owner. But you would want-- That. I would buy you this. I would love to buy your headstone. Jon's pointing to an upright headstone. Tig seems momentarily thrown like are we still playing here? All right. I am not joking. I would love to do this for you. OK. I would buy your headstone if you buy the base. All right. Because I am more than happy to just have that. You should have this do not you think? OK. What is that without this? That is a base. Yeah but what are you going to do with a base? I am going to go under it. You should have this. Let me stop the tape. That pause-- that is Jon's moment to be stunned by the directness of I am going to go under it. Then he recovers and keeps going. You should have this. People are not going to want to stand over it and read. They are going to want to look at it from a distance. Look at-- if you get something like this people can sit down in front of it and cry. So you are underneath me right? And I am just bawling my eyes out and I can read it here. I do not have to kneel down and come all the way over there. Yeah. I can bring a lawn chair. I guess this is hard on the back. Yeah. To do this. I would be in a lawn chair. I would be there for hours. You would spend some time. You would look beautiful under that. I like it. I like it. Jon buys the headstone. It is 425-- cheap for a tombstone expensive for a joke. Then they get back on the road. I watched this scene a bunch of times the way they pushed the joke forward but kept saying real things with real feelings. It was a game and the game was keep it going. Do not stop. Let us see where this goes. Nancy Updike playing an excerpt from the film Knock Knock It is Tig Notaro. If you are in Los Angeles on March 31 you can catch Tig at Largo. All of her upcoming show dates are at tignotaro.com.   Act Three-- Not All Who Wander Are Lost But Some Definitely Are. A car is a classic place to realize oh right I am lost. Though sometimes you realize that you are lost. You are like personally lost and then you get into the car and you drive as far as you can to solve that problem. James Spring has this story. It is partly about that. There is this guy that I have known forever. His name's Kevin. He is about 40 a father now with two kids. But back in the summer of 1989 when Kevin had just turned 16 his dad let him drive from San Diego to Central America with his older brother. Kevin was super excited. It was the adventure of a lifetime. He would saved up nearly 1000 working after school at a yogurt shop. Kevin's brother who was 21 at the time knew parts of Mexico pretty well. After he would dropped out of college it seemed that he was down in Baja all the time. He was a hard charger lived with a bunch of tattooed guys who looked like felons. He drove this kick-ass red Jeep with no doors. So a little wild but he would always looked out for Kevin since they were little kids. Kevin was not worried. Good guy to travel with. He will watch out for me. We will learn some Spanish drink beer and smoke cigarettes. But there were other interesting facts about Kevin's brother too some of which would soon become concerns. That thing that the brother was doing in Baja-- not legal. The tattooed guys who looked like felons were in fact felons. And actually Kevin's brother himself had recently been released from a short stint in county jail. The older brother had anger issues. He was a control freak. So the trip-- I mean it sucked. It ended badly and it ended early. There was a blowout fight. Two drove down. One flew back. I was happy to get on a plane and go home. I would had enough of the driving. I would had enough of my asshole brother. And now it had become a fight. And even though we had fought before really this was the worst one. There is one more important thing to know about Kevin and his brother. When they were kids they would been everything to each other-- super close like war buddies-- because they grew up with a stepfather who was a real bastard-- violent. And they moved around a lot. Every year a new school. No friends-- really just each other. This trip that fight-- it decimated their relationship. The two never really spoke about the trip again did not speak much at all. It is been more than 20 years. I wanted to talk to Kevin about this and how he feels about it now since I already know how his brother feels about this. Because I am his brother. OK. We are recording. You good? All right. I am good.  Was that me? I think so. Talk about the long trip? When I first suggested that we talk Kevin was ambivalent. I think he wondered why-- like what good could come of it-- which is fair because I have not been an easy guy to talk to. But I had some things I wanted to say. And look in this story I am not going to come off well. I was a real prick. In the late '80s I was the first person in my family to get into college. I dropped out after six months. Some friends let me crash with them. One night I threw a party that went off the rails and three shots rang out from a semiautomatic handgun. The idiot that fired the gun? That was me-- my gun-- evicted. Then I started hanging with some truly bad people. We were running ephedrine and coke from Baja into San Diego. One night there was a drug raid at our house. Everything got flushed down the toilets before the cops got through the door but I still got arrested. Through all of this though I still somehow had this great girlfriend just really sweet and wonderful. Then I slept with some other girl. You know what that got me? Gonorrhea is what it got me and no girlfriend. I ruined so much so much. But I could run away from almost all of it and take penicillin for the rest. I was 21 years old a colossal mess and I just wanted to get in my Jeep and drive to Mexico and beyond-- see the temples of the Aztecs the Mayan ruins. So I prepared to drive all the way to Central America for the summer. And I would take with me the one person who I was sure did not think I was such a bad guy. And I was done being that bad guy anyway-- that shallow selfish me that people hated. I was ready to throw myself into something real on this trip something important something smart. Before we left I removed the backseat from the Jeep and replaced it with a welded lockbox with maybe two suitcases worth of storage space. Then I loaded it with a lot of books. I would always been a reader like a studier and my plan for the summer was sure hang out with my brother but also to learn the language of the Lacandon Mayans. And I was going to learn to read the Mesoamerican hieroglyphs. I even made flashcards for myself. This trip would be an opportunity for me to figure out once and for all why the Mayan civilization disappeared. Yeah. Archaeologists had been on the job for more than a century and still nobody knew why all these cities were abandoned. But I was pretty sure that this summer I was going to get it nailed down. All answers lay somewhere in those lost cities deep in the jungle. And lucky Kevin he was about to see every one of them. Palenque Chichn Itz Teotihuacan Uxmal Mitla Templo del Sol. I can name these things but I cannot remember them. They all just blend together for me as rocks crumbling. And the idea of seeing the ruins was not-- that was your idea why you would be going to Mexico. At 16 just turned 16 I knew there was going to be beer. I knew there was going to be ladies at the tourist spots and hopefully surf good warm water. I have no recollection of surf being on the itinerary. I mean I do not know-- So off we went with our high hopes-- such wildly different high hopes-- into Mexico. To get us to the important places where I wanted to be most days I would need to drive us for stretches of six or eight hours. A lot of times Kevin just wanted to stop like in a village and see stuff. But there could be no stopping. When we did pull into little towns people were curious about the two gringos who showed up in their pueblo. They would ask questions and I would tell them to mind their own business. I was not some freak show oddity. What I was was a prete