Pino Audia teaches in the business school at Dartmouth and he researches something that we took up in an episode of our show a couple weeks ago. He researches the question how do entrepreneurs get created? And at some point he noticed that his students and many of his colleagues actually have an opinion about this. They believe entrepreneurs make themselves. You know you head off on your own you write a business plan you start in your own garage. And the garage by the way is not a metaphorical garage. It is a garage-- a literal garage. Hewlett-Packard started in a garage. Apple Computer had a garage. Disney the Mattel toy company the Wham-O toy company. It is about big dreams and humble beginnings and success in the face of adversity and doubters. And also the idea that regardless of who you are regardless of how humble your beginnings are you can turn something into an immense success story if you work hard. And that was the point in time in which I got interested in the story of the garage as a myth. A garage is a place of possibilities. It is a place where things can get inventive and a place where entrepreneurs begin. This is from a promotional video that Hewlett Packard put together after it spent millions to buy and restore the original garage where its two founders started what is now the largest technology firm in the world. In 1938 in a garage in Palo Alto California Bill Hewlett and Dave Packard set to work to start a new company. They had a few hand-operated punches a used Sears Roebuck drill press that had just made the trip west in the back of one of their cars and they had a rented flat with a garage. Professor Audia does not argue with any of this but he says that when you ask actual entrepreneurs-- and this is true in survey after survey-- you find that most of them began not by going off into their garage but by working for somebody else making contacts learning the business. So this is a very robust finding which tells us that actually if you want to become an entrepreneur the obvious thing to do is to first go get a job in an industry you are interested in and learn. And then eventually later try to create a company. Even Bill Hewlett and Dave Packard were not exactly outsiders. They studied electrical engineering at MIT and at Stanford. Packard had worked at General Electric. A former professor of theirs from Stanford gave them leads and hooked them up for example with a firm called Litton Engineering who let them use equipment that they did not own themselves yet. Just as decades later the founders of Apple Computer 21-year-old Steve Jobs was already working at Atari and 25-year-old Steve Wozniak was at Hewlett Packard when they started Apple in Jobs' garage. And for example in the case of Steve Jobs he benefited greatly from the support that he got from the Atari people because they introduced him to investors. Pino Audia has tried to find mentions of garage entrepreneurs or anything like it in other countries and did not come up with much. He says it seems to be a very American idea very close to other American ideas about opportunity for everybody. The Apple and Hewlett Packard garages have now become such a part of Silicon Valley myth that it is made other tech companies want their own stories like it. Google for example. They did not start in a garage. The founders began working on the search engine in 1996 when they were at Stanford. They did not actually move into a garage until 1998. They already had investors and they were just in the garage for five months. But in 2006 Google bought the garage as a company landmark. It is like no one wants to hear the story of the rich well-connected guys who meet up at the Marriott conference room to hatch a business plan. There is no romance in that. Dan Heath has written about these origin stories in Fast Company Magazine. He says that one way to measure just how appealing these stories are is to count all the ones that get quoted widely even though they are not remotely true. For instance when eBay began a story circulated that its founder created the company so his fiancee could buy and collect Pez dispensers more easily. Not true. One of the creators of YouTube used to claim that the idea for the business came after a dinner party in 2005 where two of the company's masterminds Chad Hurley and Steve Chen shot some video and then tried to post it online and found out just how hard that was back then. Now that is at a minimum an exaggerated tale. In fact there is a third founder of YouTube who claims the dinner party never happened. And Steve Chen later admitted in TIME Magazine that the dinner party was embellished to provide a better founding myth. And I do want to say that while it feels like a little bit of a let down to realize that this dinner party story is not you know the whole truth I feel like it is a little bit unfair for us to expect more of them than the creation of YouTube. I mean here's this incredible site and in some sense that is not enough for us. Like we want YouTube to have emerged from some kind of everyday experience. It is like it is not enough to have the value of their work. We also want there to be a really compelling story that started it. Now in the article that you wrote for Fast Company you point out that our attachment to these kinds of mythic creation stories is so strong that we have even exaggerated the Christopher Columbus story. Well Christopher Columbus as we all know wanted to prove that he could reach India by sailing west. But no one believed his crazy theory that the Earth was round. And in fact his own sailors en route were terrified that they were about to fall over the edge of the Earth and they almost mutinied. So there is a guy named James Lohan a professor at University of Vermont who has pointed out that virtually every element of this story is false. That in fact we still do not really know where Christopher Columbus was going. There is a lot of disagreement among historians and even Columbus's best known biographer is totally sure where he was headed. And furthermore there was no element of is the Earth round or flat here. Most people at that time already knew that the Earth was round. The evidence was there for them to see. They noticed that if another ship is receding into the horizon their hull disappears first and then the mast later which implies that there is some kind of curvature in play. And again you know here's a guy who crossed an ocean and became one of the first Europeans to set foot on a new continent and yet we want more from this guy. We want him to be having hand-to-hand combat with his crew en route. We just crave the drama. We crave the obstacles. Well today on our show origin stories. We love them so much that sometimes it is hard not to make them up. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. Act One of our show today Madman. Act Two Silent Partner. Act Three Wait Wait Do not Film Me. Act Four Bill Clinton's Seven-Year-Old Brother. Stay with us. Act One. Well this first story is about a fight over the origin of certain ideas-- a fight over who really came up with those ideas. Sarah Koenig tells a story about her dad Julian. All my life I have heard the hallmarks of my father's achievements. I invented thumb wrestling. That was in 1936 when he was a counselor at Camp Greylock for Boys. They already had arm wrestling for the boys and leg wrestling. But we needed another wrestling and I invented thumb wrestling with the same rules as a hockey puck face-off. One two three go. It just came to you? Like just a stroke? Oh we should use our thumbs? It was a-- yeah. It was just a devastating moment. The discoveries kept coming. Shrimp for instance. Oh I popularized shrimp in America. In 1941 my father a shrimp lover was discouraged that there were only two places on Broadway in New York where you could get shrimp. So then in Biloxi Mississippi-- and bear with me here because this story barely makes any sense-- so he is in Biloxi on his way to Mexico with some buddies. And he sees this government boat about to go out to track the migratory path of shrimp. And he talks his way onto the boat by explaining that he loves shrimp apparently. And he goes out on this boat and they find the shrimp breeding grounds or some such. The rest of course is history. Then back in New York I patrolled Broadway and  asking for shrimp shrimp shrimp. More. And in this way talking it up I popularized shrimp. No question about it. That seems like really really thin evidence that you popularized shrimp in New York. Well I am not making any claim on the industry. My dad does make a claim on the word character that he came up with the idea to use it to mean a person of unusual or eccentric qualities. You have a character in a play of course but it was not in common usage as he is a character. And what made you-- do you remember why you started using it? I just shifted it adapted it. But Norman Mailer thinks that he developed it. I take precedence. According to my father Norman Mailer also said he invented thumb wrestling. Mailer who died in 2007 was a famous thumb wrestler but not its inventor because as we now know my dad invented it at Camp Greylock for Boys. And that is the rub. You cannot prove the origin of any of this stuff. And it is annoying when people like Norman Mailer take credit. My dad would like people to recognize him for his contributions to shrimp and character and thumb wrestling but he is not going to make a stink if they do not. His real legacy though in advertising that is another story. That he is willing to fight for and he has been fighting for it for decades. My father was a legendary copy writer. He wrote Timex Takes a Licking and Keeps on Ticking. He named Earth Day Earth Day. It falls on his birthday April 22nd. Earth Day birthday so the idea came easily. The magazine Advertising Age made a list of the top 100 advertising campaigns of the 20th century. The Marlboro Man is on it and the Energizer Bunny. Good to the Last Drop from Maxwell House and the Keep America Beautiful crying Indian. But the number one ad-- the top of the 100 list-- Think Small. That was Volkswagen's American campaign to sell the Beetle in 1959 and my father wrote it. A picture of a tiny car on a big white page and some amused self-deprecating copy. That ad was followed by Lemon another VW ad so iconic it made it onto the TV show Mad Men the show set in 1960 about an ad agency that is slightly behind the times. In this scene the agency's creative team contemplates the Lemon ad. I do not know what I hate about it the most-- the ad or the car. Yeah they did one last year same kind of smirk. Remember Think Small? It was a half-page ad at a full-page buy. You could barely see the product. I do not get it. At the time these ads were revolutionary. In the beginning there was Volkswagen another famous New York ad man wrote. That was the day when the new advertising agency was really born. Here's another scene from Mad Men when Don Draper the agency's creative director interviews some new talent. After he looks at their portfolio he hands it back to them with this line. Looks good. By the way it has Julian Konig's fingerprints all over it. It is Julian Kaynig actually. My father. And what has irritated him for so long is not that he is not recognized for his talent. I mean the people who write Mad Men clearly know who he is. It is that some of his best work has been claimed by someone else. In my instance the greatest predator on my work was my one-time partner George Lois who is the most heralded and talented art director designer. And his talent is only exceeded by his omnivorous ego. So where it once would have been accepted that the word would be we did it regardless of who originated the work the word we did it evaporated in George's vocabulary and it became I. If you have heard of anyone in the advertising industry it might be George Lois. He is well known for a lot of things but maybe especially for his provocative and funny Esquire magazine covers from the 1960s like the one of Muhammad Ali posing as Saint Sebastian. But before that George Lois worked at Doyle Dane Bernbach and so did my father. In 1960 they both left DDB and joined up with another guy Fred Papert to form their own upstart agency called PKL-- Papert Koenig and Lois. George Lois would not talk to me for this story. I am not going to get into a sophomoric  fight with a disgruntled ex-partner he wrote in an email. I cannot say I blame him. I have had mixed feelings about this fight. Of course I want to stick up for my father take his side. But I have also thought there is something inherently undignified about the whole thing. Like it is beneath my father to care whether or not George Lois is taking credit for this or that slogan from 1962. So I never really paid attention to the details-- until now. Lately it is been coming up more or at least more publicly so I started asking questions. According to my father it all started with the Harvey Probber account. Harvey Probber made elegant modern furniture and my dad says he came up with the ad-- a beautiful chair with a matchbook under one leg and the line if your Harvey Probber chair wobbles straighten your floor and a piece of copy that went with it that he thought was very good. And a year or so later or a couple of years later Ron Holland a friend of mine came running into my office to say George is upstairs with a Japanese editorial writer. They are doing an interview with him and he is claiming your Harvey Probber chair ad-- that he wrote it. So I called George down to my office and remonstrated-- that is what men do frequently-- with him. And he says I never said that. I would never say that. And he went back to his office. And a little while later Ron comes bursting into my office saying George said I told that son of a gun where to get off! Meaning you. Meaning he had told you. Told me where to get off. So that was really the start of it. In 1972 George Lois published a book the first of many about his career called George Be Careful. In it he describes going to the Harvey Probber furniture factory in Massachusetts with my dad. Each chair was placed on an electronic test platform to be sure it was absolutely level Lois wrote. 'Got a book of matches?' I asked Julian a heavy smoker. He handed me a matchbook and I slid it under one leg of the chair on the test platform. 'I have got the ad' I said. If your Harvey Probber chair is crooked straighten your floor.' Julian scowled and shot back 'Ass  If your Harvey Probber chair wobbles straighten your floor.' That was the way the ad ran and that was the way we built the first red-hot creative agency. And none of that ever happened as described by George. He did not ask me for a matchbook. He did not slide it under the leg of a chair. He did not say I have got the ad. None of it is true. But his makes a better story. His is a marvelous story. George is a talented storyteller with a vivid imagination. The only thing that could exceed it would be the truth. There are other instances also regarding ads that were groundbreaking for their time. A campaign for the New York Herald Tribune Who says a good newspaper has to be dull? Some famous Xerox commercials showing a little girl operating a copy machine and later a chimpanzee doing it.  several people who worked on the account have complained that George literally had nothing to do with. Then there is the ad for Coldene cough medicine. The page is entirely black with just two quotes at different heights meant to show a couple talking in bed. John is that Billy coughing? says the wife. Get up and give him some Coldene the husband replies. In an interview 20 years later George Lois said The idea for the ad hit me like a brainstorm. This was the first time there would be no copy no package design no trademark he said. It was really the beginning of a new creative revolution. It was one of those ads that made history effectively. Again my dad is adamant that the whole ad copy and design were his. There are many possibilities here of what is going on. George Lois could be lying. Or George Lois could have convinced himself in some way that what he is saying about all this stuff is true. Or my dad could be doing the same thing-- remembering stuff that happened when it did not happen. Or I suppose my dad could be lying. I would worry about those latter options more if my father was the only one disputing George Lois's version of history but he is not. There is the photographer Carl Fisher who worked with George Lois for more than 30 years and shot many of the most famous Esquire covers. Carl Fisher says George has taken credit for cover ideas and photographs that were Carl's and talked in detail about certain photoshoots. Like about flying to Las Vegas to shoot the boxer Sonny Liston as Santa and even placing the Santa cap on Liston's head. Or rushing Italian actress Virna Lisi into a photoshoot in New York for this famous cover where she is pretending to shave her face. But Fisher says George was not there for either shoot. In fact the Lisi shoot happened in Rome and he still has the receipts to prove it. And then there is Shelley Zalaznick the first editor of New York Magazine. George once told a reporter quote My hand on the Bible I George Lois created New York Magazine. Mr. Zalaznick says that is simply not true. He himself remembers making the first dummy front page one hot August night in 1963. Not only that-- he is never met George Lois. As for George's version he told me I am at a loss. I do not know why grownups do things like this. But the story my father objects to the most is not about ad copy at all. It is personal. Papert Koenig and Lois had gotten the Dutch Master Cigar account and their TV spokesman at the time was this famous comedian Ernie Kovacs. So my dad flew out to LA to meet him and they hit it off. And Ernie and I spent the day together driving around and lunched together. End of the afternoon in the lobby of the hotel I was saying in the Beverly Hilton he was not allowed past the lobby because he had short pants on. And then he went off to go to a party that night. And on his way home there being a rain his car skidded and went into a pole and Ernie killed himself. I was on a plane back to New York and learned about it the next morning. So unfortunate incident but certainly memorable to me. And lo and behold. Lo and behold in his 2005 book elebrities which is spelled with a dollar sign instead of a C at the beginning George tells the story of his lovely lunch with Ernie his car ride to the airport with Ernie his red eye flight back to New York and his learning the following morning from a stack of still-bound newspapers that Ernie had been killed in a car crash. My father has tried to fight back aggressively at times. For instance after the Ernie Kovacs story appeared in elebrities my dad retaliated in the medium he knows best. He wrote an ad. I wrote an ad Low Lower Lois. That is Lois L-O-I-S. And I wanted to print it in the New York Times as a book review. A public service book review. The Times did not run it but it did run in Adweek though toward the back of the magazine and it got no response. Over the years he and some of his former colleagues have written to reporters at the New York Times and other places trying to correct the record. But their letters have mostly been ignored. Just last year a Times story about an exhibit of George Lois's Esquire covers credited him in the very first paragraph with Think Small the Xerox ads with the chimp and a couple of other campaigns people say George either did not originate or did not even work on. Finally the Times printed a short correction giving Think Small back to my dad. But it was a small victory three weeks after the fact. In the mid-'80s my dad wrote a letter to George directly threatening to sue it seems and received a letter back calling him a sad tortured and tragic figure. All in all my father's efforts have not really done the damage he is hoped or really any damage at all. He is an indignant Basset Hound nipping at the heels of the media's Great Dane. George Lois is a good talker with an engaging personality and he is become something of a spokesman for the advertising industry. There are quotes in the newspaper and magazine profiles exhibits books. Errors printed once are repeated and repeated. So if you look up Think Small on the internet for instance you will find it attributed to Julian Koenig but you are also likely to learn that George Lois wrote it. I liked the way he took credit for accounts he never had anything to do with because that made it almost comical. All the Xerox stuff-- Xerox was an account that I got-- was done by Sam Scali and I think Mike Chapell. And George at the end started taking credit for that too. That is Fred Papert the P of PKL. He was the guy who recruited Lois and Koenig to make a new agency in 1960. Now he is one of the guys responsible for redeveloping Times Square as president of the 42nd Street Development Corporation. He knows the stories all too well-- Xerox Harvey Probber Coldene Ernie Kovacs even. It is nuts. I think he is really got a screw loose. I think George truly does not know what he is doing. But it is nutty on both sides. Fred's in my dad's camp in so far as he knows and believes my dad is telling the truth. But his support more or less stops there. and he is categorical on this point-- that my dad is himself acting like a nut wasting his time. They have talked about this on rides to and from the racetrack. The reason that Julian should not be fussing about this stuff at this stage is A nobody gives a . B anybody that would give a  knows already what it is about. This is what George does. It is George's thing. And they just got to put a lid on it. But I have had this conversation with him 100 times and he gets really pissed off. So I know he is got a screw loose too. Your father can be a pain in the ass you know and even be pesty if you say to him Julian  off already. We have heard this story. We know about the wobbling chair or the wobbling floor-- I have forgotten which one. You have no idea how many letters we wrote to the New York Times to Advertising Age to this and that. This is a dialogue between old farts. Julian's in another world from these kinds of things. Julian is one of the great thinkers and creators in the advertising business. If some nutcase claims credit who cares? And he does not even really like me very much. You have to understand that that is where we start. Well it is true. I think he goes to the races with me because I have a car. My father recognizes that there are only about four people left on Earth who care about this stuff. It is just that he happens to be one of them and he cannot let it go. I assume if I had a different personality I would say I know what I have done. And those dear and near to me know what I have done or not done and let it go at that. But I am a fallible fellow and obviously with ego of his own and I resent being burgled. The odd thing about all this as my older brother John points out is that my father's never exactly been a champion of advertising. And he never believed. He was not a true believer in the business. I mean I remember him saying to me as a kid you know if you do not find something you want to do and really work at it you are going to end up like me. A writer of short sentences. That is verbatim. And so it is a little ironic you know? Because he did not care. That is the thing Sarah. All those years he did not care because I think he thought it was beneath him. And the business in some ways was not beneath him but was not serious enough to care that much about. And now he does. I understand why he cares. He is 88 years old now so his legacy understandably is on his mind. And even though he did campaigns for all sorts of good causes-- gun control nuclear proliferation Robert Kennedy's senatorial and presidential campaigns-- my father's not quite satisfied with his life's work. Advertising is built on puffery on at heart deception and I do not think anybody can go proudly into the next world with a career built on deception even though no matter how well they do it. You are not necessarily proud that you had a career in the field of advertising and that is your legacy but you are proud that you were the best in the business at the thing you chose to do. I could not have said it better myself. If he could go back choose another career my father would like to have been an environmentalist of some kind which is why he would really like to be remembered for something almost nobody knows he did-- naming Earth Day. It agitated him to look up Earth Day on Wikipedia recently and not see his name anywhere. So a few days ago I added it. We first ran this story back in 2009. Sarah's dad Julian Koenig just recently died in June. He was 93. Sarah Koenig is one of the producers of our program. In two weeks we are actually launching a brand new show and Sarah is the host of that show. Yes This American Life is putting out a second weekly program. We have a new show. It is a podcast. It is called Serial. The idea is that instead of different stories and a different theme each week every episode of Serial brings you back to the same story and you hear the next chapter. We have been working on this for a year. We are very excited to bring it to you. We are giving you two episodes to start. It is in two weeks. October 3rd. You can sign up for free downloads and hear a sneak preview at serialpodcast.org or on the iTunes store. That is serialpodcast.org spelled not like the breakfast food. Coming up Peter Sagal long before Wait Wait Do not Tell Me his lost years in Havana. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show Origin Stories where we go back to figure out where things came from. We have arrived at Act Two of our program. Act Two Silent Partner. One of our producers Sean Cole visited Chad's Trading Post a restaurant filled with frilly knickknacks in Southampton Massachusetts. It is a restaurant with a very distinct origin story. The first time my girlfriend Mary Ellen and I walked into Chad's Trading Post she noticed that only boys work there and thought it was weird. Normally she said in a place like this a small country restaurant you only see girls working. She pointed to the cover of the menu which read Dedicated to and operated proudly in the memory of Chad D. McDonald 31274 to 31190. She leaned in to me and whispered do you think the owner hires only boys because they remind her of her son? I certainly thought this was possible and sad in a way that makes you feel embarrassed for that person. Then a man came over and poured us some coffee. And when he turned around there in huge white letters on the back of his blue polo shirt it said Chad's brother. Do you think that is what they call all the managers here I asked Mary Ellen. Do you think that is really Chad's brother? Then another friendlier manager type came over and asked us how we were doing and if we needed more coffee. And I noticed his shirt. My shirt says Chad's best friend. Logo over on the right hand side. And it just tells the customers who we are. Yeah Chad's best friend yeah Chad's brother Chad's dad. And we had Chad's mom too but she is doing other things. This is the story of Chad's Trading Post. From the time he was 12 Chad and his brothers and a few friends had always talked about starting a small restaurant together when they graduated high school. They planned out menus. Chad's father took him looking for locations. But Chad died in a shooting accident two days before his 16th birthday. Chad's father Glenn his brothers Scott and Cory and his best friend Mike tell the story. The boy who shot and killed my son was his younger brother's best friend. It was myself and my best friend at the time and Chad. And they were cleaning up the cellar for his birthday. No you were there too yeah. Yeah. We were in the kitchen cooking sausage. Yeah. We were cooking dinner. But they were downstairs cleaning and I was upstairs. My mother had just left and me and Cory were upstairs cooking dinner. And they came up for a break went into the room and then we heard like a little firecracker go off. You know? And then the person came out of the room and he had blood on his hands and he was freaking out. I shot Chad I shot Chad. The official ruling which was that Chad picked up a gun pointed it at this fellow said bang. The other fellow picked up a gun pointed it back at Chad pulled the trigger and that was all. So I called 911. And then I paged my mother. And then the police got there. I was charged for involuntary manslaughter because it was my handgun that ultimately killed Chad and that I was not aware that he had two of my handguns out of my cabinet in his bedroom at the time. And frankly that was something I should have been aware of. In 1993 the year Chad would have graduated from high school the year he and Mike and his brothers and his father had planned to open a restaurant they decided to open Chad's Trading Post. This is Chad's corner of the restaurant. Notice the menu board. It tells you welcome to Chad's Trading Post Family Restaurant. It says nobody leaves hungry and lists all the specials of the day. It also has a claimer on the bottom that is Named in Memory of Chad D. McDonald and the date of his birth which was 31274. In all of the interviews I have ever heard and seen of an emotional nature the person answering questions does not begin to cry until well into the interview. Chad's dad began crying before I even turned on my tape recorder. I asked him for a quick tour of the restaurant. It is a nice place-- homey even froofy though all the men who created it are tattooed muscly working-class guys Chad's father included. To the left of that it shows you the last and most recent picture of my son which was taken about six weeks before he died. And the picture of the two boys that were named in memory of him his younger brother's son who is Ian Chadwick and his best friend's son who is named Chad Michael. This photo originally showed the two babies in Glenn's arms but they had the photographer alter the photo insert Chad's head over Glenn's. And what they did was took the picture and replaced by computer Chad's picture over mine. It is actually my arms holding him but the rest of it is all Chad. Glenn showed me a painting in another corner of the restaurant. It was the comedy and tragedy masks from the cover of Motley Crue's album Theater of Pain Chad's favorite record. After he died Chad's friends and brothers adapted the design into a memorial to him. It appears on their shirts. Two brass masks hang over the door smiling and frowning. A huge flag with the masks hangs in the breeze outside too heavy to flutter. Chad's brother Scott calls them the faces. This was my first tattoo. I got the comedy and tragedy faces with the In memory of Chad banner and that was my first tattoo. And I got that for the obvious reason. That is pretty much the family symbol now. It started off with my father getting it. Because this was the tattoo he wanted to get you know without the banners. But that is what he wanted to get. That is what he planned on getting the following year for his birthday. I mean he already had it planned out you know? And so my father came home with it one day and he got it. And you and your dad though are not the only ones. No. There is me and my father Steve  Mike  who still works here. My grandmother has the sad face. The tattoo? Yeah. She has it on her chest too. And Eric  who worked here has it also. And it is good. It is nice to see people. There is probably all together 15 people that have his name tattooed on them. We used to sit around the kitchen table and take a needle and wrap thread around it and dip it in calligraphy ink and tattoo each other with it. And there is quite a few people who we masterfully tattooed Chad's name on their arm. Whether they like it now or not it is still there. They have tried to stay as close to Chad's vision of the restaurant as possible. He never specified decor so they have had a free hand there. He and Mike actually drafted a menu for the place and the families kept about half of it. The other half was slow baking recipes that no customer would ever wait for. Chad was also a lot of fun everyone says. A lot of fun. A comedian. And they say that is why they