Hey there everybody. Ira here. So if you heard our show last week you know that I had just learned hours before we broadcast that episode that I needed to go into quarantine because a guy who I had shaken hands with five days before that developed symptoms and then tested positive for coronavirus. It is now 12 days since I shook hands with that guy and I have not developed symptoms. CDC guidelines say that it can happen for up to 14 days so I am nearly in the clear. A reminder to everybody that people who do not have symptoms can still be carrying the virus and give it to others. Anyway the world has changed so much right? One of the striking things about this coronavirus is how differently it affects different people. So some people who get it have no symptoms or they get mild symptoms or they experience something like a bad flu. That is particularly young and healthy people though young healthy adults are not immune. The CDC put out a report this week-- maybe you saw this-- saying 20 of hospitalized COVID-19 patients are between 20 and 44 years old. But it is older people as we all know who are living in a completely different world these days. If they leave their homes they are walking around in a world that is suddenly filled with this invisible thing that can kill them with no idea of who around them might have it or what doorknob it might be on. One of our producers David Kestenbaum talked to this woman Tova Rothman who is 71. Her husband's 74 and has a compromised immune system so he is in special danger if he comes into contact with the virus. Here's David. I talked to Tova last weekend which feels like so long ago. I do not think I would do this now but we met in person to talk. She lives in my town in this apartment across from the pizza place the little movie theater the Kings supermarket. Her daughter told me she was eager to talk to someone. For her safety I checked my temperature before I left the house washed my hands twice and wiped down my microphone though even that is no guarantee. Again I would not do this now. She came down from her apartment carrying her cell phone and a canister of Clorox wipes. Oh you brought your own wipes too. Yeah. We did the interview on a park bench. If she is a little off-mic sometimes it is because I am sitting as far away from her as possible holding my arms straight out with the microphone. Every move she makes right now requires some impossible calculation. She has to avoid anything that might get her or her husband sick. How are you feeling in general? Overwhelmed but I feel like that I can master this. I went to Kings across the street. I just try to stay away from people. They have them restocking and restocking. And they actually have better fruit and fresher fruit now.  But you are not supposed to get between six feet of people. And millennials are all marching around buying things and you are whoa do not come near me. I must look like I am crazy but that is the way it goes. This town is a very young town and so there is a lot of young people and a lot of kids skateboarding. And they are in your face. And you are like stay away. But they do not understand that. Have you said anything to anybody? No. Wearing my plastic gloves and carrying my canister of Clorox I think they understand where I am coming from.  It sounds so funny. Her husband because of his immune system is stuck in the apartment. My husband is not well. He cannot go out and he is not happy about it. There is TV of course but annoyingly no sports to watch because everything's been canceled. The other night he had Gunsmoke on which is really not Tova's thing. So we are not having a great relationship with this. I told him that I was checking on him and he should not get out of his chair. And he very nastily said OK I will not get out. Does he say I want to go outside and you say we cannot? Yeah. He will say I want to do something. And I say you cannot. I would take him downstairs and he could go out and get air in his face. But there is so many surfaces between our apartment and the lobby and it is only one floor. But there is so much you have to worry about. It is a surreal thing. You just-- you think what? Every morning you wake up and think I cannot believe this. Is it real? So it is real. Tova says her grandfather died from the Spanish flu in 1918. He went to the opera. They used to get tickets where they could stand and pay a lot less. And so he went to the opera and he was in a crowd. And he got-- he was sick one day and died the next. He was 26. I keep thinking about how differently everyone might view this thing how different our country's response might have been if the virus were as dangerous for younger people. Maybe we would have reacted faster because oh it is only the old people.  That is how I feel. It was not quite as tragic if it is the old people. My friends keep calling and saying who knew we were the old people which is true. Tova stood up to go back to her husband. And as she did this guy walked really close to her to throw a tissue in the trash can as if it was two weeks ago or something. Tova was not happy. I was almost ready to throw my canister of wipes at him. He should stay away. Maybe I do not look 71.  I am sure that is it. Ah yeah.  OK. Oh very nice meeting you too. OK. And thank you. I called Tova four days later to see how she was doing. She is still going out for walks-- no supermarkets anymore. That was actually the very last interview that anybody on our staff did with somebody in person David Kestenbaum's story. We have all been holed up in our own homes everybody on the staff. We are one of the many businesses that have decided that it is safer for everybody if we are working from home. So everybody's doing interviews over the phone. We are all preparing stories for next week's show about what is happening in the country and in the world. But in the meantime until then thinking about what might be nice to hear on the radio in a moment like this one. I think so much of what is happening now as we are being told to stay home and so many of us are either cooped up with our families or reaching out to family members more than usual and reaching out to the other people we love to see how they are doing and to worry together about what is going to happen next we thought with that in mind today we would prepare a show of stories that we have made over the years about families and about people trying to find comfort or find answers by turning to their families including-- we have this one story from 25 years ago of me and my mom back when she was still alive. And I saw her quoted in a national magazine as a sexpert. I had some questions for her and I called her. We get to that in Act Three. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One Hey Dad. Dad! So school was cut off in so many places and kids are home. And we have this story of a parent trying to go about his day and his daughter coming to him over and over with some things on her mind. Stephanie Foo tells what happened. My friend Matt's older daughter went through one of those hardcore phases where she got really into asking her dad a lot of questions. She was nine. There is the why phase and then the why phase can turn into the why not and explain and that endless string of questions like why cannot I have my own room? How do I get to school? Why cannot we have a yard? Can I have a cookie? They are unrelenting. So one night Matt was working from home and Rosie was bugging him with her questions. And it was just sort of one after the other after the other. And I was like all right look you got to just give me a minute. I am working right now. Just go off and write them all down. Make me a list of the questions that you want me to answer and I will answer them for you. I thought it was going to be like three or four questions and then a picture of a rabbit or something. And I get this list and I look at it. And these are the essential unanswerable questions of life. Read a few of these questions for me. Start at the very top. OK. So what is life? Why? That is the first question? That is the first question. It is the first thing she wants to know.   Where do we go when we die-- heaven? Explain. Another planet? Is heaven another planet? Why is there heaven or hell? Time-- why? Explain.   Do we make worlds? Do we become like God-- why? Why do you do what you do? How do you know what is true? Who do you miss-- why? Explain. Do you miss anyone more than them? And does that change and how? And if that changes was it worth missing them in the first place? And my favorite is-- pretty much just my jaw dropped-- why any of this? I mean my first reaction to them is-- I mean I am proud of her. And then I realize I actually have to answer these questions. There are about three pages single-spaced of handwritten questions about 50 questions total. But a promise was a promise so Matt got to work. He is a professor at West Point teaches writing. And so he took a professorial approach to it and started researching answers for her looking up quotes on each topic spending weeks sometimes months writing each answer. What is the shortest and what is the longest you have ever spent and what is the hardest one? So I think the longest one is one that I have not finished answering for her yet which is what is love? What is been the easiest one to answer so far? Is heaven another planet? No. I got him to read me one of the answers he worked hardest on. The answer to time-- why? Explain. Could you read it for me? Sure. So tell me what and tell me why and the burden is on me to justify this to you. Perhaps that is what time means in the end is justification or a lack of being justified. And I do not really know what justification means. There was an old movie I saw when I was a kid in your grandmother's house-- He quotes Camus then brings in the Millennium Falcon then St. Augustine then Kierkegaard. Rosie was nine. All his answers are like this. Kierkegaard gets to this point after eitheror'ing everything. He says why did I not die as a baby? I am a grown-up and I find it impossible to follow your answers. Honestly I have not any idea what you are saying. OK.  Yeah. I mean I really do not understand half of what I just said either to be honest. What his answers do have going for them is sincerity. The time one ends like this. In one of my favorite stories by a guy named William Faulkner there is a daddy who gives his kid a watch and says I give you this watch not that you might remember time but so that you might forget it for a little while. I can only tell you that time is me turning and turning while the world is turning around a star that turns around a center that turns around the whole time. Among all the other things the little turning animals on all the little turning worlds there is me trying to turn to you. OK. And you just told her this answer like this? Yeah. And she-- I mean she would kind of pass in and out of being interested in it. And at the end of it she is just kind of like oh yeah OK. And I am like all right well. I mean do you see what I am saying about time? It is a measurement of change. It is an arbitrary human construct but not but it feels different so it is phenomena. She is like yeah yeah OK. I was like oh well this is not really exactly what I wanted. That is not what you wanted because you were like oh this is kind of boring? Yeah. Rosie has a pixie cut and a cheeky grin. She gave her dad the 50 questions three years ago. She is 12 now. He is been working on getting her answers but he is only gone through 23 of them because it takes him so long to cobble together a response. What I found out talking to Rosie is she did not even really care about the answers to these questions. Questions that I thought that would take him a long time to answer because at the time I really just wanted to talk to him. It all started when she first moved to New York City. Before then she would been living with her mom and grandparents most of the week. But then her grandpa who she was really close to died and she had to move in with her dad during the week instead. At the same time she started at a new school where the kids either ignored or bullied her and she felt lost. One day she came home from school and decided she needed to do something about it. I was lonely and I felt a little sad that nobody had really stepped out to say oh hey it is going to be OK. I will be your friend. So that is when I really really needed somebody to talk to. So you did not have anybody to talk to at school? No. And then at home? No. That is really why I felt like oh this is my dad. He is a really important person. I love him very much. I really want to become closer with him. I wish there was something that I could do to make us closer. Did you feel like your dad was not paying enough attention to you? Yeah a little bit. Or not a little bit yeah. What was he doing instead? He was writing papers on his computer. And I knew at the time how important it was but part of me still wished that like put down all the screens put down everything else and just talk. So I wrote all the questions down and they were big questions because I know my dad. And if it is a little question he will elaborate on it and he will make it a big deal. So if you times that by a big complex question that would be a huge talk. Is it true that you were not talking to her much at the time? No I think I was talking to her all the time. I would tell her it is time to get up and go to school. I would tell her that it was time to do her homework. I would tell her that she needed a new jacket. Yeah I mean I talked to you all the time. Maybe you are noticing the purely logistical nature of everything he mentioned. It certainly did not get past Rosie. I talked to you all the time. Yeah but to me it is not really the same thing. So conversation and talking are completely different things. Talking could be a range from oh hey what is up? And conversation is you are deep in thought and you are looking and you are making eye contact and you are really enjoying the presence of somebody else. Rosie's a smart kid yeah but this is the thing I really admire about her. Matt was a single dad with two kids going to school and trying to make the rent at the same time. Telling him to pay attention to her did not cut it so she figured out something else. I read this short story recently about a successful con man whose motto was make them want to give you the thing you want to take. Rosie made her dad want to give her attention by making an opportunity to do what he loved ponder over life's big questions. My dad was kind of hard-shelled I guess. And so it took a lot. I had to keep asking these questions and keep wondering. For me it was just-- I had to keep going and keep trying and keep being this little bird that goes on your shoulders like I am now your friend. Do you feel like it sort of taught him how to talk to you better? Yeah definitely. Over the past three years we have really worked on having actual conversations than him just answering questions for me because we practice it. Rosie never knew that her dad spent months and months writing down each answer. Matt only told her when I started working on this story. And she said she felt like what? Are you kidding me? I had no idea that he was doing all these things and it was just a big surprise for me. If I could I would definitely just say forget the questions. I just want to talk. So you are like well you do not even have to go through all that trouble. Yeah. Just hang out. Yeah. Rosie said this to her dad when she found out and it really threw him for a loop. Yeah it was a complete waste of time.   I mean what a complete waste of time to come up with these big extensive projects that-- they were definitely less important to them than just listening to them. Hm. What is time-- why? Explain. Well I can tell you what I do not want time to be. I do not want time to be something where I am just figuring out that I need to shut up and make some time to listen to this little kid before it is too late. Rosie really started asking the questions because she wanted to know that she was not alone and that everything was going to be OK. Now she enjoys hearing the answers because they remind her that that is true. That is why one of her favorite answers is the ending of time-- why? Explain-- the part about all of the planets turning around themselves and in the middle of it Matt turning towards Rosie. One of the meanings of that is even though everything is happening around you he just wants to know about me a little more I guess. And a thing that I really like about that is because he just uses these sentences that make me happy when I read them. It is kind of funny. When he read this to me he sort of choked up a little bit. Yeah. He likes to be kind of a one-expression person but when he reads stuff like this he gets all emotional. In the car ride here he was like oh I love you so much. And he was tearing up and looking out the window so.  You look so happy about that. Yeah it is pretty great.   So people have been asking these big important questions like why are we here? What is life-- forever? And do you think that the real big reason why we ask it is to have a reason to talk to each other? No. I think that philosophers actually really do wonder about these things and they do not use it so that they can talk to their dads more. They use it because they really wonder about these things and they want to know everything about it. But for my personal use yes. That is exactly it. Matt does still want to keep answering Rosie's questions for her but as for the hardest question what is love I do not think Rosie needs her dad to explain that to her anymore. She gets it. Stephanie Foo. She is currently writing a book about complex PTSD. These days Rosie is a freshman in high school and she goes by Rory now. We checked in with her. She says she is using her time cooped up at home with her family right now to draw and listen to music. She says everybody is getting along. Act Two Call Me Maybe. So many of us are concerned right now about our older relatives especially our parents and grandparents. And this story in the most literal way is about reaching out over the phone. Sean Cole put it together.   Yo Sean. This is your mom. I was not home. About four or five years ago I started saving all my mom's voicemails thinking she is not going to be around forever. I am going to want to hear her voice when she is gone though somehow I did not extend that thought to I could hear her voice right now if I picked up the phone. She had a talent for the form. With some of them it almost feels like I am talking to her except she is playing both parts. What time is it? Oh it is 652 huh? Yeah it is later than I thought. I cannot believe it is still light out. Decided to go to the Royal for supper tonight so that is what we did. We went early and we are back early. So I do not know what you are doing. So this is me. C'est moi. I am here. Right. Yo aqui. C'est moi. That is it is me in French. Sometimes there is not much more than that. C'est moi. Love you lots. Talk to you soon. Bye. This one's even shorter. C'est moi. Bye. But of course all the messages boil down to her saying in one creative way or another please call me back. Sometimes she was a lot more direct about it. SLOWLY Do not forget to call your mother. Goodbye. Actually here's the one that I always tell people about when I am talking about her messages. It is like she sort of circles and then goes in for the kill. I heard you on the radio on Sunday and I knew it was you because I can recognize your voice even though it is been a long time since I have heard it on the phone. So anyway I love you lots and lots. Call me when you think of it if you ever do. Love you. Bye. My mom-- her name was Pat-- she died on September 28 2015 at 422 in the morning. It was relatively sudden and totally unexpected. And as much as I thought I was preparing myself for that moment I was not prepared. It is true I did not call enough but she was still the first person I thought to call when something huge happened good or bad. I loved talking to her. She was funny as you can tell and smart. She wrote technical manuals in the early days of personal computing. Later in life she lugged a lot of pro-grade camera equipment around the world taking pictures. And yet she had a hard time figuring out her smartphone. The last recording I have from her saved on my phone was a pocket dial.  This goes on for three minutes.   Did you go for your walk this morning? No I did not make it this morning. I figured that I was pretty busy. After Mom died I started calling home a lot more to talk to my stepdad Ed Hacker. He and I never really had a phone relationship when my mother was alive. It was more the classic thing of you want to say hi to Ed? And then we would verbally clap each other on the back and then back to Mom. These days it is not weird for us to spend almost two hours on the phone together. Then I had to give tweets out so-- You are the most active octogenarian on Twitter that I know about. Well I try to send out about six or seven tweets. What did you send this morning? Oh I sent about three or four from-- I think of how annoyed my mom would be if she knew this but I am now performing the exact telephone behavior she wanted from me when she was around except now with Ed. I call about once a week on average and it is always me initiating the calls now. At first of course it was mainly to make sure he was holding up OK and to make sure I was holding up OK. But even now when I miss a week it eats at me. I am thinking got to call Ed got to call Ed. It is like an injustice that he is getting this treatment and not her and I keep trying to square it somehow. But when I put this to Ed he basically said it is really not that big a mystery. Kind of obvious that if one parent dies you realize that the other one may not be that far off that he will go too or she. So the scarcity just like in economics makes the value go up. I never thought of this in economic terms before. Well it is true of many things. If the population is very low-- Ed's 87. He taught philosophy and logic at a university in Boston for a lot of years which is fitting because Ed is very logical and philosophical. He is always quoting one or another great thinker. For fun he does math. He and my mom got together when I was six. He moved in when I was 11. And I think he is right that I call because I am more aware than ever that one day he will not be on the other end of the phone but it is more than that too. Even though we have all of these other people in our family whom we love it got to feeling like Ed's the other one Mom's death happened to like he and I were the ones who mutually needed to talk about Mom and to hear about her. I feel that yes I can talk to you about Pat because you are willing to talk to her about it. To you about it yeah. And it makes a big difference to me. It does? Of course. I am so glad to hear that. Because you lost the same person even if it is somewhat similar if somebody else has lost someone else like these groups in which everyone has lost a spouse. And their memories are different. You never met that other person that died and you really do not care. I mean--  You care about your loss. I mean you know. Yeah. Let us be honest. Are you on the deck now? I am. Having a smoke? I am. For a long time my mom was a third invisible person in all of these conversations but we have both noticed we are talking about mom less and less. People told me this would happen but I did not really believe them or I did not want to. Time slouches on. You wake up to different thoughts in the morning. And when you call home the first thing you say is not how are you holding up? It used to be that you would kind of mark how long it had been. You would say I cannot believe it is been three-- it will be three months on Monday or I cannot believe it will be nine months on Thursday or whatever. Well I still keep track of the time. You do? Yeah. And I also have an app on my computer all three of them which is set to tell me how many days since Pat died. You do? I do. I did not know that. So this way-- I am going there right now to see what my apps are. Well it is been 22 months and three days since she is died. Or if you want one year 10 months and three days. Or if you want 96 weeks. And what do you feel like looking at that? Do not have any particular feeling. It is just that it is amazing that it is almost two years. Hm. It is like saying I remember. Yeah I feel like I need something like that some sort of-- I just feel like I do not think about her enough. Well that you will have to explain. Why should you think more? I do not-- it is just like-- Is it guilt or something? It is not guilt no. It is-- You feel like you will honor her more by thinking about her? It is like yeah I want to honor her more by thinking about her and it also feels like there is something going on in me all the time that I am not acknowledging that leaks out in these other ways. And I just miss her and so it is like I need to put that missing somewhere. Well you have a photograph of Pat? Yeah. I have one up on the wall in my office. OK. Take another one. And every day move it from one spot to another in your apartment. That is a really good idea. Did you just think of that? Yes. That makes it sort of a ritual. But the truth is I already have the ritual I need. I do not do it every day but I do it just about every week. I call Ed. We talk. For this specific need I have it turns out he is the perfect person to call. Maybe you have got somebody like that a personal Ghostbuster when there is something strange in the neighborhood when things are looking their worst that person who will know what you are talking about even if they cannot understand what you are saying. And all you got to do is call. Sean Cole. When he checked in with Ed this week Ed was the same as always and doing well. He turns 90 in April. Act Three Mom. OK so this is a story we first put on the air in 1996. And yes our program has been on the air for a long time. Diane who is putting together this part of the show with me producer Diane Wu she listened to this recording and she told me that I sound exactly the same in it as I sound today which-- I do not know. Is that a good thing? Is that not a good thing? Should not a person grow? I think I should sound at least a little different. Anyway here is how I introduced this story back then in 1996. Quick warning before the story starts that this story acknowledges the existence of sex. OK here we go. Our parents can surprise us with what they do not tell us with what they do not talk about especially when it comes to sex. Recently I had this experience. An ex-girlfriend was in the gym looking through a copy of Marie Claire magazine women's magazine. And there was an article in it on women's fantasies their sexual fantasies-- what do your man's dirty daydreams reveal about what he wants from you? In the article six sexperts-- that was the word they used sexperts-- reveal the six most common male sex fantasy scenarios. So my ex-girlfriend is reading. And there in the third paragraph one of the sexperts turns out to be my mother.   Hello? Hey Mom? Yeah. It is Ira. Yeah? So I would like to do a little interview. OK. OK. So Mom can I read to you a quote from an article? Of course. OK. Here it is. Your man wants a woman who excites him through her own excitement. You could stimulate yourself while he watches or let him participate by moving his hand to where you want it. Yeah? That is you being quoted in Marie Claire.  You are kidding. What is ? All I know is that Anaheed was at the gym and she opens up Marie Claire to an article called Men's Sexual Fantasies. And it says at the top Here sexperts reveal the six most common scenarios unlock the secret longings and psyches of the modern men who fantasize. And you basically are one of the sexperts. Yeah. Yeah I am. I did not really know you were a sexpert. What did you think I was?  Just another Jewish mom and psychologist. Uh-huh. So it was not like you were a sexpert and you were keeping it from your family? You are talking about my family meaning my children not my husband? Yeah. Because he knows that I am a sexpert.   And you can call him to verify that. I think I am just going to let that go.  But my children always seem embarrassed if I discuss anything sexual. So therefore I tend not to around them. When would you try to discuss something sexual with us? I might make a joke or say something that had a sexual connotation and I would get this disapproval. I do not think that that is true. No? Yeah. Actually I mean it does not affect me in any way to think that you and Dad would be sexual with each other. In fact I even remember as a teenager understanding that and being kind of reassured by it. Mhm. Does that make any sense? It makes a little bit of sense but it really does not cover all the situations if I am just telling a joke or talking about somebody else. And I think it has to do with boundaries. And I think it has to do with that children even adult children do not like to regard their parents' sexuality. Hm. You know something? You are actually convincing me.   Well let us do a little scientific test. Can you think of a sexual joke? You just tell one right now and I will tell you my reaction. I cannot think of one.  You know what I am feeling right now? I am feeling a profound-- Oh actually I heard a wonderful-- Wait wait no. I heard a wonderful joke but I do not even know if it is a joke or a story. This is something that might be true that when Neil Armstrong walked on the moon and he said one giant step for man and one-- what is it-- one giant step for mankind or whatever-- One small step for man one giant step for mankind. Right right. That is it one small step for man one giant step for mankind. And then he also said good luck Mr. Gorsky. And for years people have been asking him what that meant. And he would never tell them. And then this year someone brought it up again. What did you mean when you said good luck Mr. Gorsky? And he said well I can tell now because Mr. Gorsky died this year. When I was a little boy Mr. Gorsky was our next door neighbor. And I was playing outside one day and their bedroom window was open. And I heard Mrs. Gorsky say oral sex? You want me to give you oral sex? You will get oral sex from me the day that boy next door walks on the moon.    Well now I am examining my own feelings. And I have to say I did get very nervous there in a way that does not correspond perhaps with shrugging my shoulders at the notion of you having some sexual life and sexual thoughts. Yeah. So let me read you some of your other quotes here. All right. In the fantasy of man dominates woman you are quoted as saying-- says Dr. Glass quote In a caring relationship it is certainly not abusive or unhealthy if the fantasy is played out in a light teasing way. You are also quoted extensively in fantasy number five spontaneous encounter with a beautiful stranger. The key quote is this one as far as I am concerned-- Go to a restaurant and at first pretend you do not know each other suggests Dr. Glass-- which when I read that it actually explained some dinners I have had with you and Dad.  I thought. Well you did not talk very much between the two of you. No no. That was just the opposite. So have you actually-- have you-- have you done this? Have you gone to a restaurant with Dad and pretended that you did not know each other? No. No. No. No. But if you did you are saying that-- We have gone to restaurants with you and pretended we did not know you.   What do you mean by that? Well when you were younger and--  --and let us say that your manner of dressing did not exactly conform to the style-- All right all right. I think everybody-- yeah. --of the other people in the restaurant.   Back when Daddy-- Daddy would look at you and he would start popping Gelusil when we would go out to eat. And I would say now Barry people are going to look at him they are going to look at us and they are going to know that we did not pick out his clothes. So now that I know that you are this big sexpert do you have any sex advice for me? Find a nice girl and get married.  That is not sex advice.  We always end up this way do not we? With that particular advice. Yeah that is-- I know.  I know. I could ask you any question and that would be the advice