From WBEZ Chicago It is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International.  There is this bridge that is part of Chicago's Lake Shore Drive that crosses the Chicago River. You can see this bridge from the offices of WBEZ. It is really close. But unless you are really looking for it you would miss the hole that is halfway across the bridge. It is at the foot of some steel girders in between lanes of traffic just 12 inches by 36. I would cross the two lanes and then I would go to where the hole is and when there was no cars coming at the time I would slip in. Richard Dorsay became momentarily famous in Chicago in December 2004 when police learned from one of Richard's friends that Richard and this friend had been living down there inside the frame of the bridge tucked way in the rafters underneath the roadway for years. Authorities kicked him out from this space that Richard says was probably 14- or 18-feet long and about as wide as two lanes of traffic with the steel frame of the bridge for walls and a concrete floor. The ceiling was the roadway. Where out of wood that Richard and his friend mostly took from a construction site they built three rooms in the dank space a supply room and two bedrooms. There was electricity from a long extension cord that they hid with piping and plugged into a regular electric socket in the bridge down below. They made a big stink out of this when actually it hit the papers. I had like a 20inch TV which was a pain in the butt to get in but I did it. And I had a little heater and various other things like a PlayStation video games videotapes VHS. And I would come back towards the evening and sit back and play the PlayStation and you know maybe have some beer drink some beer and see how far I can go in a driving game before I end up crashing. But this was not just an adult treehouse hidden away inside an old bridge. It was an adult treehouse inside in old drawbridge a working drawbridge over the Chicago River that every now and then would raise turning the entire three-room apartment on its side pulling the extension cord out of the outlet. The only thing that was actually a little on the scary side was the first time the bridge went up. Everything would tilt literally. It would be like a one-sided earthquake. And instead of it shaking it would be like the ground just lifting up and tilting. And then when that bridge is vertical that bridge really is like vertical. You are standing straight up when in a laying-down position. Some of his stuff was bungee-corded down. The heavy stuff like the TV he kept against the back wall of his room the wall that tilted to become the floor. And sometimes I would move things just before the bridge went up because you can hear the motors unlock. And there is a bell on that bridge? Yeah there is bells. So the bells go off you hear the motors start. I would just sit back and ride it. And I would just lay there and then as the bridge went up I slowly slid towards the wall and then when it was totally standing straight up then I would be standing straight up on that back wall With the mattress next to you? Yes. And after that first time it was kind of like a rush going down a hill on a roller coaster. You know where you get that laugh and you feel all relieved and it is real great you know? Richard's been out of there since 2004. He lives with friends in a house now in the suburbs. And when he talks about his little nest in the bridge today he is surprisingly unsentimental. It was hot as hell in the summer he says and freezing in the winter. And the ceiling was just low enough five feet and change that he used to hit his head. But as we talked about it there was also this. Richard if your friend had not turned you into the cops-- Would I still be there is that the question? Yeah. Probably. Probably. To me it is a world of safety and comfort where to someone else they see it oh another drawbridge whoopadeedo. The bridge connects point A to B but there can be a whole life on a bridge. And today on the radio show we stop there and stay for an hour and see what happens there. We have three stories of people at three bridges on three continents. Act one is in China. Act two is in the border of Egypt. Act three in Florida. Stay with us. Act one Troubled Bridge Over Water. In 2003 a year before Richard Dorsay got kicked out of the bridge at the Chicago River halfway around the world in Naan-jing China a man named Chen Sah Mr. Chen took up residence in a bridge or anyway he spent his weekends there 10 hours a day away from his wife and daughter. The bridge he chose is this concrete communist monstrosity four miles long covered with slogans that celebrate the worker four lanes of traffic and thousands of pedestrians on the top deck two train tracks on the lower over the Yangtze River into Naan-jing a city of seven million. Estimates are fuzzy but the best guess is that one person per week commits suicide off this bridge. Mr. Chen decided he wanted to try to keep them from jumping and he started to single-handedly at first then with an occasional volunteer. The blog that he keeps about this is the most sober taciturn non-boastful account of saving lives imaginable. Occasionally Mr. Chen will insert his feelings. Beware heavy thoughts he declares to himself during one entry. How I wished he would soon be free of this shadow he says about an old man he saved in another. But mostly just the facts. Here's a translation from the Chinese On July 25 at 1030 in the morning I discovered a woman lying on the bridge railing on her belly weeping. I went to her. She wiped her eyes. She said she was just playing and walked toward the center of the bridge. I went with her and she very ordinarily without her cell phone. When I returned at 110 I discovered that she had already climbed up on the bridge railing. I restrained her and forced her onto a moped. She is from Naan-jing's Jianye District. Her last name is Jiau and today she is 45 years old. Because her husband surname Lee and 51 years old is violent towards her and mistreats her she thought killing yourself would be better. However she is silent when she thinks of her 15-year-old son. March 21 2010. Yesterday at 305 PM I saved a young man in the middle of the bridge. He had drunk a lot of alcohol and was planning to jump over the bridge railing. I at once restrained him and dragged him to safety. As we spoke I learned his situation was actually quite funny. He was thinking about jumping because last year his wife promised to start returning to him CNY 200 of his monthly CNY 1400 salary to spend as he pleased. But she had not honored her promise. Yesterday afternoon he started drinking with his friends and the more you drank the angrier he got. He believed that killing himself would make her realize that not one cent had come to him. He then said another funny thing. His mother's colleague said that the bridge is haunted and could take one's soul. I said ha ha it is haunted by drunk ghosts and I took him home. This was the calmest simplest rescue I have made in recent years. Many of Mr. Chen's entries are about the people that he does not save. February 15 530 in the morning a middle-aged man jumped to his death as reported at this time and he was holding a photograph of his family. August 10 2008 Saturday afternoon at 140 PM. A young woman 300 meters from the south end of the bridge climbed onto the bridge railing. I immediately started my moped but because I accelerated too quickly the moped leaked oil and ignited. I had to run to her but when I was 200 meters away she jumped into the Yangtze. Her silhouette was visible in the water at a spot 50 meters away and I could still hear her yelling for help until a large wave obscured her from view. At the end of each year Mr. Chen does an inventory of how things are going on the bridge this one the end of 2009. He wrote that since he began back in 2003 he would saved at that point 174 people from committing suicide. He counseled another 5150 on the bridge and 16000 on the phone. 51000 people had texted him. Total days volunteering to that point 646. With regards to the reasons for suicide he writes emotional problems make up 60. Terminal illness 20. Sudden explosive crises 10. And domestic violence 10. Mike Paterniti recently wrote a magazine article about Mr. Chen. He first heard about him years ago from news reports. He read a bit of his blog in Google Translate. He felt like he had to meet this man who on his own had decided to rescue so many people and flew to China. I thought maybe I will see him in action. Maybe I will get to see him save somebody. Just as back story I mean I actually came-- I had come from Cambodia so I was covering these genocide trials so I was not you know I did not have the most optimistic feelings about humanity. And I thought I was going to find something there like there some-- You said you thought you would find a hopeful figure. Yeah. I mean hope perseverance generosity. But as soon as I got on the bridge I realized that all those notions were completely absurd. I mean I got instantly depressed. First of all there is this four-mile long bridge and this one man out there sort of trying to pick out who was going to jump. It just seemed from a distance like insurmountable odds to actually maybe pull somebody off the bridge. Yeah you wrote in the article at one point you said first of all there is the cars then there is the trains and the bridge is shaking and then there is just like a sea of people thousands of people in the rain with umbrellas going back and forth on the bridge and he is just one guy kind of walking up and down. And he has this little moped and does a little cruise on the bridge every once in a while but even that is a somewhat comical sight to behold. You know he is on this little broken-down moped put-putting through the crowd with his big pair of binoculars around his neck. You know I sort of thought maybe this is not even real like maybe this blog is a complete figment of his imagination or a fiction that he constructs once a week and I just do not see how this guy can save anybody out here. And you write in your article he will not really to talk to you when you are there on the bridge. Yeah he was really grumpy and unwilling to acknowledge me. And so give me a typical exchange between the two of you on the bridge. I think I did ask like why are you standing here as opposed to any other spot on this four-mile long bridge? And he turned and lifted his binoculars and focused out towards the river and then brought his binoculars down turned the other way put his binoculars up and focused in the other direction on the crowd. Oh that is it? He does not even respond? No it was like I was not even there. It was like I was some ghost. And I sort of went through some of this and then I said maybe you know is there a better time for us to talk? And he said to the translator I can talk to you at lunch. So you go to lunch with him and what happens there? Well so we were in a little what they call family restaurant near the bridge and there are no families present. I mean it is just workers and they are pretty hard-drinking. In this case grain alcohol and beer. And so we sit down at the table and Mr. Chen has invited a man to join us whose name is Mr. Shi. And then we are served some food and Mr. Chen and Mr. Shi start really drinking a lot of grain alcohol. And I started to sort of drink with them because it was the convivial thing to do. And then I just realized I am going to pass out if I try to stay with these guys like I am literally-- my head was spinning and I was-- you know the whole room was revolving. I just was like-- and he was very disappointed and so he sort of said just we are drinking here this is what we do at lunch and drinking loosens the tongue. And so get with the program and if you cannot then why do not we-- you know why do not you put on a dress. But then he at lunch he definitely opened up a little bit more. I mean he was not looking at me when he answered questions but he was answering them and he was speaking more expansively about life on the bridge. Did he explain why it is that he does this? He said he had read a newspaper article about the bridge and about people jumping off the bridge and he himself had grown up in the country outside of Naan-jing so he really related in particular to these people from the villages who came to the bridge to end their lives and whose lives were hard and full of despair and he completely understood that. So you go back up to the bridge and he putters off in his moped and then-- Yeah and then he jumped on his moped to go on his rounds and I did not have anything to do but I turned to the translator Susan and I said hey let us take a little walk out on the bridge. And so we started walking out over the bridge and we are chatting a little bit and this guy kind of came lurching by and I did not pay any attention to him but this guy's about 20 feet 30 feet ahead of us and he seems to be climbing up on the railing. And at that point I just yelled hey and then I said to Susan he is going to go over. And I started running for him and Susan came running. And I had that one little flash of Mr. Chen saying some of these people will really take you with them if they can. They are that desperate. And I had that little flash like this would be a stupid way to die. This would be ridiculous if I go down with this guy but it did not come to that because when I got to him I had my foot on the inside of the sort of the concrete buttress and I tried to flip him back toward me. And he was completely limp. He was like a bag of sawdust. He just flipped right back on to me and I had not even really pulled him that hard. It is hard to explain but like when I think of it I just get-- I have to say I have just goosebumps all over my body right now. Because? Because he was going to kill himself. And because he did not. So did you feel good? No I did not feel good. I felt like kind of nauseous. I felt like wow there every week somebody actually does this thing and even if we were to clone Mr. Chen and there were 200 of him out there they probably-- still one a week someone would figure out how to do it. And then like oh my god who is coming next? You know? And so Mr. Chen comes back right? Yeah well it took Mr. Chen a while to come back on his moped but when he came when he showed up the crowd sort of parted and I was holding onto this man whose name was Fan Ping. And he said to me step away which I thought was a really bad idea because we are standing right next to the railing. But he had such command of the situation and all the nuances of the situation that I just stepped away. I just let go and stepped away. And then he said I want to take your picture which seemed like you know-- I did not even understand what that was about. He is taking a picture of the guy? Yeah. So he pulls out his cell phone with a camera takes a picture. And then he says and now I think I should punch you in the face. Holy-- And then he said you call yourself Chinese. How dare you? How dare use call yourself Chinese come up on this bridge with the intention of killing yourself today? You are somebody's son. How dare you? I am going to punch you in the face. I am going to punch you right now. And the crowd of course is like crushing in because they think there is going to-- they think he is going to punch him. And I am just sitting here like with my mouth open as he is saying this. So he kind of takes another step in closer and Fan Ping says look I am only doing this because my father was in the Red Army and he is lost all of his disability insurance and there is no way for him to live anymore and I am a lousy son because I cannot provide for him and all of our documents burned in a fire and without those documents we cannot get any help. And Mr. Chen says there nothing worth this. There is no problem that we cannot solve. And then he moves in a little bit closer and he touches his arm just sort of holding him by the elbow with like his right hand. Mr. Chen says I think I can help. I do not like this. I do not like what you are doing here. This is not the way to solve anything. And at that point they have each other's word that they are going to meet on Monday morning at Mr. Chen's office. Do you get creeped out on any big bridge now? Yeah. Well obviously after having been on the bridge I started looking at bridges for their suicide potential. And every bridge is that bridge in Naan-jing and every person is potentially Fan Ping and every other person is potentially Mr. Chen. And you kind of look at it like oh I wonder if that is a bridge people would jump from. And I wonder if maybe someone should be out here. Mike Paternini. His account of meeting Mr. Chen is in the current issue the May issue of GQ Magazine. . Act Two Bridge and Tunnel. We have been talking about bridges so far in the show but now we are going to turn to tunnel. Same idea just underground. Tunnels are natural for smuggling and there is a place that is in the midst of a kind of tunnel fever right now for smuggling the Gaza Strip. Gaza's the piece of land of course on Israel's southwestern corner at the border of Egypt. About 1.5 million Palestinians live in Gaza. And Gaza has had smuggling tunnels for a long time. They were built years ago along the southern border of Gaza the border it shares with Egypt to bring in weapons. But in the last couple of years after Hamas took control of Gaza Israel has blockaded the goods that come in and out of Gaza severely restricted and so now all kinds of stuff is going through those tunnels. That is the tunnel fever. Nobody knows exactly how many tunnels there are now hundreds possibly 1000 more being built every day. They have become central to Gaza's economy. One of our producers Nancy Updike recently moved to the Middle East. She says they are now how a lot of basic goods get into Gaza. Clothing and flour and milk and cheese cement live animals cigarettes chocolate oil toothpaste fish prescription drugs generators computers also gas and diesel which are sometimes carried in by hand in cans but are also pumped through the tunnels in these big hoses. There is an organization called PalTrade. It is this economic data gathering group. The World Bank quotes their statistics. And according to PalTrade about 100000 litres of gas and another 100000 litres of diesel are being pumped into Gaza every day through these tunnels. The PalTrade guy also by the way sent me a QuickTime video of a car a whole car being driven through one of the bigger tunnels in Gaza. So Nancy so you have talked to this guy who owns his own tunnel? Yeah I read about people dying in the tunnels and I made a phone call with the translator just to see what we could find out. And we reached this guy who was very forthcoming. He talked to us for a couple of hours. He just kind of took us along with him on his errands. You can hear him in the background as he is walking around. There are cars honking occasionally he talks to people he runs into. He puts us on hold a couple of times. We agreed to call him by a sort of classic Palestinian pseudonym Abu Muhammad. And he started out by telling us about the first tunnel he worked on not the one he owns himself now but the very first tunnel he dug a few years ago. How long did it take to start building the tunnel and to finish it? How long did that take? ? . One whole year. Did anyone die or get injured building the tunnel? . Two died. How did the people die? . The first one died when the digging that we have being doing in the tunnel fell on him buried him. Number one. And the second one died when the Egyptians put gas in such a way to poison the whole atmosphere. They did that to try to shut the tunnel down and stop the smuggling? . It is a correct assumption on your part. This is why they did it. There was a time when we could not go inside out tunnel for three months. We had to evacuate it for three months in order for the gas to go out. Once it was out we resumed work. And does the gas have a smell? How do you know that the gas is in the tunnel? . It does not have a smell. We find out in two ways when people start fainting losing consciousness we know that the Egyptians have put this gas. Secondly we find out about this gas from the amin. Amin means the person from whom we buy on the Egyptian side. He is the one who notifies us about the coming of the Egyptian officials and in terms of gas or other things. Sometimes they put bombs as well. So this is just very dangerous work? Yes lots of things can go wrong and do go wrong. I mean since I have been here I think there have been stories every single week about Palestinians dying in the tunnels. Just last week four guys died in a tunnel. The Palestinians are accusing the Egyptians of gassing them. Egypt denies using gas in the tunnels ever. Tunnels sometimes collapse on their own. And there are always a lot men underground working in the tunnels. PalTrade that organization I was talking about earlier estimates that the tunnels employ 30000 people. Oh my god. Yeah. They do not all work underground but there are a lot of people under the border between Gaza and Egypt at any given time. How old were the people who died? . One was 19 years old and one was 24 years old. When someone dies in the tunnel is there any compensation to the family? . Yes there is compensation. For a married man the compensation is 11000. For an unmarried man for a bachelor it is 9000. These are the conditions put upon the tunnel owner. He has to comply with the government's laws and orders. So the government enforces the rule? . This is correct. So the government knows about this and the government has rules for this sort of thing? Absolutely. The government is Hamas in Gaza now and it controls all of Gaza. And Hamas controls the tunnels. They own some of the tunnels outright and operate them themselves but they control all of them. They shut them down when they want. They tax whatever goods they want at whatever rate they want. I have also heard about licensing fees the government's been charging to open tunnels somewhere between 2000 and 3000. Basically what all this means is that smuggling through the tunnels in Gaza is becoming in some ways more and more a regular importexport point taxes licenses regulations. It is nowhere near as regulated as an actual importexport would be but these are holes in the ground covered by tents just being dug by whoever can pull it off. . . . . . He has to disconnect for a very important issue for one minute. Oh so he is putting us on hold? Putting us on hold.  . . There was a problem. What was the problem? . I was notified that there was a problem with the electrical power inside the tunnel. Was the person calling to ask what he should do or to get permission to do something? . I was told I was asked to contact the person in charge of repairing the electricity. There was a breakdown in electricity at a time that my workers were bringing in merchandise. This guy started out a few years ago. He was 19 years old and he was just another tunnel digger. And he said when he was digging it was 15 diggers at a time making about 20 a day working 12-hour shifts six days a week. And once they are finished digging the tunnel the workers get a percentage of what the tunnel brings in once it is operating as a smuggling operation. And it is 20 a day is that a lot of money a little money? It is better than joining the 39 who are unemployed. And so if I am a laborer and I work in a tunnel and then I get a percentage once the tunnel is functioning like how much money can that mean? This guy said when he started to get a percentage he was making about 70 a day. That was his cut. And he is getting that 70 not because he is working carrying stuff through the tunnel but simply for the work he did in building the tunnel? No when the tunnel is finished being dug then those workers become the workers who bring the goods through so he is doing the work of bringing the goods through. He is still going to work for it but it is a better wage for still a very difficult dangerous job. How did you make the transition from being a worker to owning your own tunnel? . I used to take a percentage from working in the tunnel. Then I sold my land my family's land in order to work more into the tunnels. Was that a big decision something that you would thought about for a long time? . It was a very difficult decision however there was no alternative to this. I had to do it. So that is unusual right? The translator and I were both very surprised when he said that he sold his family's land. This is not something that Palestinians do. . I started as a worker and then I realized that more tunnels were being dug. And I also realized that the money I was getting as a worker was not enough. Therefore I decided to do my own tunnel. How big is your tunnel? Can you stand up in it? Can you touch the sides if you hold out your hands? . tunnel My tunnel is 1.6 to 1.7 in height 1.2 to 1.3 in width. Hey Nancy I will just stop the tape there. What do those numbers mean? It is 1.6 meters and 1.2 meters. 1.6 meters is just over five feet and 1.2 meters is over three feet almost four feet. Wait wait wait so it is just over five feet tall and just over three feet wide? So this is like it is tiny. Yeah there are tunnels of all different sizes. Some tunnels are massive. I mean like I was saying earlier there are tunnels you can drive a car through. And how deep are the tunnels? Around 30 feet. It varies. 30 feet deep? Yeah and from what I have seen there is sort of a swing that the guy sits on that is on a winch and he is kind of lowered down into the tunnel. Excuse the personal question but where do you go to the bathroom in the tunnel? . A worker if he needs to urinate then he can do it only in a bottle. However if he needs to do much more than this he has to leave the tunnel. Nancy you are asking about that like needing to use the bathroom it occurs to me somehow I pictured these tunnels being like OK they go there is a tent they go underneath it like a fence or something on the edge of like the border and they come up right on the other side of the fence. No. Like so they are not very far but you saying this makes me realize like how far are these? Well the length varies. I have heard of tunnels 250 feet and others less than that. But it is not just popping under a fence. I mean these guys are underground for a long time. This guy Abu Muhammad was saying that they have an intercom system set up you know what you would have in a multi-story house for the person on the first floor to talk to the person on the third floor. And as we were talking about his tunnel and how it operates I asked the obvious question Have you ever brought in weapons? . . No. Do you believe him that he has not ran any guns through the tunnel? No I think whatever people pay to bring in through the tunnels he and everyone else brings in. And again Hamas is the one ultimately in control of the tunnels so even though this guy owns his own tunnel if Hamas wants to bring in weapons or cement or anything else it is coming in through whichever tunnels they dictate. This guy though did go on to say something very surprising about weapons smuggling in the tunnels. . A strange thing happened concerning weapons. Because weapons are not allowed in the streets of Gaza therefore there is no need to have weapons. So weapons became extremely cheap. What we have done is to transport weapons to Egypt. We are making 100 per weapon by selling it in Egypt vice versa. And this to me is extremely strange. What weapons are you sending to Egypt? . We are sending guns and Kalashnikovs. Wait wait Nancy so in other words he is saying that they are not bringing weapons into Gaza basically they are exporting weapons from Gaza into Egypt and making a profit? Well he is saying that is what he is doing. And again I do not know. He may be bringing weapons in too. But I believe him that he is also sending them out. So this guy's making this huge economic gamble. He is selling off his family's land to invest in this tunnel. Is it working for him? Is he getting rich? Well here's what he said. . Before we used to make between 5000 to 10000 dollars a month. And the money we were making was good. But now it has decreased from 5000 to 1500 a month. Now there is an abundance of tunnels all over the area. And therefore the work has not become unique. There is a lot of tunnels and therefore you make less money. Nancy does not he face one other economic risk and that is that if there were peace if peace would break out between the Israelis and the Palestinians these tunnels would not have a reason to exist and his whole investment would go to hell? Does he worry at all about peace? I did not ask him but I do not think he is worried about peace. I think he is a lot more worried about his tunnel collapsing than he is worried about Israel making peace with Hamas. Nancy Updike is one of the producers of our show. Coming up city and county laws that force possibly dangerous ex-cons to be homeless and move under a bridge. If I asked you to guess which state which sunny sunny state would do that which would you guess? Answers in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. This is This American Life I am Ira Glass. Each week in our show of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show the bridge stories of people living at various bridges of various sorts. We have arrived at act three of our show. Act Three Throw the Book at Them. This next story takes place under a bridge. You may have heard about this bridge where a bunch of ex-cons sex offenders set up camp in Miami. South Florida is known for sun sand and surf but the welcoming committee on your Miami beach is now this convicted sex offenders. They are pitching tents and camping out by the Julia Tuttle Causeway. You may have seen them when you drive by and wondered why they are there. Why they are there is because in 2005 Miami Dade County passed a law that required sex offenders who were coming out of jail to find housing at least 2500 feet from any school playground or daycare. You probably heard about these residency restriction laws. Communities all over the country have them but Miami's was at the time probably the strictest law of its kind. If you think about it 2500 feet that is half a mile eight football fields in a densely packed city from any school park or daycare. The entire city of Miami Beach one of the cities that is in that county is barely a mile wide at its widest point was now effectively off limits to sex offenders which its mayor acknowledged. So under this bridge was one of the few spots that sex offenders in Dade County could legally live. Isaiah Thompson broke this story in 2007 for the Miami New Times. He is been closely following it ever since. He says the fact that they ended up at the bridge is really just the beginning. What is happened under this bridge all came to pass because of one man and he is probably the only one who can fix it too. He is a man with a mission and his job is to get missions done Ron Book. I use my soap box. I use my forum. I use my skills. I have a skill set that makes me the number-one ranked guy in this business. Ron Book's business is lobbying. He is one of the most powerful and influential lobbyists in Florida a man who refers to the local sheriff as my sheriff and the state attorney as my state attorney. He can be charming and gracious but when he has a point to make he does not hold back. See that sign? See that sign right there? He points to two plaques on a wall that is otherwise covered with awards and pictures of him shaking hands with famous people. See that sign right there? It says it can be done. See that sign? Nothing is impossible. What sets me out from the others is I am driven. What sets me out from the others is I have got more passion. What sets me out from the others is I get up earlier than most everybody else in this business and I stay up later and I get it done. Do not take my word for it. Go out there and ask my colleagues. Pick up the phone call the other five or six or eight super-lobbyists in this business and ask them who works harder than anybody else. That is what sets me out. I am tenacious. I am nasty if I have to be nasty. I am firm if I gotta be firm. I am direct if I gotta be direct. You know my job is to get it done. And right now right now the victims of sexual abuse t