We were putting together today's radio show and we came across this idea that totally changed how we saw the stories that you are going to hear today. This idea was in a talk that George RR Martin gave. He is the guy who wrote the series of fantasy books that Game of Thrones was based on back in the 1930s and '40s. And he was talking about his job on stage in front of some fans and specifically he was talking about how JRR Tolkien changed everything for people in his kind of work for people who write fantasy stories. And when I say changed everything I do not mean putting a double R in the middle of your name if you are a fantasy writer. Tolkien of course wrote Lord of the Rings and The Hobbit. And one of the things he did that was extraordinary was create Middle Earth in such detail. If you look at some of the pre-Tolkien fantasy it is written more in a story of fairy tales. You know Once upon a time there was a king and the king had a beautiful daughter. But you will not know like who was the king's father or who was his grandfather how the dynasty came to power or what the neighboring countries are. But Tolkien gave all that and more. He created whole histories and languages and genealogies. He created stuff that never even appeared in the books. And it seemed as real as England or France or Germany when you read these things. Make-believe just has more heft-- it gets to you more it feels like more-- the more detail there is to make the world in the story feel real. Which when you think about it of course is obvious whether you are telling a story or you are designing Grand Theft Auto or you are a spy needing to invent a cover or you are a cheater or a con man of some kind making up a scam. But this idea was interesting to us because today on our show we have two stories of make-believe worlds. Act One is about an amazingly successful one. Act Two is about a fantastically unsuccessful one. And when we heard that quote from George RR Martin we realized right. These worlds live or die their success or their failure depends on these details on how believable they are how precisely chosen. That is at the heart of both these stories. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. How make-believe works. Stay with us.   Act One Overboard. So there are 12 kids in the Steinfels family and they grew up in the 1980s in a very unusual situation. They all worked on a ship. Their dad Jim had been in the Navy and he oversaw them. They swabbed the decks. They served food in the chow line. They wore uniforms-- white sailor hats black neckerchiefs. Miki Meek tells more. When Joe was in elementary school his favorite part of working on the ship was night watch. That is when all the rest of the crew was asleep. You know which I loved you know? I loved it. From midnight to 400 in the morning that was one of my favorite watches where it is quiet. You are listening to talk radio coming out with their little weather alerts and stuff. And you are sitting there and every half-hour you have to get up and walk around and make sure the ship's secure and all that. Colder as the evening and morning hours approach. Joe was only six years old little Navy hat on his head peering over the side watching for any incoming threat. I remember clearly you know there was raccoons one night that were over making noise near the garbage can area. Yes. Raccoons. I should clarify. The ship that he worked on it was not at sea. It was not moving. It was stationed in the driveway of their house in suburban Chicago. But Joe took his job seriously and kept a logbook that he updated almost every half-hour. And so I think I annotated something along those lines in the logbook. You know 230 in the morning raccoons such and such. So Made rounds. All is not secure. Raccoons. You know it gave so much officialness to what we were doing. This was not just a game. This was-- this was life.   The idea to build a ship in the driveway came from his sister Elizabeth. They shared a room and one day when their parents told them to clean it up Elizabeth made a deal with Joe. If he would take care of it she would build them a ship. She was five he was four. The big sister. Joe said yes. So Elizabeth dragged a couple boxes into their backyard and started to pull together materials. I think I asked my father if I could have some two-by-fours to make the deck with. And then of course he got involved deciding that he was going to take it up a level. You know signal flags being done up and portholes in doors and hand-painted numbers. And I had a gorgeous wood desk and I had like my own phone and landlines were run from the house to the ship. What? Like a real phone? Yeah. Yeah. What? I am telling you I had a really nice office there. And then did the ship have a name? It was the USS Elizabeth City. As the months went on the ship grew more and more elaborate. Their dad started using masonite and plywood. He put in a wheelhouse and an engine room. Eventually the ship was about 24 feet long and painted battleship gray. A lot of the magic was in the accessories. He outfitted the ship with guns that shot ping-pong balls and missiles made from spray-painted deodorant sticks. He picked up life jackets at a Navy surplus store. He installed an intercom. It was a long hollow tube that let you talk from the wheelhouse to the engine room in the back. He attached the motor from a blender to a wall. Its purpose? Engine noise. The kids could hit different buttons speeds on it to make it sound like they were moving faster. What made their dad so good at make-believe is how real he made it. One of the girls Marion liked eating breakfast on the ship's deck. Her dad would bring out an old coffee percolator. And put in the smokestack. And then you would just see the steam kind of rising up out of that. And then we had these little Kool-Aid mugs that had been remade into our coffee cups. And he really would let us have coffee. Like we would just sit around like in our work gear getting ready for the day and admiring our ship with the real-looking steam coming up. The kids would play on the USS Elizabeth City all summer long sometimes on 24-hour shifts. Think of what genius parenting that is if you have a dozen kids. When summer comes you want to keep them busy engage them. In any given summer pretty much any kid who was not a teenager yet would be on the ship. Again here's Marion. We did not have many toys. I mean they were-- at the end of it all there were 12 of us. But like then in our backyard we had the most elaborate and amazing toy any child could ever have that was not just something-- you know it was not like a video game you played for a little bit. It was like years and years and years of playing on kind of learning on sleeping outside. It was just such a crazy like amazing ya know experience. There was a whole world their dad created around the USS Elizabeth City-- a history and a mission statement and a strict set of rules and responsibilities. His wife Joan typed up a pamphlet just like the ones the Navy handed out when their ships were at port. In this case the port was their neighborhood Park Ridge. Joan read it for me. The USS Elizabeth City is one of the most modern classes of driveway gunboats. Many of our officers and enlisted personnel make their homes in this community. Our ship's mission is to defend Park Ridge's strategic Continental Divide against surprise naval attack. Is that what you guys told the kids? This is your mission? Right. Right definitely yes. And of course Park Ridge is totally surrounded by land. The last paragraph was a message for the crew his 12 kids. Elizabeth City is a small ship and we can get along best by looking out for each other. Glad to have you with us. We think you are going to like it here. Welcome aboard. Their dad Jim had been in the Navy for about a decade. In his 30s he married Joan. They eventually ran an architecture firm together out of their basement. They did not make much money. They spent most of their time designing youth centers in low-income neighborhoods throughout Chicago. But Jim did not just design these. For more than 40 years he also helped maintain them would deal with emergency calls in the middle of the night if a pipe broke. And when he would go to make repairs he would bring the kids to help. He was idealistic and also incredibly practical. He died in 2011 and never talked to his wife and kids about what he would hoped they would get out of the ship. But they do know that he enjoyed playing in that world just as much as they did. Every kid I spoke to described his incredible imagination-- not just with the ship. There were the stories he would make up the Fisher Price city he built in their basement a trading post he ran from a window in his office. The kids could get trinkets in exchange for trash they cleaned out of their yard. He printed fake money once and they played the stock market for three months. He made stuff fun. They all talked about that. But he also had an intense work ethic and thrived on discipline and teamwork. He wanted his kids to be productive and constantly told them-- If you have time to lean you have time to clean. He wanted you to be working. Again this is Marion. She told me her dad assigned each of them a specific job. For example she was the hospital corpsman which meant she was responsible for any injuries on the ship. I had like a real first aid kit. I had like a little station there. I mean it was full of like my fake shots and stuff. But I had like real alcohol real Band-Aids real ACE bandage you know stuff like that. What is the worst injury you had to treat? Like people always got splinters because it was wood. And all my siblings had a service record or-- Is it a medical record or what? Real medical records. And that was another job of mine is that whenever the kids went to real medical appointments with the doctor my mom would come back with you know that you get a sheet from the doctor or whatever if you had a shot and stuff. And my mom would give them to me and my job was to hole-punch them and to put them in their proper service jacket. And once in a while my dad would say will you check and see if anyone's behind on their appointments or whatever? And you know I mean I took that very seriously. Like I was very proud that I had that job. I had this responsibility to make sure all the kids were going to the doctor on time. Other kids on the ship had positions like gunner's mate radio men master-at-arms and culinary specialist. And each of these involve some paperwork real US Navy paperwork forms that their dad saved from his time in the service or picked up from local recruitment offices. Elizabeth who was the chief storekeeper says she spent many hours putting her signature on supply requisitions. If someone was supposed to be doing some sort of job and they needed specific tools or they were supposed to cook something and needed oatmeal or coriander-- Or coriander? In the kitchen-- yeah. Yeah.  They would have to come to me maybe with a work order. It was a lot of-- lot of initials. It was just more about routine and paperwork. So what made this fun? I think that is the thing I am trying to figure out. Because it sounds like it is a lot of work. Um I do not know. I do not know that it always was fun. You know when we were on there my memory is it was somewhere between work and play. I think I liked that I had a defined character and everything. Grumpy old storekeeper and you know. So did your dad coach you? Of course. Of course. It is just like a little snarly and not enough coffee. No I am not going to get you that right now. You are going to have to wait or fill out the right paperwork. Or you know I do not know. Just because that is what my father he just remembered that every chief storekeeper that he had ever known had always had this like little stub of a cigar hanging out of the corner of his mouth as he snarled at you about something. And so he felt that it was very important that I always had this little ashtray on my desk with just a smoldering little cigar on it. She was six.  Of course with so many kids there were arguments and disagreements on the ship. And so to deal with that their dad created a chain of command an entire rank structure. He gave himself one of the lower positions the boatswain's mate. That way the kids would have to work out problems on their own. The highest-ranking position commanding officer that went to his oldest child Jane. She was in charge of posting a plan of the day. That included chores meals and watch times for her brothers and sisters. If they all did their jobs their dad would take them for doughnuts at the end of the week. Any kid who slacked off would ruin it for everyone. And if Jane caught them slacking off at their jobs as commanding officer she had the power to punish. Like she could make you guard garbage cans as a time-out. I was seen as bossy and as always telling them what to do. And you know it did not matter that that was my job that that was what I had been assigned to do. So like let me give you an example of that. If I was in charge and I did not think your brass belt buckle was shined adequately that might be a source of tension. But if you are going to wear a uniform then you better-- you better wear it. So I mean like in some way it created a little bit of a separation between you and the rest of them. I mean of course. It is only-- it is only natural. I mean but what is which actually kind of funny is that I was never allowed not one single time to play because that was fraternization. What? I was an officer. They were enlisted. I was not allowed to have that relationship with them that I could sit around the table with them and play cards. When you came back in the house were you allowed to play together? Yeah. Oh yeah yeah yeah. Yeah. No it was just-- it was just on the ship. You know that was kind of the cost I paid for the role that I had. I asked them all why did they keep playing along with this? So many rules. So much cleaning. They said you are a little kid so it is fun. Like a treehouse and a fort and dress-up all rolled into one. And they said when you are a little kid you want to do with the older kids are doing whatever it is. And then you had your dad there always adding these extra details to keep them excited like sudden deployment orders. The USS Elizabeth City was on wheels and went on trips. Joe remembers being called on a mission to a church parking lot down the street. And we would push this 24-foot-long ship out into a relatively busy street Cumberland Avenue and we would make corners. And one of us would be in the wheelhouse actually steering the wheel of the ship. And we would do drills. We would do target practice if you will with a little submarine. This is back in the '80s. The Cold War was a threat. So we would have a little Soviet-era submarine that would be out there moving around. And we would have man overboard drills and everyone would throw on their life preservers. And I mean even though I can clearly see asphalt sitting there somewhere in my mind you know it seemed like it was real. They lived so fully in the world of the ship their lives were so devoted to it that the kids never really stopped to think about how someone from the outside world might view it. Marion says she was eight before she first invited a friend aboard the USS Elizabeth City. I was out there with my other brothers and sisters and she just kept kind of rolling her eyes being like what are we doing? And she wanted to go inside and play Barbies and this was kind of like weird. I think that was when I first realized like not everyone had ships in their backyards. And so I mean did you just not acknowledge that you had a ship in your backyard after that? Yeah I think for the rest of grammar school I just-- it was like they just need to know. Its on a need-to-know basis.   All the Steinfels kids they eventually reached an age-- usually around middle school-- when they started wanting to spend more time off the ship than on it. And their dad he created a system to deal with that too. Here's David the 11th of the Steinfels' 12 kids. If you wanted to take liberty you would have to fill out a yellow slip and then put where you were going. You had to put the time and date of when you were leaving and when you are coming back. And then you had to put who you are going to see what you are doing a number to reach you at like your Social Security number. And then you would have to get it signed off by the supervisor of the day. And then-- So you mean an older sibling or what? So the supervisor would be whoever was appointed. Then it would get posted. And I do not think my father really ever had to step in or-- I think that is one of the beauties of the system is like use the other siblings to keep everything in order. As the kids got older they just stopped showing up on the ship to play. Only one kid I spoke with formally requested a discharge. She was 12. I went to my dad and you know acting very seriously told him that I would thought about it and I had decided that it just was not for me anymore. This is Marion. He was just like OK that is interesting. And I remember getting in the mail not too long after that a big manila envelope you know to Hospital Corpsman Third Class Marion Kate. And inside there was a letter that said unfortunately because we had just entered the first Gulf War that the President had said that no one can leave right now that everyone's automatically re-enlisted. This was an actual real order that came down for actual sailors during Operation Desert Storm. Probably not intended for middle school kids in Illinois. And so I was not going to be able to leave then. And I mean I was just like you know kind of like OK he got me I guess. I mean there is just no getting out of it.   Jane the oldest is 41 now. The youngest Samuel is 20. And you cannot help but notice how much the Steinfels kids' lives seem to be shaped by their time on the ship. Elizabeth the master chief storekeeper she now runs her own clothing store. John the culinary specialist he manages the kitchen at a Chicago restaurant. Samuel's training to be an officer at the Naval Academy right now. Jane went there too. Four of the other boys they ended up in the Marine Corps. David enlisted right after high school. He is been deployed to Asia and Yemen. I think the ship was a very big part. Because the one thing that I was good at and I knew it because we did it as a child was the military. And when I went there it was pretty easy for me. I mean all these other people were struggling especially Marine boot camp. It is a-- it is a legendary zone of horror and pain and whatnot but I was pretty used to it. I mean it was not obviously as intense at home as it was there. But a lot of the rules and everything like organization attention to detail it was all pretty much mirrored. When you actually got on a real ship how similar was it to your play ship?  A lot of it was surprisingly the same. I mean I could still from my bed reach out and touch three different people. And you could hear people breathing in their beds.   Jim Steinfels was 71 when he died from cancer four years ago. He wanted his kids to be competent and industrious and serve something bigger than themselves lessons they say they learned on the ship. Right after he died Marion said they could not stop thinking about how he would have hated anyone wasting a good day of work. My mom one thing that she kind of struggled with was having his funeral during the day. She thought that he would be mortified that people had stopped working to go to his funeral. So she thought about having it in the evening. And my dad actually built his own coffin. I mean he always made-- you know I mean he made the ship. He was really good at making things. I just miss being on the ship. I mean and I think that we all would not have the relationships we have. I mean I really think it was kind of the basis for our closeness and our kind of like camaraderie. The ship their dad build is still around. It is in the garage at their mom's house. And every once in a while when the kids are home visiting they will pull it back into their yard. Sometimes they will climb back on it though it is tough to get through the portholes and doors now. And then they will stand on the deck and watch their own children play on it. At the bridge Mom. .  Battle station.   Miki Meek is one of producers of our show. If you are curious pictures of the USS Elizabeth City are at our website thisamericanlife.org.   Coming up pretending to be a normal person can be the most difficult make-believe of all. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show Land of Make-Believe we have stories of people constructing worlds that are not real some more convincingly and charmingly than others. We have arrived at Act Two of our program. Act Two The Lyin' Kings. So this next story is about a whole bunch of people who are building an elaborate world of make-believe for their jobs and they fail. They totally fail. This is not a spoiler. They do not come close to getting this right. I am telling you up front. Jonathan Menjivar explains what happened. A warning if you are listening to the podcast or online version of our program-- there is cursing in the story that we beeped out on the radio. But on the internet we have unbeeped it. If you are listening with kids or you just prefer a beeped show as always you can find that at our website. OK here's Jonathan. This story starts with a lie between friends. One of those friends was a young woman named Lyric R. Cabral. She lived in Harlem and had this neighbor a guy in his 50s named Saeed Torres. Lyric's apartment was on the third floor of a brownstone. Saeed lived on the first. And they hung out together all the time. They are both black and Muslim. And Lyric found Saeed intriguing in part because he was an actual Black Panther. Lyric had grown up interested in the Black Panther Party but had never actually met a member before. She was a student at the time learning to do documentary work. Saeed had told Lyric that he was going to be moving to the Bronx soon. And then one day she came home from school. I usually stopped in his apartment to say hello just because it was before I went upstairs I would pass his apartment. And when I looked in the apartment all of his things were gone. There was no furniture. There was no indication that anyone had ever lived there. And I assumed that he had probably just moved to the Bronx. But I thought it weird because I was like you know it was too hasty. He would have told me. And while I am staring at the empty apartment I get a call from him. He sounds incredibly frantic. I had never heard that tone in his voice. He sounded like almost someone was on the other end of the phone with a gun to his head. And he said if anyone comes looking for me if anyone asks you any information about me do not give it to them. And you find out who they are for me. And I said well-- you know I was pretty petrified based on the way he sounded. He sounded incredibly nervous. And so I said well where are you? What is wrong? And he is like well I cannot really tell you but I am in South Carolina right now. I have something to tell you. You should come down here and visit. Which she did. And Saeed told her that all these years she would known him all these years she would seen him getting dressed in nice suits and going to work that was all a cover. Because Saeed was actually an informant for the FBI. She says at the time she did not know much about how FBI investigations work. So it was a very naive back-and-forth but it was very braggadocious on his part. He outlined all that he had done sort of for the FBI. And when I asked him why are you telling me this? He goes well because you do not have to fact-check me. You were there. There in that first floor apartment in Harlem. Saeed told Lyric that the FBI had paid his rent while he investigated a man named Tariq Shah. And Lyric knew exactly who that was because Saeed had introduced her to Tariq. He would come to Saeed's apartment several times when she was there. Saeed also told Lyric that his whole apartment was wired. I was pissed. You know I mean definitely this was not like-- I did not receive this information with a smile. I definitely felt betrayed. Because to me that meant that I had an FBI file. I mean and that was a question I had for him. I was like well since I was in the apartment with Tariq I was on camera correct? And to date I have not gotten a good answer both from the FBI-- sort of FOIA'd that material. That FBI has told me they do not have anything in their possession. And Saeed himself says oh no I would never record you. I would never press Play when you were there. I would never press Record. But I am not quite too confident in that. Lyric says that there in South Carolina Saeed handed her a folder full of newspaper articles about cases he would worked on. He would actually highlighted the parts in the articles that talked about his role places where he is identified just as government informant. And Lyric believed him believed that he would been an informant that he would fled to South Carolina because he was afraid for his safety after the FBI arrested Tariq Shah. Lyric did not know exactly why Saeed was telling her all of this but he mentioned he would seen other people turning the work they would done with the FBI into bestselling books. Why could not he do something similar? And that is where things stood for nearly a decade. Lyric kept in touch with Saeed and started pursuing a career as a documentary filmmaker. She met another filmmaker named David Felix Sutcliffe. And David told her that he would been fantasizing about making a film that would follow an FBI informant. And she said funny you should say because I-- I know one. That is David by the way. He and Lyric reached out to Saeed and he told them that he was just starting to work on a new case in Pittsburgh. And you know for reasons that were not totally clear to us at the time he said yeah sure let us do this. Let us-- you guys can film me. So what is going on? You did not come down here with no cameras and all that. I asked you that earlier. No you did not-- Sure they could film. But Saeed often got annoyed when they showed up. It was unpredictable when he would be OK with it. I said do not come down here with no goddamn cameras and stuff. Hello? I told you I did not want my face in this shit. You would be surprised who knows me. Everybody in Brooklyn know me. But they do not know where you are. And they know me in Harlem too. They know my face. But they do not know where you are. I might not even make no fucking independent film motherfuckers come after me. That clip is from the documentary Lyric and David ended up making. It is called TERROR. It follows Saeed as he is working this investigation in Pittsburgh. And in case this is not clear I want to point out how incredibly rare this footage is. Because normally when you hear a story about an FBI counterterrorism investigation it is pieced together after the fact using court records and whatever interviews reporters can get with people who will talk. Here Lyric and David were following someone who usually does not talk in the first place an FBI informant. They were following him in real time while he was actively working a case. So they did not have to rely on Saeed's memory to document what happened. They were there. They hung out with him in his FBI safe house. He showed them pictures he would pinned on the wall of targets he said the FBI was interested in. As best as anyone can tell the FBI never agreed to this. And apparently they never noticed that Lyric and David were filming all this time. I mean why would they have let the investigation continue if they knew?   Saeed's primary target the POI-- Person of Interest-- in Pittsburgh was a man Khalifa Ali al-Akili. Khalifa's a white guy a convert to Islam. Here's a video he posted to YouTube. He is got a beard a white turban. My name is Khalifa al-Akili and I am from Pittsburgh Pennsylvania the United States of America. . The belly of the beast. La ilaha illallah Muhammadur Rasulallah. He would engage in sort of-- not inflammatory but I would say controversial First Amendment-protected speech. Lyric says Khalifa did a lot of this on Facebook. He would post things such as you know 2000 people died on 911. However X number of Muslims have been killed in the wars on Iraq and Afghanistan. You know who is the real enemy here? Things like this. He would also post videos like here's Osama bin Laden reading the Quran. There is many Quran recitations you could post on your public Facebook profile after 911. You know he also had another post that said the Taliban are the perfect wearers of the turban.   Saeed's job was to get close to Khalifa see if he was doing more than just talking. And the FBI gave him a cover. They told him to say he was working for the Red Cross. They set him up in a safe house in an apartment one block from Khalifa and he went by a different name. And just so this does not get confusing from this point on in the story we are going to refer to Saeed by that name. That name was Sharif. So Sharif-- again that is Saeed undercover-- he started going to the same mosque as Khalifa. And then he actually met him. Sharif bumped into Khalifa on the street one day and introduced himself. Here's how he described Khalifa in the film. The way I see him running around here now it would make any motherfucker suspicious. He is walking around looking like a Taliban. Khalifa had grown up Protestant and converted to Islam when he was 14. In 2001 he went to prison for selling drugs. It was a felony. Over the years Khalifa had other charges for having a gun without a license and assault. And Khalifa was public about his conversion. He would proselytize. Neighbors in his apartment building say that he would slip Islamic brochures under their doors and take down Christmas cards they would hung up. Khalifa married a Somali woman. They had a kid. And they were getting by on welfare and money Khalifa made selling books. Some of them were books on Islam that he got from a sheik in South Africa. And he would even started some kind of religious school. In 2006 he started holding classes in his apartment for local Somali children. Again here's David. And they called it al-Shabaab which in Arabic means the youth. But it is also the name of the al-Qaeda-affiliated terrorist organization in Somalia. He was not aware of that at the time when he named the school. He was not? But-- he was not. He did not know that that was the name of a terrorist organization. People mentioned it to him pretty quickly afterwards and said you know that is probably not the best name for your school and it is probably not a great idea to have like business cards that say Khalifa al-Akili Al-Shabaab. But he was kind of defiant and said well it means what it means. And if they misinterpret it or they think it means something else then that is their problem. Yeah he was not trying to hide anything. No. I mean he drove around town in a car that said Al-Shabaab Islamic Institute. Like he picked up students in this vehicle. Like on the side? What do you mean it said it on the car? Oh we will send you a Myspace picture. He literally-- like there is a picture of him posing by the vehicle with a child inside and it says Al-Shabaab. Like a big magnetic sign that he would kind of gotten made and slapped on the side of a minivan. The way like a real estate agent does. Mhm. Yes.   Over the seven months David and Lyric were following Sharif through his investigation of Khalifa they would check in with him every other day or so filming whenever they could-- in his safe house on the street while he was on the phone with his FBI handlers. Yeah what is up Todd Exactly. I do not have bay'ah to this masjid and I do not have bay'ah to the imam here either. And most people you have bay'ah to the imam. That way you can move around with them. I do not have it. It is such an intimate view of an informant's job. And what we see is how much of a counterterrorism investigation-- at least this case-- is really just someone trying very hard to make friends with a total stranger. So Sharif goes to the mosque hoping to bump into Khalifa. He asks Khalifa out for co