All across the country this month college freshmen are starting their new lives at their new schools. And it is so hard to get into so many schools these days. At Columbia University in New York City 33000 people applied. 31000 were rejected. That is fewer than 7 getting in. And the students who did get in the students who made it here they still wonder how they did it. You know it was so hard to get here what was it that worked? And they have their theories. I think it is because my application was very focused on physics and especially females in physics because obviously that is a problem. I had decent SAT scores and I had a good GPA but I think a big part of it was my essays. These Columbia students talked to reporter Phia Bennin. On their very first day on campus it was obvious who is a freshman because they all had to wear neon bracelets like they were at a waterpark. Well I have been a competitive gymnast for my entire life. I was a rhythmic gymnast and I competed for the US national team. I do not know. I am pretty diverse I guess-- Hispanic disabled good grades. I am an Eagle Scout. That might have helped too. But you do not have to talk to many kids or scratch the surface very far at all before you get this response to the question what got you into this school? I have no idea. I still actually have no clue whatsoever. Just the percentage of people that get in is just absolutely minuscule so it is just what the admissions officers see in you. And I have no idea what they saw.  You have no idea what? No. I totally relate to that. I remember I was completely clueless when it came to applying to college-- what to do to get in what to say on the essays to convince them that I was worthy of their schools. And even more basic than that I really had no idea what would possibly make one school better than another how to figure out what schools I should apply to. It was overwhelming. And today on our show-- it is September it is back to school-- we have stories of some of the most boneheaded things people try to do to get into college plus the truly incredible story of how one man made it into college. That story from writer Michael Lewis. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act one The Old College Try. So here at our radio show we went looking for a college admissions officer who would tell us the most misguided things that people do when they are applying to schools. And we found Rick Clark who is director of undergraduate admissions at the Georgia Institute of Technology better known as Georgia Tech. And he said that he and his team are regularly getting emails and phone calls from parents who are pretending to be their own kids. And he sent me some of these emails with the names redacted. You forwarded an email like this to us. This is from a mom's email address and then it is signed from a son. Yeah yeah. And it says I was impressed by GT's beautiful campus and its close proximity to so many athletic teams and facilities in Atlanta. I look forward to speaking with someone from the business school. Thanks again for taking the time to meet with us on Saturday and thanks for the awesome T-shirt. Now the word awesome is that the most common word that parents use to imitate their kids? I would say awesome and cool. If they throw those in I think they feel like they are covering their bases on impersonating a high school student. But ironically I really almost never in fact see that in an email from a high school student. Ah. So Duplicitous parents please take note. And then on the phone when the parents call on the phone do they use the word awesome? I actually just did hear from one of my staff members who said they talked to a mom the other day who clearly was trying to sound like her 17-year-old daughter not so much in the language she was using but masking her voice. About 15 minutes in she started using she instead of I even saying what if she-- I mean I wanted to list more activities on the application? Rick Clark says that one thing that has amped this up all the parents getting in touch is that lots of schools take into account whether a student shows something called demonstrated interest in their college meaning did they show up on campus? Did they write emails to the admissions office afterwards? Were they in touch? Georgia Tech he says does not take that stuff into account but parents do not seem to have gotten the memo on that. He forwarded me an email that a mom wrote to her kid offering the kid 20 if the kid would email the admissions office which might have been fine if she had not accidentally sent her email to the admissions office. And Rick Clark says that he gets where the parents are coming from. He is a parent himself. He wants to do everything he can for his kids. In fact we have got a five-year-old right now on a waiting list for a charter school. Oh so you have to deal with some admissions persons? Yeah. I am getting a little taste of my own medicine because my kid is seventh on this waiting list. And my wife the other day was like we are going to call him every week and see where he is. I am like whoa whoa whoa. You are really flirting with the line between loving him and just really being a stalker here. So you forwarded this email that you all got. And I guess I should not have been surprised by this but I have got to say I did not think it-- it is from somebody whose kid is not even applying to college. It says Dear sir or madam my second grader--  I am sorry. I can barely finish this sentence. You know this email? Yeah absolutely. My second grader has decided on a career in electrical engineering. He is leaning towards MIT  but I do not find them helpful and would prefer a southern culture.  I like that he is playing on your pride on your southern pride. Would you please tell me how to prepare him for admission? He will be an Eagle Scout by then and wants to go to the best school. Please advise. Yeah. I mean apparently MIT needs to pay more attention to seven-year-olds in their admission process. Rick Clark also sent me a bunch of college essays written by kids that they have gotten at Georgia Tech again with the names redacted. Turns out one common mistake that kids make when they are writing their essays is that they are sending out so many applications they leave the names of other schools in their essays to Georgia Tech. All right. This is one in fact in a I do not know 14-line short essay. They twice mention a wrong school name. So after visiting the campus reading the information brochure and researching the university website I understand and believe that Duke offers what I hope to gain from my college experience.  They are writing to Georgia Tech. And then it skips down a couple lines. And this is what really blows me away because there is four words here separating two school names. I have chosen to apply early decision to Georgia Tech because I believe Duke is the ideal university for me. Are there trends in what kids are writing about the way you feel like you see little fads and you get sick of them? Oh. Well the age-old one that I mean again pretty much anybody that you would interview who is been in college admission for any period of time would be-- you know we just call it now the mission trip essay. And great to go on a mission trip great to have a cultural experience but inevitably the way it reads is so predictable. We flew down to somewhere in Central America and we got off the plane. It was really hot. And we got on the bus. And 20 miles outside of the village our bus broke down but we got picked up by a chicken truck and taken into town. And then over the course of my time there I went expecting to help others but it was in fact me who was changed. And even just when you first start reading that essay you are like oh here it comes again. Most college essays are pretty bad. Rick estimates that only one out of every 20 or so essays that he reads is any good at all that is 19 bad ones if you are counting at home. But he says that he and his colleagues believe that they themselves are partly to blame for the essay questions that they actually put onto the applications questions that always get the same mundane suck-uppy answers from kid after kid after kid. Colleges just market themselves so aggressively to so many people. There is a girl that lives just on our street and she is a senior this year. And she brought me over the stack of mail that she got from schools. I mean this was just the last two months worth of mail and it had to be two feet tall. And opening those up I mean they do start to just-- you put your hand over the name of the school and it could be any place. It is funny when you put it that way. It is almost like the schools are being as generic in what they are saying to the students as the students are to the schools. That is right. Nobody puts dead squirrels on the front of their college brochure. I mean it is all football teams winning beautiful sunny day kids under a tree with a professor. I mean that is every other page. It just runs together. Rick Clark director of admissions at Georgia Tech. Go Jackets. Act two My Ames is True. So Michael Lewis is a pretty well-known writer and reporter. His books Moneyball The Blind Side and The Big Short were made into movies. His bestsellers about Wall Street include Liar's Poker and Flash Boys. But this particular story happens long before he was writing books. He was in seventh grade in New Orleans trying to avoid reading them. And the English teacher Mr. Downer asked us to write a book report on a novel called Johnny Tremain. And I went home and I looked at the book. And I noticed on the back-- there was this great book report with the book and it was just on the back of the book. Oh you mean a little summary? Little summary. And I just copied it out and handed it in and  with it. It came back with an A on it. And it says See me on the top in big red ink. And I go to see Mr. Downer and he says that is plagiarism. Oh my god. What is plagiarism? You had never heard of it? Never heard of it. And the concept was alien to me. I mean I just thought it was an odd concept because you repeat what other people say all the time. I was just repeating what someone else said. It just seemed like a very intelligent thing to repeat. And I was telling him this. I thought I was saving us all a lot of trouble. Saving us trouble like? It will save him the trouble of reading something really awful. And I would not have to write a boring book report or even read the boring book. I was doing both of us a favor. And it seemed kind of counterintuitive to have to generate a thing that had already been done. Mr. Downer does not agree and the middle school principal decides to expel Michael. And at this point do you understand what is wrong with what you have done? No I am indignant. I understand I am supposed to feel it is wrong but I do not feel it is wrong. Michael Lewis says by the way if you are a seventh grader hearing us talk about this right now and you want to try this with one of his books in your classroom you totally have his blessing. He wishes you the best though he is pretty sure you are going to get the same results that he did. Anyway ultimately his parents get involved. Seventh grade Michael Lewis is not expelled from school. But what I have to do is write 100 times a phrase that Mr. Downer has written on the blackboard I will not plagiarize the work of others. Wait. The punishment is to plagiarize 100 times over and over and over. And I did not understand really the point of this because I thought well this is just plagiarizing again. And if this is the way they just want to show me that it is supposed to be harder work to plagiarize that was it.  This has become one of the stories that Michael has found himself telling now and then over the years. Every now and then I wheel it out. And at some point it occurred to me that the mere fact I like this story says an awful lot about me. And so what does this one say about you? Well I think it rhymes with sort of my worldview and the general sense that authority is often absurd a general sense that punishments often do not fit crimes a general sense that often things that are supposed to be wrong do not actually feel wrong and maybe they are not as wrong as people say. You know we all have certain stories from our childhoods that we trot out from time to time out of all the thousands of things that ever happened to us. And usually it is not many stories that we will actually trot out right? And the choices that we make you know the selection that we make of which incidents we find ourselves telling people it says so much about us and how we see the world which ones we pick. And I bring all this up because the actual real story that Michael Lewis is here on the radio show today to report is a very good example of that. Of course this is our How I Got Into College show so this is the story of how one guy named Emir Kamenica got into college but it is also an illustration of this other thing. Anyway here's Michael. I think if I were telling you Emir's story I would probably just start at the very beginning how he was born in Bosnia in 1978 how he grew up in Sarajevo with loving parents and a happy family. But it is his story so let us let him tell it the way he tells it. All right. Well I guess the natural place to start the story might just be the outset of the war. I was 13 at the time. The war from my perspective because I was not particularly paying attention to the political situation comes truly out of nowhere. It is sort of one morning you wake up expecting the world will look just the way it did yesterday and instead there are these people in leather jackets with stockings on their heads and machine guns in their hands. So the Serb troops had not gotten to his neighborhood yet. And one Sunday his mother took Emir and his sister across the river to visit his great aunt. The walk was about a mile. So when we realized this might not have been a good idea is that we start crossing this bridge some shooting starts. And it is clear some people are shooting at us because you can see the bullets ricochet around. And we just kind of run. They managed to get to the other side of the bridge without getting shot but they could not go back. And his dad was trapped back where they lived. The Serb troops ended up killing a lot of the men in Emir's old neighborhood and raping the women. But when Emir tells the story he stresses just how lucky they were to get out for example how lucky they were to hitch a ride from two women complete strangers and to join a convoy of 5000 Bosnian refugees all of them women and children fleeing for the Croatian coast how lucky it was that they owned a camper near the beach where they spent the summers how lucky it was that it was May when the weather was warm how lucky they were even after the weather turned cold and their camper became uninhabitable. Which was actually another pure fortuitous coincidence. My mother happened to be in a market and ran across a woman who was my sister's homeroom teacher in Sarajevo. This woman happened to be moving to London and needed someone to watch her apartment more good luck. Clearly there was some bad luck too but Emir does not mention it. I have to prod him to fill in the piece of the story he most obviously leaves out. So let me stop you for a second. Yeah. Sorry go on. I was going to ask you do you know exactly what happened to your father? I do not know exactly what happened. What I do know is that a neighbor of ours a person who lived in our high rise he found my father's body on the street and he took him to the local cemetery and buried him. So we at least do know where he is. Anyway Emir and his mom and his sister moved into this apartment in a city crawling with hostile Croat nationalists. His mother was not allowed to work. And before long Emir and his sister were not allowed to go to school. When he went outside Emir would be chased by these thugs who wanted to beat him up just because he was Muslim. His family was not even faintly religious so he thought this was especially bizarre. He was stuck inside this apartment. In his telling he did almost nothing but read books. So I would get the books from the local library. I would sort of run there to make sure I do not encounter any of the nationalists that are trying to prove their patriotism by beating me up. And I am trying to picture this actually. So you are actually running through the streets with library books under your arms and running back with other library books under your arms? Yeah. It was library books. I also tried to teach myself a few things. Because eventually you get bored of reading novels so I tried to learn some more physics. I read a lot of Freud which I decided was not that good. And one of the books I read was called The Fortress by an author called Mesa Selimovic. And I do not know why. I guess 15 I was impressionable. I was very much moved by that novel. I have never actually read The Fortress. But according to the description on the back of the book it is about a young man who quote overcomes the psychological anguish of war only to find that he has emerged a reflective and contemplative man in a society that does not value the subversive implications of these qualities. Emir loved the book. He read it over and over. One day his mother announces that they would had another lucky break. Out of a million Bosnian refugees they are among the first few thousand being handed tickets to the United States. They packed to leave but all Emir has is some T-shirts blue jeans and this library book. Which is still in my room. And so when we are packing to leave I decide to bring it with me to the US as my most prized possession. So when you take this book are you sensitive to the fact you are stealing a library book? I am entirely aware of that yeah. I did not feel like the community or the town had treated me very nicely so I perhaps had less guilt than I might have in other circumstances. The UN dropped Emir and his mom and his sister in Atlanta which was as good as any other place since they did not know a soul in the entire country. They were picked up at the Atlanta airport along with an older Bosnian couple they do not know at all and taken to their new home. And we pull into this apartment complex. And I remember very well when the van stopped I just saw this look of terror on my mother and sister's faces. So I immediately turned to them reassuring said oh no no no. They are not dropping us off here. This is just where this couple is going. We are going elsewhere. So the guy opened the door. The other couple got out. And I just sort of with my hand signaled to my mother and sister to sit still because surely surely this is not where we are going. But in fact that was where we were going and it is just horrible. There is cockroaches running all over the place. So far as he could tell there were not any other white people in the neighborhood. And to Emir this whole black people white people thing was an entirely new experience. But the first thing that struck him was that the black people did not really seem to like the white people very much. Which was particularly ironic given that first I do not know that I am Muslim. All of a sudden people try and kill me because they think I am Muslim. I did not know I was white. Now all of a sudden these kids want to beat me up because I am white. Once again he could not leave his home without feeling a little bit scared even when he went to school which was called Clarkston High. Sitting in his literature class one day Emir heard a kid get shot right outside the classroom. The teacher was reading out loud from Romeo and Juliet at the time. I am not sure if others noticed the kind of appropriateness. There was lots of racial tension. I was one of I would guess like 12 or 20 white kids in a school of 900. There were lots of fights lots of fighting. Probably the worst class of all by far was this biology class. And the teacher there-- this was I think his first year of teaching. And he did not have any method for controlling the students. So one day he brought a bunny to class but the other students decided that it would be much more entertaining to use the bunny as a soccer ball. So they would just kick the bunny around while the teacher sort of ran around the classroom trying to stop this. The bunny survived but it looked like he would gone blind. One of his eyes was completely mangled. In those first few months Emir made just a single friend another Bosnian refugee named Emil. Emir and Emil were inseparable but they were joined mainly by their fear of everyone else. And how is your English at this point? Terrible. That was another problem. He says he could not really talk to the other kids or his teachers and so he sort of walked around the school in silence like a mute. To improve his English he returned to The Fortress the novel he would stolen from the Croatian library. At night he would sit down with a dictionary and translate The Fortress from Bosnian to English. It was useful because it did improve my English and it also gave me the sense of sort of-- it made me feel literary. It made me feel like I was creating something beautiful. So he was back to sitting alone in his room with his novel. But as Emir tells it all of this really just set the stage for his biggest stroke of luck the one that would not only get him into college but would change his entire life. It came in the form of a teacher who descended for maybe two weeks upon his English classroom. Emir remembers only her last name Ames Miss Ames. Or maybe it was Mrs. Ames. He thinks she was an intern training to be a teacher. Anyway she was not around for very long. Unlike his regular teacher she was full of energy. She tried all these new tricks to engage their interest. One day she handed out these photographs to the kids. The one she gave to Emir was of a boy with a haunted look on his face looking over his shoulder. Then she told them all to write an essay about the pictures. Write an essay-- that is a pretty difficult thing for me given my limited knowledge of English. So first thought I am going to dread this task. But then I realized there is this really beautiful passage this beautiful chapter I had translated I had worked on the previous night from The Fortress. So I decide to pretty much word for word replicate this passage and use that as my essay for Miss Ames. I still remember a little bit about what the passage was about. The protagonist has witnessed an injustice. I remember I closed my essay with this bit of internal monologue which roughly says I am slowly becoming a repository for decomposing sorrows regrets ignored injustice forgotten promises. I can still feel its stench. But when I get accustomed to it I will call it experience. And I think Miss Ames was impressed. And since The Fortress had never been translated into English there was exactly zero chance she would ever catch him. What happened is the next day Miss Ames walks up to me and pretty much whispers into my ear you have to get out of this school which is not what you typically expect teachers to tell you in school. But I am like yeah where? Where do I go? And she said well you know there are private schools. I was like well do not those cost money? She says well some of them have financial aid. In fact I have a job interview at a very nice private school on Monday. Why do not you just come with me and ask whether they have financial aid? And I was like OK. So the following Monday instead of going to Clarkston High in the morning Miss Ames comes to pick me up at our apartment complex. And she drives me to midtown Atlanta to this just beautiful wonderful school with manicured lawns. It just looks lovely. This new place is called The Paideia School. He is never heard of it. So she goes to have her job interview and I go to the admissions office. And there is the admissions officer. So she is sort of looking at me as sort of so? And I remember pretty distinctly I said I am a Bosnian refugee. My school is really bad. Can I please go here? You would memorized that sentence? I think I had practiced it ahead of time. So it is stuck in my head because I had kind of planned this great pitch that I had which is I am a Bosnian refugee. My school is really bad. Can I please go here? She points out to me that applications were due three months ago. She asked whether I need financial aid. I asked how much it would be. She said something which to me was equivalent to a bazillion dollars. So I said yes I need financial aid. She points out those were given out six months ago. She then suggests maybe I should think about applying for the following year. And to that I retort I am a Bosnian refugee. My school is really really bad. Can I please please go here? And I guess that was effective particularly in conjunction with the essay which Miss Ames brought to her job interview so that when she was asked why she wanted to be a teacher she pulls out this essay and says because of children like these. These children who plagiarize essays from stolen library books. She did not know that.   Unbeknownst to me at the time Paideia is the most PC diversity-obsessed school south of the Mason-Dixon line. I mean they really think diversity is important. And a Bosnian refugee at this time now that is a very rare commodity. So they basically managed to dig up some money. I was there sophomore junior and senior year of high school. And it was a lovely place. It was a heaven on earth as far as I was concerned. All the teachers went by their first names. We had couches instead of desks in the classrooms. I mean not just was the school good I also felt safe. And this feeling of safety had been lacking for the previous few years. And I think it does something to you. I think you have new resources to pay attention to things about the world which are beautiful things about the world which are interesting things about the world which are intriguing. I am speculating here but I think you are somewhere at a deep level distracted by the threat. I could instead focus on catching up on the things I had not learned. Four years later he was a student at Harvard on a scholarship that paid for tuition room and board. From there he went and got his PhD in economics also from Harvard. At Harvard he met his future wife. And from Harvard he went to the University of Chicago which gave him tenure at a young age. And he is now a rising star in the field of behavioral economics all because Miss Ames read his plagiarized essay and was fooled by it. I mean it is by far the-- in everyone's life there are many forks. This is by far the biggest one. This has made the most difference. I mean there is no doubt that my life got onto a very different kind of a track. And I am pretty sure that if it had not been for her I would have stayed in Clarkston High School. I would not have thought to apply to a private school. I most certainly would not have gone to Harvard. And she gave me a piece of paper and a pen 10 years ago and said OK describe what you think of as the most wonderful life. I think I would come up with something less good than what it actually is. It is always hard to say how your life would have turned out differently if something had not happened to you. But in Emir's case there is at least one useful reference point his Bosnian friend Emil. Emil had not been airlifted out of Clarkston into some fancy private school. Instead he dropped out of Clarkston done some bad things and actually spent some time in jail. Eventually he went back to Bosnia-- no Miss Ames no rescue. Over the years Emir's told this story a lot. It might be his favorite story that he tells about himself. It rhymes with his view of the world that there is just this huge accidental component to life's outcomes that everyone owes at least some of their success not just to chance but to other people being nice for no reason at all. What became of Miss Ames? I do not know. Turned out she did not get the job at Paideia so I never saw her again at Paideia. In fact I never saw her again. At some point the fact that Emir had no idea what had happened to this woman who'd changed his entire life started to bother him. It is as if the more he told the story the more grateful he became. And the more grateful he became the more he wanted to find her to thank her but also just to show her the life he had because of her. He Googled around for her but then realized he did not have any idea how to spell her name. He pestered both of his old schools but neither of them had any record of her. No one even remembered her. His investigations such as they were were sort of half-assed but what was he going to do? Hire a private eye? My name is Irving Botwinick and my business is called Serving by Irving. So you specialize in finding people? That is what we do. We dig them up. Actually we have a motto. If they are alive we serve them. If they are dead we will tell you where they are buried. Irving's a private detective who serves lots of court papers. Since Emir was not going to hire one This American Life did it for him. All right so we have somebody we need to find. OK. All right.  So the person that I would like to find is called Miss Ames. Not sure how to spell that. I have reasons to think I can mention later that she was married at least the last time I saw her which was in 1993 in Atlanta Georgia. Emir went on to explain in great detail that he knew basically nothing about her-- height weight eye color all a mystery. When Irving asked him what she looked like he said quote She was neither particularly skinny nor fat. Not particularly short nor tall. She looked normal he said. About the only thing he remembers about her is what she would done for him. Irving thought the full-time English teacher would be a good place to start but Emir did not remember her name either. Did you have a class book for that year? Oh no. No. Somehow Irving seemed to find what Emir was saying useful. He wrote little notes to himself about what I do not know. But at the top of the page he wrote Miss Ames. Then he wrote a big question mark. Then he asked Emir to go away and write down everything he could remember from that period of his life. But before he lifted a finger to find Miss Ames he said he needed to do a character check on Emir. Because a lot of times investigators get cases where they are trying to track somebody down and then they go and they kill them. So we have to sort of verify what you are telling us is the truth as well. So Irving let us just assume that the facts are as bare as they sound. Is it hopeless? No. There is nobody I cannot find I will put it that way. I could have found Osama bin Laden if they paid me enough to do it. So how long do you need to do your search? When can we expect to be sitting down in a room with Miss Ames? Oh probably before the end of the month before the end of February. The end of February came and went. March came and went too without the slightest trace of Miss Ames. It was not for lack of trying. Irving had put his best agent on the case a woman named Gabriela Galindo. The first thing Gabriela did was to try the public school but only two teachers who had been there in 1993 were still around. And they had no recollection of not even the English teacher not even the English teacher. She hired a local detective to go to Clarkston to get the yearbook but they would not give him one. She learned that the Georgia Department of Education keeps a list of all the teachers ever certified in the state but she could not get access to the list. She called nearby colleges to search lists of graduates from the 1990s still no sign of Miss Ames. Out of desperation she hunted down all the old phone books from the region from the 1990s. These are copies of the phone books that we received going back from 1990 to 1993 of all the people in the greater Atlanta area with the last name Ames which is a very very common name we found. Yeah. Very common. And roughly how many people were there? Oh my god. Oh hundreds. And you were not even sure her name was Ames. Correct. That is the other thing. That is the other thing. We were not sure. They called every Ames on the list all these hundreds of names. Still did not find her. And it was starting to feel just a little bit weird. A lot of the people Irving goes hunting for do not want to be found but he finds them anyway. Here was someone with no obvious reason not to want to be f