Well this week in these troubled and divisive political times we have this not very typical example of majority rule and what a mess it can make. Our story takes place in a suburban school district an hour north of New York City East Ramapo New York. Picture yards strip-mall sprawl box stores. Super diverse. You have got big Latino and Haitian and African American populations some white enclaves working-class and poor and well-off areas. And for a long time now Hasids have been moving in in large numbers. Hasids are ultra-religious Jews. You have seen the ones in the long black coats and the hats. The men have beards. The women keep their heads covered in public. Like the Amish they prefer to keep to themselves so they do not send their kids to public schools. They send them to religious schools called yeshivas where Yiddish is spoken as the primary language. And in East Ramapo mostly the Hasids are poor. They are lower middle class. And here was their situation. Because they are living in the suburbs they are paying high property taxes which of course are high because they are paying for local public schools which their kids do not go to. And then they are also paying for these private schools these yeshivas. So they are getting squeezed right? And as the Hasidic population got bigger and bigger that became an issue. Because in New York these suburban school district budgets go up for a public vote. As the Hasids numbers increase there were enough of them that they could conceivably go to the polls and vote down the school budget force cuts. Though kind of remarkably that did not happen. And it did not happen because the public schools and the Hasids worked out a deal a truce. Steve White is an activist in school board politics in town. The original deal that was made many many years ago was if we do not investigate whether or not there is education going on in the yeshivas then the rabbis will not tell their people to vote down our school budget. In other words the school board will not call in the state to check and see if math and reading and history are being properly taught in the yeshivas like the state mandates if the Hasids would just stay away from the polls. Jason Friedman was superintendent for East Ramapo schools for eight years. He says the truce is actually even cruder than that. He says that the yeshivas are entitled to money from public school budgets for certain things like buses and books. And he says the deal was to give the Jewish schools as much money as was legal. Friedman says he would regularly meet with Hasidic rabbis and yeshiva administrators. His pitch was always we will give you whatever we can. Just do not vote down our budgets. I think that is what we all worked at. We tried to work out a quid pro quo situation. We could probably never ask a non-public school family to come out and vote yes on a budget. Our hope was that they would not come out that they would stay away. So the Hasidic population grew. And here's a curious demographic fact about East Ramapo. Most of the people in East Ramapo were not Hasids but most of the children were. Two out of three children in the school district were Hasidic. And the Hasids felt cheated because property taxes kept going up to pay for these schools that most of the kids in the district did not attend. And also the monies and services that the public schools were supposed to be giving the Hasidic schools they did not feel like it was enough. So the detente ended. Our story this week is about what happened once it fell apart. And I should say if you think that you have heard your share of stories about school board fights what happened next I totally assure you was like nothing you have probably seen in any school district anywhere. Because it raised such basic questions. It is usually you know just a given in our country that people who do not drive still pay taxes for roads and people who hate the outdoors pay for public parks and people without kids in the public schools pay for the public schools. Just that is the deal. We all know it. And so what happens when people who do not want to pay for the public schools take over the school board? We are devoting our whole hour to this today. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. If by the way you are listening to this by podcast or internet there is some cursing in this show and we have unbeeped the curses in this internet version of the episode. If you prefer a beeped episode you can get that at our website. Ben Calhoun spent months visiting East Ramapo over the course of 2013 and 2014. This is a rerun of our show from a few years ago. He tells the story. The dispute that finally shattered the truth in East Ramapo-- there is no way around this-- it is kind of regulate-y and fussy. But this is what ended the peace what sent the East Ramapo school district into a political brawl that is lasted years. The dispute had to do with special ed students-- Hasidic special ed students. It was fully in the hands of the district to be a mensch and to do things the right way. They simply refused. Yossi Gestetner is a political operative an activist in the Hasidic communities. He said the problem had to do with the fact that Hasidic special ed students like other special ed kids they need expensive therapies and services and education. And the government will pay for those is required to pay for them. But for that to happen the district would usually require that the kids go into a public school setting. The Hasidic and the ultra-Orthodox live in closed communities. And the private yeshivas they send their children to are all Hasidic kids. So just picture-- you are a Hasidic parent with a special needs kid-- maybe with developmental and emotional issues-- and people are telling you you want to get your kid the help they need you gotta yank them out of the environment where they are the most comfortable-- the only environment they have ever known-- and send them elsewhere. The parents just want to make sure that the children go to an environment and in a school an institution where the language spoken is the language they understand best the tradition the religion and the culture. The way they see it is the state has an obligation to provide the education and some special needs students get up to 27000 in funding. Take this 27000 put it into a different institution an institution which works for the parent and for the child a place where it helps the student and the parents best-- especially if it does not cost an extra nickel for the taxpayers. In other words you are going to spend the money anyways. What do you care if it goes to a yeshiva? But it is not that simple. You cannot do that because of federal education regulations. The government says if it is going to pay for special ed students then they have to be placed in mainstream environments as much as possible. Congress made that the law because for years our country had a real problem-- that special ed kids were being warehoused and isolated. And according to the law public schools are just considered to be more mainstream than private religious schools. So in East Ramapo Hasidic parents would often go to the school district and they would ask for their special ed children to be put in private yeshivas using government money. The school district would say sorry we have to follow the law and the law says no-- which I brought up with Yossi Gestetner. You know the law just has a very clear-- Yeah but I do not-- --and distinct preference for keeping them in a public setting. First of all if the law tortures the children the law should be changed. So do not throw around the law. I mean law was used to agitate against people all the time. So if the law is broken do not force the district to spend a million dollars to fight this damn law. Change the law and finish. It is never an argument to me-- like well it is against the law. So change the damn law. These complaints and frustrations grew and grew year after year. And so did the Hasidic and ultra-Orthodox population. Eventually that population was at a point where it was not big enough to do what Gestetner is saying-- change the damn law-- but it was big enough to do something else. When it started to matter to the Orthodox I guess that they would win-- I want to show you some of these numbers. This is Mimi Calhoun. She is a former East Ramapo school parent elected to the school board in 2004. She showed me the school board voting results from the last few decades how things changed around 2007 2008 when the Hasidim made a move for control of the school system by taking over the school board. I want to just say when you hear these totals the numbers are going to maybe sound small. Remember these are suburban school board elections. People winning with a few thousand or even a few hundred votes-- that is the norm in any district around here. I had about 3000 votes. My opponent had about 2000. And those were sort of the numbers that we had. A total of maybe 5000 people voted. The next year when Aron Wieder ran-- Aron Wieder was one of the first Hasidic candidates elected to the board. --he had 6000 votes double what I had. That was astonishing. Our numbers stayed about the same 2000 or 3000 and the Orthodox votes tripled. And then their numbers just started increasing. It was almost scary the way they-- it is like no matter what we did-- like if we could bring out 5000 votes they could bring out 7000 votes. It was almost as if they could calculate how many people we might be able to get to and they could bring out that many more people. This is Suzanne Young-Mercer. She is another former school board member. And like she is saying it is remarkable to look at these elections to see how the totals start climbing after 2007. It makes me think of that Bugs Bunny cartoon with Elmer Fudd where they are racing up in the barber chairs. Vote totals go from 5000 to 8000 13000 16000 18000. You can see both sides turn it up though the Hasidic-backed candidate's always a little bit out front. Lots of people on the public school side talk about this with bitterness and awe. They tell these stories about Hasidic voters dressed in black filing out of buses. If my husband was here he would say when he was out in front of the schools handing out stuff he remembers that someone on the religious side got on a telephone and called to say they needed more people out here to vote. And he said within minutes he felt like it was like a sea of people just showed up and were voting. Organized political takeover. Absolutely. Absolutely. The takeover was gradual. The East Ramapo school board has nine members but only three seats go up for election every year. By 2008 the majority was six Hasidicultra-Orthodox three traditional public school folks. Once the Hasidic majority took control at first many of the ways it started to remake the district were incremental-- changes to personnel and administration here and there. Kind of quickly though restricting the budget and reining in property taxes became a preoccupation. The school board determines the property tax levy when it sets its budget. Controlling taxes meant trimming corners off the budget dropping extracurriculars sports teams cutting music teachers in elementary schools. They heard that six of their music teachers are going to be cut. In response parents and students started to get involved showing up at board meetings to criticize and question. Grumbling and grousing spiked in this whole new way when the Hasidic-dominated board predicted declining enrollment for the district. And as a result it planned to close two schools. Do not close our schools. With all the growth in the Hasidic community people knew there was an intense need for land and buildings for private Jewish schools. So almost immediately there was speculation the shuttered public buildings would be sold to yeshivas. Gradually the boardroom took on a new dynamic. SHOUTING I am a student here! You need to listen to me! Eventually on one side of the room you would have the public school parents and students. They are mostly black Latino some recent immigrants many poor. More than 70 of students qualify for free and reduced lunch. And then up on the dais you would have the HasidicOrthodox majority governing the future of a school system that they would never send their own kids to. Amid the mounting controversy the Hasidic majority started this regular routine saying the board needed to go into executive session-- private session in a back room. No executive!  --sustained. It is 5 to 1. We are going to go to executive session.  The board would stay locked away for hours on end. Two hours three hours. And with the board gone parents and students who had school and work the next day they would be left waiting in the boardroom until 11 12 oclock at night waiting for a chance to speak. Steadily the wounds and the bruises and the contentious issues multiplied. But if there was a real shot across the bow one move that transformed a nasty feud into an all-out war it came down to one particular board meeting one night and this dramatic personnel change.  November 18 2009. This is the board meeting where all this happened. At the meeting the board did what had become so usual. It called for an executive session and it started walking out. But as that happened something unusual took place. The remaining quote unquote public school advocates on the board-- this is the minority-- they stopped on their way out of the room. Generally they did not associate with the activists and the parents who'd show up. But tonight they walked right up to them and they pleaded. Essentially what they said was no matter how long we are behind closed doors whatever you do tonight please do not leave. Executive session. Going back  meeting. The board did not come back into the room until nearly a quarter to 100 in the morning. And when they get back what gets put on the table is this kind of puzzling proposal to fire the district's law firm of many years and hire a new guy. And I say puzzling because listen to the specifics. The old lawyer was a local guy had gone to school in the district even. He would done the system's legal work for years and years. And the administration by every account that I have heard they really liked him. He charged 120 an hour. The new lawyer was a guy named Al D'Agostino. He was from out on Long Island more than an hour away. And his contract it would be for 250 an hour plus 125 an hour for travel. Add to that this. The new guy had been caught up in a pension investigation by the state of New York. Not exactly desirable. And a confusing move right? Especially if money is a concern. But people in the room were not confused when this came up. They knew very well who D'Agostino was. D'Agostino had recently been in the news for representing another school district one in Lawrence Long Island. D'Agostino had been involved in a controversial plan that that board was trying to push through-- a plan to close a school. The public school board made up primarily of Orthodox Jewish members who send their kids to private school. A few months ago the board voted to shut this elementary school. Parents out in Lawrence alleged the plan was to close the school in question and then sell it to a yeshiva. And in fact it would later be sold to a yeshiva. Attorney Albert D'Agostino says the board has every right to close the school and reassign the kids. And rumors that it will be sold to a Jewish yeshiva are just rumors. Right now the only decision that is been made is that it will be closed and mothballed. So prior to this meeting people in Lawrence Long Island had been in touch with the public school crowd in East Ramapo. They said this lawyer is helping our school board do these controversial things. First they are shutting the school. And also he is doing this thing where he is helping them put special education students in private yeshivas using public money. Anyway we have heard your district might hire him. We wanted to warn you. We did not know--  It was not on the agenda and no one-- In the video of this meeting from this night in East Ramapo as soon as the majority proposes changing law firms things unravel super fast. Before you know it pretty much everyone other than the Hasidic majority is trying to stop the hiring of the new lawyer. The superintendent projects that hiring D'Agostino will cost the cash-strapped district as much as 900000 more per year. Remember this is already a district that is trimming its budget. The superintendent and the public school advocates on the board they ask over and over just where is that money going to come from? While all that is happening the half dozen public school parents and activists left in the room they heckle the board. Crooks! Sometimes they just shout the board down. Shame! And you are trying to save the district money? Shame! How could you even think of that? God is watching you. That is disgusting! God is watching you. That is absolutely disgusting. And is he going to do the same thing for East Ramapo he is doing for Lawrence New York? I cannot believe I am even hearing this. Perhaps no one tries more desperately to put the brakes on this whole thing than the superintendent at the time. He argues and he pleads and he says we do not have the money. He also says this whole plan is half-baked and sloppy. He points out that there is no strategy to hand off the district's current cases from the old lawyers to the new one. I have heard nothing about a transition plan. He says in disbelief the district has cases in court tomorrow. There is no reason to do this so hastily. You should table this now. You are talking millions of dollars. You cannot as a board change attorneys overnight. I take that back. You can. Mr.   You have the right to do that. It would be insane to do it. You are putting this district in major jeopardy major jeopardy. The superintendent is still asking where all the money will come from when Aron Wieder the leader of the Hasidic majority cuts him off calls for a vote. Are you going to answer the question of where the money is? No he is not. All those in favor say aye. Five members in the Hasidic majority vote yes. The three other board members present vote no. The motion passes and Al D'Agostino becomes the board's new lawyer. With the new lawyer Al D'Agostino at the legal rudder the board forged ahead with the two school closures. Remember the reasoning had been that the board was predicting a significant decrease in public school enrollment. Enrollment never actually did decline. But the two schools were shuttered and put on the market and the board eventually sold both to yeshivas. It also changed its approach to special ed placements. It replaced the district's head of special education who Hasidic parents had had a ton of beef with and then the district started placing special ed students in private Jewish schools in very large numbers. You might wonder how would they do that if it is against the law? The answer is Al D'Agostino who imported a strategy he would used in the other school district. Now I will not get into all the gritty details here but the short of it is that D'Agostino kind of cut a messy loophole into the regulations one that allowed the board to put special education students into yeshivas using public money. These questionable placements were soon piling up in East Ramapo. And state officials were desperately trying to intervene warning the district that the practice was against the law. Also high on the priorities list for the new Hasidic majority was reining in property taxes. And with the levers of power now in its possession it launched what is pretty much been a systematic defunding of the East Ramapo public schools. Just to get a picture of how this played out inside the schools I went to a high school principal named Jean Fields. She would just retired from one of the district's two high schools Ramapo High School. The yearbooks-- this is 2007 '08 '09 '10. Fields showed me four yearbooks from when the school board really started cutting. You can actually see the yearbooks get thinner and thinner and thinner. It is like half the size by the time you get to 2010. And that is not declining enrollment. That is things disappearing from the school. Right. That is things disappearing. Fields went page by page showing me what was cut. The business department-- that was several pages-- all eliminated. All of these courses are gone. There were other departments cut by 80. Full pages of honor societies sports JROTC AP classes clubs dance home ec administrative staff. District-wide the cuts have been sweeping. Here's a partial list from the last five years. All deans all social workers eliminated. All assistant principals at the elementary school level music instruction for elementary school kids funding for field trip buses-- all eliminated. That came with cuts to administration guidance counselors teaching assistants maintenance assistant principals among lots of others. Kindergarten was reduced from full-day to half-day. System-wide over the last six years the district's laid off 22 of all its teachers. At one point Jean Fields says there got to be so few teachers in her building there was a conversation about whether the school should just let seniors go halfway through the day.  From what I can tell nothing and no one was sacred. Most high schools have things that are sources of pride. It might be a sports team or a theatre program a debate team. For Fields' school it was their marching band. It won big awards. It was featured in the Denzel Washington remake of The Manchurian Candidate. In 2012 the board laid off the band's director. We would always complain to the school board about scheduling. And what would happen is the school board would always respond and say well that is not true. You guys are making it up. Olivia Castor went to Spring Valley the other of the district's two high schools. She was there during the biggest cutbacks. And while she was there so many teachers were laid off students started having a hard time filling their schedules with actual classes a complaint that Castor took to the board where she was told the problem was not real. So I was tired of them saying that is not true so this is a document that we put together about-- Castor set out to prove the problem was real. She gathered evidence into this eight-page packet that she showed to me. It includes real student schedules from her high school. These are from 2012 so this is a snapshot from later in the cutbacks. And if you look at the schedules you will see three things. You will see study halls lunches and community service-- filler periods. Normally during those periods you would have electives or classes or APs that you are taking. For this student they have like four lunches and two study halls in one day and you have eight periods in a day. And this is grade 12? So this is a senior. Yeah that is a senior. You have three lunches back to back and a study hall. Like the student would have period one environmental science. Then they would have a study hall. Then they would have lunch. Then they would have lunch. Then they would have lunch. Then they would have public affairs. Then they would have lunch again. And then they would have algebra and trigonometry. Yeah. So basically three periods out of the eight are learning and then five out of the eight-- more than half-- is not learning. The former principal Jean Fields she confirmed this was a problem in her school too. At one point she told the administration the problem was so bad some kids might take five years to graduate because they just could not take enough required classes. Just to say the reason this situation could exist-- New York State education law has no regulations about how many hours of instruction a student actually has to get throughout the school day. Olivia Castor eventually took the schedules she would collected and showed them to the school board. I asked her how they responded. She said they told me those must be fake. As you can imagine this course of events this kind of breakdown this kind of environment it is produced a sprawling epic of public confrontation. Year after year filled with all the usual kinds of events-- rallies outside Central Office press conferences handmade signs student walkouts sit-ins. Though even the predictable events often have these details that seem to speak to the peculiarity of this specific war. Like say protests where hundreds of students fill a gymnasium and chant things like Cut the lawyer. Cut the lawyer! Cut the lawyer! Cut the lawyer! Cut the lawyer! Another unique part of this big sprawling fight is that with the board regularly shutting itself behind closed doors in executive session in their absence parents and students would end up holding these strange impromptu non-meeting meetings where they only had each other to talk to. There is a video that I cannot quite shake of a meeting like this. It is from December 2012 a meeting about possible budget cuts. Among the parents there is a mother. Her name is Cassandra Edwards. Good evening. I think I come from a different perspective. I come from the perspective of being angry at this point. As Edwards takes the mic she stands in front of this auditorium. She is still in her winter coat facing the crowd. And as she starts to talk you can see that the board has left the room. They have gone into executive session. All their empty chairs are on the auditorium stage behind her one for each public official who will not hear anything she is about to say. They are not shooting our kids with guns. They are stealing their education. And we are acting as if it is normal. We are acting as if it is OK. We are allowing them to sit in another room and not demand them to come out and speak. Who is the problem? We are the problem! We need to get angry about what is happening with our kids!  And we are not angry! I just want to pause here because you will notice the crowd they are totally with her. But as she keeps talking she gets more and more upset and it turns into this kind of upset that it is hard to cheer for. We are losing our kids! And nobody's angry! Nobody's mad! There is not options for our kids. No options. They are setting up prisons for our kids. I am wondering is there nothing good about this district and its work? Would not it be nice and productive if you would compliment the board once in a while? No. No. Is it really against your nature? Less often but occasionally folks from the Hasidic and ultra-Orthodox communities would show up at board meetings and they would return fire. In this video a man named Jay Grossman lays into the public school parents and students. When you utilize this microphone to spew hatred and negativity constantly you have accomplished one thing. You have accomplished that I my friends family and acquaintances became more involved in what is going on here. And trust me our presence here in this room is growing and will grow from week to week. When you constantly attack one of ours we will be here to defend. We will be here to counterattack if needed. Rest assured-- He is threatening us. --Mr. Wieder is going nowhere and we are going nowhere. Gradually shouting open hostility profanity that became the norm on the school board. And in terms of how deep the political chasm got there is a couple artifacts I will include for you. The first is just an anecdote. At one point people close to this situation who thought this breach could be repaired they tried to broker peace talks a sort of diplomacy summit. A lawyer that specializes in negotiations was brought in. He was a former sergeant in the Israeli military and folks thought he could make inroads with both sides. Someone close to the negotiation says everybody sat down and the Hasidic leadership was blunt. In about these words a Hasidic board member said we have all the power. Why would we negotiate? If we do we only have things to lose. There is also a candid document one that points to the political will behind the board and what it was doing. It is this letter written around the time when all this was beginning. A prominent real estate developer in the Hasidic community a man named Yehuda Weissmandl wrote a letter to the local newspaper. Dear fellow taxpayer in the East Ramapo school district again and again I read about how upset you are about the members of the school board how we bloc-voted them in how we do not have the interests of the schoolchildren at heart. Well let us take a closer look at that. For many years you took our tax money-- year after year increase after increase-- and you never had any problem with that. But when we finally get together and say that is enough that is a problem. I have a solution. How about giving all of us the option to bow out of the public school system and keep our money in our pockets? You want our money and our silence. Sorry you cannot have it all your way. The author of that letter Yehuda Weissmandl is now the president of the East Ramapo school board. Ben Calhoun. Coming up ugliness gets uglier. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. This American Life. I am Ira Glass. We are hearing today about a strange case of what democracy and what majority rule can look like. It is the story of the East Ramapo New York school district where a group of parents whose kids did not attend public schools took over the public school board for years. In East Ramapo the non-Hasidic families continued in each election cycle to try to win additional seats on the school board turn back the Hasidic majority. They never were able to. Ben Calhoun's story from 2014 continues. I have tried to talk to Hasidic members of the board current and former. I have made multiple requests in person and on the phone to talk to Aron Wieder the first leader of the majority. I have also reached out multiple times to the current board president. Neither will return my calls. I have issued a blanket invitation to the whole school board which is now made up entirely of Hasidic-backed members. I have done that twice via the district clerk with no takers. The one Hasidic board member who would talk to me is a former board president named Morris Kohn. He sat on the school board from 2009 to 2011 so he was there for some of the most severe cuts. Kohn told me he would talk to me because he did not want people to think he would been quote a madman. This is how Kohn says the story went from the Hasidic and ultra-Orthodox side. He says flat out the community wanted control of the board to do all the things we have outlined-- rein in property taxes change special ed and to make sure private yeshiva students got all the government money they could for things like busing and books. They were there for that one main purpose is to make sure the services private students are supposed to get are given and that the public school was functioning properly. Is there something inherently uncomfortable about a system being governed by folks who do not use that system or would not want to use that system? Is there something that is uncomfortable just about that? Well it is very understandable people would see it that way. It is uncomfortable or unfair. Having said that every person living in a district if they are investing money in a business and they feel OK the business is not being run properly then I would get myself in there and try to get those improvements done. Let me explain the second part of what Kohn had to say because this is less obvious. Kohn says going into all this the Hasidic community saw the public schools as a system in trouble bloated with unions and inefficiency and a good slap of fiscal conservatism would go a long way. But then once the Hasidim had control there were all kinds of external financial factors that came crashing down-- the recession the state property tax cap. And like school districts all across the state he says East Ramapo was suddenly super hard-up. State cuts government funding-- things were getting increasingly difficult to provide even the most simple services. And the board needed to do sometimes draconian cuts which obviously parents and students alike did not like that which is very understandable. And people were feeling I do not want the school board to do this. I do not want the school board to cut that. Our hands were tied. Like it or not this is what we need to do. Kohn says it would not have mattered who was on the board. Cuts were inevitable. But he says there