Zoe Chace. Ira Glass. So you went to Iowa. I did. You know there are like 50000 Democratic candidates running for president. They are all in Iowa. It is what? It is 25 right now. It is 25 right now. Mm-hm. And there is this one political writer Dave Weigel with the Washington Post he writes this newsletter thing called The Trailer three times a week. And he has this particular superpower where somehow he seems to be with every single candidate who is running at the exact same time. So at this moment where everything seems like this grand 25 ring circus with this race he seemed like maybe the very best person in the world to watch this with. When there is the next president he will have seen every moment not skipping anything. Hopefully he will understand why it happened. And so you basically wanted to see the whole election all at once the way he does. Yeah. And it is so crazy traveling through primary states with him. He knows these places so well. In Iowa we pulled up to a gas station. If I had to rank Iowa gas stations I think QuikTrip then Kum  Go then Casey's. Wait. So what is so great about QuikTrip? The current ones the fairly new ones-- there are some that have been there for a while. But the new ones I think it might have high quality lids that are like high quality plastic as opposed to the thing that just breaks-- Lids? --after one use. Yeah lids. And keep in mind. This is the only taste I am going to have for a few hours and I need the caffeine. So I have put thought into it. And I have colleagues who are-- We were leaving a Hickenlooper event and racing over to a Beto event. Beto is a former Texas senatorial candidate Beto O'Rourke. Hickenlooper John Hickenlooper former Colorado governor-- it took me so long to read up on all these guys. It took like a day to figure out who is who. Yes. Thank you for that. We flew in. We went to four things in a day. First Knoxville Iowa. Weigel looks kind of like a reporter from the '70s-- mustached notably casually dressed hair askew. We are going to this tiny event at this tiny brewpub. And as we are driving up to it we think we see the candidate standing right outside. It does look like Beto. You are right. That guy? Yeah. I think it is him. He is fairly tall. Huh. That is the outfit the chinos and everything. That is him. Is not it surreal? Just like when you are walking through a small town you are like oh that guy running for president. Yeah all right. I do not know why it is surreal to him. This happens to him literally all the time. I think he is waiting to be introduced. Oh Amy. That is his wife who is with him today-- the one woman in the-- In that group? Yeah.  What? I do not know. Just it is fun living through things like this. Oh he is really into it. It thrills him. He loves this. There is this one moment after Beto finishes his little talk and people come up to him and ask questions. And this guy-- it is in this tiny brewery which kind of looks like a rec room almost. And this one voter walks up to Beto with a beer in his hand just like as though he is at some kind of relaxed Friday afternoon cocktail party. And Weigel sees this and jumps up and kind of elbows people out of the way. Sorry I am just trying to get a picture of the guy holding the beer while talking to him just because it amuses me. Oh. Yeah sure. It kind of exemplifies the special part we are in in the election. There is no Secret Service. There are no real barriers. Anyone can just wander up to a presidential candidate. It is extremely intimate. It is his favorite time of the presidential elections. People are really close to each other. At one point at another event two of the candidates Tim Ryan and Jay Inslee they ran right past each other. You are back in the district. Go get them Congressman Ryan! You did a great job Governor! I love your speech! You are awesome! Do it again! I want to hear it one more time. It is almost like Weigel and the candidates are on some kind of a cruise or at a camp together. And they just bump into each other day after day like oh hi again. Oh I will see you tomorrow. Oh I will see you later. Are you going to be at the pizza thing? Thank you. Thanks a lot. Good to see you again. Yeah. Good to see you. See you at the-- I will not catch up with you in the run. But I will-- Are you going to run it? You also in this phase of things you get to see the candidates interacting in the world the regular world. Right. Regular people with just the most random stuff that you would not normally see. Yeah. I had this thing happened to me. I was checking into our hotel in Waterloo Iowa right? What kind of hotel? Hampton Inn. OK. And the girl who is checking us in who is like 20-ish maybe-- she seems funny and smiley. And she is really surprised to see these reporters there. And it turns out she is never heard of the Iowa caucuses. Even though the state is crawling with these candidates it is totally possible to lead your life and miss it. So Weigel explains it to her. Yeah instead of a presidential primary here-- All these presidential candidates for the nation to vote blah blah blah. We go upstairs. But my key is demagnetized so I go back downstairs. I leave all my stuff including the recorder there. And when I get downstairs I see Beto just standing there. And he is trying to get a free bottle of water from the girl. And I am like Beto? Wait do you know him? No. You have never met him. No. And I say to him Beto tell her what you are doing here in Iowa. And she looks at him and she goes are you running for president in this totally sarcastic way. Like of course you are not. And he goes actually yes I am which is just a weird answer to that question. And she jumps up goes yes queen! And he is like totally taken aback and is like thank you so much. And she goes I hope you win the presidency-- like not very sincere. And so this is just the world that Weigel was marinating in. He knows them all so thoroughly at this point. He knows them as thoroughly as he knows the gas stations in Iowa. We were at a bar. He starts talking about the jokes that candidates tell when they are out on . The horrible spouse joke. Whereas Warren has a riff where she talks about dropping out of school. It is like fell in love. Woo-hoo. Got married Woo-hoo. Had a baby. Woo. And she just-- it is like a Simpsons joke almost. She imitates getting less and less excited about her bad life decisions. She is like and then I met my first husband. Never a good idea when you have to number them things like that. My favorite Klobuchar joke is she talks about how she is Slovenian American. And it is like and for years I was the most famous Slovenian American in politics. But then Melania Trump arrived and you know what? It is like looking in a mirror. You laugh. It is like a . But Biden does the my wife is always right joke. Who else does that? People mostly learn to not do that. For today on our program we are in this unusual political moment. The Democrats have even more people running for president than the Republicans did last time. 25 people-- what is that? Today in our show we are not going to cover all 25. What we are going to do is we are going to drop in here and there. My sense is that at this point everyone is still getting to know who these people are. And so hopefully you will get in close with some of them and get an impression of them. And what we are especially interested in in this show is all of the candidates at the bottom. That is the story of this particular moment in the election is all those people between 0 and 1 in the polls who might still have a chance trying to get noticed and break out of the pack and join the front runners which is just an enormously difficult thing to do. And it is just right now starting to shift. How do you get noticed and rise above 1 in this pack of 25? From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act 1. No. No acts today. Let us just drive around. So bossy. All right madam. So Zoe so 25 candidates-- and this political operative explained this to me and I found it a helpful way to look at this. He said that the best way to picture what is happening right now is that there are four front runners-- Joe Biden Bernie Sanders Elizabeth Warren and Kamala Harris. And then depending on how you count it Pete Buttigieg is in there too. Their poll numbers are way higher than anybody else. And also they get most of the donations and most of the press attention which then generates more donations and more press attention in a kind of self-perpetuating cycle that sucks the air out that all the others want to breathe. So that is them. And then below those four or five people there is basically everyone else in the pack of 25 most of them struggling to break 1. And it seems just very interesting what is happening with them. And so Zoe you watched them trying to figure that out. OK. So for example take John Hickenlooper. Former governor of Colorado. His polling is now at less than 1. If you have not heard of him that is probably why. He cannot draw a crowd by himself. If he put out a sign in Iowa today Hickenlooper Speaks Please RSVP probably nobody would come to that event. Crickets right? Yeah. OK. Yeah. So he does these-- they are called retail stops when a politician tours a factory or whatever. So right now we are at this brand new distillery in Des Moines me and Dave Weigel. --because this stuff is actually kind of fun to watch. And we walk in. Hickenlooper and this one elderly Iowa voter are sitting at the bar the brand new bar in the brand new distillery. It is a totally staged photo op. There are about 20 reporters in a semicircle around them. But obviously if you look through the camera lens it looks like it is just Hickenlooper and the voter. What a pleasure. I cannot tell you. This is an absolute honor. You are running for what? The old guy's like you are running for what? The highest office of the land-- President of the United States. Oh really? OK. So I was an entrepreneur. I built brew pubs all over the-- mostly over the Midwest. But I built the biggest brew pub in the country and Denver was my first one. Always in abandoned warehouses. I won the Award of Honor from the National Trust for Historic Preservation. I do not know what that is good for. It is so strange that these guys actually-- they do have to kind of just brag about themselves to people huh? Yeah. Like people do not know who they are. I mean not to be mean about it but people  do not know who they are. So they just have to say here's all the stuff I have done. Even he gets kind of self-conscious about it. I call it the fundamental nonsense of Washington or place of common sense. That is my shtick. But anyway-- That is my shtick? Yeah. Oh I like that. Good luck. Good luck the old guy says to him. 20 people are recording this and no one is going to use any of this. No one's going to use these quotes right? We move on to a distillery tour. Hickenlooper has tons of opinions about that. Remember he was in this business. I always call it the Haagen-Dazs effect which is-- No one is going to use any of this either. Instead the reporters just wait til the end. They gather around they ask him questions about Trump. That stuff they might use. So this whole thing this whole tour all of it is just for pictures. Yeah. What the campaign hopes for is that out of the 25 candidates tonight viewers will see a picture somewhere of John Hickenlooper drinking a beer in Iowa. I do not see how that is going to make him president. That is not going to be enough to take him out of the 1 and put him up there with the front runners. Iowa though-- voter by voter. These 1-ers they are also going around Iowa talking and talking and talking to the actual voters the real human beings who go to the caucuses and vote. And in order to do that the candidates who cannot draw a crowd on their own one thing those guys do is go to local Democratic clubs. The idea is you do these Democratic clubs for a while county Democratic clubs and then you get popular enough to graduate out and draw a crowd on your own. Ah. Like Pete Buttigieg he had to do the Democratic clubs for about a month. He went around introducing himself and then he graduated out. Now he can draw a crowd on his own. Most of them have not. I remember-- there is a Delaney bumper sticker. They are real. Whoa. There was one that was-- What if that is Delaney's car though? It could be. John Delaney also at less than 1 rich guy and former congressman from Maryland. He is doing a meet-and-greet with the Clive County Democrats at Wobbly Boots Barbecue. So I am sure this is going to surprise you. I actually believe I have the best .  But I think what makes it best is it is different and I can get it done. Delaney's moderate. He is not into Medicare for All. He is not into the Green New Deal. Even his climate change plan is all wrapped up in red white and blue bunting. Because we are solving the problem the old-fashioned American way by inventing and building. Hear hear!  The room is packed actually. People here are eating John Delaney up. So it is working. Yeah. I came to see exactly this one of these 1-ers winning people over to their side. And Delaney is betting his chips on Iowa. He is got eight offices there. That is more than anyone else as of a couple weeks ago anyway. He is been there the most times. We ran into him in the airport on the way there. It was his 29th trip. He is doing the purist version of this play on the campaign trail a Jimmy Carter play. It is basically get a huge surge by doing great in the Iowa caucuses the first in the nation. And the way you do that is voter by voter. That is what he is doing out here. That is what Carter did. Carter was the first candidate who ever did that. They did not have a caucus before or they did not have a caucus people paid attention to before. He lived here. Came in famously second to uncommitted. It was like uncommitted 30 Carter 25 or something. And people were like oh he beat all the much more famous senators. Who is this guy? So that was more than 40 years ago. But it is still like-- So everybody's doing this Carter play. That is how you could think about it. A lot of them. I talked to one voter. He liked this meeting so much he said he might caucus for Delaney. He might. He is still shopping around. But the number of people shopping has dropped since the first debate. And the window's closing for the 1-ers. The debates-- they are probably the biggest chance that any of these underdogs get to rise out of the underdog pack and come barking to the forefront. The next one's at the end of the month. There has been one so far of course. And two days before the first debate the team for one of the candidates as you know Zoe let me watch a full day of debate prep. And by sheer luck it was the candidate that most of the media declared the breakout star of the first night of the debate Julin Castro. Zoe you ready to hear the story? Obviously. OK. Here is the team that got him to victory. OK so the three of you have you ever done debate prep before? Nope. No. No. Meet Maya Rupert Jen Fiore and Sawyer Hackett the campaign manager communications advisor and national press secretary for Julin Castro. Castro was mayor of San Antonio then ran the Department of Housing and Urban Development under President Obama. They all worked for Castro there. If you add it up they had done three full days of debate prep before this one the one that I saw. And they were going to do one more after that. That is how important this is to them. All right so this is what we have got on the agenda for this morning. We are in a hotel conference room in Miami. All over the walls are these big pages torn from flip charts each with a different topic and then three or four possible talking points for the candidate to use in the debate that they worked out in previous sessions. The guy talking is deputy campaign manager Derek Eadon who is running these sessions. And he is up in front by the easel with the flip chart. And the candidate is standing at one of five podiums in front of the room. He is in jeans and a white dress shirt sleeves rolled up immaculately clean white Adidas iced tea which by the way he told the New York Times is his comfort food on the road. And then we want to talk through a little bit of closing statement. Castro's staff I should say is deeply aware that most voters still do not know who Julin Castro is. And they told me that success in the first debate to them would be something very basic-- that voters would notice Castro that he is in the race. Here's Jen Fiore his senior communications advisor. Maybe it changes their math right? Maybe they were supporting one person. They thought oh but wait. But wait. I heard a lot of interesting stuff from Julin Castro and I have got to shift my math. One of the flip charts on the wall was Top Five Takeaways meaning the top five things that they want voters to take away from this debate. They read I like him he won game changer can handle his own and winbeat Trump. So OK. How do you get voters to change the math? If you think about it the debate means 10 candidates standing on stage for 120 minutes two hours. So that is 10 minutes per candidate. But you take away commercial breaks and questions. What it leaves the average talking time for each candidate is actually eight minutes-- eight minutes to implant yourselves into the brains of millions of people. Eight minutes-- though that is just the average. Not everybody gets that much which is actually the thing that Castro is most afraid of going into the debate. He says they have studied these moderators. And they do not have a track record of actually enforcing time very well. So you have got to be mindful. OK if they are going to let people go the worst case scenario is not that I am flat it is that I do not get any time whatsoever. Because people got into a skirmish and other people butted in. And all of a sudden the time's gone. Some candidates just end up getting five minutes. So you have limited time and you have no idea what they are going to ask you about. And so you have to prepare perfect pithy answers for every imaginable question. And what perfect means-- Julin's staff wants him to work three specific elements into each of those answers if he can. They want some of his personal story-- raised by a single mother working class neighborhood that kind of thing. They want him to talk about the stuff that he has done in previous jobs in government-- prove that he is capable. And of course they want him to talk about what he is going to do next if he gets the job of president. All three things in each answer. So for instance when they are hammering out an answer about climate and the Green New Deal Castro he starts pitching policy ideas. I think here we want to stress-- we are going to lead on combating climate change get to net zero create jobs in the new energy-- Then Jen jumps in. Talk more about your experience. Right but not a lot of an impact. Maybe nobody on the stage other than maybe Governor Inslee has actually done the work to help people recover the way that you have right as HUD secretary. I remember the trip that you took to Louisiana after that horrendous flood and-- Talk about what you have done on climate change she urges him which he then incorporates into his next run-through of the answer. As Housing Secretary I worked to make sure that communities could rebuild from natural disasters in a more sustainable way. And as president the first thing that I would do-- Notice the pivot there from his previous experience to his plans for the future? What makes all this so tricky is that under the rules of the debate he has to finish his answer in just 60 seconds. To figure out how to fit everything in basically Castro answers the same question over-- I grew up with a grandmother that had diabetes. --and over-- I grew up with a grandmother who had diabetes. --and over-- I grew up with a grandmother who had diabetes. --and over. You know I grew up with a grandmother who had diabetes. In case it is not clear each of those times he talks until he reaches one minute. And this distinction between physical health care and mental health care.  So was that a minute or was it mistimed? That seemed like a forever minute.  Yeah. They spend hours doing this. It is tedium chewing over how to best fill those precious eight minutes they are going to get. And of course the one politician that it is hard to picture doing this is the public speaker who improvises his way through stadium speeches and meet-and-greets at the Korean Demilitarized Zone-- the guy who got his job specifically by not doing this and is beloved by lots of people for not talking like this the man that Castro hopes is going to be facing off against next year-- Donald Trump. To break things up during the day the staff organizes a surprise for Castro just a little breather to lighten things up. Derek gets out his phone and people crowd around him. Hello. Can you see? We cannot see just yet. It is a call with the Sklar brothers the comedians and actors Jason and Randy Sklar who like Castro. And they have decided that they wanted to pitch jokes for him to use during the debate. The campaign was like sure why not? There we go. All right. There we go. How are you doing? We are good man. How are you? That is good. Come take a seat. We have got Secretary Castro right here. We are in the middle-- Castro met the Sklar brothers when they had him on their podcast. The Sklars are identical twins. And important fact about Julin Castro-- he has an identical twin brother who is also in politics-- Congressman Joaquin Castro. You were great on our podcast. Thank you so much. Hey thanks a lot. And we were thinking about things that you can either take or leave but it is just thoughts in our brain that you put into your own speak. And so OK. So do you want to hear what we have so far? Yeah yeah yeah. Go ahead. I am getting a pad and paper down right here. This is just a general one. Some folks in this race are against Medicare. I am for Medicare not only because I think it has value but also out of respect for some of my older opponents like Bernie and Biden.  That is so true. They are going to need it. They are going to need it now. Hard to imagine a more receptive room for that joke just  at the time with the front runners in the race. Here's another. There are more people on this debate stage than at a Trump inauguration.   Yeah like there is a lot of people up here. I mean the height-- how tall are you? You are our height. Yeah 5' 7 or 5' 8. Yeah. OK 5' 7 5' 8. So you are our height. So you are standing next to Cory Booker who is like 6' 2. 6' 2 yeah.  is 6' 4 and de Blasio is 6' 5. So you can say now I am standing up here you can see that I am not as tall as these guys. But I went to Trump's doctor-- I went to Trump's doctor and he said I was 6 foot 3.   The Sklars went through jokes all of them pretty mean about candidates Booker de Blasio Ryan Moulton Klobuchar and Inslee. And can I just say respect for anybody who can make a joke about Moulton Ryan or Inslee? None of these jokes are going to make the cut Castro's staff tells me later. Those kinds of jokes just are not Castro's style. The one joke they could imagine the candidate actually telling onstage at the debate-- I have to say it really surprised me-- the one about how he is kind of short. Of course the other thing that Julin has to practice is reacting to all the other candidates and the moderators. They study videos of his opponents and they do this. Hello and welcome to sunny Miami Florida for the first Democratic debate of the 2020 presidential cycle. I am Rachel Maddow. I am a lot of people. It is a mock debate session. Sawyer and a staffer named Millie play the moderators. Four other staffers stand at podiums flanking Castro's. The men are now in ties and jackets. They want to give Castro the chance to run his answers under debate conditions where he is going to have to wait for his opponents to speak where he might have to field answers that kind of poke at him. And I have to say it was totally charming and fascinating how accurate they tried to be at playing the other candidates in the debate. Out on the road they have watched these politicians deliver the same lines again and again. So when Derek who is playing Cory Booker gets a question about gun violence he has Booker's lines down cold. I have been waking up in the middle of the night hearing gunshot. I released my policy not far from where Shahad Smith had been killed. When a staffer playing Beto O'Rourke is asked about Castro's ability to connect with Latinos and to speak Spanish-- apparently Castro is not as good at Spanish as Beto is-- fake Beto responds fully in character. Look Lester I think it is pretty offensive that you and others continue to say that just because someone does not speak Spanish means they cannot connect with the Latino vote. There is many ways to connect it. For example Amy and I are still living in El Paso. I have grown up my entire life there. And so I know the unique challenges that our border community faces. In the mock debate Castro does a relaxed solid job deploying the answers that he is been working on. But he also gets to practice interrupting other candidates. And this is important because again he is worried that other candidates might hog the stage and he will not get much time or many questions directed at him. And Castro told me that his natural inclination is not to interrupt. I mean for me I am not naturally the guy in a group that has to talk all the time like they would call gunners in law school. You know gunners? People that would in law school classes that basically would be the ones always trying to answer the question that a professor would throw out. That is not me. I do not know if that is spin or not. But to make sure he does get to talk in the debate he is keeping in his back pocket two little speeches that he knows are really strong that if needs be he is going to bust in and interrupt somebody with. They are actually listed. These two speeches are listed on a flip chart page on the wall that is titled Interruptions. One of them is listed as Police Brutality. And in the mock debate he practices jumping in on another candidate's answer the guy playing de Blasio to deliver this. I have been able to deal with this as an executive of America's biggest city. Small town-- You know Ken-- Lester this is important to me. And I have been an executive too. And then Castro delivers an answer that he knows really works. But it made me think what about Eric Garner? And what about Tamir Rice? And what about Michael Brown? What about Laquan McDonald? At the real debate Castro delivered a version of that same speech. But that was not the moment that made him the breakout star. There was also not any of the meticulously crafted three-part messages that I watched him labor over. And OK just to step back if you saw the Democratic debate you know that the big clip from the second night was Kamala Harris challenging Joe Biden on race. But the big clip from the first night was the other item on Castro's flip chart list of interruptions. On the chart it just said 1325 Immigration. Now 1325 if you are not following this is the part of the immigration law that makes crossing the border a criminal offense. Castro wants to get rid of that. It would still be illegal to cross the border but you would not face criminal charges. And the day after I watched him prep Elizabeth Warren came out in the Huffington Post saying yeah I am with Castro on this 1325 stuff. So that was the day before the debate. And seeing that Castro and his staff to talk about maybe they should do more with 1325 in the debate. And they talked in the past about Castro maybe challenging the other candidates on stage to join his position on 1325 but now they decided yeah it is not really a maybe. He really should try to make that happen. And Castro walked on stage looking for an opening which he got about half an hour in. I will make sure that number one we end the ICE policies. Cory Booker is answering a question about immigration. As planned Julin pounces. We actually will lose security and our values. We must fight for both. If I might very briefly-- and this is an important point. My plan-- and I am glad to see that Senator Booker Senator Warren and Governor Inslee agree with me on this-- my plan also includes getting rid of Section 1325 of the Immigration and Nationality Act. He then explains 1325. And so I want to challenge every single candidate on this stage to support the repeal of Section 1325. The next question is to Beto O'Rourke and again Castro swoops in. We would not put kids in cages. In fact we would spare no expense to reunite the families that have been separated already. This is the exchange that ends up the biggest one of the night. And of course the thing that made it pop is that all the preparation led to this unprepared unscripted moment. Unlike all those careful one-minute answers that Julin rehearsed this felt like and real. Let me respond to this very briefly. Actually as a member of Congress I helped to introduce legislation that would ensure that we do not criminalize those who are seeking asylum and refuge in this country. I am not talking about the ones that are seeking asylum. If you are fleeing desperation then I want to make sure-- I am talking about everybody else. --everybody treated with respect. I am still talking about everybody else. But you are looking at-- It all culminates with this. I think that you should do your homework on this issue. If you did your homework on this issue you would know that we should repeal this section. It was Castro that came out of nowhere. Nobody was talking about Castro. He did the Texas takedown. Turned around clocked Beto. This is Van Jones on CNN that night. I mean you never saw it coming. He bought himself a lifeline tonight. And that is why I love these debates. A lot of the media agreed and lots of people on Twitter. Google reported a leap in people searching for Castro's name. And it led the campaign to its biggest fundraising day ever 32 times more than just before the debate. Castro was suddenly invited to be on Morning Joe and tons of other TV shows. The only thing that had not gone optimally was his exit from the stage at the end of the debate. Derek had advised him. I would suggest go talk to Elizabeth Warren as quickly as possible. Yeah. Like the dynamic-- Oh you mean because you know that the focus is  The dynamic of you Booker and Warren genuinely liking each other will be something that will be good for the . In fact at the debate's end Cory Booker is the one who got to Warren first and they hugged while Castro was shaking Tim Ryan's hand. And then Warren walked over to Castro and they embraced. So it worked out in the end even there just fine. Overall a win. And a week after his breakaway performance in that first debate Castro was no longer a 1-er at least in one poll. ABC News poll put him at 4 same as Buttigieg and just below the four frontrunners Biden Sanders Warren and Harris. Coming up we tell you who is going to win the election. Kidding. We did though record a candidate who decided to just bribe a voter with 12000. No joke. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. Hey. Hey. First time we are in the studio together. It is the first time we are in the studio together. OK. Yeah. Let us do this. And you had this kind of amazing cinematic recording that you are going to play for the people right now. Yeah. So I was down in South Carolina and Columbia. And I had this opportunity to pin a mic to Cory Booker one of the people running for president. Mayor of Newark New Jersey and now Senator of the United States. Yep both of those things. And so this recording it starts we are inside of a building. And then it goes outside and he is sort of walking this distance to go and give a speech. And it is basically just his point of view in this moment which is what I like about it so much. You can put it on this side. OK. I can double mic you on the same side. Absolutely. OK. Senator you ready? Switch pocket. Yes. I am going to hand you this. You have about 50 people outside cheering your name. Cheer them on and then we are going to march. Just follow me the whole way. OK. Everyone's going to be behind you and press is in front of me. OK. All right ready? All right.  All right! All right! This is amazing! Cory! Cory! Cory! Cory! Cory! Cory! I love you guys! So in t