When he wants to explain to people what his life is like these days Lenny sometimes tells this story. On election night in 2016 he says he went to a bar got a seat near a TV ordered a beer and started making small talk. And I turned to the guy to my right and I said Did you vote? And from there he went into a long explanation about-- just some shadow government ideas and whether voting makes a difference. And probably 10 minutes into it he was talking about mass shootings and then eventually Sandy Hook. Sandy Hook of course where a gunman killed 20 children all in first grade as well as seven adults. This random stranger then started telling Lenny this particular story about Sandy Hook. He thought the whole shooting was fake. It had to be fake he said because one of those first graders also showed up as a victim in a second mass shooting all the way over in Pakistan. In the corners of the internet where people trade Sandy Hook conspiracy stories this is a key piece of evidence that Sandy Hook was not real. Of course it was real. And what happened in Pakistan was in reality about two years after Sandy Hook. The Taliban gunned down more than 100 kids there. And there was a public vigil and at the public vigil probably as a sign of solidarity with other kids who had died in school shootings mourners had this photo of a boy from Sandy Hook smiling and wearing a Spider-Man shirt under a corduroy jacket with a furry collar. Sandy Hook deniers saw that in the coverage and they pounced. Did he die twice? Did he die at all? So the guy at the bar with Lenny is rattling through all this Pakistan stuff. And then as Lenny explained to one of my co-workers Miki Meek the guy mentions the kid's name-- Noah Pozner. I did not really need to hear much more than that. I just needed to shut him down basically. So what did you do? I took out my driver's license and I said Look who you are talking to. You know show some respect. The boy in the photo was Lenny's son Noah who was six when he died. Does he connect it or-- Oh sure. He connected it instantly yeah. And he just became more agitated. Very angered. Went outside and maybe had a cigarette came back yelled at me some more. Oh my god. How much did they pay you? How can you do this? He was committed to his belief. I was the villain. People like this man at the bar pretty much redefined everything about the way Lenny lives his life. Where he lives how he lives. He runs into these hoaxers in person and pretty much every day online. They think the government has paid him millions to play the part of a grieving dad. In their minds Lenny is the sick one. Noah was not ever even his kid. And the person who has popularized these theories more than anybody is Alex Jones who runs the website Infowars and who pushed these theories with his radio show and his YouTube videos. Alex Jones made his name right after 911 promoting the idea that 911 was an attack orchestrated by our own government. With Sandy Hook Jones said many times that he did not believe the shooting was real. Sandy Hook is a synthetic completely fake with actors in my view manufactured. I could not believe it at first. I knew they had actors there clearly. But I thought they killed some real kids. And it just shows how bold they are that they clearly used actors. He is claimed that the government or some shadowy global forces are the ones who hired these actors. He and the other hoaxers call them crisis actors. It is like this whole alternate world that exists right next to the real one. It makes life miserable for parents like Lenny. But unlike most parents in that situation Lenny decided to go all action hero on the hoaxers and on Alex Jones. Action hero I will do what needs to get done to defend my family damn the consequences. Lenny is resourceful. He is dogged. He does not give up. In this world that we live in of hoaxers and trolls he has marked out a path that I think few of us would ever want to take. But it is kind of amazing to hear what it entails. Today on our show we have Lenny's story. And then we have a story from writer Jon Ronson where he also tries to untangle where this alternate hoaxer world ends and the real one begins. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One Down the Rabbit Hole. So our story about the transformation of Lenny Pozner was put together by Miki Meek. I should say there is some curse words in today's program that we have unbeeped for this podcast version of the show. If you prefer a beeped version it is at our website. Here's Miki. The first time Lenny became aware of any conspiracy theories about Sandy Hook was about a month after the shooting. He would been on a media blackout trying to get through Noah's funeral and taking care of his two young girls. They were also at the elementary school that morning. And one of them was Noah's twin sister. She hid in a separate classroom. But one day Lenny finally felt ready to go online read the news googled his son's name. Infowars was coming up on search results. The forums. The forums. Yeah. And it is just completely disgusting. In just over 30 days this whole world had been invented. And one of the central pieces of it involved Lenny's wife. Infowars fans were dissecting this one interview she did on CNN. It was with Anderson Cooper just days after Noah's funeral. What do you want people to know about Noah? He loved running and playing with his siblings and he loved bubble baths and fireflies. And he loved eating the inside of Oreo cookies. And he played the video Gangnam Style ad nauseum. I understand he used to tell his siblings that he managed a taco factory. Yes that he was going to split his time as an adult between managing a taco factory and being an astronaut. The comments online were gross and flimsy. Why did not she sound sadder? Why would she put on lipstick if she was really grieving? And was not she too old to be the mom of a six-year-old kid? They were convinced that something was up. How are you holding up? I mean-- Most of the time I am kind of numb. I think every mom out there can relate to the fact of how long it takes to create a baby. Those nine months that you watch every ultrasound and every heartbeat. And it takes nine months to create a human being and it takes seconds for an AR-15 to take that away from the surface of this earth. This reference to guns was another aha moment for conspiracy theorists. Some of them started digging into Veronique's life looked up her maiden name and then said hey look at this. There is a Swiss diplomat who has her exact same name. And even fishier this diplomat once went to an arms control summit at the United Nations. So maybe they are the same person. Maybe she is one of those elite globalists trying to make guns look bad so President Obama can repeal the Second Amendment. Suddenly every real sentiment Veronique shared about Noah was getting reinterpreted as lines from a sinister script. They were here and they mattered. They all have families. And they mattered. And the kicker that cinched it for these conspiracy theorists? Anderson Cooper's nose. There is this moment when the tip of his nose disappears because of a digital glitch in the video-- what CNN says was normal interference that happens with a live satellite feed. It is just a couple seconds but hoaxers would not let it go. They said that it is a green screen or a blue screen or whatever. So that was a fake interview and Veronique was a participant of a fake staged CNN interview. That conspiracy theory was all over YouTube and it was all over YouTube with Noah's image. I have talked to parents who have lost kids in other mass shootings and they have all been blindsided by online harassment from conspiracy theorists. The crisis actor claim is so common now these attacks usually start almost immediately after victims are IDed in the media. And parents who go on TV and talk about gun control like Veronique they get it the worst. Sandy Hook is when this really took off. Families get stuck fending off all this crazy hate by themselves. There just are not that many resources for them because law enforcement still has not figured out how to deal with most cyber harassment and the tech companies are not much help. So most families just try to ignore the conspiracy theorists and hope they will eventually go away. And that is what Lenny did for a while. His life was a wreck. But after about a year and a half they were still at it and he could not let it go anymore. I realized that grieving requires a calmness and a silence. And all of this material was a distraction for me and it was noise. And I needed to handle that noise so that I could have the silence and calm that I needed. There is this photo I love of Lenny with his arm wrapped around Noah. He is got a walrus mustache and he is kneeling on a trampoline with a soft smile. It is spring and Noah has all this big brown hair fat cheeks. He is snuggling his whole body into Lenny's chest. Lenny's got tons of family photos like these posted them in an online memorial he made for Noah right after he died. The Sandy Hook deniers downloaded them and repurposed them into cruel memes. Wrote fake across Noah's face took a picture of his headstone and photoshopped under his name is not buried here. Photos of his daughters were circulating too. He could not just leave them out there on the web with the trolls. Lenny got consumed with thinking about how to take control of the situation how to extract Noah and his family from all this. The internet did not scare him. It was actually his comfort zone. He ran his own IT business. He was not the kind of guy who sat around and complained about how something did not work. He was the guy who fixed stuff. So you need to find what the problem is and then find what your solution is and then start getting closer to that solution step by step. Otherwise the problem is overwhelming and then you just want someone else to fix it for you. Yeah. You have to track down where you can make a difference and get closer to being less broken. There was one other thing that made Lenny especially qualified to deal with the conspiracy theorists. He used to enjoy those theories himself. The classic fun ones-- Bigfoot Loch Ness Area 51 NASA faking the moon landing. Like what is the fun of it? It is suspending your disbelief. It is like sitting down and watching a science fiction movie and then looking at the what if. And it is just fun especially if there is no price to pay in your life and there is no cost to that way of thinking then it is just a game. Sometimes he even listened to Alex Jones in his car. And in fact just a month after the shootings when Lenny first saw those things on Alex Jones's website he tried to reach out. He found a general Infowars email address and shot him off this message. Alex I am very disappointed to see how many people are directing more anger at families that lost their children in Newtown accusing us of being actors. Have not we had our share of pain and suffering? I used to enjoy listening to your shows. Now I feel that your type of show created these hateful people and they need to be reeled in! Exclamation point. About an hour later he heard back from Jones' staff. And they responded with We have not supported the crisis actor claim. We insist that it is a true event. On and on. This was not true. Jones did spread the crisis actor theory. It was on his website at the time and he started talking about it a lot. That CNN interview with Veronique he talked about it all the time. Folks we have got video of Anderson Cooper with clear blue screen out there. He is not there in the town square. We have got people clearly coming up and laughing and then doing the fake crying. We have clearly got people where it is actors playing different parts of different people. I have looked at it and undoubtedly there is a cover-up. There is actors. They are manipulating. They have been caught lying. And they were pre-planning before it and then rolled out with it. What Lenny wanted was a one-on-one conversation with Jones but it did not happen. There were a few emails after that asking me to prove that I am really who I am and leading on to get me on the show. Lenny did not want that. He is very private and very reserved a behind the scenes kind of guy. He is careful when he talks. Things like no comment that is off the record or do I have to talk about my personal life? That came up all the time during our interview. One of the ground rules he gave is that I had to run his quotes past him and his lawyer because he is worried about his own safety if his words were misconstrued. Also he is fighting some of the conspiracy theories in court. We agreed to his terms. And in the end he did not ask me to edit any of his quotes. But he did request that we remove one personal detail and we did. Now a year and a half after he reached out to Alex Jones he decided to try a new tactic. He would go directly to Jones his followers and the other Sandy Hook conspiracy theorists. I think his approach was I am going to make them see the light. This is Veronique. She and Lenny were separated when the shooting happened but were still very much in each other's lives. They decided to start releasing documents about Noah. Report cards school photos. He even disclosed Noah's death certificate which was a difficult decision that we made but figured after a while of providing this hard copy convincing evidence that reason would prevail and they would say oh OK yeah you have made your point. I am going to come around. Lenny also decided he would answer anyone's questions. He wanted to join this notorious Facebook group called Sandy Hook Hoax. It is where a lot of the deniers were congregating and sharing theories. The cover photo on their page looked like it came straight out of a horror movie. A corpse-like girl with a keep quiet finger in front of her mouth. The administrator of the Facebook group immediately let him in. Do you identify yourself as like I am a father? They knew who I was. They knew who I was instantly yeah. To me it seems so crazy to even go there. Like this does not exactly sound like a group of people who'd want to listen to you. People who are conspiracy-minded see these tragedies unfold on the internet or on television. They still feel separate from these events. And I considered that bridging that gap could be an important step. I can add a human element to this. That is right. That is right. And so here I am. I am the person. So let let us see what happens. The questions started pouring in. Why were not these children rushed to hospitals? Why was not anything done? Why are not you suing the EMTs? Or why are not you doing this? Why was not a rescue helicopter called from Hartford? And I started to recognize some of the patterns that were there. There were the people you would expect in a conspiracy group-- anti-gun control people anti-government people but also parents. They were young parents with small children and they just could not wrap their minds around the reality that an adult can look at children in their eyes and pump bullets into their head. They just cannot deal with that. The conversation on this Facebook group quickly got ugly and abusive. Some of the members started using anti-Semitic slurs. Lenny was trying everything to keep up a rapport with them even told them I listen to Alex Jones in my car. I used to argue with people about 911 being an inside job. I entertained that we did not go to the moon. But it did not work. So he started blocking people and fighting back. This got him booted from the group. What is remarkable is just how up for this whole fight he was. When a bunch of people kept private messaging him Lenny thought you know what? I will just start my own Facebook group. He called it Conspiracy Theorists Anonymous. This name was meant as a joke. He has a dry sense of humor. Anyway he made some progress with people the people who were not full blown deniers who actually wanted help parsing out the truth of what really happened. But they dropped away once they got answers. And pretty soon the only ones left were just dark sadistic trolls coming in to entertain themselves. One of Lenny's worst trolls was a guy named Wolfgang Halbig. That is his real name by the way. He is a retired school security expert in Florida who is probably the number one Newtown hoaxer in the world. This guy traveled to Newtown appeared as an expert on Alex Jones's show. He is even called for Newtown parents to exhume the bodies of their children to prove that they are dead. Halbig ordered a background check on Lenny then sent it out in an email to lots of people. It was almost 100 pages listing everything from his social security number and phone number to almost every address he would ever lived at with photos. Names of his relatives were included too. The online harassment had become so intense that Lenny and Veronique and their two girls went into hiding. They moved into separate high security gated communities. But Lenny's address kept getting exposed and hoaxers started posting videos of where he lived. One apartment that I had moved into-- I had only lived there I think for a month-- and I got a call from a particular hoaxer who happens to be in prison now for attempted murder. And he called me up and was acting like a smart ass and then read me my social security number and then read me my address where I had just moved into. And I said well you know what? I do not like this apartment that much anyway. And I moved shortly after that. To try and throw the hoaxers off Lenny started putting utility bills in different names and got multiple PO boxes all over the place. All this forced Lenny into a new battle strategy. If they were going to expose him he would do the same to them. He wrote newspaper op-eds calling out Halbig and the others by name. And when these hoaxers posted his new addresses online he did the same to them. He also made it so that if you googled their names the first thing anyone would see was all the Sandy Hook garbage they would created. And Lenny being Lenny decided to write a biography about Wolfgang Halbig's life called The Hoax of a Lifetime. He released it as an e-book. Lenny became the one who knocks. He calls this troll wrestling. It is like trolling the trolls. He gets both energized and sheepish when talking about it. He insists sometimes the only way to fight hardcore hoaxers is to turn the tables on them. And it worked on some of them freaked them out. Still Lenny was just one guy. And every day new mountains of content about Noah were showing up online. His crusade was a lonely one. The hoaxers seemed so dangerous most of the other Newtown parents wanted to stay as far away as possible from them. In my darker moments the conspiracy part of me would return and ask myself am I the only one that lost a child? Why am I the only one fighting back? I mean what the hell is going on? I mean people were trampling all over other people's children's memories and those children no longer had a voice to defend themselves. And people were just silent about it. But while Lenny was escalating his tactics so was the other side. Around the second anniversary of Sandy Hook a small group of conspiracy theorists made an almost three hour movie on YouTube questioning the shooting. They described themselves as independent journalists and researchers but their backgrounds were totally random. They included a magician the owner of a moving company a guy who'd been arrested for stabbing someone five times and a stay-at-home dad. I just had an idea that I wanted to be an underground filmmaker myself. This is Doug Maguire. He says he met this group online on YouTube and got brought in at the end to help polish the movie. It felt exciting. At the time Doug was a struggling filmmaker in Los Angeles. Occasionally did some stunt work. He got into conspiracy theories the way lots of people do-- watching them on YouTube. Like Lenny he loved the ones about Bigfoot and UFOs. But then he went to look up news about Sandy Hook and YouTube's recommendation system started suggesting hoax videos. He did not believe the theory that the kids were actors. He thought children died but he felt pretty sure there was some other kind of cover up going on maybe one with the mafia. And where did you get that information? Like where did you come up with this idea of a mob? Had you read this somewhere? No it was-- you know because I make movies. So I think I have an active imagination. I am confused. What was your thinking? A family had done someone wrong. Like let us say the movie Goodfellas OK? Henry Hill is hiding out in a little village. He also mentioned Kindergarten Cop. When they released their film they uploaded it to a bunch of different accounts on places like YouTube Vimeo Dailymotion. Pretty soon it was showing up everywhere. To combat this Lenny had to change tactics one final time. No more talking to hoaxers one-on-one. Now the thing he would focus on was content removal scrubbing their stuff off the internet. He decided he was going to get every single copy of the movie taken down which was not going to be easy. He could not just write into YouTube and say hey this video is full of lies. That was not going to be enough. The internet is full of lies. He needed something else. And he realized he had it. These conspiracy theorists had used photos and videos of him and Noah and Veronique. Those were his property making this movie a copyright violation. The stolen images were now a useful weapon. Lenny tracked down every place where this video was posted. And you have probably seen this. There is a little button you can click on to report stuff. So that is what he did for hours every day. And success. Sort of. The hoaxers kept reposting and moving the video onto other sites. You know the crazies are not running the asylum. It is the platforms who are allowing this to go on. So that solidifies it for me that we have to just remove all of this garbage and that is all we need to do. But this of course pissed off a lot of hoaxers. We do not know what is going on. We just know it does not look right. Alex Jones. He was stumped. Lenny had successfully forced the Infowars site to remove pictures of Noah using copyright. So frustrating. This is amazing. The claimant is Lenny Pozner. They think because they can hold out some little kids and say we are shutting peoples' websites down because they are belittling the memory of these children. No we are not. But even if we were you could not violate our first amendment because that is what it is there for. And if you take our rights you take everybody's rights. And Jones put one of the guys who worked on the movie on the air. His name is Brian. He is from Alabama. What do you think of us being censored? What is been happening to you? I can tell you lots about Lenny. This man is something that you have never seen before. He is got a group of trolls. I mean they are trying to shut us down when we are just investigating it and looking at all sides it must be horrible for folks out there that vehemently think this is staged. So just specifically what have you gone through? I cannot even put up a video showing that he has put up a copyright strike against me without him copywriting striking that. These people are vile. And Lenny if you are listening your day is coming my friend. It is coming. Wow. I mean this sounds like a war is going on. I think they made a major mistake involving us. Oh I totally agree. They do not know what they bit off. Go after him Alex. Crush him. In this video on YouTube Jones showed his fans-- he had millions of them-- Lenny's email the city he lived in and the address he picked up his mail. Even held up some satellite shots from Google Earth. Lenny got this video taken down too flagging it for privacy violations. But it did not matter. The hoaxers had taken on a mob mentality pursuing and harassing Lenny. This is an Infowars fan named Lucy Richards who left multiple death threats on Lenny's phone. Did you hide your imaginary son in an attic? Are you still fucking him you fucking Jew bastard? You are gonna die. You are gonna rot in hell. Death is coming to you real soon and there is nothing you can do about it. So you are just gonna have to take it OK? Jew bastard. Look behind you. Death is coming to you real soon. She said Look behind you. Death is coming to you real soon. Lenny was already living in hiding. He would moved multiple times by then because hoaxers kept tracking down his address. But now the chances that a hoaxer might show up at his door and kill him suddenly felt much higher. His kids were living with him half the week and he worried about them. At the same time he did not consider stopping. He did not think it would make them safer. That is one of the misconceptions that exist that people think that I am only targeted because of challenging the content. And that is not the case. I took the action because I was being targeted. So if my address was published all over the internet my photo was published all over the internet and my living children's photos are published online that is existed before I did anything. I did not cause the targeting. It was already there. I was minimizing the targeting. He posted receipts for firearms. I would asked if he actually bought them and he would not give me an answer. Amidst all this Lenny kept up his daily ritual. He would wake up make coffee and then sit in front of his computer for hours flagging content trying to systematically erase Noah from the Sandy Hook hoax story. There was a lot of stuff he could not invoke copyright law for like the death threats and harassment. That was much harder to get taken down. The tech companies were wary of becoming arbiters of truth making decisions about what its users could and could not say. But Lenny in his usual methodical fashion kept chipping away. On YouTube he kept a scorecard. Once he nailed someone with three copyright strikes YouTube would remove their accounts. He killed thousands of videos this way. The hoaxers called this getting Poznered. He would become a hashtag. Then he and Veronique helped get a professor in Florida named James Tracy fired. This guy had harassed them for years and kept using Noah's image to promote his conspiracy theories. He is also the one who helped popularize the conspiracy term crisis actor on his blog right after the shooting. And that woman who was leaving death threats Lucy Richards? Lenny reported her to the police and they arrested her. She was sentenced to five months in jail. The judge rebuked her for going after Lenny saying quote This is a reality and there is no fiction. There are no alternative facts. He barred her from Infowars and other conspiracy websites as one of the conditions of her parole. One surprising thing that happened over the years is that some of the hoaxers who used to harass Lenny flipped to his side. There were dozens of them. Lenny says these were people who came to him only after they changed their own minds not people he tried to convert. He says that never works. It is a waste of time. Some of them became disenchanted when they saw Sandy Hook hoaxers who were more interested in photo shopping evidence and getting online followers than tracking down the truth. One of them was Doug who worked on that hoaxer movie about Sandy Hook. In 2016 he found a phone number for Lenny and left a voicemail. Hey Lenny Pozner this is dickhead Doug Maguire. If you ever need me if you ever want to get a hold of me and learn about what all these people are up to here's my number. Did you apologize in that message? I do not believe I did. Not surprisingly Lenny did not return his call. Doug was reaching out to Lenny because the hoaxers had turned on him too. He says he started feuding with some of them after he made a video exposing a Christian YouTuber who was making money off false outrageous claims. All of his social media accounts then got hacked. Lenny was the only person he could think of who knew how to fight back. He wanted advice. So he tried him again and got through. He told Lenny that it felt like he would been sort of brainwashed. That he would been on a roller coaster ride that he wanted to switch sides. Lenny had started a nonprofit called The HONR Network where volunteers help families from mass tragedies fight digital harassment. So Doug began helping him scrub content. When you were doing it did you feel like you were doing penance? Yeah. Yeah and my heart is very heavy for this. Were you surprised at how quickly Lenny let you in? Yeah and I still am. The fact that he even is giving me a chance I am very humbled. I tell him I love him. I tell him that he is like my mentor. Sometimes I call him boss and he says do not call me boss.   Have you you apologized to other families at Sandy Hook? No. I think just to try to call up one of these families that-- they do not need to hear from some kind of a YouTuber guy in Los Angeles. I think one day-- I am very sorry. Very sorry for any problems to any victims. Doug is now one of Lenny's most devoted volunteers. Lenny's got more than 100 people helping him out at any given time. But the burnout rate is high because the work is so intense. And hoaxers harass volunteers like Doug all the time for helping Lenny. When Lenny Googles Noah's name now he no longer gets page after page of hoaxer content. A lot of it is gone now. Instead the first hits that come up are news articles about Lenny's fight to make the tech companies more accountable. For years he is been criticizing them in the press for not doing more to protect families of mass tragedies from online abuse. Last summer he and Veronique called out Mark Zuckerberg in an open letter in The Guardian. They wrote quote you arguably the most powerful man on the planet have deemed that the attacks on us are immaterial that providing assistance in removing threats is too cumbersome and that our lives are less important than providing a safe haven for hate. Shortly after Facebook reached out to Lenny. He started working with their content moderators and policymakers and says their response times are now much faster. He also helped turn up the heat on Alex Jones. Last spring he and Veronique and another dad from Newtown filed defamation lawsuits against him. Other parents followed with their own suit. A few months later Apple started removing Jones's material from iTunes saying they would not quote tolerate hate speech. Facebook Google and Spotify then followed suit. YouTube killed his channel completely but you can still find his videos on the platform. And Twitter was one of the last to take action against Jones and Infowars. The New York Times reported that getting deplatformed cut his online audience nearly in half. I met up with Lenny at his place recently. He lives in a gated high security residence. He was filing copyright and harassment reports to places like Instagram Pinterest Reddit Vimeo and Twitter. He says Twitter is his biggest headache right now. There is content about Noah he still cannot get down and he gets personally attacked there all the time. Do you feel like you have jumped in this rabbit hole that is never going to end? I do not think I jumped in. I think I just got pulled in. You are just constantly subjecting yourself to just so much hateful material. Just like throwing trash out. Once it is gone it feels really good. It really does. This is what victory looks like taking the trash out every day. He recently spotted one of the hoaxers who is been after him. Turns out the person lives nearby. Lenny's about to have to move again. This will be the eighth time. Miki Meek is one of the producers of our show. Coming up how Alex Jones became Alex Jones or not. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program Beware the Jabberwock. We have arrived at Act 2 of our program. Act 2. Alex in Wonderland. So one of the occasional contributors to our program Jon Ronson actually got to know Alex Jones personally years ago long before Alex Jones became the most notorious conspiracy theorist in the country. They met doing a story where together they snuck into a summertime enclave of the rich and powerful called Bohemian Grove. They each did their own stories about it. Jon thought it was pretty harmless maybe a little silly. Alex Jones thought it was much more sinister. Now and then over the years they would touch base. Then in 2016 Jon met somebody in Alex'