Hi everybody. Ira Glass here. So our staff is busy reporting out stories for next week's show and for other upcoming shows. And we had a rerun scheduled for this week and we decided in this stressful time it might be nice to keep things light and funny. And so that is what this episode is. And it has not one but two of the most popular stories we have ever put on the air. The first version of this episode was broadcast over 20 years ago back when we were distributed by Public Radio International and our episodes began with a little PRI audio logo which-- I do not know-- I kind of miss. From  From  From  Public Radio. Public-- Radio International. --Radio International. One more time. What could be more American than the person who sees something they have never done before dreams they could do it goes after that dream? Well let us begin today with a woman who dreams of directing a play in the small town where she lives a college town somewhere below the Mason-Dixon line in the hills of Appalachia a town which will remain for our purposes today unnamed. I do not think she had ever directed. And she claimed to have acted. And it was never really quite clear just what her credentials were. But she had managed to convince the local theater department of this college that she should direct a production of Peter Pan. When he was in the 10th grade in 1973 Jack Hitt saw her production. And like everybody else in town you heard about it for weeks beforehand. Slowly but surely you began to hear sort of rumors about this production. For example I know that they had spent a lot of money renting these flying apparatuses out of New York. And apparently there is like one company and a handful of these apparatuses. And so to get them was a major coup. This is a story not just of a mediocre play or a terrible play. When it comes right down to it it is not even a story about a play. This is a story about a fiasco and about what makes a fiasco. And one ingredient of many fiascos is that great massive heart-wrenching chaos and failure are more likely to occur when great ambition has come into play when plans are big expectations great hopes at their highest. And what you have to understand is that everybody in this sort of community understood that they were-- there was certainly a sort of air of everyone sort of reaching beyond their own grasp. Every actor was sort of in a role that was just a little too big for them. Every aspect of the set and the crew-- and rumors had sort of cooked around. There was this huge crew. There were lots of things being painted. See but this in fact is one of the criteria for greatness is that everyone is just about to reach just beyond their grasp because that is when greatness can occur. That is right. That is right. And maybe greatness could have occurred. Well today on our program what happens when greatness does not occur? What happens in fact when fumble leads to error leads to mishap and before you know it you have left the realm of ordinary mistake and chaos and you have entered into the more ethereal specialized realm of fiasco? Today's show Fiascos-- A Philosophical Inquiry perhaps the first ever as far as we know into what makes a fiasco what takes our ordinary lives that extra distance into fiasco. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. There is much much more to learn about fiascos in this hour. Stay with us. We begin our show with this true fable of Peter Pan in Act One Opening Night. Opening night comes and you know well almost everybody in the area in the 10-mile radius of this theater knows somebody in this production so the place is pretty much packed. And I do not know if you remember the opening moment of Peter Pan but it is the three little kids sleeping in their bed. And Peter Pan comes flying in the window. And in this particular production there is a big bed with all the three kids in it. And off to the left I remember is a big huge wardrobe and there is a large window there and a little bureau. And Peter Pan comes in and has a little speech where he says anybody can fly. Why with just a little magic dust one can fly. And Peter Pan sort of sprinkles this magic dust in the air. And sure enough the kids sort of suddenly just lurch into the air.  And it becomes clear right away that the people that they have hired to run these flying apparatuses really are not quite clear on how they actually work. So instead of the kids sort of sailing gracefully to and fro they sort of hang in the air like puppets just sort of dangling there and sort of getting jerked up an inch or two or back and forth. And then sometimes they are just stationary? Yeah just hanging there like a spider. And then several of them start to sort of circumscribe these circles in the air where it is clear that the people running the machines have just sort of set them off on these oval courses that spiral farther and farther out.  And if you were sitting in the audience there was clearly a sense of fear on the faces of these people. Of the actors? The actors. The actors actually you could sense their lack of confidence shall we say--  --in the people running the machines in the back. So they-- Wait wait. And the audience reaction to this point is just-- are they laughing? No one is laughing. One of the great things about audiences especially in a live theater production is that they are very forgiving. They want the show to work. And so everyone is sort of gripping their chair a little tightly. We feel for them. They are up there-- they are embarrassing themselves for us. We identify with them. We become them. And so the audience I think was very forgiving and very understanding of this moment. But there was one moment in this first opening scene that kind of put the audience on notice. And that is when as the kids are sort of jerking up and down and swinging back and forth and sort of going around in these ovals at one point the littlest one the little boy is sort of being flung around a little too--  --a little too hard. Well he has the least mass to resist whatever the machinery is doing to him. Right. OK so and? And so he is flying around in a circle. And the audience sort of sees this coming. And there is a real sense of pain and gripping of the chair and white-knuckledness as the kid suddenly does just an enormous splat into the wardrobe. And it is clear that he is hurt.  And he comes off of it sort of a little dazed. And then of course he is jerked up in the air a little bit and often a little too high so that he is suddenly sort of in the workings. He is sort of left the stage itself. He is now up there with the lights. Then all of a sudden he just sort of--  Suddenly he would just plummet back down to the stage and be caught up just before he hit the floor.  It was hard to watch because as you can tell it is an incredibly funny moment. But like I say the audience was still in this very forgiving mode. And no one said a word. We just all sat there sort of holding our breath. And there is that weird tension of being in the audience thinking oh oh my goodness. They have gotten off to a very bad start. Oh this is not good. And we feel for them. May I just interrupt for just a moment-- Yeah. --just to say-- because after all we are not just joined here together on the radio you and I today to laugh at the foibles of the unfortunate. No no. We are here to enumerate the qualities of a fiasco. At this point we are not yet in the territory of fiasco. No no. Because like I say audiences are forgiving. And one or two mistakes even big ones like this they are going to let that ride. Yes they are. We did. We did. We were very good. So we are not yet at fiasco. We are at a sort of normal level of mishap. Right. What happens immediately after this they disappear to Never Never Land. And if you remember the stage goes dark. And then when the lights come up there is Captain Hook. And he is giving his first opening soliloquy about how evil he is and what a menace he is and how he harms people and hates children. And it is all that good stuff. And so Captain Hook is out there. He looks great. He is got one one of those big old fat hats and this great hook and these wild looking boots and everything. And people are feeling more confident. Something's happening. It is a good sign. It is a good sign. And he is in charge. This guy he is got a bad mustache and he is certainly evil. Yes. And the audience is totally in his pocket. He is speaking away and gesturing wildly and going on and on about how bad he is. And then at a certain point as he gestures his hook and the entire black casing up to his elbow flings off of his hand and flies into the audience and punches an old lady in the gut.   He is bad. He is very bad. He had the worst ad lib I have ever heard. I mean what do you say at that point? Because of course his hand is now nakedly exposed to the audience. A tough moment for any actor. Very very hard. If the premise of your character is that you have a hook your name is Captain Hook literally all that is going to happen for the rest of the show is people are going to refer to you by that hook. Your entire motivation as a character is the fact that you are--  --is that your arm was eaten off by an alligator and that you have to have a-- The entire plot-- --and you have a hook. --stems from that fact. And now suddenly you have no hook. In fact you have five fingers on a hand. As if a miracle by the Lord.  Captain Hook said you know they just do not make those hooks like they used to. That was actually the ad lib. I will never forget it.   Then the lights come up and we are in Never Never Land. In act two? Yeah this is act two. And Captain Hook might have stood in front of the set but you did not really see it because he spoke from shadow. And now the lights come up and it is supposed to be a very dramatic moment. The rumors of all this crew and the painting and everything that was going on and all this construction all worked towards this one moment. Because when the lights came up here was Never Never Land this sort of psychedelic set. There were papier-mach mushrooms everywhere of different sizes. It was absolutely wonderful and surreal. Wow. And there is nobody there. And then from the upper rafters of stage right suddenly the kids and Peter Pan appear. Flying? Flying. They are flying.   And their landing-- their landing occurs rather rapidly at an angle of about 45 degrees to the stage. They come down basically like-- I do not know-- lead sinkers on a line and crash to the floor and then are sort of just dragged across the floor like mops and wipe out all of the mushrooms. And so now have we arrived at a turning point in our fiasco? Yeah. Yeah it is clear now that the audience is giving way. Something has been lost some sense of decorum that little bit of forgiveness that the audience has for the actors. And empathy. And empathy. It is beginning to dissipate. Well there was a split in the audience. Sort of the younger people who were the least forgiving they started to go first OK? So the high school students couple of college students maybe they started to laugh out loud. And I will be honest Ira I might have been one of those first people to laugh. I was in the 10th grade. It was hard to not laugh at this.   But then whatever restraint that the audience had it just evaporated at this point because there were a number of things that happened in quick succession that just made it impossible to hold any sense of decorum. Which are? For example Tinker Bell appears for the first time around this moment. And Tinker Bell is essentially a light bulb on an extension cord. What? Yeah. And this was the director's idea of being raw being very modern. Tinker Bell was just going to be this literal light bulb dangling from an extension cord. Whereas in other productions what they do is that someone will shine a light. Shine a light or they will just-- A beam of focused light and then that pinprick of light is supposed to be Tinker Bell. That is right or something like that or nothing at all. And people just address the invisible sprite. Well that did not happen in this case. This bulb comes just dangling down and sort of hangs around.  This naked light bulb-- A bare light bulb? --just hangs around and people are talking to it.   And I think Tinker Bell-- Tinker Bell must have had an appearance in the first act but it was somewhere in here that people just started laughing at this.  Then another thing that happened was later on in this scene if you remember Wendy gets trapped on an island. And she spots a kite that is flying by and she is supposed to grab it and attach it to her back and fly off. Well of course the kite is attached to the flying apparatus line. And it gets closer and closer to her. She is standing on this little papier-mach hill. But the flying apparatus people cannot quite get it close enough to her to reach. So she has to step out into the water that she is just told us is filled with crocodiles to grab it. She finally gets the kite. And when she yanks on it it pops off the flying apparatus. And the hook goes zinging up into the lights and catches.  So now there is this big loop of wire hanging in front of the stage and there is Wendy holding the kite. And she ad libbed as best she could as I remember. She sort of said on second thought maybe I can swim. And with that she walked off the stage sort of motioning her arms like you would do the swim the dance in 1965. So she does that. At this point I mean the actors are just falling apart. They are so frightened of the audience. There are just belly laughs rolling up to the stage from the audience. People are howling with laughter at every mistake. And now any small mistake just takes on these-- any instigation for laughter is just enough for this audience. And now the old people have given it up. Everyone has quit being nice. Now there is just this kind of frightening roar that comes from the audience every time there is a mistake. Well what happened? At some point the audience turned and realized oh wait. I realize what is going on here. This is a fiasco. Yeah this is a fiasco. And what is really interesting about a fiasco is that once it starts to tumble down the audience wants to push it further along. Oh they get hungry for more fiasco. Oh yeah. If the play proceeded perfectly they would be disappointed. Oh it would have been a grave disappointment had there not been just one more mistake after another one more embarrassment after another. Now the reason they are there is to chronicle these embarrassments. This is why I have remembered this play for 25 years. Towards act three the director had decided that she wanted to break down the fourth wall. This was cutting edge theater as far as she was concerned. Before you do this I just want to explain-- when we say breaking down the fourth wall what we mean is the wall between the actors and the audience. Usually it is impermeable but then there came a point in the late '60s early '70s where a lot of theaters basically the actors would come out into the audience. That is right and interact with the audience and break down that wall so the idea being that you would get more in touch with the dramatic sense and the reality of what was happening. Anyway so in this particular scene what was going to happen was that the Indians were going to throw rope ladders down from the balcony and climb down these rope ladders into the audience and move among the audience and frighten us. Anyway I knew about this scene because my friend David who I went to high school with was in it. So when David was climbing over the top of this balcony to climb down the rope he lost his footing and fell to the floor from the balcony a distance of about 15 to 20 feet. Oh my god. A good fall. That is horrible. Yeah. And he landed on both of his feet and sprained both of his ankles and of course curled into a fetal position and began to cry. He was really really hurt. Now to appreciate the horrible moment I am now describing also understand that it is a Friday night we are in a college town and there is a volunteer fire and ambulance department. And in order to summon the rescuers from wherever they are an alarm is sounded that can be heard for five miles. That alarm is located right over this theater. So the alarm goes off OK? This is an air raid siren. It is so loud you can put your fingers in your ear and it is still hurting your ears. We are right under it. It can be heard for five miles.   And then of course three minutes later busting through the door of the theater are these 15 firemen who are in boots hats. They got hoses. They do not know what it is. All they know is that they have been sent out on a call. And to sort of add to the chaos the director of course has sort of flogged the actors that the show must go on. No matter what. So no matter what. So while all of this is happening and several people are attending to David and other people have just now decided that since the firemen are here he is going to be fine they can start laughing. And now the audience has just completely lost control. People are standing up in their seats and shouting for more. They want blood. I mean at this point people are actually injured in the production and they want more. Somehow that is how this entire play ended. What is interesting about this as a fiasco-- I feel like the thing it makes me understand about fiascos is that the fiasco itself is an altered state. That is all the normal rules are off. You have left the normal rules of how the audience is going to interact with the actors. Right. I have never seen a production like this and I have never seen an audience collapse like this. See but I wonder when you think about what people go to theater for like what kind of release people want I mean people want an experience that will take them out of themselves. We all want an experience that will take us out of ourselves and into another place and another reality. And it sounds like this production even though it was a fiasco in fact because it was a fiasco was more successful at that than any conventional play could be. Well see I would disagree with you. See I think the old theater critics the ancients would say that the reason you go to the theater and to see a great production is to be-- I think the word they used to use is transported the idea being that you would be lifted away from your animal nature and into these higher more spiritual realms or get in touch with these greater tragic emotions. Of course what happened here was the exact opposite. We get transported directly in touch with our animal being. Our baser selves. Right. But that is almost as rare if not more so than a great production. Jack Hitt he is the co-host of a great Peabody Award-winning podcast about race and history called Uncivil which if you are looking for something to listen to during this national home lockdown or on your commute to your essential job I really recommend that. Jack says by the way that people ask him about this Peter Pan story still all these years later. In the year since we first ran this we got a letter from one of the actors in that production that Jack saw a guy who played a pirate who told us Jack quote did not go far enough. He only covered the opening night. The subsequent performances were no better.  SINGING I will not grow up. I do not wanna go to school just to learn to be a puppet and recite a silly rule. If growing up means it would be beneath my dignity to climb a tree I will not grow up will not grow up will not grow up not me. Act Two Squirrel Cop. Well human error is often at the heart of a fiasco but what happens when you combine human error with what we will call in this case animal error? We have this story of a police officer in a suburban community on the East Coast. There was nothing nothing going on-- Saturday night in this village really quiet super cold. And this call came over for unknown animal in a house. And it was on my post. It was about five minutes away. So myself and another car were assigned the call and we show up there. And luckily for me it was another guy who was pretty new. So we walk up to the door with all our stuff on-- the nylon coat the vest the belt the whole nine yards. And the door opens. And the guy who is behind the door he is about 30. I was 23 at the time. He is about 30. He looks like a broker or a lawyer just really well put together nice guy wearing glasses. He is wearing these silk pajamas with a monogram. Got my attention. Wow. And he is going listen really sorry to bother you. Normally I would handle this sort of stuff on my own but my wife really insisted that I call. And so we ask him what the problem is. He says well we were having kind of a romantic evening down in the living room and we heard this scratching upstairs. So I ran upstairs to see what it was. And it turns out it is coming from the attic. There is something up there and it is just running around knocking a few small things over. I cannot tell what it is. It could be a squirrel a raccoon. I really do not know. So the other cop that I was with said well we really do not handle that. It is not so much a police function. But we do have numbers of these private contractors who will come in and they will put a humane trap down and they will remove the animal for you. And it is really not such a big deal but it is really not our thing. So right as he was in the middle of saying that and getting us off the hook the guy swings the door back. And there is his wife who was just beautiful. She was beautiful. She was probably about 26 or 27 but just really beautiful like perfect skin long blonde hair great teeth brilliant blue eyes a really nice smile just beautiful and friendly. If she had said eat this broken glass I just would have said OK broken glass it is. That is fine. But she seemed really nice so I was going to be like Galahad. So I just threw my arm back into this guy's chest into my partner's chest. I said Mark we can handle this.  It will be OK. And she was just you know thank you so much. And she was really sweet. And I was struck dead. So we walk inside. And she goes I am going to throw a pot of coffee on. And we go upstairs. We follow the man of the house upstairs. And we are underneath one of those trap doors that goes into the attic with a staircase that folds out. And we do hear an animal upstairs scratching away just scuttling around the floor. And there is definitely something up there and it is making pretty good speed up going from one end of the roof to the other. So I reached up and I took the trapdoor down. We unfolded the ladder. And I have this big heavy flashlight like your cop flashlight-- 4D cells the metal case the whole thing. I shine it up through the hole in there and it is pretty black. I can see the rafters but really nothing else around there. And I start up the ladder. Now the guy who owned the house is standing almost directly underneath me just to the side of the ladder looking straight up at me. And my partner's at the base of the ladder right behind me. So just before I stuck my head through this black hole I just paused. I crunched my body up underneath 'ecause I am realizing gee I do not know where this thing is. The second we pull down the trap door all noise upstairs just ceased. So I was kind of nervous. And I was like well I look like an idiot just crouched up here on the top of the ladder. So I took the flashlight and I just popped my head up turned the light on again. And about six inches from the front of my face was this squirrel at eye level with me kind of reared back on its legs. And I swear from where I was standing it looked like Godzilla. It just scared the heck out of me. I thought it is a squirrel. It is going to be hiding somewhere. It is going to be terrified of me. It was six inches away from me. And it really startled me so I kind of went ah and jumped back. And the flashlight slips out of my hands. It is heavy. And it falls directly onto the nose of the guy who is looking straight up at me. And I do not think it broke it but it did some damage. And his nose-- his hands went up to his face. Blood just started pouring out between his hands. This is the homeowner? This is the homeowner. I lose my balance and fall backwards directly onto my partner. And I pancake him. We are both on our backs. He is on his back. I am on his stomach on my back scuttling around like a beetle trying to get up in this really narrow hallway. It is a mess. The squirrel while we are floundering around in the hallway jumps down the stairs-- boink boink boink-- lands on me and takes off down the stairs. How undignified. It was terrible. It was terrible.  So we are wondering gee where is the squirrel? And right at that second the woman who lived there you hear her scream. So my partner goes well we found the squirrel. It is wherever she is. Yeah. So we go running downstairs. And the squirrel had come into the living room where they had been having their romantic evening. They had a fire going. They had pillows arranged around one corner of the couch next to the fire. And they had champagne flutes out-- nice house really nice. I mean it just smelled brand new-- new carpeting new rugs new paint. They had not been there for that long. So the squirrel when it bolted down the staircase took off into the living room and ran underneath a couch for cover. So we run downstairs. This guy is bleeding all over the place on his carpets. His wife looks and says what have you done to my husband? I start going oh it was an accident. And I just stop in mid-sentence. What is the point? We have only been there about two minutes.  So the squirrel is underneath the couch. And my partner is going let us get out of here. This is just-- it is not going well. So I am not beaten yet. I always have another idea. So the squirrel is under this couch which is in the middle of the room. So I have this bright idea. Why do not we move the furniture away from one of the corners and we will put the couch in the corner and the squirrel will probably move along with the couch because it is the only cover available to it. And once we get into the corner we will only have two open sides of the couch to worry about. So we did that. That is so tactical. Yes. Yeah I was very proud of myself at that instant but you know. I asked her for a box and she says sure we have got boxes. We just moved in. We have nothing but boxes. She runs out to the garage and she comes back with a box. And the box is long enough and it fits across the entire short side of the couch where the armrest would be. So I start sweeping underneath the couch with my nightstick trying to move the squirrel toward the box figuring we will capture it and just get rid of it and we will be out of here and there'ill be no more mayhem. So it is actually working very well and the squirrel's moving down along. You can hear it. It is chittering. And I am trying not to hurt it. I am nervous about the thing. It might bite me. I do not want to hurt it really. It is just an animal. So I am moving it along and everything's going very well. And then with about eight inches to go I took one more swipe and the thing just bolted out from underneath the couch. It was lined with tassels. I could not really see under the couch. It bolted out from underneath the couch and ran directly into the fireplace which is about three feet away. The fireplace was directly ahead of it. And it ran into the fire-- Oh my. --and caught on fire and ran directly back out and directly back under the couch. Is it on fire? It was on fire yeah the tail the bushy fur the whole bit. I mean it was not flaming or anything but it was smoking and there was a little bit of fire coming off the tail. So it runs back under the couch. And the couch catches on fire in seconds I mean in seconds. It must have had dust under there or something else but it caught on fire immediately. And my partner and I just do not even talk. We just grab the couch heave it upside down and now there is plenty of oxygen now for the fire to really get going. And it starts up and we are patting it out. And it is sort of getting away from us. So we grab the only thing that is really available and those are these really nice silk pillows. And we have one in each hand both of us and we are just windmilling away at this fire on the couch. And we put it out but it is smoking terribly. It was a disaster. The couch is upside down. The bottom of it is burnt. The house is filling with smoke from the couch. The squirrel when it went under the couch in its death throes just latched onto the bottom of the couch. It is like this smoking piece of gristle underneath the couch latched on there with its claws. And we are pounding smearing it all over the place. The smoke alarms are firing away. The guy's standing with handkerchiefs and paper towels up around his nose which is still bleeding. His pajamas are a mess. They are covered with blood the front of them. And we finally get the fire out. And we are both completely red sweating because we are dressed for like zero-degree weather and it is hot there by the fire. We are mortified. The house is full of smoke. The wife just looks around and just starts to cry. She goes what have you done? What have you done to my house? You could see her just clicking things off on her fingers-- OK the dead squirrel ruined pillows need a new couch. The walls are covered with soot. The fire alarm's going off. My husband's disfigured. And then she really just lost it. And he was just looking at us and shaking his head like he could not believe that these two idiots showed up and did this to his house over nothing really. And he just goes you really have not done anything wrong. I cannot point to any one thing that you did that I have a reason to get angry about. You really have not done anything wrong. I mean we did call you but I just-- I cannot thank you for this. They call for a squirrel. They end up with like 3000 4000 worth of damage and a broken nose. And this is all within about five minutes. Could that have happened to you now 13 years later? There is always a new mistake to be made. I do not think I would make that particular mistake. I mean you make plenty of mistakes. You make plenty of mistakes. That is just part of that job. You just try not to make the same one twice. But there is such variety that you are going to make hundreds. You are going to make thousands of mistakes. You are going to make thousands of mistakes until you really get a handle on what you are doing. And with police work they afford you plenty of space to make mistakes. But there is things that just either they are not your responsibility-- if you get involved in things that are not your responsibility or that you are really not equipped to handle or that you do not have a specific plan a plan that is thought through to a conclusion you probably should re-evaluate what you are doing. Now that you mention that yeah that is right. You walk into the house thinking OK we will get the squirrel. Like where are you going to get the squirrel? What was the best case scenario? That is a great question. I guess I was thinking that I would go up there in the attic and find this cowering squirrel and somehow lure it into some kind of a trap and then walk out with it and be like a hero. But as it turned out the squirrel-- it was a Pyrrhic victory for the squirrel but the squirrel definitely won. The squirrel really kicked our ass.  That is not what you want to be saying at the end of the day. No no. I mean it took me a long time to even tell people about it. I was so new. I did not want anyone to know what a bonehead I was when I first came onto the job. Our interviewee who asked not to be named on the radio had been on the force for 18 years when he spoke with me.  SINGING My baby she got ways like a fox squirrel swinging up in a tree. I know my woman she got ways like a fox squirrel swinging up in a tree. Well little darling . She kept hopping all over me. Coming up what it is like to be invited to a big charity event that you then ruin. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show fiasco. This is our own inquiry into the nature of what makes a fiasco. When you have left the world of mishaps stumble human error and you enter into the much more rarefied realm of fiasco we have arrived at Act Thre