This house on Washington Street in New York does not look like a house. It is more like an industrial building. Comes right up to the sidewalk-- red brick steel window frames and a grid of windows. It would be considered a big house anywhere but in New York where people live in pretty small quarters-- I mean it is huge. My building I think has 14 apartments. And I think this looks twice as big as it. And it is just him and his family. I do not know. The him in this case is Noam Gottesman a billionaire finance guy and art collector. The guy telling me about him is a neighbor from around the corner Eyal Levin not a billionaire father of two teenage boys who share a bedroom. He runs a jewelry business with his wife. There is one other important feature on this immense house that he wants me to see-- bright yellow letters neat and tidy and dignified on the bank of windows. Eyal reads-- No parking active driveway. But when you live here everybody knows he is bluffing. It is not a no parking zone he says because there is no driveway. There is no garage. There is just a big door. But by pretending to have a driveway what this man gets he says is the kind of real estate money cannot buy in New York-- his own free parking space right in front of his house. And parking-- parking is just beyond difficult in certain neighborhoods in New York. People cry over parking. It is so frustrating. And finding a space in this neighborhood Eyal says-- You sometimes go make the rounds and rounds and rounds. And time passes. Sometimes it can take an hour sometimes more. Eyal says that when he first noticed Gottesman's signs telling people not to park there he respected the moxie. Initially it was very funny. I actually chuckled. And I was like wow this guy good for him for confiscating the parking. I mean whenever I passed it it was kind of funny. Like look what this guy did. But then one day Eyal was driving around looking for parking himself. It is taking forever. And he sees the space in front of Gottesman's house. And he decides OK this will be the day he will park there. Five 10 seconds after there is a security guard or two of them that barge out of the property. They have cameras all over so they see when you park and they run out. He says they told him you cannot park here. And they pointed to the signs on the door. I was laughing. And I said Listen guys I am a neighbor. I know what you are doing here. I personally do not care but I am allowed to park here. And then they start making threats. You will get out. Why are you being so difficult? Eyal describes himself as somebody who is generally pretty mellow. And the first time he tried to park there he decided it was not worth arguing about and pulled out. But the next time he needed a place to park he poured into the space again. Again the tough guys showed up. And this time Eyal had had enough. He stood his ground. I was like why am I being bullied when I know for a fact that I am allowed to park there and that the signs are basically fakes? So he left his car there. He parked. Did it maybe a half dozen times he says. Then one day he is taking his son to school walks by the parking space and realizes his car is gone. They had him towed. Eyal believes the guards must have found a cop who'd write a ticket and then called for the tow truck. The ticket later got thrown out. But to get his car back Eyal still had the hassle of riding the subway out to the tow lot. It was in a part of Queens called Maspeth. It was a subway ride and a 20-minute walk he says. He also had to pay 201 to get the car back. I mean at the time I was enraged. It is ludicrous. It is my car. It is public space. I do not care how much money you have. I am still allowed to park on the street. So the neighbor had cameras guards money and Eyal thought cops they could talk into writing tickets for something that is not illegal. But Eyal had some moves too. Sent the story to the tabloids talked to reporters. Then I wake up in the morning and I see it online. And I am like whoa. It was the whole front page. And what was the headline again? Uh-- We are in his apartment for this part of the conversation. And he heads over to a cardboard box behind his couch next to a bin of soccer and basketballs rustles through some stuff and pulls out three different days of the New York Daily News where this story is the front page. You cannot buy that kind of real estate in New York either. The front pages of the New York tabloids are like the Madison Square Garden of journalism usually reserved for the top acts-- cheating celebrities no-goodnik mayors headless bodies in topless bars A-Rod. So all over the first page they have got a great headline I think-- Tow-tal Jerk. And they spelled total T-O-W dash T-A-L. Right. Get it? Tow like they towed his car. He is interviewed for radio and TV. There are follow-up stories. The mayor's office declares that hogging a parking space like this is shameful. The Department of Buildings sends out an inspector. And the billionaire Gottesman is eventually told that if he wants to call this a driveway he needs to install a proper garage door. Eyal gets why the story had such legs. It is got something for everybody. A rich guy a mansion a car being towed how the rich always get away with it. It is David versus Goliath. Yeah. And I am David. Nice to meet you. For the next few days wherever I walk I get stopped by neighbors. He learns that other people in the neighborhood have noticed the billionaire and his parking space. He becomes a magnet for their stories about run-ins with the neighbor's security guards. In Eyal's building when they had their annual meeting there were people he is known for 10 years. And I got applause there. They were like how did you do it? And one older neighbor was like I have been trying to fight them for years because I was so upset about it. He does not even have a car but just whenever he passes it he was getting upset about it. After talking to Eyal I reached out to Noam Gotteman's spokesperson. Noam Gottesman agreed to talk to me though he did not want me to record. When we got on the phone he told me he totally understood why people got so upset at Eyal's story. But he said Eyal is wrong about the most basic fact in the story. Eyal thinks it is legal to park in that space. And he thinks he only got a ticket because he was targeted by Noam's security guards. Noam Gottesman said that nobody can park there. That when he built his house the curb was already cut low for a driveway-- had been that way for decades and he left it that way. And the Department of Buildings approved it as a loading bay and driveway. And he says they do load and unload stuff into his house through a massive door there. Like I said he is a big art collector. Because it is approved by the city for this purpose Noam said it is not legal to park there same as other driveways and loading bays in the neighborhood. He says other cars have gotten tickets there. And in fact he does not park there in front of his own home because he is gotten a ticket there. It was so many years ago. Unlike Eyal he did not have a copy he could show me. He says he pays to park in the garage or he finds a parking space and then walks home like all the non-billionaires in the neighborhood do. I am paraphrasing here. He did not actually call anybody a non-billionaire in our conversation. But checking into it I learned he is right. The space in front of Noam's house was in fact not a legal parking space. Eyal's ticket was legit. I will note tickets seemed very rare for that spot. The police told us they have not issued one this whole year. And Noam says he is never heard of anybody else being towed from that spot besides Eyal. So if I had to guess I would guess that after a half dozen arguments with Eyal Noam's security guards were fed up with him and called over a friendly cop to write a ticket and called the towing company. When I suggested this to Noam he categorically denied it. Said he did not arrange for that to happen that he asked his security guards. They said they did not do it either. Though the towing company did tell the Daily News that someone phoned from Noam's house to ask for Eyal's car to be towed. When I later asked Noam's spokesperson why they would say that it is not true she said she had no idea. Eyal meanwhile does not buy it. He says there is no way he would have been towed without Noam's guards making it happen. Says the city should not have approved this as a driveway in the first place because it is not really a driveway in any normal sense of the word. But even though he thinks he is in the right-- I did not park again in that spot since it happened. I am sometimes tempted when I-- and then I am like I do not want to go to Maspeth again. And this is where the bullying sometimes works. Today on our show one man's bullying is another man's simple adherence to New York parking law. It is hard being neighbors when things get angry or ugly or seem unfair. It is like everybody is just stuck with each other. You know it is hard to move away. Moving away is for quitters. Today we have a story of a very different group of neighbors in a very different place. And a man moves in who breaks all kinds of rules and the neighbors have to figure out what to do about it. And nobody backs down. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One Home Home Near the Range. So what you are about to hear takes place not in a city but in a small town in Vermont-- Pawlet Vermont. Think rolling green hills red barns. And pretty peaceful until a stranger comes to town buys up some land. The neighbors are not exactly sure what to make of this guy. And then problems start. And things escalate in a pretty serious and intense way probably because this new guy not only does he not play by the rules in fact he seems to feed off breaking them. This story's going to be the rest of our show today. Reporter Mike Giglio tells what happened. It all started with a gate. A man named Daniel Banyai bought a wooded 30-acre property between some farmland and a slate quarry back in 2013. The neighbors did not see much of him for a while. They noticed construction vehicles rumbling up and down the road. And they figured he was building a house. Mandy Hulett and her husband Rich owned a farm next to Daniel's property. Here's Mandy. A good friend of ours used to own that property. And he sold the property to him. And the very first time we met him he came down to the farm. And he was actually-- he was OK. But the next thing we knew-- it was like two weeks later-- he was erecting a gate on our property. Daniel's land is actually surrounded by other people's property. It is kind of like an island. So in order to access it he has the right to cross the Huletts' land. There is a long driveway. Daniel put a gate at his end of it but his gate was on the Huletts' property. Mandy and Rich are in their 40s. They have two kids. They own a lot of farmland and a trucking company. Rich grew up there. His family's been in the area since before the Civil War. So Rich approached him and said You do know that you put your gate-- I do not know-- 10 feet onto our property. And he is like I will put my gate wherever I want to put my gate. And Rich said Well in Vermont we put our gate on our own property or on the property line not on somebody else's property. And I think he gave him two or three weeks to remove it. And if you do not I am going to come remove it. And he is like You are never going to get that out of the ground. So he gave him two or three weeks. And he did not move it. So Rich went up with a payloader and brought a witness with him as well and just picked it up off out of the ground and tossed it onto his property back on his own property.  So things were off to a bad start. Daniel was a newcomer to the area. He was from upstate New York but other than that he was guarded about his background. He told one neighbor he would been in the Army. Then there was a rumor around town that he would been a Navy SEAL or federal agent or something. It was not clear. And just a word about the place he would moved to-- this part of Pawlet it is a bit isolated up on a hill. There are about a dozen households all spread out along a couple of roads. There are the Huletts John Davis a Vietnam vet and his wife Val. Then down the hill was Beth Duquette a former librarian and her husband Ray. Paul and Michelle Tilander are grandparents who moved to the area about 10 years ago. People are pretty private here but they help each other out. This is Ray and Michelle who lives one house down from him. Paul and Michelle moved in next door to me. I love this story. I told them. I know what he is going to say. If you ever have an emergency call me first then call 911 because the cops will not show up but I will. And that is the way we roll around here. Most of them came here for the landscape and the quiet. And then one day the woods erupted with gunfire hundreds and hundreds of rounds. This is Beth Moser-Duquette the former librarian. I mean it was just shooting on a daily basis like di-di-di-di-di. Di-di-di-di-di. I want to point out Pawlet is not a gun-shy town. Beth told me that gunfire is the sound of Vermont. She is a longtime NRA member. The area's mixed politically. Some of the neighbors voted for Trump. Others went for Biden. But none of them has a problem with firearms. Farmers have their varmint guns and hunters have their rifles. And no one bats an eye at a neighbor doing some practice with an AR-15. This was different. We did not know what was going on. We were like what it sounds like Vietnam. This is Michelle Tilander the grandmother who lives with her husband Paul. Here in Vermont you expect to hear somebody out there plunking away at their targets getting ready for turkey season or hunting season or just keeping their firearms in tune. We do that. That is expected but not what we heard. That was totally out of the zone. Did you try to approach him at that point? No at that point I was too afraid to approach anybody that was firing that much weaponry because that is not normal certainly for this area. I do not think I would want to approach anybody that was firing off 1000 rounds. That is scary. Daniel had opened up a gun range. John Davis the Vietnam vet was tipped off about it by a friend. John got in his truck and drove up and down the hill knocking on doors to alert everyone. He told me it was like Paul Revere's ride. Mandy Hulett and another neighbor walked the property line around Daniel's place. They peered through the trees and saw some silhouette targets in dirt berms. Mandy worried that someone would end up shooting towards the road. And the trajectory of those bullets is actually right to my brother-in-law's house and then right to the school right over the hill. The neighbors did not want a shooting range in their backyard. Daniel had filed for a permit not to open a shooting range but for what he called a school apparently where he would do classroom firearms instruction. In order to build the school on his property Daniel needed permission to widen his driveway through the neighbor's land. So he asked the Huletts if they would give him the extra space. The Huletts said no. His neighbors on the other side said no as well. Daniel's permit application for a school was denied but he would already put up the building and he just kept going. He also did not have the right permit to operate a shooting range on his land. But of course he was doing that too. What he was developing was a sprawling facility the kind that military contractors or law enforcement or self-styled militia might use. He called it Slate Ridge. I reached out to Daniel. He did not want to be interviewed. But he lays the whole thing out in this YouTube video. Slate Ridge is 100 predicated on the practitioner model. Gunfighters professionals that use the firearm as a tool in the line of their employment. Daniel is six feet tall and stout with a bushy beard. That is how he talks-- lots of jargon. The video is shot by a dude named Adam McLain who associates himself with the Boogaloo Bois an armed movement that calls for civil war. His Twitter handle is boojahideen. So this is Range One. This is what started Slate Ridge right? I built this first. And I continued to proceed on my dream. He shows Adam the school and a surprisingly fancy bunkhouse and two shooting ranges one with a wraparound berm that is intended to let people fire in multiple directions to more closely mirror real-life combat. There is a spot where people can practice entering and clearing a building and a place where they can detonate explosives. After the tour Daniel and Adam sit down for an interview. So you are a private contractor. How long were you a private contractor for? For several years. For several years? Several years yes. OK. In the video Daniel is wearing green military style cargo pants and green wraparound shades. He tells Adam the origin story of Slate Ridge. He says the idea came to him on his first overseas deployment as a private military contractor. I remember that day like it was just yesterday. I bumped up with about 12 guys that I had no idea who they were. I did not know much about them. I tried out with these guys. I made it on the team. And then we get there right? We are out of the United States of America. And we are in it. And that night when we hit our bunks I watched-- with all due respect because some of those guys I have become very good friends with. Some of those guys are my battle buddies now and some of those guys I would bleed for them. But a lot of them turned into a totally different person. Here we had men crying shivering and second guessing themselves. And I sat there and I watched these men. And I said wow what did I get myself into? The problem was they were not properly trained. So he decided to start his own training facility. He tells Adam he put 1.6 million of his own money into building the place. To Daniel Slate Ridge is more than a shooting range. It is a place for people who define themselves by owning guns. He refers to himself as a professional gunfighter. In the military we had the three M's-- the mission the men then me. I am always at the last. I am an Army guy he tells Adam. Daniel talks about his service a lot. At one town meeting where he made his case for the school building he described himself as a veteran who is passionate about guns. He paints his work as a private contractor in patriotic terms. In court he tells a state judge-- OK Your Honor last thing I would like to add is that within 30 days I will be out of the country-- OK. --so. Let me ask you this. How long are you gone for? I am not sure. I am waiting for the deployment orders to come in. It may be a few months. OK all right. Well please be safe in those travels OK? And thank you for your service sir. The neighbors wondered if even the most basic part of his biography that he would been in the military was a lie. John Davis the Vietnam vet was not sure he bought it. If you are a veteran there is nothing more disreputable than somebody claims to be something he is not. And I have no use for people that go around and act like they are something they are not. After Slate Ridge opened at the end of 2017 its Facebook page racked up a few thousand followers. Daniel started referring to them as the Slate Ridge family. He hosted classes on shooting and tactical training and field first aid. The neighbors would see strangers driving up and down their shared dirt road. Sometimes the shooting would go on all weekend. The neighbors had not been all that close before this started just friendly in that small town kind of way. But the conflict with Daniel brought them together. They started meeting in John Davis's workshop. Sometimes a couple dozen people would show up. Their weapon of choice was as American as the Winchester rifle-- zoning laws those most basic rules for how neighbors are going to live next to one another. This area was zoned residential and agricultural. Daniel went back to the town and argued for a variance in the zoning laws so he could finally get a permit for the school building. 46 people signed a petition opposing this. They showed up at the town meeting in force. Here's Michelle. I thought maybe the town would step in and we would go to a couple select board meetings. We thought for sure it would be brought under control I would say within six months. There is no recording of the meeting where Daniel asked for the zoning variance but there is official minutes. This kind of captures the feeling of it. Quote Gary Hadeka addressed the board as an abutting landowner and interested party. Mr. Hadeka explained that as an owner of a horse stable they have a lot to lose that they do not want to live through a war and that they were there first. He expressed that he wishes to stay on their property and is entitled to peace and quiet. But the town zoning board decided in Daniel's favor. Said he was right. He could have his zoning variance for the school building. The neighbors appealed. For the next few years he would apply for permits. They would try to stop him. Sometimes they won. Sometimes he won and they would appeal to the town or the state court. Eventually the town of Pawlet took the neighbors' side and filed a case against Daniel too for violating its zoning laws. But this kind of thing can move really slowly. Beth the former librarian knew the state's environmental laws and looked for a way to use them against Daniel. She peered into his property from a neighbor's yard one day and noticed what looked like wetlands. Those are often protected in Vermont which is no small thing because the state can crack down on people for even small seeming environmental problems like manure. We are farmers so we are allowed to spread manure. From April 15 we start to spread our manure and December 15 is our cutoff. December 16 comes along and you spread Agency of Natural Resources would be so quick here like on a fly on you-know-what. And we would be fined. Beth's an environmentalist. She was on a local conservation board at the time. She contacted the state's Department of Agriculture and the Natural Resources Board trying to get someone to investigate. There was no quick response. Nobody stepped in to stop Daniel. And it was all falling upon deaf ears. Who do we go to? Who do we tell? Who do we talk to? Daniel fought back and not just in the town hall and the courts. In the winter of 2019 the neighbors got holiday cards with the Slate Ridge logo printed on them. Each one had a handwritten message. Here's Michelle Tilander the grandmother and John Davis the Paul Revere guy. Yeah all of us in the neighborhood got one. And some of them were pretty-- Can I read mine? Yes you can. I got together with a group of these neighbors on Beth's front lawn. She set out a table with muffins and Dunkin' Donuts coffee. Let me see. There is mine. Some of them were pretty filthy so there is some I am not going to read but there you go John. Oh yeah. This is Mr. and Mrs. Davis and our address a.k.a. Davis Trash. From all of us at Slate Ridge we wanted to wish you two miserable souls a wonderful holiday season. People hate you two inbreds. We are so fortunate you are our neighbors. Please feel free to move away because no one likes alcoholics. Because we have a front porch and in the summer at the end of the day we will sit out there and have a beer. But I mean this is just typical. They are all like this. Especially after a big season. We are all inbreds. We are all-- Oh this-- did you want me to read yours? Absolutely. Oh this is disgusting. The cards are in these binders. The neighbors brought them to the meeting in this huge plastic bin the kind you would store your old clothes in. They are each labeled carefully with a label maker. There is Pawlet Zoning Regulations and Slate Ridge Facebook Postings and Odds and EndsUnfinished Business. This was the moment I realized how much the conflict with Daniel had taken over the neighbors' lives. There is maybe 20 of these binders. And inside are all the pieces of information that the neighbors have spent the last few years obsessively documenting about Daniel and Slate Ridge. Michelle what does this say on the inside of this binder here? Threats postal cards and then also some stalking problems here. OK-- But all the threats. Everything we try to keep it compiled. I asked the neighbors where they keep the binders and they would not tell me. They would only say it was a remote locked facility. Here's Paul describing a Facebook post they have got in one of the binders. It was on the Slate Ridge page. He put a picture of our house. And he captioned it Any day above ground is a good day. These people will be leaving soon. How did you feel when that happened? Unsafe. And this is John Davis again. John and his wife moved to Pawlet 43 years ago in large part because his PTSD was so bad when he came back from Vietnam. He wanted the quiet. My wife and I were down and visiting my sister for about three days. And he posted on his website the Davises are away. And then some of his disciples posted Oh really? They are away. So we cut our visit short. Last fall the Slate Ridge Facebook account posted a photo of an SUV and said they were looking for one like it to use for something called vehicle assault class where the vehicle will be shot and then blown up. The SUV in the post was the exact same make model and color as an SUV the Huletts' daughter had recently bought. Another time the account posted a video. Ladies and gentlemen this is a 9 millimeter full metal jacket 115 grain bullet-- While Daniel narrates the video shows a close up of a bronze bullet then pans to the driver's side of a silver car. --that went through this door through the car. The door has been shot through multiple times right where someone has written the words R. Hulett Trucking on it. That is the name of one of the businesses the Huletts own. So if you think that you can hide in your car and be safe behind the door from a bullet you are wrong. Mandy Hulett eventually got a no-stalking order against Daniel. And the Slate Ridge Facebook page is down now. But the neighbors say it was not just threats but accusations smears and that Slate Ridge supporters would then like and comment on the posts. It is just to threaten. It is idle threats. And it is just once again psychological warfare. It is idle unless one of his knuckleheads that is been going up there takes it a different way and takes it to another level. Yes. They worried about Daniel's supporters. A few of the people training at Slate Ridge suggested online that they were affiliated with national militant groups like the Three Percenters or a small local outfit with the grandiose name of the Vermont State Militia. Some of the neighbors did go to the police. But none of the things that Daniel and his supporters were doing seemed likely to bring criminal charges. It can be really hard to prosecute threats like these unless they are very specific. Daniel did not just go after the neighbors. He made it sound like the town itself was conspiring against him. They were all in league with the Huletts who he saw as his main opposition. Here he is at one town meeting accusing the board of treating him unfairly. I believe Mr. Bob Jones has a conflict of interest and has suppressed my rights and my existence in this community on three facts. Daniel points out that Jones a board member has worked for the trucking company owned by the Hulett family. Then he pivots to a different and very surprising attack. Furthermore furthermore this man has attended a Klan meeting by the group. The meeting he is talking about is one of the ones the neighbors held to strategize about shutting down Daniel and Slate Ridge. But Daniel is calling it a Klan meeting as in the Ku Klux Klan. Like he is saying the neighbors are the KKK. This is part of a long-running and completely unsubstantiated claim of his that Pawlet is somehow run by white supremacists. You think it is funny. You think it is funny. And also had proceeded when the Hulett family took my gate down on my property. How is that legal for him to be here and to vote and not recuse and not have a misconduct? Mr. Cleveland you laugh too. The first six months of this opposition here your son Kenneth was dating a Hulett. How can we not believe she did not tell your son to tell you rhetoric to vote against me or diminish or sequester my rights in this community? You went to a Klan meeting too. I did not go to any Klan meeting let me tell you. The meeting you went to whatever the verbiage is you were not supposed to be there. It is as simple as that. I believe I went to the very first meeting they had. And that was to collect information. OK you are not supposed-- Which I did. All right you are not supposed to be doing that. OK and furthermore I do not think-- anyhow. Listen. I do not think you need to drag my son into it either. We are not dragging your son but it is not ethical. You need to recuse yourself. You cannot allow these degenerates to start making things against me in this town and then you vote on it. I think-- I think so. I think-- I think this is-- before this gets out of control-- It is not going to get out of control. I have complete control. It already is as far as I know. Daniel ramped up his attacks in the town. One post on the Slate Ridge Facebook page included a picture of Pawlet us town hall and said quote No alarm no security camera single pane windows no deadbolts 30 to 40 minutes police response time dead zone for all cell service no safe room. People wrote in the comments that it was a soft target and noted the women on staff often worked late. Another post urged supporters to assemble at a town meeting with weapons and trauma kits though none of them actually showed up. There were other problems too. In 2018 Daniel was banned from Pace University where he would been studying for a master's degree in Homeland Security. He would allegedly sent a dean death threats over a text message. That led to a judge's order suspending his pistol permit in New York and requiring Daniel to surrender his firearms. When police searched his house they found a handgun which led prosecutors in New York to charge him with two felonies for criminal possession. Those are not resolved yet. According to a prosecutor the majority of Daniel's pistols were transferred out of state presumably to Vermont. Up on the hill in Pawlet the conflict was threatening to spiral. A sign posted on Daniel's property read Trespass here die here. One night two boys were bow hunting on the Huletts' property. Here's what happened next according to allegations made to police. They shot a deer and tracked it to Daniel's land. As they approached Daniel came down and threatened them. One boy called his dad. Things escalated. When Daniel asked them to identify themselves they refused. And then Daniel said OK you want to play that game? I will shoot you. Nobody got hurt in the end. Daniel disputed that he threatened anyone. No charges were filed. Coming up reporter Mike Giglio looks into Daniel's background to try to figure out who Daniel really is and just how worried the neighbors should be. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program Do not You Be My Neighbor. We are devoting most of the hour today to the story of Pawlet Vermont and what happened when one new person moved in. In this next part of the story reporter Mike Giglio tries to answer the questions that lots of people in town had about their new neighbor. Here's Mike. I started writing about militia groups and civil violence last year. Ever since I have been getting emails from people who are afraid of their neighbors. There was a Tennessee woman who suspected that hers were getting ready for quote a bloodbath. A Michigan man who asked me if he should report a high school friend to authorities because of his Facebook posts. People wanted me to help them figure out how dangerous was their neighbor. That was how I heard about Slate Ridge and Daniel. Someone who lives near Pawlet sent me a message asking if I might want to investigate. You can drive yourself crazy these days wondering if everyone threatening violence is serious or only trolling. When I was interviewing people in militia groups last year for example I often had the feeling that it was all just posturing. That all their talk about civil violence was 