Today's whole show came out of this thing that we heard that politicians said. And we wondered-- is that true? Like was he right? And the answer set us on this eight-month journey where at some point like the best journeys I think we forgot what the original reason was that we set out. And we just started to learn all kinds of things that we had never imagined back at the beginning. Where we ended up was Albertville Alabama a mountain town in the northern part of the state a town that went through a huge change in population very quickly. Back in 1990 Albertville was 98 white. Then it got a flood of outsiders mostly from Mexico documented and undocumented immigrants. So many people that after just 20 years the all-white town was more than 14 Latino. Basically Albertville was around 15000 people. It got another 6000. Most of them came to work in the poultry processing plants in town. And one nice thing about Albertville-- if you want to understand what really happened there during the town's big change-- it is small enough that you can just show up. Like everybody's still kind of right there. Like if you walk into one of the poultry plants and ask who was the first Latino worker to show up here? They actually know. One of my coworkers Miki Meek did just that. Do you remember who one of the first immigrants was to work at the plant? Gregorio or something like that. Gregoria Gregoria something. I do not know his last name. They called him ravioli. They call him ravioli? Why ravioli? I do not know. Cause his name's hard to pronounce I guess.  And he could not speak any English. Kind of shy you know? And his name was Gregoriola and he is still at the plant. We did locate this mythical Latino chicken plant Neil Armstrong Gregorio. And he is kind of shy would not make eye contact mumbled. And after we made three visits to his house he finally got rid of us by fobbing us off on his uncle. Gregorio? I mean he not talk to nobody too quiet. He is too quiet? Yeah. His uncle Fernando Martinez is the opposite of shy-- extroverted super-friendly an amateur guitarist and singer with a gigantic mustache and shaggy hair that make him look like the 1970s country rock star Freddy Fender. Fernando and Gregorio came to the chicken plants in Albertville right when this all began sometime around 1991 neither can remember exactly. And one of the people Fernando met was Pat. Now in her 60s and eligible for retirement she is still working still tough always on the move. That is what I like about it. I go to work. I clock in at 15 to 400 every morning. I am moving. I am moving. She is been at her plant for 44 years and has held just about every job there. Pulled out guts and lungs. Ran the box machine. Sawed chickens into nine-piece meals for KFC. She befriended Fernando and Gregorio. Before Greg had you ever met a Latino before? No. He was really my first. I kind of-- I was not too sure. Basically Fernando just sat down at Pat's lunch table one day and they started talking tentatively. Here's Fernando speaking through an interpreter. It is easier for him than being interviewed in English.  And from then on I sat with her every day. What would you guys talk about? How did you communicate? Yeah you know  You are never really talking about work. They would ask me if I had a girlfriend or a wife.  Hey Fernando you got any kids? And I said who knows?  And then we started laughing together. But then in a few years at this plant things would get pretty tense and suspicious between the Mexican workers and the local workers and things would get pretty ugly in town too. But back then at the very beginning newcomers were a novelty not a threat. It was not hard to get along. And we were just sitting there one day and we were talking. And he said Patricia? I said what? I said what did you call me? He said that is your name in Spanish. My name is Patricia but he said Pa-tree-cee-ah. And I thought God that sounds so pretty. I have never liked my name. But ever since he said it I have liked my name. LAUGHING Oh really? Yep. It is cornball. I know. But he said Patricia. You thought that was beautiful. Yeah it did. It sounded so beautiful. Patricia. Patricia. OK so we went to Albertville because of something that a politician said and the politician was Jeff Sessions longtime Alabama senator currently President Trump's Attorney General. It is Sessions' views on immigration that have become administration policy. The administration has proposed cutting the number of immigrants who come into this country each year in half. And it especially targets the kind of workers who arrived in Albertville-- low-wage unskilled workers who do not speak English. That is something Sessions has been pushing for for over a decade and it is not a coincidence that those are the workers most targeted. A longtime ally of his in Washington on the immigration issue Roy Beck the founder of a group called NumbersUSA has known Sessions since the '90s says-- I really doubt that he would have made immigration his signature issue if not for his experience with the poultry plants in Alabama. We wanted to see what Sessions saw and we went looking for a poultry town that got a ton of immigrants. And in Alabama the poster town for that is Albertville. Jeff Sessions has visited Albertville. He is spoken there. Met up with the mayor and residents about the immigrants who arrived. And whatever it is that Sessions saw in those Alabama chicken plants it sent him down the road to some very strong positions. He declined our request for an interview but here he is on the floor of the Senate in 2007. And big greedy businesses who hire illegal workers and hiring those numbers by the tens or hundreds of thousands will pull down the wages of American citizens. Why would we do that? Why do not we take care of our American workers? This is him in 2014. I talked to a business person recently about a factory that they have. The work sounded pretty good to me and he wants to bring in foreign workers to Alabama. Well we have got unemployment in Alabama. We have got people on unemployment insurance. We have got people on welfare and food stamps and assistance that need to be taking those jobs. The former state senator Scott Beason who helped write Alabama's landmark 2011 self-deportation bill once said quote if you do not believe illegal immigration will destroy a community go and check out parts of Alabama around Albertville. So was Albertville destroyed? Are Beason and Jeff Sessions right? To figure out the answer we have interviewed more than 100 people workers and managers at the poultry plants politicians law enforcement documented and undocumented immigrants kids of immigrants who grew up in town older white residents who hated the changes. We also had an economist look at what happened to wages and to jobs. Another economist estimated what it cost the town to pay for schools and public services for the newcomers. This is an issue where one side says that immigrants are an awful threat stealing jobs committing crimes costing taxpayers. And the other side says that they are the exact opposite the very source of our strength as a country boosting the economy adding diversity. And here at our show we thought for once rather than hash over those familiar arguments let us just go to a place where immigration has happened and talk in a factual way about what the hell actually occurs when lots of low-wage low-skill workers arrive from another country. Like what is that actually do to everyone's lives? What we learned from WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life and I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. So on today's show we are going to talk about the effect that the newcomers had on jobs. So all the action's going to be inside the chicken plants. Next we are going to take up what happened in town-- politics schools taxes crime all that. My co-host for both shows is going to be my coworker Miki Meek. She and I have been traveling down to Albertville with our colleague Lilly Sullivan many trips over the last eight months. Miki's the one who spent a lot of time talking to poultry workers. And Miki the changes were a shock to longtime workers right? So yeah because the chicken plants were pretty much built for them. This happened right after World War II when the state of Alabama realized it needed a new economic strategy. Cotton and corn were not bringing in much for small farmers anymore. They wanted to keep people in jobs. So they decided to get the state into poultry production. They wanted to stick a plant up north to kill and process chickens and they let different towns compete for it. Albertville won and built the first plant near the middle of town right next door to the high school. Many more plants joined later. And now poultry companies are the biggest employers in town. Poultry is also the biggest agribusiness in Alabama almost 10 of the state's economy a billion chickens every year. Pat who you heard earlier she and her father were exactly the workers who these plants were built for. Growing up she worked in the cotton fields with her dad. Then he got a job in a plant and she followed him in soon after. She started as a giblet wrapper. 1973 August the 13th. How do you still remember the date? It is just easy.  It is just August the 13 1973. And you got to remember this was the early years. OK so what does that mean? The early years it was like a kind of unit. Same 18 ladies on that wrapping table older hard-working people that come out of the fields. It was family. It was family. Everybody knew the chicken plant was good pay benefits retirement a decent job if you did not finish high school. And that is mostly who took the jobs. Pat dropped out after ninth grade got married and had two kids. She took a job at the plant because-- I wanted to buy a house. And we penny-pinched penny-pinched till we had our down payment. And so you got your house? And we got this house. And it is this house right here? This same house that we live in right now. One unusual thing about these poultry plants-- by the late 1980s there were long term workers at the plants for sure. But turnover was so high in the plants it is like you could always show up and just expect to get a job. You fall on tough times you need to pick up money for a family emergency you knew the plant was there. The plants were like a public utility in that way. The head of HR at one of the plants Tom Howell said that when he started at Wayne Farms back in 1990-- this is before tons of Mexican workers showed up-- it was common to hire the same person five or six times in the same year. Well they would use the mirror test. And the mirror test is what? I am surprised you do not know what the mirror test is. That is pretty simple. You just stick it under a person's nose and if they fog that mirror up you know they are breathing. So you put them to work. People joked that you could quit one plant in the morning and get hired by another plant in the afternoon. And the first real change to that came in the mid-1990s. By then there was a rapid and steady stream of Mexican workers arriving hundreds of them mostly men mostly here without their families. One of Pat's good friends is an especially helpful witness to what happened in their plant. This is a woman everybody calls Miss Martha-- wavy brown and gray hair and glasses. She is been there since the '70s and works at the supply window which means she talks to just about everyone. They all have to go to her window to pick up gloves and aprons. Oh it is the little gossip window I guess. People just want to come up and talk and I am a good listener. So I listen to them. She says she likes to play 20 Questions at the window. I made her tell me some of the questions. How many kids you got? How far do you work from here? Your family live with you? You know little simple questions that you lead up. And then when you know them a little bit better what can you move on to? Got a girlfriend? You married? How much money you got in the bank?  And most of the time they will tell me what they have done. She says when the Latino workers showed up they and the local workers were kind of just thrown together in this fast-paced industrial workplace and had to improvise without being able to speak the same language. And it could be kind of nerve-wracking. Martha would train people on the saw line. Does not that feel kind of dangerous to be training somebody on how to use a saw when you cannot really-- Any time you trained somebody yes it was dangerous. That is the reason they only had certain people to train them that had patience with them. I show him right here-- get the bird out. And I say--  You would pat it? Into the saw into the saw. But while they were working side by side there was this feeling of like where did these people come from? Why were they here all of a sudden and so many of them? It is kind of like an uneasy feeling. You are unsure. You do not know whether to trust them or whether not to trust them. And we did not know whether they were legal or they were not legal or what. But there was a lot of them. You know there is not-- I mean you can just tell by the way they act. How is that? They have a guard up on them. Like they do not want to get too close-- Like they do not want to get too close. They do not want to make conversation about certain things. And you have one that says I am legal. I am legal. I am legal. And she gets fired three times because of bad paperwork. So I mean how much would you ask? Was there a period where you were asking about it and then you just-- Some of them would would act like they do not know-- no comprende you know? That is when they do not want to tell you nothing. There were a lot of things that just look really sketchy. People would get fired and come back to work. And when they came back they had a different name. Pat remembers watching one woman fill out a form they had if you wanted to get your birthday off. The woman was young maybe early 30s. And the birthday she put down had her 66 years old. And we have girls over the years they had their 15 coming out parties? That is Martha again and she is talking about quinceaneras which you celebrate when you turn 15. They was giving out invitations. They were handing them out at work? Well they did until one of them got in trouble and they fired her. But yeah she was so proud of it. So she started giving out invitations. And then that is how they found out she was lying about her age. How did you feel about that? Well I did not like it. I did not like it-- the way they was sneaking in over here. And the company knows it. It seemed like the Mexicans were getting away with something. They were cheating the system. They were not here legally and the company was helping them do it. Maybe the Mexicans were not paying the same taxes. Lots of workers believe that though it was not true. The companies were required to take them out automatically. Regardless longtime workers started to believe the same thing that Jeff Sessions came to believe that these new immigrants were taking jobs that did not belong to them. A quiet resentment set in among the white workers at the plants. Everyone says you would walk in and you could feel it. We will hear the company's side of all this in the second half of the show. They have a totally different story to tell. But the icing on the cake for the workers was that the company seemed to like what was happening. In fact maybe they were even behind it. There is this thing I heard over and over from almost every local I talked to. Again here's Pat and Martha. I do not know whether it was true or not but we were told that there was a sign put up at the border-- work in Albertville Alabama poultry. It had a 800 number that you could call. And it is on the border where? Right as you go into Texas. So do you think that is true or do you think that is fake? Yes it was true. Are you positive it was true? Yes. Yes. Where have you seen it? You saw a picture or what? I seen a picture of it. I never could find a picture of it. Some locals said it was more than one billboard. Some said it was in Texas. One woman said she saw it in Tijuana. But always the sign named exactly one town in the whole country-- Albertville Alabama. Did that make you feel betrayed by the company? Yes it did. Yes it did. Because I put years in here. And I have drawed chickens hung chickens dumped chickens pushed dead chickens sawed shoveled eyes stacked boxes cleaned chicken poop off of coops and everything else. That is my plant. Still to this day that is my plant. Who did you feel mad at? Did you feel mad at the Latinos? Were you mad at the company? Or was it-- No I was not mad at the Latinos. I was mad at management. They were scheming conniving taking shortcuts to get them in. I am mad-- I am not mad. I am upset. I am hurt really. So was there a sign at the border? I talked to a bunch of the men who came to Albertville in that first wave of Mexican workers about whether that is what brought them to town. Have you heard that?  No no no.  I did not know that. Have you heard about this? No.  But I do not think it is true.  Yeah it is funny. Have you heard about this sign?   No I do not know anything about that. So you were laughing. What makes you laugh about that?  Because they are saying that Wayne Farms is putting these--  --yeah they are putting these signs up at the border and why at the border? So that Mexicans can see them and come get a job.  They literally never heard of this. They worked side by side with the local workers for 20 years and had no idea that this was the story going around about them. This is a story that every local we talked to had heard of. So no they were not in the US because of a sign at the border. In fact what the American workers did not know about these guys is that lots of these men who arrived in the early '90s had been in this country for years. They were not newly arrived immigrants stealing American jobs. They would been here working and got amnesty when Ronald Reagan signed his big immigration reform in 1986. It legalized almost 3000000 people. Some were seasonal workers in the tomato fields close to Albertville. Some were on farms in Oregon California Florida Michigan. Some did construction work. They made their way to town and the chicken plant seemed like a good deal. This was work that would happen regardless of rain or snow no off months a reliable paycheck. And even better they could finally stay in one place which meant they could also finally bring their families from Mexico. This worker we will call Carlos is pretty typical of that first wave. He would been in the US since the '70s got amnesty under Reagan had five kids and a wife in Guanajuato that he only got to see once a year. He says he tried to stay connected to them by sometimes putting on his best clothes and going out with a camera.  I would send them pictures some pictures of like standing next to a car or a big house and maybe they would think that I lived there.   But that was not your car or house? No no no no no no.  You start missing the love of your child especially when you are gone for a year and you miss them growing up.  He was the foreman of an apple orchard in Michigan a good job. But in Albertville his wife could work with him at the chicken plant double their income. They could send their kids to a much better school than back home. And so after the first wave of men moved to town word spread about these jobs and the population started to shift from people who were in the country legally to lots of workers and family members who were not who moved here directly from Mexico arriving into town in packed cars and vans. Carlos says he brought his family legally but also told lots of people back home.  So you start spreading the word. I will tell like maybe two three other Mexicans. I will say hey you should come here because there is lots and lots of work. They needed the work because Mexico was in economic crisis. The currency crashed in 1994. NAFTA knocked lots of Mexicans out of work and hit small farmers hard and a surge of people came to the United States. The number of undocumented people here more than tripled from 3.5 million in 1990 to over 11 million in 2010. And large numbers were arriving in the southeast US for the first time. Carlos guessed that maybe 3000 came to Albertville from his hometown at Guanajuato. Lots of people told us they liked how small Albertville was. That it was not a big city. It was pretty. It felt safe. It reminded them of home. So when American workers in the Albertville plants looked around and wondered why in the world all these newcomers were suddenly showing up in their little town this was the thing they did not realize-- that an historic migration was under way mostly from Mexico. The newcomers ended up in poultry plants all across the South-- Arkansas Mississippi Georgia the Carolinas. Because coincidentally the poultry business was going through its own massive changes. It was desperate for employees. The poultry business was booming in the early '90s like it never had before. The industry had figured out how to make chickens grow to full size more cheaply in a much shorter period of time. And they were rebranding chicken from the special meal that you would have once a week to total ubiquity a healthy convenient alternative to red meat.  This Ragu commercial haunts the dreams of a generation of TV watchers. There is also the less healthy fast food version of chicken. Tyson started production of the McNugget for McDonald's and soon chicken was everywhere. SINGING Well they got chicken at Taco Bell. That is right 'ecause it is brand new. That is Little Richard for Taco Bell. Homer Simpson advertised Church's Chicken. Ooh chicken! Must eat! Need money any means necessary! The price dropped dramatically. People went from eating about 28 pounds of chicken a year in 1960 to almost 90 pounds per person per year today. Albertville's plants added the lines that took whole chickens and cut them up into the options you now see in the grocery store-- wings tenders boneless and skinless thighs and breasts. Their international market exploded shipping dark meats organs and feet to Russia and China. And that is the engine that was pulling in all these new workers to Albertville. The plant that is now Tyson Foods nearly quadrupled from 250 workers to more than 900. Wayne Farms added around another 200 jobs. If there had not been a flood of new foreign workers to take those jobs the companies might have had to pay more to attract employees to the plants. But that was not a choice they ever had to make. For the people who came with no papers all the stuff that seemed so underhanded and devious to their American coworkers it was surprisingly easy to pull off. This guy Oscar arrived in Albertville from Guanajuato in 1995 right before he turned 16 to join his father in the chicken plants. Legal age to work in a plant was 18 but that was not an obstacle. He gave me a card like ID. Did he find you like a fake ID? Or what did you-- Yeah. He found me a fake ID with my-- I think it was not even my face. It was not even your face? No. The guy was older than me. And did you think this is not going to work? Yeah. Because I mean I was 16. And when I see the pictures I was like oh my god. The guy in the ID was probably 25 26. His name was Jose Lopez. And from then on that is the name that Oscar went by. They call me Joe. Do you kind of think of yourself as Joe? Yeah. Imagine working for 20 years-- I think it is 19 20 years-- with that name. So it is like I guess that is my nickname forever I guess. Joe? Yeah. It is like a stage name like an actor but for the chicken plant. Yeah. How much did your American coworkers ask you about your legal status? A bunch. So how would they ask it? What would they say? What is your real name? What would you say? I would say Jose. They said no that is not. I heard somebody call you another name. I tell him that was my nickname. Could you tell-- did that make them mad? Or what did they think about that? They say that Mexicans go back to Mexico. Is there any part of that you are like oh it is understandable? Well I do not really know. It is hard. When you do not have no more choice. I mean you have to. It was really striking talking to them-- how the arrival of these Latino workers blew the minds of the local workers turned their world upside down. But the Mexican workers did not have any of that. They did not have a lot of emotions about their white coworkers did not spend a lot of time thinking or worrying about them. If the white workers did not like them whatever. They would been through worse. Again here's Fernando-- the guy who called Pat Patricia.  You notice that people are staring at you because you are something strange. And they are thinking where do these people come from?  And they would just kind of glance at you to the side like they do not want you there. How frustrating is that?  You do not really feel bad because you get used to it. This guy named Claudio said he started trying to learn English because he sensed his American coworkers were talking about him.  And I would think well what are they saying? And so I would come back home and I would ask my daughter. So what they were saying were swear words in English. He says his daughter was in elementary school. Quick warning this story has a curse word we have unbeeped here on the podcast. Anyway one day one of his American coworkers got mad at the way he was hanging live birds on the conveyor belt.  He was saying that I was skipping a hanger and then he would say to me-- Hey you motherfucker Mexican. Hey motherfucker! Why are you skipping this? You know? Why do Mexicans come here if they are not going to work? So then you come home and you ask your daughter what is motherfucker? Right.  She would write down for me how it is spelled and then how it is said. And I would have it on a piece of paper that I would carry with me.  She would say hey dad just use the same word with them. Again here's Fernando.  A lot of times they talk about you and they would use that word that they have-- wetbackers-- to describe you.  One time I got mad and hit somebody in the face with a chicken like this. He did not do anything. He just kind of walked off. And this was the guy who ran that line. You hit him with a chicken? Did that feel good to do that?  Well you do not exactly feel good but you feel a little bit calmer because that gets the person to shut up. He says he could get away with talking back because he had papers. There is no official estimate of how much of Albertville's Latino population was undocumented back then or is undocumented now. But people who know the community best-- who work as advocates and deal with tons of families-- say it is more than half undocumented. And maybe a lot more than half. The first waves were from Mexico. And then later people from Guatemala and elsewhere. Lots of local workers said it was not long before management seemed to prefer the new Latino workers-- thought they were better workers. They picked up double shifts did not want to call attention to themselves or cause any problems. They did not want to do anything that could make them lose their jobs-- did not complain did not make a big deal about injuries. This is true even for the documented workers. The government calls meat and poultry processing one of the most hazardous industries in the country. People get cut from working with sharp knives and scissors they develop carpal tunnel syndrome from all the repetitive motion on the line. Carlos said that when he and his wife would get swollen hands from working on the line he would press on his fingers and blood and yellow puss would come out chicken bones would get stuck under his fingernails but he would just keep working.  I had to take out the guts with my two hands. And I really wanted to leave but I said no I have to do this work this hard work. So when I talk to American workers they say I get mad when they say Mexicans work harder than white people. And they are like it is not true. It is just that they do not speak up for their rights. And I was wondering what you think about that.  Yeah. We do not really know our rights. So we do not really know how to defend our rights in the work place. So yeah that is kind of a reason. But it is also because we have these families that are suffering that depend on us. I mean they have us working from the time that we were kids eight years old. Here that does not really exist. So we do work harder. Carlos agrees with the local workers-- that the companies prefer Latinos. He would see it play out at his plant.  With my boss I will be talking to him and like five workers will come along and two of them will be Hispanic. And my boss will say to me hey give me those two because they are going to have better work ethic whereas the other people might not last as long. They might leave. But the plant loses money when that happens. And so my boss will say those two-- those two are going to last. And we felt bad when the supervisors turned on us. This worker asked that we do not use his name. I think they felt that the Hispanics was more over-- above us. And I did not see no difference. I mean I thought well I can do just as much as this guy can you know? But they did not see that in us. They saw it in them. And after that it seemed like it just changed-- like they turned on us and forgot about us. We felt forgotten. We just felt like our jobs was in jeopardy. And from the time I clock in until the time I clock out I was worried about what is going to happen to my future here at the chicken plant. He was one of a handful of black workers at his plant. When Latino workers came in he says it was the first time he felt unified with his white coworkers-- both saw themselves as the American workers. Again here's Pat. It made us all think that we were just going to be pushed out the door and they were going to bring all Hispanics in to replace us. Especially as older hands you have a fear all of a sudden just slap you. Coming up the government steps in on the side of the local workers. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today on our program what actually happens when immigrants arrive in large numbers? We are telling the story of Albertville Alabama which went from being a nearly all-white Southern town to a town that is now lots of immigrants-- more than half of them undocumented best as we can tell. My co-host for the hour is Miki Meek. And at this point in our story the longtime workers in the chicken plants have this feeling that there is right and there is wrong and people are breaking the law-- obviously here illegally. And everybody's acting like this is just fine and normal and what the hell? And the companies seem to be not just fine with this but probably encouraging it. And some plants evidence came in 1995 of just how much the companies knew and how far they would go to keep undocumented workers in the plants. That year the government decided to take aggressive action against the wave of undocumented Mexican workers that were moving into poultry plants carpet factories and hotel jobs all across the South. They launched a series of raids called Operation SouthPAW. PAW was short for Protecting American Workers. In Washington today the Immigration Service has announced a very bold move to locate and deport illegal aliens. Federal agents have actually gone into factories and farm fields to locate illegal immigrants. And then they have gone one step further-- The goal was to create job openings for American workers by arresting lots of people at work sites. A big show of force with over 100 INS and Border Patrol agents. They rode into Albertville with empty buses to haul people off to deportation. At the Gold Kist plant outside of town workers cheered when they arrived. But at Hudson Foods management had worked out a system to deal with the raids. I talked to Mark Ginzo. He worked at Hudson Foods as a bilingual chaplain. This is something you see at some chicken plants around the south-- chaplains to minister to the workers. Mark remembers they were raided a few times. And they would know in advance if immigration was coming because agents had to get a warrant first. Usually it was somebody outside who would-- or they would look through the windows and see them coming in and start screaming la migra! La migra! And la migra means? Immigration. Then what happens in the plant? What do you see happen? O