I got my teeth cleaned this week and I was asking the hygienist how it was going with the global pandemic and all. And she was like just yesterday somebody stole two face masks from the counter right there. And so I was like do you know who? And she was like yeah she knew exactly who because she caught her red handed and the woman was not sorry at all-- would not give the masks back. I mean there is a national shortage but still. I heard about this woman Kim who decided a couple weeks ago to buy some face masks for her mom. Her mom works at a home caring for the elderly and face masks are recommended for people like her mom. Kim went shopping for some. CVS-- sold out. Rite Aid-- sold out. Target-- sold out. She called pharmacies around town in northern California where she lives. No luck until she reached this one woman. She said they were sold out and then she paused for a second. And then she said well I have a stash at home. I might be able to sell you some masks. Let me call you after work. Wait and so suddenly it is like you are doing an illegal drug deal or something over a mask? Kind of felt that way. So I called her after work. We set up a time and place and we met the following day in front of the Safeway next to the Glacier water bottle vending machine. Wait wait. And-- Wait that is what she said? She said OK we are going to meet in front of this Safeway in front of the Glacier bottle vending machine? Yes. I found her easily gave her the cash got the box said thank you-- Now describe the actual physical transaction. Now when you handed her the cash was it a kind of like your hand was over top of the cash so someone else could not see it and she palmed it away from you. Pretty much yeah. The woman asked for 100 for 10 masks. Kim talked her down to 70. Regular price would be 1 per mask maybe 2. And she told me that she had two boxes left. So if I wanted more I could come back. I work at a local co-op here in Seattle Washington called PCC Community Markets just a little bit different clientele. They are kind of like a Whole Foods clientele a little more particular. Cameron works in the produce department and he is a cashier. Washington state you may know has more cases than any other state and most of them are around Seattle. So the co-op started selling out of toilet paper beans flour hand sanitizer when this first hit the news. It is been pretty tense very just on edge. A lot of people are upset that we do not have hand sanitizer wipes for our carts. I have had a few customers vocally yell at me because of how I was touching their cans when I was checking them out at the register. Like this one guy who had a lot of cans. It was a kombucha energy drink. I cannot remember the exact brand. He probably had a couple dozen. Some of them had fallen over and I would grabbed the top of the can versus the bottom of the can when scanning it which I mean I can understand. But at the same time I probably was not the first person to touch that can so. What did they say to you? He just wanted me to be aware of what I was doing. It took me a minute to understand what he was saying because he was so frustrated. I do not remember the exact words but paraphrasing he was asking me in a pretty passive aggressive way why I am touching the cans the way I am. Somehow that is exactly what I would have pictured. I am picturing sort of Fred Armisen in Portlandia. You are so spot on it is gross right now.  He was wearing glasses for sure and some sort of fleece. But he was just telling me how I need to be touching the cans without touching the tops and yeah. Some people have more to fear than others right now I think like Jasmine Reese. She works at Los Angeles airport LAX cleaning out planes after they land including international flights. Coronavirus became a very real thing to her over a month ago when a plane arrived from Hong Kong. Even as I am getting on the plane and I see first class business I am walking down. And I am seeing co-workers with face masks and I am like what is going on? Why does everybody have a face mask? They are like oh because there is a virus. There is a virus and you have to clean this plane. This is one of the planes that you know this is Hong Kong. And I am like oh let me go downstairs and go get me one because keep in mind that I am five months pregnant. And did they have face masks? Were you able to get one? Yeah but we do not have them every day and we work every day but we are kind of low on supply so meaning that we may not have face masks every day. We may not have gloves every day. There have been days since the virus when you went in and you had to clean a plane without a mask? Yeah there is plenty. There is plenty of days that we get on there and we do not have no mask. We are cleaning. Sometimes we get on there. We do not have masks and gloves. One job the crew does-- they reach deep into garbage bags on the plane and pull out the garbage by hand. Jasmine cleans American Airlines planes. She works for a contractor called Jetstream Ground Services. A number of Jetstream employees have been quoted in the press saying the same thing about gloves and masks that Jasmine says. We reached out to a spokesperson for the company Eric Rose. He said in emails quote we are at a loss as to why the employees are making these false claims. Jetstream Ground Services has always had an abundant supply of safety equipment for all employees to fulfill their daily assignments. End quote. Just this week the Service Employees International Union started distributing masks and gloves to workers like Jasmine in LAX saying Jetstream has not properly provided them. The day I talked to Jasmine two people who work at LAX had at that point tested positive with the virus. Jasmine thought one of them worked at terminal seven. So we have a person all the way down at seven that got sick and then now they are saying a person I think from terminal five was sick. We are at four. Damn. So we are right next to a person that could have possibly came to the food court at our terminal you just never know. Do you feel like it is only a matter of time before somebody you work with gets sick? Yeah it is how it is going and it is on the news and it is spreading so wide. I would not be surprised if someone-- if the news popped up and said somebody is sick within the next week or two. I could be walking around with a co-worker right now and they probably have it. You do not know that they have it. So when you are cleaning planes is this what you are thinking about all the time? If it is internationally yes. I am thinking why do you have clean this plane? And I am trying not to stress on it too hard. And I cannot totally tell. How worried are you? Truth-- I am very worried but I have still got to work and get my money. I have to survive yes but I am very worried about it certainly because I am pregnant. Right now as I am saying these words to you dozens of people have already died in our country but somehow it still feels like the calm before the storm. For now it is like streets are a little emptier store shelves are emptier. Some people are working from home. Some schools close. Other schools-- everybody's waiting to hear if they are going to be called off. Things are not as awful as they are certainly going to get so we are all waiting for it to get awful with no idea of how awful that is going to be. If I had to say what this feels like I think to me what this feels like is-- I do not know-- the only experience I have ever had like this is sort of like waiting for medical results trying to find out how bad things are going to be but on a global scale. We are going to be documenting more about coronavirus in upcoming shows but for today's show we thought we would stick to this one part of things this low hum of menace. Here in our staff we were talking about when else does somebody actually feel that feeling? And we found some examples of that to share with you and that is going to be our show today. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us.  Act One-- Do You Hear What I Hear? So this first story is about a recording that captures this exact thing today's program is about that low hum of menace. The recording was made secretly by a woman trying to catch a man who'd been harassing her. Heads up to listeners this story is about sexual harassment so there is some sexual content to this. One thing I have to say that is interesting about this recording and the man's behavior in it is how understated it is. He does not raise his voice. He does not overtly threaten but he just gets his point across. Also interesting the woman who made the recording-- her name is Khristen Sellers. Years later today when she hears this recording she hears it very differently than she did at the time. It raises a whole set of questions she did not think about much back then. Reporter Jessica Lussenhop met Khristen years ago putting together a story for the BBC. Here's Jessica. The recording is just 10 minutes long. The man Khristen was trying to record was her home inspector. This is back in 2012. At the time she did not have a cell phone so she borrowed one from her friend. Can you just sort of explain how you made this recording in the first place? OK. I had on some around the house cleanup clothing like baggy clothing. So I had a phone and I took the phone and I put it in my shirt. Put it in I think it was my bra strap or something sitting some type of way odd. Because of the phone under the shirt secured by a bra strap the recording is hard to hear. Hiding the phone there Khristen's nervous. She gives herself a task-- raking the yard-- as she waits for Eric Pender to pull up. He is who she wants to record. She is kind of afraid of him but she is focused on all the things anyone making this kind of recording might be. She wants to stay calm not look suspicious act natural. And most importantly she wants to get audio of Eric Pender harassing her so she has undeniable proof. Eric Pender's red truck pulls up and parks on the street. There was a long driveway. So I am in a wooded area as not no whole bunch of houses near me or nothing and he was walking up. But I was still raking doing both. And he was coming up towards me and I was kind of trying to turn the other way. That is when he kind of got real close and he was like I am-- You know Ms. Sellers you need to be careful of who you talk to. I am not worried about me. Be careful who you talk to. I am not worried about me. Just somebody you think that you can trust and I am just letting you know you probably cannot trust them. But if there is somebody you think you can trust then I am just letting you know you probably cannot trust them. He basically was saying I need to watch what I am saying to people and how I am talking to them and I am like what am I saying to people? I am trying to put the face on of I am not saying nothing to nobody. What are you talking about? How far away is he from you when he is-- Probably like how me and her is right now. My producer Robyn-- she is about two feet away. This recording is the fourth time Khristen had spoken to Eric Pender ever. All right I already know how people use lies. I as not-- look you need to-- look if you think-- . I am super nervous and nothing-- I am so nervous at that point I was shaking and I could not believe he did not see it. It was like a tremble in me that I just was trying to hold on to the rake as hard as I could so that he would not see the tremble in me. You know what I mean? Were you making eye contact with him? I really was like down to the rake down to the rake. It was like if I was somebody else the way I was raking in the same spot I would have been like what is she doing? But I was still in the same spot because I was scared to move. I was just nervous. The house Eric Pender was coming to inspect was not Khristen's yet. It was a house she was hoping to move into with her three kids. The only thing she needed to move in was his signature on a form. She needs this house. Just two weeks earlier Khristen was staying at her mom's just home from a prison stint. She served six months for a probation violation. She was looking for a house for her and her kids. If you needed a Section 8 voucher in Laurinburg a small town in a rural area of North Carolina one of the only places to go was a nonprofit called Four-County Community Services. The problem was the only house they were willing to give her was a house no one else seemed to want. Khristen was like OK. I am not picky. They had a house and they said that house in particular was abandoned. And if I was to clean that house out that I would go ahead and be able to move in the house and would not have to pay a deposit. They actually called the landlord and they will pay the first month's rent. I think that is how it went yeah. So if she cleaned the house it would be hers but cleaning the house she would come to learn was a big project. It was a three bedroom house with a dining room and den and all the rooms were filled with junk. It smelled awful. There were roaches lots of poop. The neighbors had told me that is why it was so many feces and stuff in the house because they had left the dog. And then finally I guess the dog either died or left and they got it out. I do not know. But by the time I got there I just was there with the leftover-- the house being full of clothing and food in the cabinets. It was all this stuff. It was just horrible. She cleaned and cleaned. She had a list of tasks that she would been given from the nonprofit. It took weeks like maybe two weeks or so three weeks maybe even more than that. I cannot even really remember remember. I just remember going a lot of times doing it. Well I called down there and they sent the inspector out. I thought I had everything done that was my duty to do. Eric Pender showed up. He was the housing inspector for Four-County. He is a tall man older light skinned black man with a taste for cowboy boots and belts khakis. Pender was there to review Khristen's work. If she passed his inspection she would get approved to move in. Anyway he was like you need to have a man to help you. Why you do not have a boyfriend? And all this. And I am like I do not have one because I am just coming out from prison. I am trying to get on my feet for my kids. I am trying to explain to him and he was like but if you had a man here a man could get this stuff done. And I am like I did it. What are you asking me to do? This talk of men quickly turned explicit. Khristen said he asked her about her sex life if she performed oral sex before. And I was like what? I was totally thrown. And he was like because you have had men to take you out to dinner and stuff. And then I had told him yeah I have. And he was like well you having people take you out to dinner. That is what they were paying you for. They were paying you for sex. He said let us say your rent's 600 times 12 months. Her rent was 600 a month. So to be clear he was laying out her exact situation. He proposed sex with him as a kind of home insurance policy that Pender valued at over a year's worth of rent. And he was like that is way over 6000. My signature is over 6000. So you will be having sex for-- basically he mapped it out just like that. Did he even acknowledge that you had cleaned the whole house? He did not. He did not want to. He wanted to let me know that I still had stuff to do. I am stuck because I know I am in here with this man. And I am like he can sign this paper and he can not sign this paper. He can say whatever and my word against him is what? So at this time I am like what do I do? I just do not know. So I just knew to try to keep a distance between me and him as much as I could. Pender toured the house with Khristen following behind him. He starts pointing to stuff that was not Khristen's responsibility to clean up that was not on the list that the nonprofit gave her-- broken mirrors a broken toilet. That is where he was telling me the toilet needed fixing and he kind of pulled me by the hip in the bathroom. And he pulled himself out in front of me. Wait what? Yeah he pulled himself out and I looked down. And I looked up and I kind of like-- I need to get out-- find a way out. So I kind of got out of the bathroom. And he is blocking you. He is in the bathroom door. Yeah he is blocking me. And you are in the bathroom and cannot get out. Mhm yeah. And he exposes himself to you. Definitely. And he was like you know what to do. You know what I am saying? You know if you want this house you know what you got to do. That is what he was saying at that point. She says the only thing she was sure of was that there was no way she was going to do what he wanted ever. She managed to push past him gets him to leave. He does not sign the form. It was overwhelming. I broke down because I felt like when you are in situations like I was in you feel kind of like you have got low self-esteem already. And so dealing with that situation is just kind of like-- you just feel like that is what-- he looks at you like-- is that how men look at you? And so it is just like I am going to say whatever to her because she is who she is. Khristen did not go to the police. She thought it was her word against his and that because of her record she would not be believed. She thought she needed to bolster her claim in some way collect some evidence or something. She called a private investigator wondering if they could surveil him but they were too expensive. The private investigator she talked to gave her this tip. North Carolina is a one-party consent state meaning it was legal for Khristen to record him try to get proof without his permission. But your friends know enough to hurt you. Yeah. You see what I am saying? They know-- Which brings us back to the recording Khristen made on that Sunday in April back in 2012. Pender is coming back ostensibly to inspect the house. He still has not signed the form she needs to move in. Remember Khristen is trying to record Pender propositioning her but when he walks up he is not doing that. He starts talking about his job at the housing office how he is in charge of handling complaints. Any time I deal with a complaint the complaints come to me all the time. He says any time I deal with a complaint-- he is talking to you about a complaint. Do you know what he is talking about? See that is what he was saying. He was saying that somebody told his boss that I said that he was making advances and bothering me. Which she had not. She would only told a few people and that private investigator about Pender. Confused Khristen tries to play it off. You sure? I am positive. You want to  me? I just cannot see that now. Just do not stir it up. Do not say nothing. Now I am just telling you when somebody's in your business. The sum of all this for Khristen-- she is realizing that telling her housing office about Pender filing an actual complaint is out of the question. Instead of calling me they call him and tell him everything instead of calling me saying is this happening to you? So at that point you know that nobody on your side. Now the people that is close to you know that you have got a task ahead of you. I do not see them. It is a weird recording because Eric Pender says things that sound simultaneously like a threat and like they could be the advice of someone who is protective and caring. Pender had what Khristen considered a supreme confidence where he could finesse words make insults sound flowery and innocent. It is like to me he was just trying to make me his friend. And I was trying to keep myself afloat in the conversation while I was feeling like I was drowning at the same time. For example as she is raking Pender starts lecturing her about her kids. You really should have had your kids over here too. Yeah. No I mean but they are not here. They do not be here none. Well I know but I am just saying if they were here you should have them here raking in this yard. And you have got a son right? Mhm. This is part of being a man. When I was coming up my mama-- that is how I learned to work in my yard. It is a part of that growing up process. I do not where your daddy fits in this life but you have got to give him these two-- look you tell what is-his-name little man say look you are going to be a man one day. You are going to need to know how to change a tire. You are going to need to know how to light the grill. You are going to need to know how to take care of this yard. All Khristen can think is this is not what she was hoping to get recorded. I did not think none of this was going to work because I was-- I am used to him coming saying what is up . You going to have sex. You are going to do this being very blunt on what he want and why he want it and when I am going to do it and what I get for doing it. When I am recording something it is like-- It is all over. --all over the place. So I am like oh this is not going to work. So that is how I felt at that point. But also all that advice about how she should raise her kids-- He is arrogant and he is like I am beneath. In his mind he could say what he want to say to me no matter who is involved. You are beneath me so I know how to raise your children. Now you are beneath me so I know how to get you in this house. And you are beneath me so I can help you. Everything was talking down or making me feel like I am not enough or I am not a good enough mom. Everything was to try to belittle me into nothing. Pender keeps talking but not about home inspection. He still does not explicitly proposition Khristen like the first time that they met. He is suggestive though. He mentions for no apparent reason how women need to stop acting like they do not know how they got pregnant.  get mad. You all know where babies come from. You  you get pregnant. Damn I mean do not be mad at the world. He goes further. He reminds Khristen how he came by her house and quote asked her for some. And seeing how I came by and asked you for some anyway. I said well damn maybe-- and then I start thinking-- I say well-- Well maybe it is-- It is maybe because you like women and maybe I should never even approach you. I do not like no women Mr. Pender. I do not know. I do not know. I do not know what you like. Oh-- This is my first-- second time even seeing you so-- What if I was gay? You know what I am saying? So what? Why would you use that against me? You know what I am saying? But he would do that. Anything that he felt could be a target to hit you in a way to make you feel like I have got to prove him I am not this. Then he would use that. Did you feel like he was trying to make you angry? Yeah. Right that is-- Yeah I did. I felt like he was trying to make me give in to say no I am not like that. I will do it to prove it or something. He hints at making a deal with her to help her with her housing but does not spell out what she would have to do in that deal. Khristen keeps recording. He reminds her that he has a lot of authority and can help her. I do have some discrepancy on how I enforce the rules. It may be a situation-- your power might be off. You got 48 hours sometimes with your power off. I am going to come--  I am going to come back in three days instead of two. That is going to be your extra day to get your power back on so forth and so on. I want-- That is back to what I know. The previous conversations when he do ask for sex and all that that is how he get to that-- is I am helping you so let me tell you what you got to do to get that help. So that tone is what I was used to so when he got to that calm place I am like here you go. Finna try to make me feel like he is helping me because if I have sex I have somewhere to stay for having sex forever. And he is getting ready to go on today. I want you to do such and such. I did. At that point I really knew OK it is coming. But it does not come. Pender instead brings up the most on topic housing inspection related subject of his visit-- the barn. There is this little barn-type shed in Khristen's backyard. It is filled with garbage and Khristen had put snake repellent around the outside of it to keep snakes if there were any trapped inside. Pender says I would get that barn cleaned out. Get this barn cleaned out. I am going to say something. Now he said that he was-- Get it clean up because-- The guy that was here he was paying them. All this-- Pender starts listing all the things she could use the barn for-- card games an escape from the kids. He is suddenly singly focused on the potential greatness of a rundown barn. You could keep stuff in that barn. You and your friends want to have a card game away from the kids  just get one . Mhm. Yeah because you can go in the barn and you see how the window in the barn-- and say we can go in the barn. And you can have this here. It was just like the more he was describing the closer he was trying to get to the barn. He was trying to find a way to get me there and mind you we are outside. So I guess him trying to do anything-- that would probably be the best place for him. Pender keeps insisting she go in the barn with him. Khristen keeps avoiding it. She will not go. She finally says if I see a snake in there I am going to pass out and die. And they met at  so he mailing him a check. . Yeah I would certainly take-- even if you had to do it I would take these two bags at a time. He mailing a check for them today. I am not going in with the snake. I am going to passed out die. I felt like if I would have went in that barn he definitely-- it would have been OK for him in his mind that she is saying OK. And I knew I was not going in there so. It seems to work. Pender backs off slowly. They have one last back and forth. He starts to walk away says all right then we straight.  All right well we straight. Finally he says the most damning thing he is said in the whole recording. Well-- Well we almost straight. You will take care of me later on. Well we almost straight. You will take care of me later on. Just take it and rake it. Khristen stopped recording. She worried immediately that what she had recorded was not enough and if it was not that she was stuck right where she started-- her house hanging in the lurch. She felt desperate. How is this going to be over? When it is going to be over? Him saying I still got to take care of him-- it was just like so this as not going to be over until I do it. In his head it is-- that is what it is. Until I have sex with him this is not over. It is not over. And in my mind I knew that he had come to expect every year-- every year. And him having to expect every year that means I had to have some kind of a sexual thing with him for him to approve it every year. I just was praying that that recording was enough proof that he is been doing it. So I just did not know if I had enough proof. This recording kicked off a pretty remarkable series of events. Khristen used it to file a criminal charge against Eric Pender. He was convicted of simple assault but appealed and got the case dropped. She also played the recording for a young lawyer who did not even have an office yet or know for sure if what Khristen was describing was illegal but he listened to the tape believed her and took the case. Khristen's lawyer filed a civil suit and a local paper ran a story about it. More and more women started coming forward with stories about Eric Pender and Pender's boss John Wesley who was also asking for sex in exchange for vouchers. The case grew from three women to eight and then to 16. Six of the women went along with the men's sexual demands. One of them lost her housing anyway. The lawsuit ran on for years which became its own form of punishment for Khristen because Eric Pender was still her home inspector. He continued working for them. At one point he tried to cancel Khristen's voucher. Her lawyers blocked it. The case was moved from state to federal court. Department of Justice lawyers got involved. Khristen got called all the names-- liar felon opportunist. Once in a grocery store a woman Khristen barely knew approached her. She really felt adamant on telling me you are messing this up. You are messing up how we get our vouchers. And that is-- She was saying we-- like not just me a bunch of us. Yeah so that is when I kind of understood-- when she said this to me it just kind of hit me on how they were able to do it for so long how he was so confident because look at how this woman feel. There are not any good numbers on how common sexual harassment is in housing situations. No one seems to be tracking it. In July of 2015 three years after Khristen made the recording the federal lawsuit ended. Four-County settled with the Department of Justice. Pender and Wesley were banned from working in Section 8 or renting or managing any property permanently. Neither admitted to any wrongdoing. Both denied all the allegations against them. I reached out to Pender and Wesley for this story. Wesley did not call me back. I called Pender's lawyer tried previous addresses called old numbers and his ex-wife. No one knew where he was. Four-County did not respond either. They have changed their name since. The women were awarded a 2.7 million settlement the largest sexual harassment in housing settlement in US history at the time. Ultimately the number of victims in the suit was 87. Khristen's recording was evidence of Pender's behavior but now years later when she listens to it she hears it very differently than she did at the time. What she hears is herself who she is in that recording. She hears how small she becomes around him. And she thought about the recording a lot. When I first called her in November to see if she might be willing to talk to me for this story almost immediately she said I am glad you brought this up. She told me she would never talked it through with anyone the way she is always wanted to. I visited Khristen in the house she moved to right after the case settled-- a three bedroom in Greensboro where she lives with her two youngest kids. I played the recording for her. She had not heard it in years. Even listening to it I am like god you could have said this. You could have said that. You could have did this. I beat myself up for some of that. Really? Yeah because I feel like I could have argued more or something. And I know that it did have a good outcome but I just feel like if I would have told him more-- and sometimes I wish I would have just told him off. I do beat myself up for some little things. The way she dealt with Eric Pender she says is something lots of women do with men particularly men who have power over them. She laughs deflects pretends tells half truths demures changes the subject bites her tongue smiles too much agrees too much hides her anger hides all her emotions buries her personality. It is so familiar I asked every woman I talked to in this lawsuit about it and then nearly every woman in my life about it. As we talked Khristen and I started calling it the tactic. The tactic come in place when it is somebody who has control or somebody who I have to see on a regular basis and they are affecting my livelihood because your like my dream is on the other side of that person. You know what I am saying? My livelihood is on the other side of this person. So if I try to tear this person down then they can stop me from reaching that. You know what I am saying? When do you think you learned it? When do you think you-- what is the first memory you have of trying to use this as a strategy to get through a difficult situation? I had a certain family member that would do things to hurt me but I did not want them to hurt me. So I knew I got to be in the same house with him for a certain period of time. This family member abused Khristen both physically and sexually until she was about 12 years old. As a kid she never told anybody. Being in low income families a lot of people shelter these things because it would cause more pain to the family. We already struggling. We already going through this. We already going through that so why would I put more on the family? You know what I mean? Then you also have the fact that it is embarrassing. And what if do not nobody believe you? And now you got all those things. So it just seems better to shelter it. She did not start using these tactics with Eric Pender and she did not stop using them after him. In the years since the lawsuit Khristen said she found herself in a job where again someone in a higher position than her started making sexually explicit comments to her. She was afraid 