Remember years ago the guy who ran the military Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld said kind of famously there are the things we know the things we do not know and there are the things that we do not even know we do not know. That last kind of spooky category he called the unknown unknowns. And I guess maybe talking about known unknowns and unknown unknowns might have been appropriate for the thing he was talking about which was Iraq and weapons of mass destruction. But who knew that someday it was going to be a good way to describe the chaos swirling this year around two of which should be the most pedestrian predictable things the government does-- counting votes in an election and starting the school year. OK let us save the election for another day. Can we talk right now about the demolition derby multi-car pileup of known unknowns and unknown unknowns that is the opening of this school year? Matt teaches at a big high school in the suburbs of South Carolina. And all summer he is been doing what parents and teachers everywhere have been doing this year wondering if there is going to be in-person instruction this fall and watching state and local officials give out information that seemed incomplete and contradictory and confusing. And it was sort of like hot potato of responsibility too. It was like everybody was kind of passing you know like when you hear from your district when you hear from the state superintendent when we hear from our gov-- you know. Oh they are all saying somebody else is going to set the course and then you will know. Yeah it felt very deflective. By August when they got to the first day the teachers reported back to school-- no kids there yet just teachers. Matt says things still seemed very unclear. Thinking surely when we get in the building we are going to get the answers. The answer is in the building where my bosses are they are going to know. And over the course of the week sort of having the veil lifted and realizing my bosses do not know anything more than I do about the start of school-- like my principal and I know the exact same amount of information. At that point teachers had received an email with a tentative plan but the emphasis was very much on tentative. His principal noted quote Things change daily. The plan was called the AB plan and it was the hybrid plan that lots of schools are doing. Students will be divided into two groups A and B. Half would come to school for two days while the other half would stay home and join online using Zoom then they would switch. But if you want to see a high school spinning through the maelstrom of known unknowns and unknown unknowns OK here is what happened that first day the teachers came back. The first meeting that I go to is at 1000. And it is a department meeting so we have just 15 people spread out. And you all are sitting there socially distanced from each other wearing masks. Yep. There is a good atmosphere in the room. All things considered we are happy to be there and happy to see each other-- a very glass half full whatever may come sort of vibe in the room. And our department head who is a teacher has written up these two plans on the board-- the A day B day sort of hybrid plan and then an all-virtual start. Virtual start-- no students in the building you are teaching everybody online. Correct. Got it. Yeah. We get a little into this meeting and we have an administrator-- one of our assistant principals is in the room and he is been mostly quiet. But when we get to a conversation about how we get back into teaching he sort of pipes in and he says hang on. And he is like the A day B day plan is out. Apparently they had received word from the district that our school needed to cancel that plan. So all right everybody first change curve ball coming at 1100 AM. Change of plans-- let us plan on all virtual. So to summarize 10 oclock it is AB. 11 oclock it is all virtual. Or anyway that is how Matt took it. His department chair told us he had no idea what would happen. So meeting ends. Then around 200 in the afternoon word sort of spreads that there is this bomb drop of an announcement. And that administrator who had been in our meeting caught my colleague in the hall and he was kind of flustered. And he said plans are changing again. We just got word from the district. So it is just like wait for the staff meeting. Let us see what happens. The staff meeting is the big welcome to the new school year all staff meeting for the whole faculty. And it starts at 3 oclock. About 250 teachers are on this Zoom call. We are all in our own rooms. You are all in the building but you are in your own rooms-- Yes. --on Zoom. Yeah. And then like nothing happens at this meeting. The whole meeting is trivial information. They introduce new faculty members. They share positive news from teachers' summers like new babies or engagements. They talk about our SAT scores from last year all the things that we hear annually. When they finally do talk about the restart plan he says it is a lot of we can do it positivity but no concrete details about whether they would be going all virtual or what the plan was going to be. So the meeting ends and we are all sort of sitting there thinking like what was it? And my colleague and I are determined to figure this out. So it is 400 now. We are like we are going to go down to the administrators' offices and just see what we can see. And we go to one of the administrator's offices and there are two other assistant principals in there. It is pretty jammed. And it is sort of like the situation room in any White House action drama. There is papers all over the table and everybody's on their computer. And even for as few people are in the room they are sort of talking past each other and there are multiple conversations going on. And my friend and I kind of got that vibe of like we are just going to stand at the door. We are not even going to come in wade into the water. But what we find out is that in the afternoon the district apparently came back to the schools and was like OK new plan. You need students in the building on the first day of school five days a week at 25 capacity. That is all we are giving you. Figure it out. What? And so what we see on the table are all these rosters of students and scheduling. And so there is some logistical nightmare. The logistical nightmare is because South Carolina mandates that every parent should have the option to send their kid to school for in-person instruction if they want or keep them at home for virtual learning if that is what they want which is the kind of trying to please everybody solution that in practice is just enormously difficult to execute. It means that there have to be some students in school five days a week. But of course there is only so much space in the school for students with proper social distancing. So how do you figure out who gets to attend and who does not get to attend and what happens when you cannot give every family what it wants? Meanwhile in the classrooms as South Carolina heads towards the first day of classes September 8 teachers have to figure out how to do something that they did not do last spring when schools went on quarantine. They had to figure out how do you teach a class that is partly at home and partly in the room with you? Which is a particularly-- it is particularly funny to think for choir it is a very difficult subject to teach virtually. Oh Matt he is a choir teacher. Trying to sing in a Zoom with other people is just a nightmare because you cannot even-- if you say let us clap at the same time you will hear a bunch of different claps because everybody's-- Oh of course. There is a little delay and that delay makes it impossible to sing together. Yeah not to mention that usually the software is built to identify who is speaking and amplify their voice and silence other people. So the only way to sing together is with everybody on mute and what kind of rehearsal is that? And the one fourth of the class that is going to be in the room with him they cannot sing together in the room because singing in a chorus can be a super spreader event for the virus. Remember that choir near Seattle at the beginning of the pandemic where 52 people got sick? Even with masks it is not safe which means singing together is the one thing you cannot do in chorus. Matt's classes are 90 minutes long and right now he figures he will teach the kids on Zoom and the kids in the classroom together for half an hour at the beginning of it lecture style give out singing assignments to do at home-- And then at the 30-minute mark or something I would probably dismiss those Zoom students say like OK you have got your assignments. I will see you soon-- take the students that are in the room somewhere outside where we can be spaced out and actually practice singing with them. Weather permitting. Yeah. We are going to have to just MacGyver the whole semester basically. So you are re-engineering every part of your job? Like every single part of it? Exactly. Other teachers have said this to me too that virtual teaching is making them rethink and re-engineer the most basic things they do in their jobs to get through to kids. A second grade teacher in Chicago told me that she was still struggling to figure out how she was going to hold the attention of a bunch of seven-year-olds over video for the mandated three hours a day of live real-time instruction. She was like I do not even know if developmentally that is even possible for them to focus on the screen for that long. Not to mention what activities was she going to give these little kids to do on their own unsupervised by her for the hours they would not be on video with her? She was spending weeks before school started every day on her own time unpaid to figure this out. It is been a few days since I have recorded that conversation with Matt. And since then his high school surveyed the teachers and realized that so many of them wanted to stay home and teach from home that there is no way they could actually have 25 of the students come back for in-person instruction. Right now it seems like they are only going to have enough instructors for fewer than 10 of the students. But administrators are still figuring it out. And of course who knows how everything is going to unfold in September when kids actually arrive. Will anybody get COVID? Will things be fine? Matt knows some teachers in states where school has already started. What it feels like right now is going cliff jumping with your friends. And our friends next to us are Georgia and Alabama. And we are like 1 2 3-- and we are like I will see you in four weeks as they are jumping off. Because we want to see what happens to the other districts. I am starting to see-- I have friends in Louisiana that are teaching entirely virtually. I have friends in Georgia and Alabama that are posting their Instagram stories of Plexiglas in front of their desk and like here we go. Are you in that weird situation where you actually do not know what is going to happen and you are kind of worried but you have to deal with parents and students? And with them do you let them know your apprehensions? Or do you just keep like a big smiley face and like it is going to be great? Do you feel like you are lying?  Yeah it sort of feels-- it feels a little contorted. Like I have teachers that are posting first day of school pictures as always. And they sound bright and cheery. And it is like cannot wait to see my students despite the challenges. Really excited to show them a great new year. But underneath the surface these teachers are my friends and I know these teachers are terrified. And it feels twisted this year because we really do not know what our safety looks like and what our students' safety looks like but you still have to be the boss in front of the class and be like--  --what is up you all? So excited you are here. Let us go. I am going to put my best foot forward because I cannot wait to teach kids and I love doing that but I am scared  -less about what the year looks like. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. Today on our program teachers students parents launch themselves into a school year that is beginning like none that any of us have ever experienced. Since the spring everybody has been anticipating the school opening like this-- I do not know-- this asteroid that we have all been watching head towards Earth floating towards us tumbling towards us in space in slow motion. And now it is finally hitting and we are finding out if it is just as bad as we thought it was going to be or way better than we hoped. We have stories from around the country of it going badly and I am glad to tell you and some places going surprisingly well at least for now anyway. Stay with us. Act One Masked Crusaders. So right before school started in Utah this month our producer Miki Meek caught up with two high school teachers. Clark is 33. Bayley's 26. They are married and we agreed not to use their last names. They joke that their pillow talk is reviewing each other's lessons for the next day. Clark teaches art and photography. This year's his sixth year as a teacher. Bayley's a newbie about to have her own classroom for the very first time teaching sophomore English. The two of them teach at different public high schools in Utah County south of Salt Lake City. And they found themselves thrown into this really heated and ugly fight in the county right before schools open back up. Here's Miki. Clark and Bayley are still these fresh-faced enthusiastic teachers but they spent the summer stressing about their schools reopening because COVID cases had started surging in Utah. Both of them would have classes with as many as 40 students in them. Their classrooms are too small to space desks six feet apart. And the windows they do not open. Governor Gary Herbert issued a mask mandate for all K through 12 schools which made them feel a little better until a county commissioner a guy named Bill Lee he started lobbying against it. He thought it should be up to parents whether their kids wear a mask. He called it a quote compassionate exemption. To try to drum up support he invited parents to the commission's next meeting. Suddenly you were either pro-mask or anti-mask. Clark and Bayley decided to go in support of masks. But going into it I was like is anyone really going to be there? Like who is going to go to protest masks? I just thought are there going to be 10 people there? I have no idea. There were actually around 100 people there. The meeting was held at the county building in Provo. And when Clark and Bayley got there they saw mostly moms gathered outside some with kids. Hardly anyone was wearing a mask. But one family who was wearing masks stopped Bayley. They were like you should go in because there is like no one really in support of masks. And so I was like OK I am going in. And I just kind of ran in the building. It was packed. There were chairs set up with tape across them for social distancing but that did not work so well. People were just peeling off the tape and sitting down. And people were just riled up. You could feel this energy that was really intense. And just wearing a mask in that space put a target on your head immediately. Yeah. The room was hot and crowded and a bunch of people without masks were fanning their faces. And we are good to go. All right. That is a county commissioner named Tanner Ainge. He was not happy about this meeting. Hello everyone. This is going to be brief I think. This is the exact opposite of what we need to be doing. We are supposed to be physically distancing wearing masks.  And so--  --all of our medical--  All of our medical experts-- Let him talk! Our department of health-- You have already made your decision? Everyone is encouraging us to do that. This room is not complying with these health guidelines. This creates a health concern for this meeting so--  In a little over a minute the whole meeting was over. OK the meeting is adjourned.   Ainge stands up and walks out of the building. People in the crowd call him a coward. Yeah Tanner is a coward. And then-- USA! USA! USA! Ainge later tweeted This is not a Parks and Rec episode. It is Utah County government. To him this whole thing was just a political stunt. The county commission has no jurisdiction over school districts. They do not make decisions for them. It would be like the sheriff's department holding a meeting to vote on the school budget. It did not make any sense. But Billy the guy who wanted the governor to give the county a compassionate exemption from wearing masks and another commissioner they agreed to stay behind to listen to any parent who wanted to make a comment. Again here's Bayley. At that point when I realized that people were going to be making comments I kind of pushed my way into the room because I wanted to make a comment. She got in line for the podium. There were around 12 people ahead of her even more behind her mostly moms. One of them had a baby carrier strapped to her chest. I watched this meeting on a Facebook livestream. Most of the speakers accepted that COVID is real. They did not think it is a hoax. They supported hand washing and staying at home if you are sick. But they did not trust the CDC and in general all the precautions seemed overblown. Some sounded like libertarians. There were tons of conspiracy theories. Like that mom with the baby she said this thing I heard a lot of parents there say that CO2 and germs can get trapped in your mask and make you sick which is totally false. You want our kids to breathe their own CO2?  That is right! Do you really think it is good to breathe in your own germs for hours? She is saying do you really think it is good to breathe in your own germs for hours? Amen sister.  This myth has taken off in parent groups all over the country. The American Academy of Pediatrics even put out a statement to try and dispel it. And another conspiracy theory at this meeting that mask mandates will lead to more kids getting abducted and sex trafficked-- also not true. The fear is that if kids are wearing masks they will be harder to identify and rescue. Those numbers will continue to rise because of a world are at home and online all day and being masked. It is a pedophile's dream come true. Thomas Jefferson also kept coming up in this pretty ironic way. I got on my Facebook page. Thomas Jefferson said I prefer dangerous freedom over peaceful slavery. I will never be a slave no matter what it takes. Give me liberty or give me death. I mean that. I will do whatever it takes to have liberty. Thank you.  Listening to all these parents Bayley and Clark were alarmed worried that they might have to face classes of 40 kids who were going to fight with them about wearing masks. So Bayley she got up to the mic. She was sweaty and nervous but fired up. My name is Bayley. I am experiencing fear and anxiety about many things. She tells the crowd she is a first-year teacher who is already juggling a lot of anxiety and she is scared that she will get COVID in her classroom. The crowd turns on her. Wearing a mask is a minor inconvenience if you can even call it that. Who says? Sh. That is Clark doing some very teacher-like shushing. Hey! Sh. I am honestly shocked right now by your behavior. You should be. I am frankly so shocked that so many people have come out to oppose such a simple harmless act. We gave you your time. Be quiet. Shut up. Listen. It is like this for five minutes and then Bayley finally ends her speech and takes a little bow.   On their way out of the meeting Clark feeling sheepish apologizes to the people that he told to shut up. That was my wife out there I am sorry. Thank you. I have never been booed before. It was just wild to be surrounded by so many grown adults who were shouting at me calling me names. It was like whoa. Also re-watching the video I realized that I kind of did like a little bow after my comments which is kind of embarrassing now. But it was just like-- it felt like such an outrageous experience and it was almost comical. But Bayley was also sympathetic to the parents in that room. She thought a lot of their hostility was coming from a place of fear. You know like not wanting kids to have to be in schools where things feel very dystopian and like this fear that having to be masked is going to scare their children or something like that or impact them negatively. I feel like those are reasonable points in some ways but also not at the same time. I grew up in Utah County. I still have a lot of friends and family there. So I feel pretty safe betting that most of the people in that meeting were Mormon. The majority of the county belongs to the church. But watching that meeting I saw something I did not recognize-- Mormons yelling at other Mormons with total vitriol. Bayley and Clark said they felt the same. They are from the area too. By the way I know we are not supposed to say Mormon anymore. We are supposed to say Latter-day Saint. But I just do not actually know that many Mormons who use that with each other. Anyway right after Utah's Republican Governor Gary Herbert issued his mask mandate church leadership in the state backed him up. They asked Mormons to wear face coverings in public calling it a sign of good citizenship. Immediately there was pushback. I saw comments online about corruption and false prophets in the church. That was mind-blowing. It is not like members never speak out against the church. It is just that I have not seen it done so casually. Pro-mask people were called maskers and mask-holes. Governor Herbert called the parents who went to that county meeting foolish and he refused to back down from his mask mandate which just enraged the anti-mask movement in Utah County even more. They held another rally and told parents to tell their kids to fight back against their teachers. Bayley and Clark wondered how widespread the feeling was and worried that some of the parents or fellow teachers at her new school would recognize Bayley from the county meeting and think she was a crazy radical. Video had hit local news and it was a big deal. Have you thought about what you are going to say in your classes on the first day anticipating you might have kids who come from families that share some of the same beliefs of the people who were at the county meeting? I really do not know what I am going to say or how I am going to approach that conversation. Yeah. We really do not know what this is going to look like when the school year actually starts. And so we will see what happens then. What if you get booed? I will bow and walk out.   On the first day of school Bayley and Clark got in their cars and headed in opposite directions. Their schools are about a half hour apart. They both recorded voice memos for me while they were driving. OK. I am driving to school for my first day of teaching ever in my whole life as an actual teacher. So there is kind of a mix of feeling excited and also nervous. Hopefully I can remember students' faces through their masks. The time is now 636. And I did not sleep very well last night. I kind of tossed and turned. Worst case scenario today-- oh my gosh I think I had a nightmare about that last night where everybody came in and just was touching each other and hugging each other and not wearing masks. And I think there was a couple that was making out in the corner of my classroom-- just so much touching. And so I am hoping students will wear masks today. I am hoping I will not have any major conflicts with students as they come in. Judging on the anti-mask hearing that Bayley and I went to I mean all bets are off.   As students walk into his classroom Clark stands at the door to greet them and squeezes hand sanitizer into their hands. Hi guys. Hand sanitizer coming in hot. There you go. Thank you. Hey dude hand sanitizer. Clark describes his teaching persona as dorky dad. Once everyone is seated he gives his warm-up. Hello everyone. Welcome. How are you guys feeling today? Are you feeling excited to be here? Raise your hand if you are excited.  This is awkward. In a class of 36 kids only a few of them raise their hands. He had never taught a class that was so quiet and somber. Raise your hand if you are just kind of like stressed and sad.  Few of you. Is anybody feeling anxious about wearing masks or feeling bummed about wearing masks? A little bit? I am bummed about wearing masks. Yeah tell me more. You are bummed about wearing masks? It sucks? Tell me more. Why does it suck? I do not know. The student says I do not know. I just do not feel like it sometimes. And then my dad talks about it all the time. It is just to make people feel better. Clark responds deftly by first trying to validate the student. Yeah I mean from a medical standpoint masks are definitely not perfect. If we really wanted to prevent every single germ we would have to wear full hazmat suits. We would have to be in a controlled environment. So masks are not 100 effective. However they are effective in stopping the spread or slowing the spread of these. And so I know a lot of people are really really frustrated about wearing masks because they are uncomfortable and they make breathing hard and blah blah blah. Even though they are not perfect I think it is worth doing as a gesture of kindness toward people who might have more sensitive immune systems or might be more at risk. I was just barely talking with a student who lives with her grandma and also works at a nursing home. And so she is trying to take every precaution to make sure that she does not get sick. So there are a lot of situations like that. Little by little his class starts to open up. Clark keeps lobbing questions at them. Anybody here play sports? A football player tells the room that his whole team wears masks for games and practice. A girl says she hates it that they make her glasses fog up. About 15 minutes into this conversation Clark uses the tactic that did not work with the parents at the county meeting. He tells them about his own anxiety. That is been one of my anxieties coming back to school is I do not want to have to tell somebody to wear a mask. You know? That feels stressful to me. And the kids they seem to get it. Clark has two other periods that day and he starts each class with the same soapbox spiel. He never gets any push back. The kids all wear their masks and nobody makes out. After school Clark and Bayley crash exhausted on their living room couch with their dog and debrief about how their first days went. The hallways were just kind of the wild wild West. Yeah. Like anything went. And so many students as soon as they left their classrooms would just peel their masks off and put it around their chin-- What? Or just rip it off their faces. And then as they walk closer to me I would say hey masks. And they would say oh yeah sorry I forgot and then hurry and put it back on. And they would put it back on as they walked into my classroom. I mean there is just no way that the hall monitors can see everything that is going on. Yeah. When you talked about masks how did you approach the mask conversation? They walk in the door. You are like hi. And they just look at you or they are just like hi. And you are just like do you hate my guts?  She told Clark she started class by showing them slides of Billie Eilish wearing a lace mask and Beyonc wearing a mask upside down. And in my first class everyone was totally fine. In my second and third classes there were kids who kept wearing them under their nose. And I just had to keep being like if you are not wearing your mask over your mouth and nose wear your mask over your mouth and nose. I had to call out a couple kids today because they just kept on letting their nose stick out. Yeah. And I was like--  --hey Cody Josh. Cover your nose up. Cody and Josh. Yeah.  Oh also there was a kid who was wearing a full yellow hazmat suit with like a gas mask-looking thing. And I think it was like a joke but it also was hard to tell. And my friend who was his teacher said that it looked like he was just dying in there like so hot. And there was another girl wearing a mask in one of my classes-- apparently this is a thing that I did not know about but she was wearing a mask that said Virginity rocks. So I do not know what that is about but it was funny to see that on a mask. That is the extent of Utah's sex education.   Totally. Oh man. It was a wild thing. I do not know. I was thinking about it after school today and I was just comparing these sweet sophomore students to the parents who were in that meeting. And like oh my gosh these cutie cutie high school students are just so nice and so willing to just do this thing so they can be in school. And all those parents were just losing their minds and being so childish and unreasonable. I do not know. It just was really nice.  Are you tearing up a little bit? Yeah a little bit. I do not know why.   Just really nice students who want to be at school. The reality is that more than half a million people live in Utah County and only 100 people were at that meeting. The consensus among most parents is that they will make their kids wear masks if it gets them out of the house. Miki Meek is one of the producers of our show. Act Two Screen Times at Ridgemont High. So across the country right now kids are facing the weird experience of getting to know new classes and new teachers all through Zoom. It is especially intense for kids who are jumping into a new school. Producer Aviva DeKornfeld talked to some students who are making the jump to high school this fall and it is a big job right? It is one that causes a lot of anxiety and excitement in normal times. Now all of it happening online. One girl told Aviva that she would already thought through how to make friends at her new school. She said she had a plan to email kids to discuss homework and then she would try to shift the conversation to other topics and see if they went there. And Aviva talked to this 15-year-old in Los Angeles Alex Hymen at the end of his very first day of high school about how he is prepped for remote learning with a bunch of kids that he does not know. This week I am painting my room. I actually just finished this morning. Why are you painting your room? Well last year in the spring when online school started in March or April believe it or not a lot of kids made comments on my bright vibrant baby blue and orange room that I have had since when I was very young. And I thought it would be cool to have a multicolored room very bright. What do kids say? They were just like nice room. Like oh that is a very neutral color just sarcastic comments like that. I mean it is a very first-world problem that my room's not the right color. How old were you when you first painted it the bright colors? I believe I was like seven eight. I was like yes it is going to be so cool and awesome. And now here I am 15 and now I just want a white room. Now actually-- I just finished this morning. Now it is all the light gray I picked out and I actually like it a lot. My mom was a little sad because I am growing up and she was upset about that. Oh. What did she say? I mean she was like I am going to miss this room. Like remember when you picked out the colors and-- Yeah. It is funny your mom was upset that you are growing up. And you are like that is the point. Yeah exactly. Yeah. So you were on Zoom calls today. Did you look at your little box on Zoom-- Yeah. --to check out how it looked? Yeah I did. I did. How did it feel seeing your room in the camera? It looked very good I will say. It looked very cool. I was happy about it. Did the other kids have childhood stuff in their bedrooms? I do not really pay much attention to it along with them not really paying attention to me which is weird because even though we both know that it still makes us feel self-conscious about it. That probably did not make any sense. What I am trying to say is that I look at some of them but I do not really analyze the rooms. You did not really pay much attention. Yeah exactly. Looking at the other kids' rooms and realizing you do not actually really care about how they look did it make you feel like it did not matter if you had switched up your room or not? Yeah it actually did sort of. What is the first thing you saw today at school? I logged on and it was our whole grade so around a little less than 200. I am not sure of the exact number. But yeah it was a bunch of boxes. Most of the kids-- or I guess half the kids had their cam