So is that Marc. Yes that is Marc speaking for Scott. So Scott you were born without hearing right? That is correct. Even though my parents did not know that until I was 18 months old. This is a very strange interview because you cannot hear and because I have a terrible cold I cannot speak. Marc gets the burden here. Yeah. I talked with Scott Krepel through his interpreter Marc Holmes-- they were in a studio in Washington DC-- about what happened when Scott was 11 or 12 and the government approved the use of cochlear implants in children. So Scott got an implant. He was excited. He thought he would fit in better at school have more friends date girls. And of course he tried to imagine what it would be like to hear. To be honest I did not know what to expect. The best analogy I can think of is maybe I was hoping that it would be like that speech was like telepathy instant thought transfer. So he had the surgery and then he went to the audiologist to configure the device and what they do is that they hook up the implant to a machine. To send different frequencies pulses to try and stimulate the different parts in my cochlea. Trying to figure out which one worked. And so the first sounds that you hear are those pulses? Yes. And what do they sound like? The first time I heard something I can remember very vividly because it was not really-- it did not feel like hearing. It felt more like a vibration in my whole body. I was sitting there and nothing was happening except for like a little thing that was tingling throughout my body. But eventually after a while the vibrations localized to my ears. Oh I see. The first vibrations you could not even tell that they were coming in through your ears. Right. I did not really know that it was sound itself at first. And eventually I came to realize wait a minute this must be it. The audiologist just sent me on my way with the cochlear implant on. We can only make an educated guess what this really sounds like. As best as we understand it from people who could once hear and then later in life got the implants there is a mechanical edge to the sound that you hear with these devices. Musical notes have to be nearly half an octave apart before you can tell the difference between the notes. Voices people say that they sound like a robot Daffy Duck. But for Scott his brain had never developed the neural pathways to process audio. There were two big problems that went beyond all of that. One was that I could not understand any of the sounds. It was just all noise that did not have any ability to distinguish. Am I understanding you right if someone was looking right at you and you were seeing their mouth moving talking directly to you you actually could not tell which of the sounds was the sound of their voice coming out of their mouth? It would depend on the environment. Because if it was an environment where there was other noises then I would not really be able to pick out the person's voice from that background. If a dog barked or a horn honked he could not tell what the sounds were or what caused them. A doctor who does these implants told me about a very young patient of his a child who got the implant and then would just flush the toilet over and over kind of amazed to connect the sound that it made with the action of the thing that they were seeing. I was interested in Scott because although I know lots of deaf people say they have no need to learn to hear and they are fine as they are and they frown on this procedure Scott is somebody who wanted this to work. He imagined what is going to be like. And our show today our radio show today is all stories where people are trying to make contact for the first time with something that they have never encountered or experienced. And Scott's situation seemed like a particularly harsh example of that. The reality was so far from what he had expected. His second big problem with implants was he did not have the ability to ignore any sounds. Well if you are sitting in your office and you listen carefully you might hear things like the computer fan running or your own movements or for many different things. And most people have trained themselves to ignore those noises. I had none of that ability. So everything ended up overwhelming me without me being able to stop it or ignore it. For somebody like Scott getting the implant as his age his brain can never catch up and learn to process sound. After five years with the implant it was still hard for him to focus if an air conditioner was on in the room. And as for recognizing words if he was in a quiet room and his speech therapist would say a word to him he could actually pick out the word from a list of words that were sitting in front of him and that is about as good as it got. So at the end of high school he stopped using the implant. He does not miss it. The only time he really liked it he says was that very first day when he had his first contact with sound. I think the first time I heard that was cool things like oh I can clink the cookie jar but it got old very fast. Well today on our show First Contact we have three stories of people in that frightening thrilling first moment of encounter that leap into the unknown. Mike Birbiglia talks about an achievement that was literally years in the making for him. We have somebody also chatting his way into the lives of people very far away in the middle of a war we have scientists pondering exactly what we should say the very first time we find extraterrestrials to talk to and what boneheaded things people want to say to them. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass still with a little cold this week but feeling just fine. Stay with us. OK I do not know why this came to mind out the blue actually. Three weeks ago I was walking down the street it was nighttime I was with the dog and I thought of this. And literally loud I said out loud Oh god. Oh God no no no. Here's what I remembered. In junior high school I was really really young. I tried to feel up a girl in front of her family. Somehow I thought I could get away with this. We were watching a Jerry Lewis movie on TV in their rec room. I remember that. I had never touched a girl before so I do not know why I thought this was going to happen. Anyway so when this came back to me it was really just as horrifying. I mean even as I talk about it now. It is just as horrifying as it should have been the day it happened. And I bring this all up to say we are all so clueless as we learn about making out and sex and all that stuff. And we begin our show today with a story from Mike Birbiglia. Nothing explicit happens here at all but it still might not be right for every young listener. In seventh grade people started making out with each other and I remember this very well because I remember thinking people we know are making out with other people we know! But how? It just seemed like this alien ritual where these two aliens kind of attach orifices all of a sudden. And I was like I am not doing that. And collectively all the girls in my class were like that is fine. You are not on the list. You are not exactly a first round draft pick for our new activity. It just seemed gross to me making out. It is like watching a dog eat spaghetti. So I was not going to make out with anyone and I was fine with that. But then it started to sort of create factions in the seventh grade class sort of the make out club and the non-make out club. I mean these were not formal organizations that would be very sad. A meeting of the non-make out club. I call this meeting to order. First order of business Nintendo. The non-make out club we had a hard time because we were losing good people by the day. I feared that soon I would be the lone member of the non-make out club. So I was I need to join the make out club. But I did not have any real prospects. I mean I had this one girl who I had a huge crush on who sat in front of me in class named Lisa Bizetti. And she had to talk to me on the phone every night about homework thanks t alphabetical order. So one time I said something that made her laugh and I was like oh this is great. Like I gotta do that more. And then one time she was actually laughing so hard and she said Mike you gotta stop. I am going to pee myself. I was like wow. It was the closest I would ever come to a vagina. So I spent the next 15 years trying to get Lisa Bizetti to pee. And that is how I ended up here. So one time I built up the courage to ask Lisa to go to a carnival with me. And she said yes. And I was so excited about this. I had this idea that we would go to the carnival and I would win her a giant stuffed bear. And we would go on rides and then we would make out. Like really simple just like the romantic comedy montages. And I took her on a ride called the Scrambler. And I do not know if you have the Scrambler where you live. I imagine you do. It travels on a truck. The premise is that you sit on the two-person pod with the person you are in love with and then that pod goes in a circle. Which is part of an even larger circle which is part of an even grander circle. As I understand it it was originally designed as a medical device for people who have sharp objects stuck in their throat to help them purge the objects. It was called a Puke Your Facerator. And it was very successful. And then it was co-opted by the carnival workers of America-- CWoA.  And they said we like it but we feel like the name is something of a turn off. And then one guy goes well what about the Scrambler? And they are like nailed it. But who is going to be in charge of this dangerous piece of equipment? And then one guy goes well I have a nephew who is 16-years-old and smokes pot 24 hours a day. I feel like he might be available. And they are like he sounds amazing. We do not even need to interview him. He sounds completely qualified. So we sit down on the Scrambler and Lisa's snuggling up next to me. And I was thinking like this is it. This is where it is at all going to happen. But I think that when you are 12-years-old you just do not understand certain things about the digestive system. You do not know that you should not eat popcorn and peanuts and funnel cake and cotton candy and then go on a machine that scrambles your body. Cotton candy being the most insane of these items. It is basically like saying we are going to take sugar which everyone knows is bad. But then we will dress it up like insulation. And I am like I am not sure what he selling point is there. Is it the sugar or the insulation? So I know from the moment they put the bar seat belt down that I am going to throw up for sure. The bar seat belt is not a very reassuring piece of safety equipment. That has never saved anyone's life. I mean come one. I mean I think the only thing it is ever done right is just held someone's esophagus down to the pavement in a Scrambler accident making sure that they are dead and that they can not talk about the Scrambler accident I know when they put the bar seatbelt down I am going to throw up for sure. And I even say to the Scrambler operator I am like hey actually-- and then he was gone. Apparently he does not enjoy the second halves of sentences. And so then I am scrambling. And I am scrambling and I am thinking I need to come up with a plan of some kind. And my first plan was that I would not look at Lisa and I would not look at any other people. So I am like do not look at Lisa. Do not look at any other people. Do not look at Lisa. Do not look at any other people. I need a new plan. And the new plan was that I needed to tell the Scrambler operator that he needed to stop the ride. But the mathematics of the Scrambler are such that the window of opportunity in which one can communicate with the Scrambler operator is a very limited window. So I am like I got to the guy to stop the ride. I got to tell the guy to stop the ride. I got to tell the guy to stop the ride. Please stop the ride. And then I am back. 20 yards away 30 yards away 40 hours away 20 yards away. I got to say it louder. Please stop the ride!. And I am back. 20 yards away 30 yards away 40 yards away. I am like I am not sure he is paying attention. I think he might be smoking pot right now. And the third time I said please stop the-- and then I started throwing up. And it was not unlike an oscillating lawn sprinkler. You know just . Just popcorn and peanuts and insulation. Really insulating the pavement with my homemade carnival salsa. And I did not look at Lisa but I am pretty sure she was staring at me. And we did not make out. Making out was no longer on the agenda that evening. And so I did not lose my mouth virginity. But the next year it actually got worse. Because I went to an all boys catholic school and I actually could not admit to my peers that I had not had my first kiss because I knew they would make fun of me mercilessly. And so when they would ask I would just be like yeah. And I feared that at some point they would ask follow up questions. They would be like oh yeah what is it like? And I would be like it is like licking an ice cream cone. And they would be like no it is not. It is like sucking on a rocket pop. And I would be like oh wrong frozen dessert analogy. Because these guys that I went to school with I mean they were just make out machines. I mean I sat behind this one guy in class named Sam Richiarti and he was like a make out ninja. Like every Monday morning I would be like what'd you do over the weekend? And he would just be like made out with chicks. And I would be like where? And he would be like the mall dude. The mall. As though that made sense. And I was just trying to imagine this like the mall. What does that mean? He goes to the arcade and kind of like throws quarters around to the ladies. And then invites one over to go to Orange Julius. And then says hey want to make out at the phone booth or whatever? Like I do not even know how that happens. So I thought my only chance to lose my mouth virginity was going to be at the annual St. John's dance. They had what they called cattle call dances where they invite all the girls from all over the state to the St. John's gymnasium for the sole purpose of making out. I mean this was a gymnasium that was chock full of sweat and Binaca and Led Zeppelin and Drakkar Noir and I was flanked at the dance by my friend Sam. And we were introduced by our friend Tom to this girl these two girls. And Sam said one of those phrases that we have all heard but is very uncomfortable. He said you get that one. Which I know is uncomfortable to talk about but I am OK talking about it because I know I have been on the negative end of that conversation where some girls says of me like you get that one. And then the other girl goes ew. Or even worse you owe me. Which really hurts. You know thinking about someone incurring debt based on my appearance. I do not want to hurt someone's credit score. So he says you get that one. And then I am fast-dancing with this girl Sandra. I am not great at fast-dancing. She is losing interest in me by the second. And I am saved by a slow song. It was Stairway to Heaven. It is an eight-minute make out anthem. And we are slow dancing and you cannot mess up slow dancing because it is just kind of a slow motion hug. The only way you could mess it up is if you started fast dancing in the middle of it. And she was like what are you doing? And I am like I do not pick up on social cues. So we are slow dancing and all I am focused on is I just do not want to fidget too much. Because I am kind of a fidgety person. I fear if I fidget too much I could initiate the tilt too early. That is one of the main ingredients of making out the tilt. And then the area in between the two mouths which is a very mysterious area. I mean no one has video footage of that area. It is like the giant squid of making out. No one has seen it alive they have just seen it washed up on shore. Which is more specific to the squid side of the analogy. You know what I mean? And so with about three minutes left in Stairway to Heaven I make the slightest tilt and then Sandra comes in strong. And then it was an all out mouth war. And she had artillery because she had braces. It was like a dog eating spaghetti and the fork. And while this oral atrocity is taking place all I can think is I am not alone anymore. I am not in the non-make out club. And it was this real seminal moment for me. But I could not share it with anyone because I walked off the dance floor and I had to play it off like this was something I had done before. My friend Sam was like how did it go? And I was just like it was great just like always. So a few days later I call Sandra and I am thinking maybe we could have a relationship of some kind. And she does not call me back. And so I go to school one day and I say to my friend Tom who had introduced us I go hey what is going on with Sandra? And he has this kind of knowing grin on his face. I am like what? He is like nothing. I was like what? And he is like nothing. And I was like what? And he was like oh I talked to Sandra and she said that you are the worst kisser she is ever kissed. I know. It was devastating. Because first of all because it was probably true. But more importantly because I could not explain to my friends why it was true. I could not do like well that makes sense because I have never kissed anyone before. I had no idea what I am doing. So instead I had to just be like yeah that sounds about right. I am a terrible kisser. That is kind of my thing. But I was lucky because my friend Sam was right there with me and he is goes me too dude. Me too. Mike Birbiglia performing a story from his new one-man show and his new book that is coming out this fall. The book is Sleepwalk with Me and Other Painfully True Stories. Coming up mistakes we have made with space aliens. Already we do not even know them and we have made mistakes. That is in a minute. From WBEZ Chicago and Public Radio International when our program continues. This American Life I am Ira Glass. Each week on our show of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show First Contact stories about people reaching outside what they know outside their comfort zone making contact with something they have only heard about. We have arrived at act 2 of our show. Act two brothers from another planet. What is amazing about this next story is that this couple befriends these strangers. Mostly the guy but also the woman. And really they get to know them and what their lives are really like at this level that is so intimate. It takes them into this world that most of us really do not feel like we have any access to at all. Here's Sara Blaisdell who tells the story. Here's what I know about Yemal from the pictures. When it is cold which is not often he wears grey and red stripe sweaters. He can do a cartwheel. He likes to hold babies stand next to camels and sit on saggy couches conversing with handsome young men. He himself is handsome. His big brown eyes thick dark hair a mischeivous-looking moustache a three-days beard and a tiny gap between his front teeth. He is the kind of guy who wholeheartedly smiles in photos rather than trying to look like a bad-ass. Yemal lives near Sadr City a poor section in Northeast Baghdad. He is the oldest of three Iraqi brothers and he is aged from 17 to 23 since the war started in 2003. The same year he and my husband Sam Taylor started their Sunday phone ritual. When Yemal looks back at what is happened during this time he says there have not been any positive things because of the war. But there have been many positive things happening during the war. You know I got married. I got my children. I met Sam. On a recent Saturday night Sam was up late playing Call of Duty on Xbox Live with friends and then watching sci-fi films and eating chicken wings with me. But he knows he will piss off at least three Iraqis if he is not up by 750 Sunday morning. So he sets the alarm. Then clicks it off when it beeps just five hours later. Gets his headset ready starts the coffee. Then the phone rings like it has almost every week since 2003. Sam's been talking to the boys as we call them Yemal Sadeem and Mahmood for at least four hours every Sunday for almost seven years. But on this Sunday March 28 2010 when Sam answers the phone Yemal is unusually quite not really engaged. This is about the time Yemal's wife Temara  is supposed to be having her baby. So Sam worries something's gone wrong. I am not sure how to say this Yemal says then he gets quite again. Are you there Sam asks? I am trying to think of what to say. I am trying to get the strength to say this. This whole time Sam's thinking the new baby has died Temara has died or both. He thinks for sure that is what it is and he does not know how he is going to respond. And then Yemal says you lied. What do you mean? You said that if enough people voted al-Maliki would be gone and Allawi would win. A few hours later Sam and I are making a rare Sunday lunch together because the boys hung up earlier than usual. Maybe because of their sour moods. Did you tell them Allawi would win? I ask. Kind of Sam says. Well not exactly. Sam had told them that if people did not like al-Maliki and enough people voted they might get him out. He could be gone. He had not meant for it to be a stump speech about the power of democracy. He had not meant it as a property either. And now it is all over the news Nouri al-Maliki saying something to the effect of as Yemal puts it I am in power. I will always be in power. After Yemal accused Sam of being a liar they talked through it. They always managed to talk through it after one or the other unwittingly offends or after they have delved too deep into dark topics. They usually warm up again by talking about light stuff or joking about stereotypes of East and West. Sam will be talking about Jews for example and Yemal will say Jews? But he will say it like Jews. And Sam will say that is so cliche. The Middle Easterner's got to hate the Jews. Or Yemal jokes about how sinful Sam is. He will give him a hard time because he had sex before marriage or he will ask were you drinking last night? The boys are also really interested in finding videos on YouTube of world leaders crying world leaders doing something embarrassing. Especially Arab leaders but others too. They tell Sam oh there is this new Ahmadinejad rap you have to hear. It is so funny. The boys usually lead the conversation and Sam usually follows. They will talk about political news family news works news. Since Yemal was conscripted into the army cleaning up after suicide bombings is a regular part of his life. When they talked about the violent Sam used to say stuff like maybe this'ill be over soon or things are going to get better. But he stopped saying that. Now mostly he will just listen and will not try to explain it away. A lot of times they are looking for answers to questions like how would you feel if this was happening to you? Let us say your wife got killed. So Sam will say I do not know how I would feel. Because he does not. Sam first met Yemal in 2003. At the time Sam was a philosophy undergrad living in Pleasant Grove Utah. He was kind of bored with the politics website he was arguing on so he started playing around with this chat program and met an Israeli there. Acrosstheuniverse was his user name. On Sam's campus there are wide screen TVs all over the food court blasting the war news. One day Sam distinctly remembers there was coverage of the explosions bombs hitting Iraq. It was like they were watching a football game Sam says. It seemed wrong to him. So he asked his Israeli chat buddy Acrosstheuniverse what he thought about the war. What did he think was going to come of it. Acrosstheuniverse replied I just met an Iraqi. Want to meet him? Sure Sam said. So that is when he got a message from Yemal a real live Iraqi. So he started asking him about the war about what was going on outside his window. Yemal wrote back about the pro-democracy propaganda flyers written in English. They were floating down onto the streets. Within a couple of weeks they were writing each other about more personal stuff. Half a year went by and Yemal bought a calling card and asked Sam for his phone number. Then early one morning the phone rang and all of a sudden Sam was speaking to someone whose voice he could not quite place with an accent crisp and formal like none he would ever heard. The calls started coming in a little bit more when Sam met Yemal's younger brothers Sadeem and Mahmood. Talking was a way to pass the time when it was too dangerous to go out on the streets. Sometimes when Yemal and Sadeem and their parents had to leave the house Yemal would ask Sam to babysit Mahmood over the phone. Just talk to him and keep him company in case he got scared. Sadeem's the middle kid. Three years younger than Yemal and three years older than Mahmood. Sam remembers a few days he and Sadeem just talked all day. From early in the morning till the evening when it started getting dark. In their early phone calls Sadeem read Sam  and several Iraqi poets. I was working at a teen clinic for girls at the time and as Sadeem reached 15 he would send the girls poems he would written about life in Iraq. They would respond by writing meth poems and heroin poems. And send Sadeem little construction paper cards that said thank you for your service. Sadeem told me make sure you show those girls my picture so they know how cute I am. And he was cute. Red soccer jerseys curly dark hair big eyes with long lashes. When things got bad though after Sadeem and Mahmood were injured for the first time by a suicide bombing in 2005 Sadeem started asking me questions like where do those girls you work with cut on their arms? And how do you fix PTSD? He would say he was going to hurt himself and then he would hang up on us. Then call back a few minutes later and apologize. March 8 2010 when I answer the phone Yemal says it was a horrible day yesterday. The media will tell you the elections were a  damn success. But there is no success when people die. He is on the bus home coming from just west of the green zone where his brother Mahmood lives with their parents. Yesterday Mahmood had been walking down the street and there was a bomb explosion. He came home with a hand just hanging and said that hurt Yemal says. And I said I understand why because it is broken. So he had to go to the hospital. But he is home now. Can you hold on a minute? I am getting off the bus. Sure I say. It is a Monday. I talked to the boys sometimes by phone and e-mail but did not ask to talk yesterday because I did not want to mess Mahmood's Sunday's scheduling. Mahmood is 16 and it is his self-proclaimed duty to make sure everyone gets equal time with Sam. He even sets an alarm that goes off when one person's turn is finished so the next one can start. When I ask how Mahmood is doing other than the broken arm Yemal says as you know this year he got a girlfriend and got engaged. And then she got killed in a suicide bombing. It goes up and down with him. He still has lots of nightmare. Yemal believes that of the three boys Mahmood's most affected by the war. He does not remember the Iran-Iraq War or the Kuwait War and he was too little to remember the deaths caused by the oil for food program the way Yemal does. So when Mahmood was nine in 2003 and the war started he would never really been around bombs. So Yemal says he is the most scared. Mahmood is the one Sam talks with most on days other than the scheduled Sundays. We will be in the line at the grocery store and Mahmood will text I am scared Yam. I cannot sleep. He is got this little Elmo voice. It is matured slightly over the years but you can almost here that tiny Elmo sound when you read his text messages. Sometimes he will just write Yam? Yam? He is been calling Sam that since they first started talking and the name just stuck. Yemal's off the bus now walking in Sadr City. He tells me to wait a second a bomb just went off. I just want to see where it is he says hold on. I hear a man's voice very close speaking in Arabic and an ambulance gets loud then moves away. They are not driving to the part of the city where Mahmood lives so I do not have to be so nervous Yemal says. It is a half hour bus ride from Mahmood's house to Yemal's. He says where Mahmood lives there are about eight or nine explosions every day. And where he lives it is more like two or three. And how are you Yemal asks. It is the question I find the most insinuating the most difficult to answer. Pretty good just going to school and working at the dog daycare. Yemal tells me how weird it is I work with dogs. He seems annoyed every time Sam or I coo on the phone about something cute our dogs are doing. Here dogs are hated Yemal says. If you come near them they growl. When you are putting together a body after an explosion the dogs come and try to eat it all. You have to kill them. I kill a lot of dogs. I remember when Mahmood was in a coma once and bleeding and the dog came nibbling on him and I killed him. Basically people have a goat or a camel or a donkey or a horse. Once we had a hamster named Benjamin. Sam probably talks to the boys more than he talks to anybody. He always wanted brothers when he was a kid. Someone to play hide and seek with to play guns with or go somewhere dangerous. Sam says his relationship with the boys is like having brothers but in a different way than he imagined back then. More intimate. When Sadeem and Mahmood hit teenhood they turn to Sam for advice. They translated the rush of hormones they were feeling into the English word drifts. So they would ask Sam stuff like how did you handle your drifts? And when will the drifts stop? He said something like the drifts will not stop you just learn how to deal with them and it gets easier after a while. Their friendship happened so gradually. Sam knows it is unusual but it really only hits him how strange it is that he is so close with three people in the middle of a war when the boys tell them something especially disturbing about what they have seen or when Sam tries to explain the phone calls to anyone here. He does not do that very often. Because when he is tried it is always seemed to backfire. When he told his parents he knew Iraqis they seemed skeptical. And when it comes up with friends some are interested but others think it is weird and treat it like a joke. One night Sam was at the Twilight Lounge with a bunch of friends and Sadeem called. Sam's friend Ana asked who he was talking to that was so important. When he said it was one of his Iraqi friends Ana said she wanted to talk to him. Sam had thought it was all in good fun so he was like all right go ahead and say hi. And she said to Sadeem say something dirty in Arabic to me. Sadeem was so angry. He said to Sam why do you spend time with people like that? Why are there people like that? On January 31 2009 a year and a half ago provincial elections held in 14 Iraqi provinces were celebrated in headlines as peaceful and almost violence free. But that morning 17-year-old Sadeem told his friends and family in Baghdad this is not a country. It is not a democracy. It is not peace here nor is it more peaceful. There is no future here. He and his 16-year-old wife Rasheeda  who is pregnant with twins pulled their adopted daughter Yolena  out of preschool quit their jobs and signed on with a truck driver who said he would take them out of the country. Sadeem told me he left because he did not want to raise his family in a city so violent. He and Rasheeda have now lost four of their six children. Although for reasons arguably unrelated to the war. Irina died in the womb. Ahmed  one of the twins was premature and died 12 days after his birth. Their first adopted child Abdul passed away in 2008 due to a breathing problem. And their second adopted child Yolena who was deaf partially blind could not walk and was expected to live only until the age of three passed away from pneumonia two weeks ago at the age of six. The two other children are Yuwad who is one and Saleem  who is almost two. Saleem's also adopted. He was found on the steps of the child home and the workers called Sadeem and Rasheeda to see if they would take him. At first we said no because we already had Yolena and Yuwad Sadeem says. But then of course they sent a damn photo of him. So a year ago Sadeem and Rasheeda were saying goodbye to Baghdad. Sadeem cann