Every year in the fall in countries all over the world signs go up advertising a lottery a lottery whose winners move to the United States get a green card and become Americans. And though it might sound crazy to you and impossible-- Everybody know I mean everybody. This sign is all over on the street all over in the stores in the shops. Everywhere you pass you see it. That is Reuben Henry who runs an internet cafe in Liberia. The lottery application is online so internet cafes are where lots of people apply. They are the ones who put up the signs advertising it. This year Reuben says over 1000 people put in applications at his place. He does not know any Liberian who has not heard of it. Not anyone at all except the baby who was born today. If you have not heard of this lottery it is probably because you already live here and you do not need it. It is not a scam. It is a real thing run by the United States government every year called the Diversity Visa lottery or the DV lottery for short. The idea is to get a more varied group of immigrants from a diversity of countries into our country. In any given year between 8 and 15 million people apply with over 100000 winners.  Some of them are very quiet and they start to cry. I spoke to this man Mr. Bala with an interpreter. He owns a cyber cafe in Sri Lanka. He says he gets about 800 applicants a year at his place and about 20 winners.  Some according to him jump up and down and they just scream and so excited. While yet the rest will be you know banging on the walls and just screaming their head off and hugging Mr. Bala or anybody who is nearby that they were so happy that they were selected. The way it works people apply online in October the winners are randomly chosen and the results are posted in May. At a cyber cafe in the Congo when Eric Muamba told one woman God's blessed you you have won she kissed him.  And I was so embarrassed that-- since the husband was there I also ran to the husband and hugged the husband you know just to cool the tension because I did not want her husband to think-- I mean to have some ideas. In Kenya Michael Kadi Abu Niwa had the very first winner in his cybercafe two years ago. Basically he just noticed a commotion over at the computers. Shouting laughing trying to shake him. And the guys were around there you won it! You won it! Mike told the guy you are now an American. Hey you are now an American. You are now an American. You are going to a land of opportunities and remember us when you are there. When you leave this country do not forget about us. That is what I told him.  The guy who won that day was not a Kenyan. He was a Somali refugee named Abdi Abdi Nor. He remembers the moment this way. He sat down at the computer. I put my confirmation number. I put my date of birth and then clicked submit. There was a few seconds of silence then you have been randomly selected. Everybody went nuts lifted him up in the air in his chair. But Abdi did not believe it. He asked his friends to put him down and started entering his information into the computer again and again. It is the same answer the same response. I put in-- same response. I realized I won. I walked out with these friends all shouting behind me in front of me you know holding my hands shaking me. My heart was bumping. I was not holding myself together. Moving to America seemed like a done deal. But he did not know the half of it. Abdi is who our show is about today and winning the lottery was an especially big deal for Abdi because really more than anybody he knew Abdi had been obsessed with America since he was little. As a kid growing up in Mogadishu Somalia he would go to the movies which in Mogadishu just meant a TV perched on a table in a shack. And he would bring a pen and paper to watch American films so he could write down any words he did not know and learn the language better. He became known to people as the guy who could translate the movie for you. Stuff would happened on screen and everybody would turn to Abdi who would shout out he says he is about to kill that guy. He pronounces English like an American. That is why his accent is so amazing when you hear him which led to his nickname that all his friends called him. Abdi the American. That is my name. That is my nickname. And as he got older he devoted himself to the goal of getting to America not only studying English but also teaching it. He did some radio stories in English. And you can totally understand why he would want to leave his country right? He grew up in Somalia. For years there was no functioning government. There was rival warlords and militias and just anarchy dangerous and violent. And there were bombings and attacks from the terrorist group al-Shabaab which is affiliated with al-Qaeda. Abdi says for him or really for any man in his 20s in Somalia it is hard to stay out of the fight. You cannot just be neutral and go about your life. He tells stories of al-Shabaab members threatening him to join them or else. At one checkpoint on the way to his mom's they told him basically next time you come through here you would better be one of us. So it was that or join the government forces who were fighting al-Shabaab or he could flee the country. You know those boats full of people who are trying to cross the Mediterranean to get to Europe and sometimes they sink and hundreds of people drown? Abdi knows people who have gone on those boats and on boats like them to escape to Yemen. Yes. I have lost three very good friends. And one of these friends had his child less than a year old with his wife. He knew how to swim but he could not swim because his child was-- you know he was trying to save his child and his wife. And then they were caught up in the sea and sharks. They were not the only ones who died there. 75 other Somalis were killed in that journey. And that has changed nothing about our decision. That does not scare us a lot. We know death is there. Several times Abdi planned to take one of those boats but he had trouble getting the money together and eventually his mom talked him out of it. So instead he escaped across the border to Kenya. Somalia and Kenya are next to each other. Abdi moved to Nairobi enrolled in a university tried twice for a student visa to America was denied both times. And if he had not gotten lucky that day in the cybercafe he said he would have been looking again and getting on a boat. Yeah. If I had not won this green card lottery that was one of my options. I was not afraid to do that. I am looking for a life. And to get to that I will keep trying to the death.  The thing about the lottery though what Abdi learned is that it does not guarantee you a life in America. In fact it is just the first step. After you win you have to wait more than a year then you show up at an American embassy for an interview and you have to gather all kinds of paperwork to bring with you medical documents and school transcripts and a criminal background check. Everything has to be perfect. Every i dotted. The tiniest mistake means that you can be denied for good. In fact most years over half the people who win the lottery never get their visas. They do not make it to America. And right away after winning the lottery Abdi got a bad break. The police in Nairobi Kenya where he lived started raiding houses looking around up all the Somalis like him and kick them out of the country. We have a very unusual day-by-day record of what happened to Abdi because a BBC reporter named Leo Hornak wanted to document this process and started calling Abdi every night. This is one of their very first recordings.   Hey Abdi can you hear me? Yeah yeah yeah I can hear you. Are you safe right now for the moment? Yeah. I am safe. You sent me an email that had me really worried today. Tell me what happened. Yeah it was crazy. I was actually chatting with some of the people in our apartment when these guys-- we do not call them the police. We called them the guys. Out of nowhere they appeared there at the gate and they asked us all to raise our hands up. And  you know we-- we were thinking like OK. This is the end of it. We are going to go there tonight. By there he means a place called Kasarani a giant soccer stadium that Kenyan authorities and police were using as a makeshift jail to hold hundreds of refugees. Like oh my God. The next few couple of nights you are going to be spending there in the concentration camp and then they take you to Mogadishu. And OK you are going to miss your lottery. All those things were going through my mind. This call happened on April 17th 2014. Abdi had 96 days to go before his interview at the US embassy which would be scheduled for July 22nd. Leo started calling him every day. He was worried for him. Like I say over half the people who win the lottery never make it to the United States. Would Abdi succeed? Over the next three months he faced a horrifying obstacle course. It is just like one seemingly impossible task after another. At several points he is afraid for his life. Today we bring you the story of one of the many people around the world who are desperately trying to make it to America to become one of us. Will Abdi do it? Stay with us.  OK so you remember where we are. Abdi is about to be taken into custody by the police. Here's Leo Hornak. So here's why the police were raiding Abdi's neighborhood in Nairobi. Al-Shabaab was the very group Abdi moved to Kenya to escape have been ramping up terrorist attacks inside Kenya. You may remember one of the biggest ones. The hostage crisis in the upscale Westgate Mall is ongoing. The chaotic scene now a tense standoff. ABC's-- In September 2013 al-Shabaab gunmen trapped hundreds of people in a mall for days and killed 67. The way the Kenyan government responded to these terrorist attacks was the way governments often do in these situations with a huge crackdown on the community they hold responsible. Al-Shabaab's from Somalia so they go after Somali refugees living in Kenya. Government's trying to clear them out of Kenya's cities and move them to camps in the country or deport them back to Somalia. And in Nairobi the neighborhood they target is Abdi's neighborhood. It is called Eastleigh. It is a dense neighborhood where many poor Somalis live and where there is some al-Shabaab support. Eastleigh's been there for decades. It is known as Little Mogadishu. Abdi lives there with his older brother Hassan in a small room with one bed and a single bathroom for the whole building. So back to that phone call on April 17th. The police show up and grab Abdi by the shirt. They just get your collar and hold it so tight. And they tell you come with me and just get into the truck. That is what they said to all of us. It is 96 days until Abdi's interview and Abdi's worried they are going to throw him and his brother into a truck and take them into detention before he can ever get his papers together and leave for America. They threaten you and they try to forcibly take you to the tracks. We were not going with them. We were saying OK let us negotiate. I am not going anywhere. I have legitimate documents. And they were telling us OK bring out all your documents. What do you have? Abdi pulls out his refugee ID. Officially that should protect Abdi. It is from the United Nations. Unofficially-- He did not even try to give it single glance because he knows the shape. He knows the frame of it. And he says-- he threw it into my face and he says you are a refugee? What are you doing here? And they were like Come on give us whatever you have. That is what one of them said. So that is when the real business starts. Yeah when the real business starts. AKA the bribes. Abdi his brother and the neighbors start pooling their cash. In total I think we gave them more than 80 US dollars. And I had to beg them. Please I have nothing. That is all I have in life. Nothing. I have nothing. This is all I have. Please you have to take it. And how much does 80 US dollars buy you in Eastleigh. It gives you the best food. It is better jeans better shirts jacket all that stuff. It is a lot of money. It is indeed a lot of money. And Abdi what happens next? I mean there is no solution right to this? This could happen again tomorrow. Not even tomorrow. It can happen right now. It can happen to tonight. It can happen in the next few minutes. It can happen in the next few hours.  Talking to Abdi every day what I realized was how relentless it is. Every night's another excuse for a crackdown and the Somalis are sitting ducks trapped in this one neighborhood. Most people are indoors today. They are not going to anywhere. They are not coming out of their houses. April 25th 88 days to Abdi's interview and counting. It is a Friday which normally would be a busy day in Eastleigh because it is a Muslim holy day. People take off from work go shopping go out to eat to meet at the mosque for prayers. But not today. Abdi says last week the police showed up at a nearby mosque grabbed people as they left prayers and drove them away in trucks. We are getting additional threats from the police saying that they will intensify the operations and that they will take more people. So Abdi what do you think you are going to do today? Will you visit a mosque? No I will not. I never missed a prayer on Friday but this one-- but this one. Never missed. But you never know. Soon Abdi stops leaving his apartment for anything. He and his brother Hassan essentially go into hiding lockdown in their building. They stop going to school. As the days go by food begins to run short. Abdi and Hassan pool their supplies with another Somali family on the ground floor of their building two women one a single mother with two small boys. But it is not much. Soon they are down to just tea and sugar and a loaf of bread they are able to get each day from a Kenyan guy who delivers it on his bike. That is what they were living on. Tea and bread. Our eyes are turning red and the energy's running out. We are looking like pretty skinny. Abdi and Hassan are paying for the tea and bread with money they get from overseas. Years ago Abdi did some reports for an American public radio show called The Story and a listener reached out wanting to help. She sends them money not too different from lots of Somali refugees who have family members abroad supporting them. But obviously that kind of help only goes so far. It is challenging because you know you cannot even shut your eyes at night and sleep soundly. This is Abdi's older brother Hassan. He tells me they are not sleeping. He and Abdi sound the same by the way. Apparently even their father cannot tell them apart on the phone. Any minute you expect someone breaking into your house or grabbing you. It is like sleeping with your pants on you know? You are always ready. You do not know what is happening you know? Yeah. Wow. Feeling at home is like you relax you watch a movie something like-- that never happens. If you hear another sound outside or some other knocking or you know a small kind of sound-- what was it? What is happening? Are they coming? We are not criminals just refugees. And I never thought being a refugee will make you sound like criminal. The kind of police abuses Abdi told me about are well-documented by human rights groups and journalists-- arbitrary arrest extortion beatings forcible deportation family members separated. It is illegal under international law to send refugees back to a country where their lives could be in danger. The spokesman for Kenya's Ministry of Interior which oversaw the police raids in Eastleigh told me they were justified to make the city safe from al-Shabaab. But he confirmed that the kind of police corruption Abdi told me about has been a problem for a long time in Kenya. That is a fact he said. We are not denying that.  Abdi and Hassan tell me Eastleigh's come up with a warning system. The first person to spot the police from his window fires a group text to his friends to say they are coming your way so you have got time to hide. Then you pass the message on to your friends and so on. You can tell a raid's started Hassan says when you hear all the phones going off. With just three months left until his interview Abdi still needs to get all the documents required by the US embassy documents from the police his school his doctors. But he cannot do any of that because he cannot even leave his building. The clock's ticking. This is a long dream. My hopes were high to get this thing. But now today I am in trouble you know? Right. It is not the Americans who are you know putting my visa into trouble it is the Kenyans the Kenyan police. And I am supposed to have my interview here in July. My heart's broke you know? My feelings are very very bad. I am feeling like OK you are not going to make it. April 28th t-minus 85 days until his interview. Instead of hiding from the police people are now surrendering. From his window Abdi sees entire families sitting on the sidewalk with their belongings. Hundreds of families are on the move back to Somalia are ready to show themselves to the police and say all right I am done. I am done. They do not have any more money to pay off the police. And rather than end up at the football stadium they will just go back to Somalia. Even the family on the ground floor the two women with the young boys are packing up. Which really broke the heart of my brother and I because that means we are going to be alone here. Did you have any conversations with them about their plans what they are afraid of? Can you tell me about any conversation you had with any member of that family? What they are telling me Abdi what are you doing here? Come on move. You are dreaming about America. That does not exist. This is a dream. Come on boy. You are wrong. That is what they are me Leo. At some point I am thinking like would it be OK to go with them? This is totally no life. I guess it cannot be safe for two unaccompanied women with small children to be traveling by car from Nairobi to Somalia. It cannot be safe right? They are expecting everything. They are expecting an extortion of property they are expecting a rape. Because there are gangs on the road that can rape women and the gangs know that there are Somalis on the move. So they are somewhere on the road where there is no police in sight so they can come and jump into buses rape women take their money. And you know the other thing that these families are fearing when they reach a border between Kenya and Somalia another chapter of danger begins because it is al-Shabaab that are lurking around the border. And when you fall into the hands of al-Shabaab you disappear forever. The other thing that I was also discussing with them about this seven-year-old and a five-year-old kid is because these are the age that the al-Shabaab-- they really want to program the kids and teach them you know whatever ideologies they believe. And so yeah. The lady looked like she was so much worried for her kids than for herself. Knowing this these two ladies and the kids must go. Wow. It is really. So you have got a lot of things to think about. A lot of things to worry about. One night on the phone Abdi asked me if I am familiar with the migration of the wildebeest. Abdi wants to be clear. He does not know about this because he is African. He is a city kid. He is just seen it on Discovery Channel clips like everyone else. Anyway each year thousands and thousands of wildebeest trek to a river that they have to cross in order to graze on the other side. The river's infested with crocodiles and not every wildebeest makes it but they all have to try. Abdi says he knows how they feel. Somalis are prey he says. They are being hunted.  Each evening when I phoned Abdi I was always concerned that one night no one would answer that he would have finally taken the advice of his neighbors or been hauled off to the holding pens in Kasarani. When he did pick up often he wanted to talk about things that were not related to the Kenyan police or al-Shabaab. We talked about his favorite movies Rambo that movie The Rock with Nicolas Cage anything Schwarzenegger. We talked about his friends in the good old days in Eastleigh when he could sit in a cafe and sip tea with camel milk. One thing I asked Abdi about-- when people win the regular lottery you always hear stories about how all of a sudden family members are really nice to them or cousins they have not spoken to in years start calling to say hi asking for favors. I wondered if this was the case with Abdi. Here he was sitting in a slum with all these refugees who were in the same terrible situation and now he had a ticket out. Did people start treating him differently? Yes Leo especially the girls.  This is a very good question. Abdi is a practicing Muslim and so were the women he hangs out with. So normally before you could only visit them in a kind of formal courtship visit at their home. No having girls over to his place now hanging out in public. The difference now since I won the green card lottery is that they are trying to come to my house. He is talking about before the police raids started when life was relatively normal in Eastleigh. So I just hear someone coming up the stairs and knocking at my door and saying hey Abdi how have you been? And it is a lady. And yeah she sits right next to your bed and it is all about the conversation. She is trying to do anything to attract you with the sweet words. Do you have a girlfriend? When do you want to marry? What type of girls do you want? Now you are going to America you need a wife. When you go to America please let me be the first person you get in touch. Because I am here and I do not have a husband. Are you thinking about any of these girls? Maybe something could happen.  Yes. I really am attracted to one of these girls. She is really beautiful cute. She is Somali but she has finished high school in Nairobi. The good thing about her is that she speaks English. She is really I think my type. She likes to read a lot you know? She has a different character. The rest of Somali girls are very shy but this pretty girl-- she gives me all this confidence you know? And she allows me to go to her and she allows me to hang out with her in downtown Nairobi wherever possible you know? So I-- yeah. I think I fall in love. Well congratulations. That is one piece of good news.  Yeah. But unfortunately for the last four weeks we have not seen each other.  May 1st 82 days and counting. Abdi cautiously ventures out of the apartment building for the first time in weeks. He heads downtown to central Nairobi where life is continuing as normal. It is a stressful journey but he is able to buy a couple of gallons of clean water and some cans of beans to bring home. He says it is amazing how good these taste to him and Hassan. He tells me he is getting more and more worried about the paperwork he still has to get together for his interview his medical records and transcripts from his university. And there is one piece of paper that terrifies him. One of the US embassy requirements is to get a police certificate something called a certificate of good conduct. What this basically is is proof from Kenyan law enforcement that Abdi is not a criminal. Abdi does not have a record so this should not be a big deal except for the place he has to go to get the official certificate the headquarters of the Kenyan police. So that scares you a lot. Thousands of Somalis are being held as we speak and they are waiting for their return to Somalia or some of them are waiting for their return to the camps. So when I am thinking of jumping into a bus and headed to headquarters stepping in there and saying hey guys I need a police letter my heart is already pounding. For weeks Abdi had been talking to me about this telling me about how worried he was about having to go into the belly of the beast. Finally on a Tuesday morning in May 77 days before his interview he gets up early gets together every idea he has to prove he is a legal refugee says goodbye to Hassan and takes a bus to police headquarters. He walks in waits for his name to be called and walks up to the window where he faces a Kenyan police officer. And what he encounters is not brutal police tactics but bureaucracy. He was telling me there is nothing that I can do but take your paper and send it to UNHCR and then I have to wait for them to come back to me. Even it can take more than five months he tells me. Five months. Way too long for Abdi to have it in time for his interview on July 22nd. The guy there was not friendly. He was really really fierce and I was frozen with fear. And finally I tell him wait just listen to me gentlemen. You are talking about five months sir but that is not what I am talking about. If I do not get this police certificate they will not give me-- or issue a visa for me all right? So please is it possible? And he was telling me there is nothing that I can do for you. It is going to take more than five months. There is no possibility of you going into a later position with the US embassy is there? No. No. It does not happen. If you delay your interview that is the end of it. Some other people will grab the visa. Yeah. That is going to be a doom. It is going to be a doom Abdi says. And I felt that too. Up to this point it seemed like if Abdi could just hold on long enough to get to his embassy interview he would make it to America. Now all bets were off. Now unless this changed there was no way.  Leo Hornak. Abdi decides to keep going back to police headquarters every few weeks despite the risk despite how frightening it is to see if one time maybe he gets a different answer. What happens next in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today on our program we are hearing the story of Abdi Nor a Somali refugee who escaped to Kenya. And then he won what amounts to a golden ticket to move to the United States and become an American but only if he is able to make it to an interview at the US embassy with all the right paperwork all done perfectly so he can cash in that golden ticket. The United Nations has reported that the number of people around the world displaced from their homes because of conflict and persecution is at an all time high. It is over 65 million people the largest number the UN has ever recorded. Abdi of course is one of those people. He is Muslim from a country with a proven history of terrorism. There are proposals of course in this presidential race to ban Muslims or people from countries like that from emigrating to the United States even if like Abdi they are running from terrorists and are not terrorists themselves. Anyway Leo Hornick continues this story. May 12th t-minus 71 days to Abdi's embassy interview. Abdi gets on a bus home from school and this time runs into another danger. Not the police not al-Shabaab themselves but the fear of al-Shabaab. The bus is so crowded with people. And there are these two ladies watching me. Abdi looks around and realizes he is the only Somali. People can tell. Somalis look different. And a Somali with a backpack on on a public bus-- he knows what people are thinking. They are watching my hands. They are thinking like when is this guy putting his hand into that bag and start to blow up? These ladies then started shouting at the driver have you made sure there is no bomb in that bag?  I had to fight back. And I say listen lady wait a minute. I am not what you think I am you know? No. There is no bomb in here. I am not one of those people. I am a student and I am carrying my books. It is quite embarrassing. And at the same time I feel fear because everyone in there had very cautious eyes on me. In Kenya because people do not trust the police mobs will take justice into their own hands. For example if a shopkeeper yells thief on the street strangers might grab the person and beat them. And it is not unheard of for people to die this way. A man in the back of the past chimes in. Why is he there he shouts. Kick him out. I tried as much as I can to calm them down and they were ignoring me. And then the driver turns his head and tells me boy step out of my car or I will call the police. And you know we were not in little Mogadishu. We were not in downtown. We were in the middle. And in the middle what I mean in the middle is exactly the Pangani police station. This is the police station Somali terrorist bombed two weeks earlier. What do you think? If they kick me out there with a bag standing there near the police station what is going to happen? They can shoot me to death. I said to the driver wait a minute. You want to know what is in here? And then I had to unzip my bag and bring everything out the books the papers showed him the pen the student ID. Everything I brought out. And then I hang the bag upside-down and showed him. Do you see anything in there? And then it looked like the driver was kind of satisfied and he looked straight and he drove the car a little bit faster. Four days later May 16th 67 days to the interview al-Shabaab blows up two buses. It is a big deal. They were in a central market. At least 12 dead more than 70 injured. Abdi's sure the police will be out in force and he hunkers down at home for a while.    Hey Abdi what is up? How is it going? Leo it is good. How are you? Yeah. Not too bad at all. Could you tell me the date? And then we can start. The date? Yeah. It is May 17th 2014. And last night after that explosion there was a massive operation in little Mogadishu. They have knocked at our house. It was like 200 last night. We have not opened. They just kept knocking and they were thinking like there is nobody here. And then they have moved. So-- hang on. So they kind of-- if they just do not get any answer then they think it is empty? Yes. The thing is that Eastleigh is not like before. Now there are no more people at all. 80 have gone. That is what I think. It was like 50 before now it is 80. Most buildings are empty. So these days when they keep knocking and nobody's opening they are thinking like people here have moved. So yes that is what we did last night. None of us opened. There was no light in our house because these guys they are listening to the movements. They are watching if there is any movement in the windows. They are seeing if there is a light or something. Just something like that shows them there is a life here. So that is what we do. We do not show there is a life. It is totally blackouts.  Good evening Leo. Hey Abdi. How are you? I am good. I am good Leo. How are you? Good. I am pleased to hear it. I know that you had a tough-- a very difficult evening. Do you want to say what the date is and tell me what happened? May 19. Now the time is 845. All I can say Leo is that I have not slept for the last I am going to say 30 hours or more because the police raid has increased. They have come and taken so many people from our neighborhood. And we have realized that this is not the ordinary police. They have changed something. These guys they do not negotiate on cash. Everything has changed. And they are not going into any negotiation at all. They throw you in the back of their trucks and drive away so many so many refugees. And how are you finding this out? How do you know this? Well I told you already about that girl. She is my-- I am going to say she is my girlfriend now. But she has a Kenyan national ID. The text message she sent me here it says hey they have been with me for like 15 minutes where she was sleeping her room. And one of them said you are not supposed to be a Somali. You are a Kenyan so you can be my wife. That is one of the policemen-- what one of the policemen said when she showed them her Kenyan national ID. I am taking all the Somalis so you would be lonely here. Just come and you will be safe. You will live with me. And she said please leave me alone. They took everyone else in the compound where she lived who had a refugee ID. She lived with other girls and the other girls do not have the national IDs so they forced the girls out. They have finally forced the girls out. I tried to confirm this with his girlfriend but she did not want to talk to me about it. Abdi says the police took her roommates that night but left her behind. So what she is alone now? What is the situation? She is alone. Yes. So Leo yes that last night Hassan and I we did not know where to go. We could hear all those sounds the knock of our gate the shouts the bullets that were being fired into the doors of people. At one moment I was thinking 