I know so many people who have films that they have watched over and over and I have never really gotten that. I always feel like there are so many films that I have not seen-- why would I watch one again? But we get into these conversations and there always comes a moment where I am asked well what is the film that you have seen the most? And then I have to admit it is The Poseidon Adventure. Which I know is not a good film. It is this '70s movie about an ocean liner that gets hit by a tsunami flips upside down and the passengers try to make their way to safety. It is part of an entire genre of films disaster films that have never gotten any respect. Nobody thinks of these films as art but I loved it at the time when I saw it. It felt big and it felt important and serious. And I remember it was very emotional. And the reason that I saw it so many times that this is the film that I saw more than any other was not because I loved the film. It was because of where I saw it. I was on vacation. We did not take many vacations when I was a kid but on one of them we stayed at this hotel in Florida where the rooms had this thing where they offered a couple movies all day long. And this was so long ago in the 1970s. My sisters and I we had never seen anything like that. Even cable TV was rare back then. The Poseidon Adventure was the film that they offered and my sister Karen and I we ate it up. That was the movie we watched over and over again yeah. Oh so this was like a very important movie. That is Karen and her son Zach my nephew who we tried to explain this to recently. So we ended up watching it on TV like at night if our parents went out to dinner or if it was a rainy day. Yeah we loved it. The way that I remember it is that the hotel just had this movie on a loop. And just as soon as it would finish it would start again. And the way I remember it is that every time we would come into the hotel room you could turn on the TV and you would be somewhere in The Poseidon Adventure. That sounds vaguely familiar to me. I do not totally remember that but that might be right. Yeah. And I remember it having a lot of feeling. Do remember it having a lot of feeling? What does that mean having a lot of feeling? I remember feeling a lot of emotions. Yeah well it is scary and you are really invested in their journey to escape alive. I do not think I am giving anything away by saying that. Sort of are. Here at the radio show these last few weeks we have been talking about the random films that people have strong attachments to thinking that might be a good episode of the show. And I started to think about The Poseidon Adventure and I wondered what it would be like to see it again. Like would it have any feeling? Would any of it feel the way it did to me as a kid? Would it feel that way to Karen? So my sister and I we watched it. And I invited Zach too since he is the age that we were when we watched it back in the '70s. He is 13. I was 14 at the time. Karen was 11. And I want to say I did not expect Zach to like it. He does not like a lot of films. And right away the very first scene let us know the kind of film we were in for. A little boy visits the bridge of the SS Poseidon this ocean liner in the middle of a big storm. And the little boy is greeted by the captain who is played by Leslie Nielsen-- who at this point had not made the career transition to parodying characters like this captain. Mr. Shelby you have picked a particularly fascinating moment to accept my invitation. These waves do not bother you huh? I have surfed up to 18 feet but these look more like 30. 35 to be exact. Wow surf's really up. Oh my. What is oh my? Those lines. So cheesy. I did not remember how wincey the acting got in some places. When Ernest Borgnine shows up it is clear that the 1956 Oscar winner for Best Actor is not in one of his best roles. Linda you hear me? Why is he so angry? Borgnine does seem to shout nearly every one of his lines in the film. One thing that kind of stunned me and I did not expect seeing the film again was how much of the dialogue I remember from decades ago. And I was also surprised to realize-- and I do not know what this says about me-- the lines that that I remember the most are the little comic zingers. You know like when a crew member is asked if he is married I know his corny response before he says it. Are you married? No marriage for me Mrs. Rosen. I have got a mistress. What? The sea. Hey that is good. Something I did remember and remember liking from the film was that this was an old-fashioned enough movie that the producers tried to insert some big ideas into the adventure so it would all mean something. These big ideas are provided by Gene Hackman who plays a rebellious young priest in a turtleneck whose big theological idea is a very conveniently helpful one for people who are about to be capsized in the middle of the ocean. God does not want you to wait for miracles. You have to take matters into your own hands. Do not pray to God to solve your problems. This is from a sermon he delivers early in the film. Have the guts to fight for yourself. God wants brave souls. He wants winners not quitters. If you cannot win at least try to win! He comes back to this over and over through the film rallying the passengers to fight on. I loved that as a teenager that there was this idealistic guy with this principle that he is trying to live by and this idea about God that the film is testing. And I have to say seeing it today I still loved it that they put that in there. Anyway soon enough right at the stroke of midnight on New Year's Eve the tsunami hits the boat flips the plotline tips. In the wreckage of the upside down New Year's party Gene Hackman convinces only eight passengers that they should not stay and wait for God to send rescuers but climb with him to safety. Now please for God's sake come with me. They creep from deck to deck barely escaping the rising waters as they go. The ceilings of the rooms are the floors that they walk on and the floors are the ceilings. There is a fiery upside-down kitchen. They go up slippery ladders and inverted staircases. And by the time they start dying one by one for Karen and me and even Zach it is no joke. We are in it. We care.  Did she just have a heart attack? Wait did she just have a heart attack? Yes. Wow. That is a pretty random heart attack. Not really. Think about the fact that she just did all that swimming and she is out of shape. After Mrs. Rosen the menschy grandma in the film dies her husband discovers her dead body. Oh that guy's gonna be so sad. I remember this moment so well. I remember this too really well. This was very affecting. I have been really invested in this movie. It is sort of good. You do feel very invested? Yeah. It is like I am not sure what is gonna happen next unlike most other movies. I would wondered if Zack was gonna feel the same big feelings that I felt for the film at his age. And he totally did.  Wow she dies? No. Oh he dies too? No. They were so close. No. By the time we get to gene hackman's big climactic speech to God What more do you want of us? We came all this way no thanks to you. it was clear The Poseidon Adventure it does its job. It gets to you. But thinking about the experience that Zach had watching the film and the one that I was having it is so different right? For me it was like walking into a room from my childhood home and finding it intact and exactly how I remembered it. Or we would get to a scene and I would remember things I did not realize I remembered. Is there even a name for that? When we watch a movie together we think we are watching the same thing but we are not. For me The Poseidon Adventure is a portal back to that vacation and being in that hotel room with Karen and knowing those movie stars from other things they made and just that whole time in my life. I cannot show Zack that movie. Well from WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today on our program after months of pandemic when so many of us have been staying home and seeing way more movies than usual we thought here at our show let us do a movie night a show about movies. And in particular we decided to get people who have watched a film over and over who see something in it most people do not see films for which they are an audience of one. Including somebody who went this deep with a video online and somebody who watched a classic kid's film over and over a film that so many of us have seen. She loved it and only learned years later as an adult that what she would seen was only the first half of the film. Stay with us. Act One Putting the Ease in Disease. So back when the pandemic first took hold a lot of people were watching or re-watching the movie Contagion which originally came out in 2011. Maybe you have seen it. It is about a deadly and fast-spreading virus that is spread by respiratory droplets goes around the world. Governments fail to contain it. And I think we watch films like that or read books about the 1918 flu because it just scratches this itch where we just want some way to think about what we are going through right now. And it is nice to just see somebody else go through some version of it. One of our producers Sean Cole has never seen Contagion but he found himself turning to this other movie a movie about a virus that you probably have not heard of. It is a very different spin on the subject. Here's Sean. You will not find this movie on Netflix or YouTube or anywhere like that or at least I could not find it that way. I finally had to order a DVD from an online vintage movie store. It is clear my copy was pirated off cable-- skips a lot. And like all of the Contagion geeks I was floored by some of the parallels to now especially given that this movie came out in 1968 more than half a century ago. For instance in this movie instead of a bat the vector of the virus is a bird a toucan that stowed away aboard a Greek freighter somewhere near Central America. Then the boat docks in New York Harbor for inspection and the first mate alerts the military that a lot of the crew is sick. We will have to hold the ship in quarantine indefinitely. If it a virus my guess it is a brand new one some kind of a mutation. No telling how long it will take to identify it. The toucan is still on board held in a makeshift chicken wire fence. But then it gets loose flies straight into the city and starts infecting people. Just a few at first. The mayor of New York an empty suit motivated mostly by money and poll numbers holds a press conference speaking into a microphone labeled WNYC the public radio station in New York where I used to work. It was weird. There is absolutely no cause for alarm. Only 47 cases have been reported so far. However the commissioner of health recommends that you wear a surgical mask when you are out in public. He holds up a mask exactly like the one I wear every day. After the reporters leave though there is deep concern and dread. The health commissioner an older Anthony Fauci-type scolds the mayor for underplaying the threat everyone's facing. True we got a line on the 47 who reported to doctors but-- But when you feel good you do not go to a doctor. Lord knows how many more have it. But the virus only has a life of 10 days or so. You said so yourself. Yes but somebody who gets it on the 10th day and has it for another 10 days and a week after he gets it he gives it to somebody else and so on. Theoretically it could go on for years. Soon everyone is scurrying around the city in a masked panic. Businesses suffer. A presidential envoy fast tracks the development of a vaccine. If it were not for the 20-foot-long cop cars and A-line mod dresses it feels like some of these scenes could have been shot in Manhattan last weekend. Except there is one major difference between this film and the Steven Soderberghian Contagion-like reality we are all living in. Because in this movie the virus is not fatal. It does not even cause a fever or a cough. Instead the main and only symptom is absolute euphoria. That is it. Everyone it infects experiences unbridled happiness and elation. Its victims begin acting kindly to one another deferential. In just a couple of days the city is transformed from this-- Come on you jerk! The light as not gonna get any greener! Why you lazy no good rotten stinking-- You are telling me when I came in? You are damn right I am! Who you shoving mac? You own the sidewalk? To this. Good morning. Nice day is not it? I am sorry. Pardon me. May I help you? The movie's called What is So Bad About Feeling Good? It is a comedy-- a rom com really. And it is not a good movie which is why you likely have not heard of it even though the lead actors are George Peppard from Breakfast at Tiffany's and the A-Team and Mary Tyler Moore from Mary Tyler Moore. And they do a good job. Pretty much everyone in the cast is really skilled but the whole production is outlandishly campy and caricaturistic. There are a few very awkward choices. Cartoon word balloons emerge from the toucan's mouth sometimes when it squawks so you know what it is thinking. Oh and there is a schmaltzy AM radio theme song kind of a knockoff of Burt Bacharach. SINGING What is so wrong with that happy sensation that sense of utter elation? What is so bad about feeling good? That said it is also a great movie in the way that silly B movies can be so satisfying especially the arcane ones that make you feel like a kid watching adults mess up for the first time. I have a greatest hits list of them in my head. Wild in the Streets about ageist hippies waging a coup against the US government. Invasion of the Bee Girls about a race of murderous women who are also bees. Both of which you can watch online for free. But since it is so hard to find a copy of this movie let me just continue taking you through the plot in a kind of abbreviated radioified Cliff's Notes version for your movie not-going enjoyment. So George Peppard and Mary Tyler Moore are Pete and Liz two characters who are tailor-made for this particular plot because they do not contain an ounce of euphoria. They are brooding existentialist arty-types that have dropped out of society living in the East Village. They would be boyfriend and girlfriend if they believed in that sort of thing. For no discernible reason-- or maybe cause the script was not working and they had to fix it quickly-- there is a lot of voiceover by these two. A couple years ago I was just like the rest of you conformists. I was in advertising name on the door carpet on the floor an ulcer headaches the whole bit. But I wised up to that phony world and came down here. So did Liz. She was on the treadmill too. I sure was. Uptown supper clubs singing schmaltzy songs to the drunks fighting to get to the top of the ladder. And then my heart got into the act and somebody stepped on it. Pills to sleep pills to stay awake. Finally I asked myself for what? This was the answer. This being the communal building they live in with a tribe of other unhappy nihilists collecting unemployment. They all look a little like cave people at a gallery opening. One of them spends every hour of every day completely enveloped inside of a sack. They call her the Sack. Since the problems of life are insoluble one should draw into complete isolation and live a life of total non-involvement with other people. The Sack is right. Meanwhile a little ways downtown the Faucian commissioner of health pretty quickly figures out how the virus works. And it has to be transmitted by respiration. All that bird has to do is get within breathing distance of somebody and pop goes the weasel. Cue the toucan who flies into Pete and Liz's window one morning while they are sleeping loiters for a minute next to Pete's face and leaves. Pete wakes up early. What are you doing up? And heads up to the roof. Liz climbs up after him concerned. Pete. Come here. What happened? Come here. Look in this cruddy pile of junk a flower. Pete what is wrong? What is the matter with you. I do not know. Ever since I got up I have been feeling strange kind of. I do not think I can explain it to you but everything seems different. Hey listen. To what the traffic? Kids laughing. You know why they are laughing? 'ecause they are not old enough to read the newspaper. You take a look at the front page and then try laughing. The world's a stinking hopeless mess. Oh Pete you are sick. You know sometimes a high fever can make you feel this way. I feel great. That is what I mean. At this point it is worth noting why someone might want to make a film about the need for euphoria in 1968. The front page Liz is talking about would include headlines like Martin Luther King Is Slain in Memphis Robert Kennedy Dead Police Battle Demonstrators in the Streets also Viet Cong Storm US Embassy. We were a nation at war both abroad and with itself with protests and riots in cities across the country and a presidential candidate running on a platform of law and order and also courting segregationists. And given all that you might ask what is so bad about feeling good? Which is what the mayor in the movie wanted to know. In one of the first crisis management meetings with his cabinet they are running down the symptoms for him and tell him the virus stops people from brooding. But it is worse than that. Mr. Mayor 82 not only stop brooding. They stop smoking. 93 stop drinking. What is wrong with that? In terms of dollars and cents it is disastrous. Our city is facing a drastic loss in income from sales tax. That is ridiculous. 47 people? Drop in a bucket. But if this goes unchecked for a month by mathematical progression half of New York will have the virus. You know what that means? It means a loss in cigarette and liquor taxes more than 180 million. 180 million? Brady what are you sitting there for? Get that bird! BRADY Yes sir! Brady is the chief of police. Capture the bird they can extract its tissues come up with a cure and stave off an economic crisis. Because of course what is the most important thing a politician thinks of in a potential pandemic? How to save the economy. Meantime Pete much to Liz's horror has shaved off his beard cut his hair and is talking about trying to get his old advertising job back. Which quick digression interests me because it is the opposite of subversive. Once these nonconformists get infected instead of dropping out they drop in. Pete feels so good in fact that once he figures out what is quote unquote wrong with him he wants to share it with everyone starting with Liz. In an age when all of us are actively avoiding each other's bodies like the plague because of the plague it is wild to watch someone actively trying to spread of virus like this. One little kiss and you will have it too. I do not want it. Just one little kiss. You will like yourself in the morning. I do not want it Pete. We will get married a real marriage-- I do not want it. Chasing her around the room. We will get a little place in Jersey. We will have some kids and I will mow the lawn. And give up all this? Eventually in a completely unbelievable moment that would never have survived the MeToo movement Pete disguises himself as a nihilist German philosopher and tries to pressure Liz into bed finally settling for a kiss. He exposes the rest of the gang too. They all shave cut their hair Queer Eye their apartments. The Sack climbs out of her sack and the toucan remarkably keeps coming back becomes their pet. They call him Amigo. There is Amigo. At the same time the mayor is bundled off to an emergency bunker so that he does not get sick. A TV reporter buttonholes him on the way in. Tell me sir is there any truth to the rumor that there is been a spread in the epidemic? Epidemic? Well I would hardly call it an epidemic. After all we only have 180 million-- 47 cases. Well why then sir are you visiting the fallout shelter? Just a routine inspection last Friday of every month. But today is Saturday sir. Well better late than never. It took me watching this scene a few times trying to figure out why it sounded so familiar. And then I was like oh yeah. At the height of the protests outside the White House President Trump was moved for a time to the bunker something that has not happened since 911. I was there for a tiny little short period of time and it was much more for an inspection. There was no-- Anyway there are not only 47 cases for long. And that is largely due to the efforts of Pete and Liz and their friends. They wage a campaign to spread the virus intentionally by subterfuge. Liz and the Sack volunteer to hand out masks to their fellow citizens breathing on them first. While the Sack made sure that every mask was specially treated with the virus I made sure that nobody got away without one. I was in charge of transportation assisted by Conrad. Our specialty was the subway at rush hour. Where the biggest crowds were breathing in we were there breathing out. They breathe on peanuts and feed them to the pigeons. Liz and another friend get jobs as burlesque dancers. Their shtick is blowing soap bubbles into people's faces. And in just a couple of days the number of cases explodes to about 2 million about a quarter of the city's population. Cabbies stop in the middle of the street to let pedestrians cross in front of them. Marriage license applications flood city hall Pete and Liz's among them. Barbershop lines are staggering. People literally dance in the streets with joy. It is a disaster. Finally the president's envoy is helicoptered into New York City to save the day-- and frankly to save the movie. It is Dom Deluise from Blazing Saddles Spaceballs Robin Hood-- Men In Tights. I have a statement from the president. Dom Deluise. I love Dom Deluise. He looms so large in my childhood comedy pantheon. He is atomically funny even in this very not good film. His character Jay Gardner Monroe is way more confident and bossy and conceited than he is capable. He snaps his fingers at his aides. He uses the word repeat before repeating himself like a military general. Anyway he heads straight to the bunker and tells the mayor and everyone that if the toucan is not caught before the tally reaches 3 million cases he is putting plan CC-27 into effect. The bridges tunnels airports will be closed. Repeat closed! Not one single person will get in or out of New York. But Mr. Monroe do you realize we have 52 conventions coming in next week? Conventions? Do you realize what would happen if this got to Washington? Republicans agreeing with Democrats and vice versa? This bird could destroy our two party system the very foundation of our great democracy. The tally board is at 2.2 million cases at this point. And this is really the final and maybe most alarming parallel between our story and real life. As Monroe watches the numbers tick upward he shakes his head in disgust. Those commies sure are sneaky. Oh come on. You do not think for one moment that this thing is just an accident do you? Do you? When that bird landed on that ship its position was-- Longitude 82 latitude 24. 24 not very far from Cuba eh? Take my word for it that bird is a hook-nosed missile sent here by You Know Who. You know who Fidel Castro. Look at the facts. When people get the bug they suddenly love the world. Now if You Know Who was getting ready to act up again what would be better than to give Americans a sense of security a false sense of security and euphoria? Mr. Monroe you are not suggesting this virus was artificially produced in a laboratory? Yes a virus produced-- laboratory yes. Medical impossibility. Just could not have happened. Hah. That is what they said about the power failure here in New York in '65. And what about the Asian flu? That came straight believe you me from Red China. Of course it is satire. And in that way it is cathartic. But when I got to that scene it suddenly felt like every other part of the movie had been an escape from what is going on. It is funny that one of the most ludicrous pieces of dialogue is also practically a quote we have heard in the news in 2020 and not as a joke. There is so much more of the story left but just to abridge they finally managed to isolate the virus. Amazingly because it is a movie they develop a vaccine like that day. But they still have to test it out so they spray it in Pete and Liz's nuptial bed in the hotel room where they are spending their wedding night and set up a hidden camera behind the air vent. Everybody in the bunker-- the mayor the Fauci character Jay Gardner Monroe all of them-- sit and monitor the couple on a big screen as morning arrives. Liz wakes up to Pete coming back from an errand. He is still wearing his suit but he is disheveled messy hair smoking. Good morning darling. I did not hear you-- Could not sleep. Went out for coffee and cigarettes. Room service is probably up and I will order breakfast. Do not. I do not want any. Oh but Pete you really should eat something. Do not bug me! Jay Gardner Monroe watching on the monitor from the bunker is psyched. Well he is back to normal. It worked Doc. Not her. She does not seem to have changed a bit. And I do not know what this says about me but of all the scenes in the movie this is the one I remember the most clearly from the first time I saw it. I have actually carried it around all of these years because it is genuinely so sad. Liz looks like her heart is breaking in real time. No do not ask me to go back. Remember what we had. Remember it cling to it. You are kidding yourself. You talk about goodness and kindness. Read the front page and try and find something. Pete I cannot go back. I could not live that kind of life ever again. Pete shrugs. OK. You drink your poison and I will drink mine. There is no doubt about him. That was certainly a positive reaction. Positive. There is a happy ending. Liz decides to leave New York and move home. But at the very last minute she goes to say goodbye to Amigo the bird who is in a zoo now. And Pete's there too. Liz! They do that rom com running thing. Pete! And just like that they are back together. The city spews the vaccine into the air via factory chimneys and exhaust pipes and most of New York lives miserably ever after. But some people stay pleasant and uplifted because-- major plot twist-- 50 of the people who seemed to be infected actually never got the virus in the first place. The joy just rubbed off on them and Liz was one of those people which is why she did not get quote unquote better in the hotel room. Which is actually the moral of the movie that happiness is a choice. But watching the movie during this pandemic I drew another darker conclusion. Somehow that wiggly weird jolt of recognition I got over and over again what it felt like was this is how it goes. When faced with a crisis like this governments will minimize the severity of the danger. They will value the wrong things. They will focus on the economy over people's lives and blame foreigners in an ugly xenophobic way. I am sure there is a version of America where all that might not happen but we are not living in that America right now. And Pete and Liz were not living in it either. If it is possible for human beings to do the wrong thing we will figure out a way. We are resourceful like that. Sean Cole is one of the producers of our show. SINGING Man I had the craziest dream. I danced with Mr. Clean and gave the white knight a helping hand. Coming up OK 5 oclock somewhere but in Wisconsin they are asking when it is 5 oclock here does that really mean 5 oclock? That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program Audience of One stories about people watching movies and watching some other things too and seeing something in them that other people do not. We have arrived at Act Two of our program-- Act Two Late Registration. So vrit political documentaries are not everybody's thing especially if they are over five hours long and go straight to video. But one of our producers Ben Calhoun discovered one that he found pretty mesmerizing. It concerns Kanye West. As you probably know Kanye West is running for president. He is not on the ballot in enough states to actually win the presidency but he is in some key battleground states including Wisconsin. Of course a celebrity on the ballot will always siphon off at least some votes. And in Wisconsin both parties are scrounging for any little pocket of votes that they can get because as you may recall in 2016 Donald Trump won Wisconsin by just 23000 votes out of 2.8 million cast. So any tiny wedge votes could possibly make the difference and determine who wins the state this time. Which brings us to the video Ben saw. Here he is. This 5 and 12 hour video is of the Wisconsin Elections Commission deciding whether Kanye West would get to appear on the state's ballot in November. Wisconsin my home state it is like a lot of places. If you are Kanye West or anyone who is not from a major party you have got to collect a certain number of signatures to get on the ballot. In Kanye West's case a company flew in canvassers who started circulating petitions just one day before the signatures would have to be turned in to state elections officials at 500 PM. So they collect and collect. Next day comes Tuesday August 4 and we arrive at the deadline 500 PM a tiny moment cradled between 459 and 501 a speck on the surface of American history but one that would spiral out into a marathon political debate. My name is Ann Jacobs. I am chair of the Wisconsin Elections Commission. We are here for a special meeting. Here we are a couple of weeks later. It is Thursday afternoon. The Wisconsin Elections Commission gets together to decide about kicking Kanye West off the Wisconsin ballot. The setting is one that is familiar to a lot of people now Zoom. Commissioner Spindell. Here. Commissioner Thomsen. Here. The camera toggles between the six commissioners. There is three Republicans three Democrats. Occasionally it flips to some of the staff. Running the show Ann Jacobs the commission chair a Democrat. Jacobs gets right down to business-- challenge to West's petitions. There will be a lawyer on each side. So first up representing the challengers the folks trying to bump West off the ballot there is a lawyer named Jeff Mandell. And he looks a little like a young Jon Favreau-- the actor not the podcaster. Mandell appears in what looks like a cozy spot in his house. Go ahead. Thank you very much. May it please the Commission the nomination papers submitted on behalf of Mr. West and Miss Tidball were untimely. They were filed after 500 PM. Statute 8.20 subdivision 8 section 8 AM says that nomination papers must be filed not later than 500 PM. That is very legal way to say West was late. An attorney for his campaign a woman named Lane Ruhland she rolled up to the building in an SUV moments before 500. She shuffled papers around on her dashboard and then rushed in as a TV news crew filmed her. And Mandell lays all of this out with the punch and swagger of a prosecutor on a capital murder case when really he is just talking about a lawyer walking through a door. By her own admission Attorney Ruhland was in her car at 459 PM. That is in paragraph 6 of her affidavit on page 928 of the commission materials. Miss Ruhland exited her car a couple of seconds after 5 oclock. You can see that in exhibit A to the Remiker affidavit at three minutes and four seconds in the video. What follows is a Zapruder film style reconstruction of this whole scene at the front door of the Wisconsin Elections Commission the moment when West's lawyer rushed in with the petitions. Mandell has stitched all this together from affidavits of a TV news story and a video from a Democratic Party operative who filmed all this including a shot of his Apple watch for a timestamp. Miss Ruhland entered the building no earlier than 14 seconds after 5 oclock. Her colleague followed eight or nine seconds later with the bulk of the papers. That left them no more than 36 seconds to walk the length of the first floor to wait for the elevator to ride to the third floor to wait for the doors to open to walk to the main desk of the commission and to transfer the papers to the filing officer. That cannot happen in 37 seconds. The staff memo reaches that conclusion on page 15. The papers were in the elevator and not in the filing clerk's possession at 501. Maybe you have seen stories about how Republican fingerprints are all over Kanye West's nebulous presidential campaign. There was no attempt to hide 