Everywhere lately the news seems like it is the same. You go to Germany. Germany's long-term unemployed parents and the country's army are among those with the most to lose from budget cuts announced yesterday. Or England-- Here's the Prime Minister explaining that massive cuts in government are essential. How we deal with these things will affect our economy and our society indeed our whole way of life. In California Republican State Senator Bob Dutton-- I do not think myself my colleagues-- I do not think any of my Democrat colleagues obviously-- nobody likes making any of these cuts. We do not want to do this. This is counterproductive. I agree. California is not alone of course. Forty-eight of the 50 states have budget shortfalls. And of course there is Greece whose collapse is threatening the stability of the entire European Union. We are standing here on this building overlooking the Parliamentary square and we could actually see into the crowd when it turned violent. They turned in fact on Giannis Panagopoulos who is the head of the biggest trade union here. They beat him up claimed that he would sold out to the government. The crowd then turned on the parliament. They tried to storm parliament. Everywhere governments are cutting back. But watching this process it is hard not to wonder if our politics are simply incapable of handling this in a thoughtful way if our politics are just too crude for the problems that we face. In so many places you see posturing along very familiar lines for example people digging in their heels against all taxes. And other people digging in their heels against any cutbacks in certain kinds of services. And it drags on for months and we stay in crisis. And so today we have two stories of people trying to be thoughtful and really step above partisan bickering and solve these problems in the least painful way. And we hear what happens to these idealists when they confront reality. And surprise one of them is actually successful. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass with a little summer cold but feeling just fine and excited at the amazing stories we have for you today. Stay with us. Act One Mister Fix It. New York State has the same problem most states have right now not enough money to cover its expenses. But it is reaching a crisis point in New York. This week the government nearly shut down because though it is two months into the new fiscal year the legislature and governor cannot agree on a budget. Every week they pass an emergency spending bill to keep state services going. The legislators are getting pretty fried. Here are State Senators Hugh Farley and Roy McDonald. It is time to pass a budget. We have got to get this act together. It is an absolute disgrace. We have lost the respect justifiably so. We have lost the respect of real people in this state. What New York does have going for it is that it brought in somebody to help solve the crisis. The guy they brought in is exactly the sort of person you would hope for nonpartisan liked by everybody and experienced. He stepped in and solved this kind of financial crisis not once not twice but three other times in New York. Though he says he is found that this time it is different that all of us not just in New York but everywhere are in uncharted territory. That we do not even understand the trouble that we are in. But before I introduce you to him let us set the stage especially for those of you who live far from New York. You need to understand a few things about just how terribly run New York State is. A study by the Brennan Institute named New York State the most dysfunctional state government in the country and that was three years before the state started making national headlines by sinking far lower than anybody thought possible. At the State Capitol building in Albany a few weeks ago I asked Karen DeWitt the New York Public Radio reporter who covers this stuff and some of her colleagues for a quick review of what happened. Karen started with a scandal I would actually forgotten the state comptroller being forced to resign. Because he got in trouble for using a state car to drive around his wife. And we thought that was bad. We thought that was a terrible scandal. It would pale against what happened next. Eliot Spitzer came in as governor and began berating legislators even allegedly sicced a state trooper on the senate majority leader a somewhat of a Troopergate scandal. All prologue to March 10 2008 which was coincidentally Erin Billups' first day as a political reporter for New York One TV. And I was driving to the Capitol and I was excited about my first day of work. And I got a call from my producer that was like Ah have you heard the news? And I was like No. And they are like Oh well Spitzer is involved with a prostitution ring. And I was like Oh he busted a prostitution ring? No. The governor of the state of New York has reportedly told his senior officials that he was involved in a prostitution ring. Sources are telling Fox News Channel that Governor Spitzer is expected to resign. So what happened after that David Paterson became governor. The day after he became governor he had a press conference to tell us about adulterous affairs he and his wife had had just to get it out of the way. I betrayed a commitment to my wife several years ago but both of us committed acts of infidelity. You know he starts talking and immediately we realized what he is starting to tell us. And we are all looking at each other like oh my gosh not again. Kyle Hughes is a 20-year vet covering the Capitol now for NYSNYS.com. He would given us way too much information just stuff that you do not necessarily want to hear from your governor. It is like hearing from your dad. A prime example Paterson told The Daily News that he would sometimes take his wife to the same hotel that he had gone to have affairs the Days Inn in Harlem on the advice of a counselor who told them to spice things up in their marriage. And what was the next thing that happened? I guess there was a coup in the State Senate. Right a coup. Here's how that went down. The Democrats had just won the State Senate for the first time in four decades but they only had a two vote majority. There were 32 Democrats 30 Republicans. Until in June 2009 two Democrats made a deal where they switched sides. They became Republicans in exchange for top Republican positions with a lot of power which suddenly gave the Republicans control of the Senate. Now they were the ones with a 32-30 majority. And their first order of business? Voting out the Democratic head of the Senate and replacing him with one of their own. I have to say it was almost kind of breathtaking because they stood up and we could not even figure out what they were doing at first. They said OK we are making this motion. We are all going to vote. All in favor on Senator Winner going to the Chair stand and raise your hands as a temporary president. I felt like we were in a third world country. Mr. President I have the-- Mr. President I have the floor. You have been removed from the Chair. The Democrats turned the lights off. They tried to run out of the chamber. Would you be quiet? I have the floor Mr. President. Mr. President I move we adjourn. The resolution is pending.  Immediate vote on adjournment. The resolution is pending. They actually turned off the sound system so it could note be broadcast out to anybody. Rollcall on the vote.  Then they locked the chamber and there was an argument for a couple of days of whether this newly formed coalition would even be able to get a key to get into the Senate chamber. And finally somebody slipped them a copy of the key and they were able to get in. A week later one of the defecting senators Hiram Monserrate decided to switch back to the Democratic Party. The Senate later kicked Monserrate out of office by the way after he was convicted of assaulting his girlfriend. But at the time Monserrate's switch back to the Democrats left the Senate split down the middle 31 Republicans 31 Democrats. And since you need 32 votes to pass legislation New York's legislature essentially shut down. If there would been lieutenant governor that would have solved the problem because in New York the lieutenant governor can cast a vote to break a tie in the Senate. But there was no lieutenant governor. The former lieutenant governor David Paterson had become the governor. And so Paterson decided to appoint somebody to the job. But they needed somebody that people respected somebody whose allegiances and history would not be an issue. And that is when he reached out to a 75-year-old veteran of New York crises the hero of our story today Richard Ravitch. And Paterson offered Ravitch the job. Well I was totally taken aback from it. It was out of the clear blue sky. Ravitch is a big-bellied ready man the kind of old school New Yorker who is still enjoying bacon with his breakfast and cocktails at dinner. His charm comes from his utterly straightforward frankness. Three different times when I asked people who know him to describe him there is a moment before they speak where they pause and smile fondly at the very thought of him. The night the governor announced his intention to appoint Ravitch to the lieutenant governors' job Ravitch was out to dinner at a famous old New York steak house Peter Luger's with his wife and another couple. They got a call from the governor's lawyer saying the Republicans wanted to block the governor from appointing anybody. And therefore we would like you to sign the oath of office now and we will send a lawyer and a notary out to wherever you are. So they came out to Peter Luger's. I signed the oath of office raised my right hand. Had your meal been served yet? No. But certainly I would had a couple of vodkas by then. And was there a part of you-- I was trying to figure out a politically sensitive way to ask this question. It was chaos out there. Did you feel like I am going into a madhouse? Yes but I am also-- this sounds terribly pompous forgive me. But I have a kind of a romance with the whole idea of government and public service. So at the same time that I knew I was going into a mad house I also-- it was a matter of pride that perhaps I could be helpful. And there was nothing more useful I could do with my life. Ravitch was first drafted into saving New York government back in the 1970s by a phone call from a different governor Hugh Carey a man he would never met and did not know to solve a crisis involving low income housing. Ravitch at the time was just a civic-minded guy in the construction business. He would help to integrate the construction unions in New York. And he made it his personal mission to build low income housing. He knew all about public financing. And in 1979 he was called in to fix the New York agency that runs the subways and commuter rail lines which were falling apart for lack of money before Ravitch turned them around. But Ravitch's greatest achievement he was part of the small team that saved New York City from bankruptcy in 1975. He was involved in completely overhauling the way the city did its finances and getting banks and labor unions and the state legislature and the city government to do all kinds of things that they would never done and were reluctant to do. Ravitch was the team member who invented the method that they used to raise the short term cash the city needed. And Ravitch was the one called into action October 16 1975 the day New York came closest to actual financial collapse. This is a very long story. I have notes on all this stuff. It is for a book I will never write. On October 16 1975 the teachers union declared that it would not purchase 150 million in special government bonds that were being sold to raise money for the city. With the city so close to insolvency it just seemed too risky. Ravitch knew that without this 150 million it would be the end of the line and throw the city into bankruptcy the next day. He could not stop thinking about it and went to bed early depressed. At about 1000 at night the phone rings. It is Governor Carey. He says Please come to my office. I got dressed. I went down to his office. And he was in white tie and tails. And he said You gotta call Shanker and get him to change his mind. Shanker was Albert Shanker head of the teachers union an old friend of Ravitch's. So I met Al in his apartment at 1130 at night. I said to Al I understood his reluctance that I respected his dilemma. On the other hand this is one of those unique circumstances in life where the consequences of going into bankruptcy were so disastrous that you had to take some risks. So he did not make up his mind. He said I will call you at home first thing in the morning. I got home about 600 AM. So I am at home and I am listening to the radio and showering because I have been up all night. And all of a sudden they interrupt. They said We are interrupting this program to announce that the City of New York is going into bankruptcy today. I never heard from Shanker. Finally hours later Shanker calls. He wants a private meeting away from the press. So Ravitch and the governor and some others meet Shanker at Ravitch's apartment. The beds are not made. There is barely anything to eat. Ravitch puts out some matzah. And finally they convince Shanker that really his back is against the wall all of theirs is. And yes the bonds are risky. But if New York defaults all the city contracts would become invalid including the teachers union contract which of course would be awful for Shanker and his union. Shanker reluctantly buys the bonds and New York City is saved. And where Ravitch talks about the difference between what happened in 1975 and the financial crisis that New York State finds itself in today and that most states find themselves in he says that one of the big differences is something that might not seem so important or obvious to you or me. Cities can go bankrupt. But states cannot. It is just the way bankruptcy works. And the virtue of being able to go into bankruptcy-- Everybody was terrified. It would have abrogated all existing collective bargaining agreements with all public employee unions. And it would have exposed the financial institutions. And the consequence of not doing something was so catastrophic to all the parties and they wanted to avoid that. And they did just enough to avoid that. And now there is no triggering event to make people recognize that this is very serious. But you think it is just as serious a crisis. I think it is more serious because there is no triggering event to force the political system to address it in a serious manner. Ravitch has turned himself into an expert on the current state budget at the request of the governor who asked Ravitch to use his expertise to shape a long term solution for New York's fiscal crisis. One of Ravitch's closest advisors in this project is the governor's budget director Bob Megna. When I visit Megna more than month into the fiscal year with no budget yet passed I see a grocery bag full of bright green rubber balls stress balls sent by the National Association of State Budget Officers.  Yeah I will do that a lot. Just in the last month? Oh no. I have always done that but in the last month it is really increased in more frustrating moments. Not one but two state employees went out of the way to make sure that I understood that the state did not spend money on these balls. They were free. Megna pulls out this chart with two lines going across it. One line shows all the income that the state brings in. As you can imagine that one's not looking so great. All states with this recession bring in less in taxes than they used to. That is a big part of the crisis. That line rises anemically at the rate of 3.5 increase per year. Now there is a much steeper line twice as steep as the revenue line showing the growth of spending by the state. Exactly. And that extends out over time. We refer to it in fact as the Jaws Chart in our kind of day-to-day kind of work because it just looks like a shark's mouth wide open where the spending line is on the top and the revenue line is on the bottom. Megna remembers the moment that Ravitch fully grasped the implications of this particular chart. I think that was an ah-ha moment for him. I think he saw the essential ingredient there which is that this is not a one year problem. This is a four or five year problem and that we were not making a dent in that bigger problem. I think also the moment for him was-- and this is something every state is confronting and it is not just New York. And I think that was another thing he noticed in talking to folks in Washington was it was not just New York. States are in an unbelievable fiscal meltdown that has been in my opinion sadly underreported. States collectively reportedly have deficits of over 300 billion in this next fiscal year. Illinois California New York are most severe as I understand it. I just read in the paper this morning that Hawaii has limited school weeks to four days. And I gather there is something like a dozen states that have authorized local school boards to reduce school weeks. And when you first looked at the budget did you suspect that this was the state that it was in? Were you surprised when you first got into the numbers? Yes. I did not know how serious the problem was. I did not realize that the state had been faking balanced budgets for so many years. This is one of the most alarming things that Ravitch found and it bears some explaining. During the previous decade of prosperity the state had committed itself to spending certain amounts of money on education and state police and healthcare and all the other things that a state pays for. But it made those commitments without actually having enough revenue to pay for all of it. And so every year there was a shortfall a gap and every year the state had to figure out ways to plug that hole. And rather than come up with steady revenue sources the state would invent all kinds of shenanigans to do it what they call one-shots. Like when Blue Cross Blue Shield went private a billion dollars went to the state or they borrowed against the winnings from a tobacco lawsuit or they sold state property. The most famous example of that is when New York sold Attica prison to a private company for some quick cash and then had to pay that company rent each year to keep using the prison. Lots of states resort to these one time gimmicks. Idaho is delaying 135 million in Medicaid payments it owes nursing homes and hospitals. New Jersey Colorado and Kansas put off payments that they owed state pension funds. Even during good times they did that. That is a common one. Sometimes states will push a payday for state employees into the next fiscal year. Yes in Arizona they sold the Capitol and leased it back to plug a hole in an operating deficit. So forever into the future they will have to pay rent on their own Capitol building? That is correct. To solve a short term problem? Yes. So eventually you only have one Capitol building. Eventually that is why this is not sustainable. You run out of assets to sell. But we did that in New York State during a period of unbelievable prosperity because the political system was not willing either to cut expenditures or to impose enough taxes to pay for recurring expenses. This past year the one-shot that saved New York State and many other states was something that you may not have realized was being used this way the stimulus money passed by the Obama administration. It allocated billions to go into the hands of state governments specifically to plug the gaping holes in their budgets. In New York it was 5 billion last year 4 billion this year. That money is scheduled to go away over the next two years. Again the governor's budget director Bob Megna. That exacerbates our situation in unprecedented ways. That really has gotten us through the last year. When that money goes away we either cut that spending or we have to figure out a way to replace that revenue. Which means that New York needs a plan. Without it the Jaws Chart shows that New York's deficit will grow from 9 billion this year to 13 billion next year to 60 billion in the next five years with no end in sight. And the longer New York waits to fix the problem the deeper the cuts in government services will have to be. Any reason not to start whoever's in charge of this? First of all I apologize for sitting down but it is as I am sure you will appreciate a hectic few weeks. In March at a press conference in Albany Ravitch presented his plan to resolve long term the state's fiscal crisis. Ravitch's proposal copies a few things from the successful scheme that fixed New York City's finances back in the '70s like it would force the state to use what are called Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Yes it sounds crazy but many cities and states including Florida Texas Ohio and New York do not use those accounting rules that require you to have real revenue sources to cover your debts. Switching to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles would make it much harder to do the one-shots and the one time gimmicks that have been used in the past to fix the budget in New York. Ravitch's plan also has strict procedures for when the budget slides out of balance with a control board and special powers for the governor. But the item that got the most attention in Ravitch's proposal was borrowing. Ravitch believed that looking realistically the budget it would be too politically painful for the legislature to make all the necessary cuts to balance the budget in just one year. And so as a practical matter he said if the legislature felt a need to ramp down in four or five years to a balanced budget his plan let them borrow money to help do it 2 billion a year. I want to emphasize again borrowing is never a good way of solving operating budget deficits. But I also know that borrowing on a short term basis was an essential tool to get us out of the mess we were in in 1975. Ravitch made it clear that this borrowing was only acceptable if it was part of his bigger plan to control the budget in the future and if it came with harsh penalties attached if the overall budget went out of balance. In the chaos of New York State politics there was this sense when Ravitch laid out this plan that finally an adult had arrived in the room to restore some sanity-- at last a nonpartisan approach the only real solution on the table tough medicine. And after the pandemonium of the previous two years for the Democrats who run both houses of the legislature and the governor's office by raising a serious long term solution could finally show voters that they were not a bunch of Bozos. What happened next was nothing. I like many of the things that he proposes. I hold my breath on the borrowing. This is State Senator Tom Libous a Republican. Like other lawmakers that I interviewed in Albany he fixated on the borrowing in Ravitch's plan and said it made it unacceptable. Here's Republican Assemblyman Jim Hayes and Republican Minority Leader Brian Kolb. Almost all of the proposals that he has made are all good but I think unfortunately he rolled out the proposals at the same time he rolled out a proposal to borrow 2 billion. Well I have had several meetings with the lieutenant governor. I like him. I really liked him up to the point he talked about borrowing. Keep in mind that this is the same legislature that has balanced its budgets for years using borrowing under Democrats and Republicans. And I actually heard the same from the Democrats. Here are two of the most reform minded legislators in Albany Assemblywoman Sandy Galef and State Senator Liz Kreuger. Well I like the way he would do the accounting. I am not in favor of the borrowing. The borrowing question. The Senate officially has been on record as not accepting the borrowing. Borrowing became the shorthand the politicians could use to dismiss the Ravitch plan even though he was not advocating borrowing. He was just saying if you have to here's the one way it would be acceptable. Editorial writers condemned the borrowing. Newspapers basically reduced the plan to its borrowing. And this year when the press corps in the State Capitol did their annual musical review a tradition that goes back over a hundred years with reporters playing the various state politicians on stage the reporter playing Dick Ravitch a Capitol vet named J. Gallagher sang this number which tells you a lot about the reputation that Ravitch was getting.  Back in the '70s I cooked up remedies so New York did not kick the bucket. My plan was clever a brilliant endeavor and it is the plan that you now should follow. You have not tried it but I have decided to borrow. Then it gets even more rich. While the State Senate opposed any borrowing the other house of the legislature the State Assembly decided to adopt the 2 billion borrowing that Ravitch said would be acceptable but without the stringent controls that he said had to be tied to the borrowing. The governor meanwhile who put Ravitch up to the task of fiscal reform had his own priorities. His priority was trying to pass a budget which had no borrowing in it at all. And he just had a few weeks to do that. And once the Assembly was using the Ravitch plan as the excuse to borrow it became politically complicated to oppose the borrowing but support the Ravitch plan. So while the governor did not overtly turn his back on the plan he did not throw himself behind it either. He did not make any effort to sell it to legislators or get it turned into law which pretty much left the plan in icy limbo. Well what I do not like is not the plan but borrowing itself. So I am against that but I think the lieutenant governor is as well. When I interviewed Governor David Paterson he was surprisingly sympathetic to the plan for somebody who had exiled it to limbo even when it came to the borrowing. He said that he understood that Ravitch was just setting a ceiling if there had to be borrowing. And what happened to the lieutenant governor in his first year is what happens to all of us in Albany. The ceiling became the floor because on Planet Albany there is no gravity and light bends right around the Capitol. So rather than people understanding that this was a way to control borrowing the legislature viewed it as a ticket for 2 billion. And so at some point the governor makes clear he is not embracing the plan. When do you find out about that? Does he talk to you about it privately? Do you see it? Well I take it emerged-- I do not remember precisely when-- He did not criticize my plan. He just did not support it. Were you surprised? Was I surprised? No I actually felt that I did not-- I was not able to convince him and that maybe it was my failure. Over the last few weeks I have spent a lot of time trying to understand the politics of all this why the legislators would not embrace Ravitch's plan to show voters they were getting things under control. And I heard all kinds of explanations on the record and off the record. Though some Republicans actually like the Ravitch plan and the fiscal order it imposes it is just taken as a given that Republicans will vote as a group against any plan that comes from the Democrats. That is been the pattern lately like in Washington. As for the Democrats some support big parts of the plan of course. Others I was told do not want Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and transparency in budgeting. They like the current system where they can hide money and fudge things with last minute gimmicks. Some do not want the governor to get extra power to cut budgets without their approval which he would get under the Ravitch plan if the legislature is unable to come up with their own cuts or revenue. I was told that some Democrats are so fed up with the governor-- he is a lame duck at this point-- they do not want to give him a victory on anything including the Ravitch plan. And finally Liz Kreuger the Chair of the Select Committee on Budget and Tax Reform told me the political reality is a lot of legislators simply do not feel the sense of emergency the lieutenant governor feels about the budget. It is not clear that the sky is in fact falling. Some people realize it is an emergency and some people think Well everybody has always said there were problems but we get by. Somehow we make it to the next year and the next year and the next year. They have not yet understood the consequences. They think that if somehow they can get through this year they will worry about next year next year. And that is irresponsible given the fact that next year the deficit is going to be as great if not greater. And what do people say to that when you talk to them about that? They thank me very much for my advice. So if they do not want the Ravitch plan what are these legislators thinking should be done to get the state budget under control? Well to understand a little about that I turned to State Senator Ruben Diaz. This week Diaz nearly brought state government to a close by refusing to vote for the weekly emergency funding that is been keeping the state going for two months in the absence of a real budget. Diaz voted no because the governor had inserted into the emergency bill deep cuts in the overall state budget cuts that Diaz opposes. Last week we cut services to the poor and the needy all the hospitals in New York City. Those are the hospitals that the people that send me here use. I cut them. What I am doing it does not feel right. How do you think that the state should balance the budget? I am not a crazy person that only says do not cut do not cut. Because I understand that we in the state of New York have a fiscal crisis. And I know that money has to be found somewhere or we have to cut. But I have presented two pieces of legislation-- One of these he explained would streamline the way that taxes are delivered to the state from credit card purchases. The other would let the state buy pharmaceuticals from Canada. Total savings he says 2 billion. He also wants to tax cigarettes sold on Indian reservations something that is led to armed conflict and bloodshed when the states tried to impose it in the past. That would save another billion or two. If you add my 3 billion or 4 billion and you borrow 1 or 2 billion more you do not need to cut anything. You have a balanced budget. Can I ask you-- the numbers that the budget office in the governor's office have presented and that the lieutenant governor presented show that this year there would be a 9 billion deficit next year 13 billion and increasing every year until it is 60 billion. Do you think those numbers are wrong? I do not know. I do not know. I do not know if they are real or not. I know that people use scare tactics most of the time trying to inflict pain and fear. So I do not know how real it is. And when the lieutenant governor says that there is a structural problem in the budget that every year there are more expenses than we are bringing in revenue and that is increasing over the course of every year going forward do you think he is right? Again I am not in here to double guessing what people are saying. I am here saying we have other means other ways to balance the budget not necessarily have to be on the back of the poor and the needy. Ravitch is an old school liberal. He not only idolized Franklin Roosevelt he sits on the board of the Roosevelt Library and owns an old WPA painting with scenes of The New Deal in action. His first political appointment was in 1966 by LBJ to a commission on urban problems. But he says we are in the worst economic contraction since Roosevelt's day. And we are not bouncing back any time soon. We are in different waters and the world is in different waters. Just look at the stories in the paper about Greece and Ireland and Spain and Chile. We have all been spending more money than we are collecting in taxes. And so Ravitch has been going around telling people in private conversations in public speeches that he is been rethinking and he thinks we all need to rethink what government can do. Here he is at a group called The Association for a Better New York. You know most people go into politics because they want to help people. And for years that is what they have done. They have tried to help education make healthcare available for more people. All of those are noble things and what people in politics have done and have done very effectively. But there is a new economic paradigm out ther