This is an amazing documentary called Please Vote for Me about an election in a third grade class by a filmmaker named Weijun Chen. It takes place in a city called Wuhan in central China. The eight year olds are told that they are going to vote to decide who is going to be the class monitor. It is the first election in their school ever. None of them has ever witnessed or taken part in anything like this at all.  Is not this new? their teacher asks them. And one of the three candidates a little butterball of a kid named Cheng Cheng turns out to be a natural politician. With no adults prompting him he immediately starts button-holing his classmates and making promises.  Vote for me he tells a little boy I will make you steady committee officer. Quickly the parents get involved coaching the kids helping write their speeches. One dad who is with the police department basically wins the election for his son by arranging for a class trip on the city's monorail which the kids love and by giving his son little presents to hand out to every kid in the class moments before they vote. But the kids own instincts are really interesting to watch too. There is this scene where one of the candidates-- a girl named Xiaofei is about to do a flute recital as part of the competition. Her two friends are going to dance a ballet with red scarves around her as she plays. Before she starts though Cheng Cheng tells a friend After Xiaofei performs you must shout that is terrible got it?  Which results in a whole group of kids including Cheng Cheng and Luo Lei-- Luo Lei's the other candidate in this race-- taunting her Xiaofei Xiaofei slowest eater. Xiaofei Xiaofei rotten gossip.  Xiaofei looks around confused-- nothing like this has ever happened. And she is little right her feelings are right on her face. She blinks she looks over to her teacher for help she looks down and winces and starts crying. Another little girl in pink at her desk she starts crying too witnessing this. The teacher calls a break ushers Xiaofei from the room. Cheng Cheng then goes to Xiaofei in the hallway and say I apologize to you for Luo Lei. As if Luo Lei was the one who organized the chanting not him. Then he gets Luo Lei to apologize. And then not only is Xiaofei crying both the little boys they both burst into tears also. Remember they are all just eight years old.  The camera moves down the aisle of the classroom and we see lots of other kids are crying as well. It is like they accidentally invented negative campaigning on their own in their own classroom tried it out and then realized just how mean and wrong it is. Something adults seem to forget sometimes. Today on our show we have stories of children thrust into the world of politics-- a world that was really built for adults with thicker skins. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Our show in three acts these children take up presidential politics global warming and in our last act they are put in charge of their own school-- make all the rules including discipline. Stay with us. Act One Trickle Down History. Now we move to a group of teachers in California teachers who are sending their students out to understand a very American kind of politics-- presidential politics. Starlee Kine tells the story. When I was in high school my class took a trip to the Richard Nixon Library. I remember putting on a pair of large headphones that whispered snippets of the Watergate recordings into my ears. I remember being shown into this little carpeted room. Our teacher tells we are in luck there is a very special guest there for us that day. We hope it is someone good. A man with a flattop haircut enters. His name is H.R. Haldeman. He has something important to tell us. We hope he wants to tell us that he is not the real special guest. We have no idea who he is. If your history's a little foggy H.R. Haldeman was President Nixon's Chief of Staff. He was a pal and a confidante. When recordings of Nixon in the White House were released there were hours and hours of recorded conversation between the two of them on the phone like a couple of mean girls plotting how to take over the rest of the school. After Watergate broke it became clear that Haldeman was involved and he turned in his resignation. It was a big enough deal that Nixon went on TV to announce it. Today in one of the most difficult decisions of my presidency I accepted the resignations of two of my closest associates in the White House-- Bob Haldeman John Erlichman. Nixon threw his good friend H.R. Haldeman under the bus. Haldeman was convicted of conspiracy obstruction of justice and perjury. He served 18 months in prison passing the time by working as a chemist in the prison's sewage treatment plant. Once he was released he got involved in various business ventures. He became the owner of eight Sizzler steak houses. He receded into normal life apparently only to resurface for the occasional public appearance in front of a room full of high school students. That day in the library we did not know about any of Haldeman's history. I for one would have appreciated being told about the Sizzler steak house part up front. I remember clearly that Haldeman seemed like this sad broken man. He was not wearing a suit he did not seem like someone with any authority someone who was a part of history. It seemed clear that Haldeman was there that day to get us to stand in his shoes and see Watergate from his perspective. It was a very freaky Friday kind of moment-- see how hard it is to be an adult for a day. And if you will allow me this tangent I was reminded of all this recently when I heard about something similar happening now in Simi Valley California. That is where the library is for California's other Republican president Ronald Reagan. On a sunny Friday morning I watch a class of fifth graders climb down off their school bus in their especially nice field trip clothes. They are here because the library does these reenactments where the students actually get to play Ronald Reagan and his various staff members-- stand in Reagan's shoes for the day. The kids file inside where a cheerful woman who works for the library stands in front of a large map with countries either red or blue. Who wants to tell me about the map? What do you know about the map? Yes? All of the red countries are the Communist countries. Excellent. Very good. Is this a map of what it looks like today? No? When is this map? What are we looking at? What time period? Yes sir? The 1980s. Very good. Actually 1983. And in 1983 who was president? Ronald Reagan. It is obvious the kids have been studying Ronald Reagan all week and in particular the invasion of Grenada. One of the great things about tagging around on an elementary school field trip is you re-learn all the history lessons that you would not only forgotten but question whether you ever learned in the first place. Do you remember anything at all about the invasion of Grenada? Do not worry they will explain to us. In 1983 Grenada is what color? Everyone tell me? Red. Very good it is red. That means it is a Communist country. The kids go on to talk about the rebels who overthrew the Grenadian government in 1983 and about the group of 800 hundred or so American medical students who were stranded there and who became instant pawns in US Cold War politics. But why do we really care about what is going on in Grenada? There is a specific reason why we are so concerned-- specifically why President Reagan was concerned. Yes sir? Because they might have joined armies and taken over the US. OK so we have Cuba we have Grenada and there is also Nicaragua at the time that are all Communist and they are kind of close to the United States. So it could be that it causes a problem for the United States if they were to come to us and wanted to maybe make us Communist right? That is right. We were afraid Cuba Grenada and Nicaragua with their collective population of 13 million would come over defeat the largest military in the world and turn us all Communist. And then just in case there is any doubt in the kids minds about how terrible this would be a staff member gives them a quick primer on the evils of Communism. Very good. In a Communist country you have limited rights and freedoms. If you wanted to go and get a job and earn a living could you keep your money? Could you? Who has all the money in a Communist country? What do you think? The government. The government very good. Now if you wanted to buy some land or you wanted to buy a home you wanted to buy property could you do that in a Communist country? Who owns all the property? Everyone? The government. Very good. The reason for all this studying up is that the kids are going to reenact the invasion. The class is divided up with one third playing members of the Oval Office one third playing the press and one third playing the military. And one kid will play Ronald Reagan himself. The staff begin to hand out badges designating which kid is what. Secretary of State Nicolette Schultz. The military commanders are next followed by the press. The naming of one little girl as White House Bureau Chief prompts a classmate to mutter I knew it under his breath. I ask him why and he tells me that one time when they were in kindergarten she played a news anchor so-- his voice trails off. Without fail the kids ooh and aah over every position that is called out. The kids are ushered to a room with three closed doors. The library's really fancy. Flat screen TVs flash on and actors playing nondescript officials explain the kids' mission and the potential consequences of their actions. When you walk through these doors you will no longer be students. You will make history. Lives are at stake. Adult staff members are not here to answer questions or help you. The responsibility is entirely yours. President Reagan please report to the Oval Office and find your desk. The three doors swing open in unison revealing three different sets-- the Oval Office the press room and the command center of a battleship. Everyone goes to their assigned room. The battleship is amazing-- it is dimly lit with lots of flashing lights and a gadget with toggle switches in front of every chair. And if there is anything a kid loves it is toggle switches. Welcome to the Command Decision Center. Whoa. Oh my God. Oh my Jesus. The press corps is led through another door. A staff member flat out lies to them by telling them that the press room is every bit as exciting as a battleship. It looks like a hotel conference room. The best selling point the staff can muster is that the room is large. In fact the press room is bigger than the press room in the White House so that is pretty exciting. The President and his cabinet head into a replica of the Reagan era Oval Office complete with a jar of jelly beans on the desk which the kids are instructed to not even think about eating. Secretary Weinberger. Today's President Reagan is a blond fifth grader with an athletic build. My guess is he is a popular kid but a benevolent one. He seems to take being named leader of the free world in stride as though it is the sort of thing that happens to him often. Here's how it all works. The invasion is broken down into a series of A or B options. For instance A have diplomatic talks with Grenada or B evacuate the medical students. A evacuate the medical students or B overthrow the Communist government. Each kid gets a vote but President Reagan has final say. Well both of the options are-- well I considered both of the options but I think a smaller faster force-- let us say the smaller faster force is over powered we have very small chances. And if we have a big army coming there then we have better chances and it will take quicker so I go with A. The President inputs his answer into a dramatic red phone located right next to the jelly bean jar on his desk. Before they start the kids were told that there are not right or wrong answers but the whole thing's rigged to make what Ronald Reagan did in 1983 look like the most appealing option. Each time the kids choose to do what he did a bell goes off as though they have won a tropical vacation in Grenada instead of an invasion. Nicely done that is another correct response according to President Reagan. Excellent work President Reagan. Ordering a large invasion ensured that we would get the job done. Again and again President Reagan makes the same decisions as well President Reagan. Everything is going great until there is a news flash. Apparently the kids in the press room have been hard at work. An actress playing a reporter appears on the screen. All right I am not sure what this is let us take a look. Confidential sources tell this reporter that two US aircraft carriers headed to Lebanon have been rerouted to Grenada. Wait a minute how did they get this information? President Reagan have you talked to the press? Not yet. Any of you talk to the press? No. This is top secret information. I am not sure how the press got this story but this is going to cause some problems for us. Here's how it went down. In real life 1983 the press was somehow tipped off about the story in Grenada. President Reagan and the military had been planning a surprise attack. And so when the news got out they had to decide whether to go ahead with the invasion even though Grenada would be waiting for them or to abort. President Reagan again like his predecessor President Reagan decides to stick with the plan. The red phone dings. The US goes to war for three days. After it is over the staff does a little debrief with everyone. They talk with the kids about what happened pointing out how it was especially bad when they lost the element of surprise. And how did we lose the element of surprise? What happened? Yes sir? Reporters somehow figured out the information which was top secret and ruined the surprise. All right so President Reagan now that we know it was the reporters-- we saw the report-- what are you going to do to them for releasing this information? The staff ask the kids if the press had a right to tell the public. They go over the nuts and bolts of what freedom of the press means and decide that what the reporters did was legal. They cannot have any consequences for what they did. However just because they have the freedoms do all of you think that they should have used that freedom today? No. Now we did lose some military lives. I am here to inform you that we lost 19 soldiers in the fighting. Now we cannot directly say that is because of the press but did it help that they released the story? No. No it certainly did not help. No one pointed out the those 19 soldiers might have lived if the Oval Office had done things differently or that invading countries is a dangerous business and casualties tend to come with the territory. Instead one by one you can see it on the kids' faces-- how it could have been perfect if only it was not for the press. And then the staff tells the kids they are going to rejoin their classmates the ones that were in the other room playing reporters. Now it is time for me take you into the press room for a press conference. That means you are going to see the press. I ask you to be polite but point out to them that maybe their actions had some consequences today. Come on in. Did you guys hear our story? Did you like our story? No. So you guys saw our story but you do not like it? No. You destroyed our plan. We destroyed your plan? Yes! Everyone is trying to get in as much glaring and as much head shaking as possible. The phrase element of surprise and 19 dead comes up again and again and again. The kids seem genuinely upset. I do not understand what plan did we destroy? One representative. Yes? Well the reason why we really did not want it to go out was because if they did not know we would still have the 19 and we would still have-- it just it ruined our plan our action. It is a strange experience watching little kids struggling to become adults before their time. They were too young to understand exactly what had just happened but old enough to feel guilt about the blood on their hands. It surely must have been the first time in their lives that they would been accused of causing a person's death and yet they took to it so naturally. I know Reagan is not Nixon and Grenada is not Watergate. And that difference is particularly stark when you have been to both their respective libraries like I have. In Reagan's he is celebrated as a winner. In Nixon's the tone is apologetic. But both libraries are saying the same thing-- see it my way. I recently called up the Nixon Library to ask them about the day my class met H.R. Haldeman. They dug up an old program and they also sent me a list of questions the adults gave us to ask him. They might as well have been lifted straight off the transcript of the Watergate hearings. Why did not you burn the White House tapes? How do you think the 18 and a half minute gap occurred? Why did your critics want you out? Are you sorry? From the second Haldeman opened his mouth we could tell he was angry and that this was not like any field trip we would ever been on before. He had not prepared a speech or anything like that. He would start barking his answers at us before we had even finished getting the questions out. An LA Times article about the visit quotes him as saying For Pete's sake do not believe what you read in history books just because of the fact that those words are printed. He told us he was improperly convicted and never had a chance during his trial because of the so-called judge. He kept reminding us of all the good Nixon had done that we should not be mad at Nixon for Haldeman's downfall-- it was not his fault. Even the proximity of where he was standing felt off. He was too vulnerable and close as though he was practically sitting down on the floor with us. Despite his gruffness I do actually remember feeling really sorry for him. He seemed to care more about what we thought about him than what our teachers or any other adults did. They had already formed their opinions. He meant nothing to us and that meant something to him. It meant someday when we told our kids about Bob Haldeman history would not have to win just because those words are printed. And it worked. I liked him. I did not think he was innocent but I felt bad he was not. Different school groups cycled through the Reagan Library throughout the day. I have to wait until the last one before I get to see what happens when a kid tries to alter the script. Secretary Baker? That kid is William Miller a skinny boy with glasses who is playing Ronald Reagan this time. The way his suit jacket hangs on him reminds me of the kind of movie where the kid is turned into an adult and then back into a kid. William is quite and thoughtful. Each time he is called upon to make his decision he adds his own special touch. He insists on consulting with the little girl playing Vice President Bush. It is hard not to see it as half sound political strategy on the President's part and half crush. And Vice President may I please ask you a quick question? Why do you personally think that it should be B? It is just safer and less risky than A. OK. This group tackles the same questions as the first group-- whether to discuss or evacuate and then whether to evacuate or invade. As the theatrics start to pick up William looks worried. He quietly reads the library's instructions to himself. The decision is not to be taken lightly. Using military force for any reason is risky and may cost innocent lives. There is a beeping sound like a time bomb is about to go off. President Reagan again consults his VP shooting a look at the clock. Well I think I am going to go with vote A and the reason for that is if we do go to war with Grenada there is also the threat that other Communist countries like the Soviet Union could also come in and help to try to defeat us and I do not think that that is necessary to have that. That sensible argument he just made about the Soviet Union was not fed to him by an adult-- he came up with it on his own. And it is at this point that William goes off script. He goes against the real Reagan. He decides not to invade to just get the Americans out. Feeling good about his choice President Reagan picks up the red phone and punches in A. The sound that comes out of the phone is one that anyone who ever watched a game show on TV will immediately recognize as the sound of being wrong. Oh why did we hear that sound? The US government will only overthrow the government of another nation if it believes that nation poses a direct specific threat to American safety. In 1983 President Reagan decided that Grenada presented such a threat and ordered a full scale military operation to replace Grenada's hostile Communist government with a friendly democracy a government similar to our own. President Reagan soldiers on despite now knowing that he will be overtaken by the tide of history no matter what he does. Soon the same fake reporter comes on again saying that the press has leaked the story. The kids rush to the President's desk. Abort the mission. Abort the mission. Abort the mission. Abort abort abort abort. Everyone says abort. William agrees. They should abort the mission. He figures they can go back to the original plan of just evacuating the students and then invade later when they have gotten the element of surprise back. He warily inputs his answer into the red phone. OK let us see what President Reagan did in 1983. Let us see it sounds like they continued on the mission. Sometimes in the heat of the moment even the best leader can lose sight of what is most important. In this case the safety of the American students and the freedom of the Grenadian people. President Reagan looks stricken. His coat seems bigger than ever. Again the class files out. Again it is the press kids versus everyone else. Again there is the chaos and blame. All through the library's lobby are clusters of ten year olds fighting to the death. We had freedom of speech right? Right? You killed people. You killed 19 soldiers. How would you like to be killed? President Reagan is slowly getting swallowed up by the crowd. Adults can sometimes put on this big show letting you make the decisions letting you be in charge when what they really want is to convince you that their way is best that they are not bad people that the decisions they made were the right ones and that if you were in their position you would have done it the same way. They would really like you to believe that maybe so they can believe it too. Starlee Kine lives in Los Angeles. Coming up children vote to decide all the rules in their school including can they play video games while at school? What they decide in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life I am Ira Glass. Each week on our show of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show kid politics. Stories or what happens when adults-- usually educators-- put kids in the hot seat and tell them to grapple with adult political decisions. We have arrived at act two of our show. Act Two Climates Change People Do not. I met this really great really smart kid who is into politics this summer. All summer I was watching a lot of Glenn Beck and I went to that rally that he had in Washington D.C. And so I am at the rally and I am wandering around and I am talking to people in the crowd. How old are you guys? I am 14. 16. Did you want to be here or are you being dragged along? No I wanted to be here. I am the one who watches Glenn Beck every day at five so. That is Erin Gustafson high school freshman with her older sister Sarah and her mom Michelle. They have driven up from the Shenandoah Valley in Virginia for the rally. Why do you like Glenn Beck so much? What do you like about his show? Well for me it is like a jumping off point. And I know that it is an opinion show but I will hear what he says and the history behind it and then from there I can do my own research. We talked about the kinds of things that you talk about at a Glenn Beck rally. is the President a socialist? The Gustafsons do not think he is. Are they alarmed over the direction the country's going in? They definitely are. They are free market small government types-- against saving big banks against the deficit. And then I got on the subject of global warming with 14 year old Erin. Global warming is propaganda. That is what I believe. Do they teach you that in school? About global warming I mean? Yes they teach you about global warming. Do you argue with your teachers? Not openly. I try and keep it respectful. And I will answer just by this is what the book says I may not agree with it but this is what the book says so this is what I have to answer. The number of Americans who believe that global warming is real has fallen and the decline is dramatic. Back in 2006 according to a Pew Research Center study 79 of the public said there is solid evidence that the Earth is getting warmer. In just three years the number fell to 57. Other polls show a similar drop. So climate change activists and scientists are trying to turn it around in a bunch of different ways and part of that fight is in the classroom. They want to win over kids Erin's age. The National Science Foundation and NASA are each developing curricula to teach climate change in schools. Meanwhile on the other side of the fight bills have been introduced in Kentucky Oklahoma and passed in South Dakota-- Texas by the way has this too-- urging teachers to teach both sides in the climate change debate. The South Dakota bill declared carbon dioxide is not a pollutant but rather a highly beneficial ingredient for all plant life. And with that fight for the hearts and minds of people like Erin and all of her peers in mind we booked Erin into a studio last week at public radio station WMRA in Virginia. One two three. Hey Erin? Hello. Hey Erin it is Ira. Hi. Hi. How are you? I am wonderful and yourself? At the same time that we had her we had in a studio in Colorado at public radio station KGHU a scientist named Roberta Johnson who develops curricula as Executive Director of the National Earth Science Teacher Association and who studies the climate at the National Center for Atmospheric Research. OK so Dr. Johnson meet Erin. Hi Erin. Hello Dr. Johnson. Nice to meet you. Dr. Johnson and Erin Gustafson agreed to come into the studio to do a little experiment that we proposed to both of them. Dr. Johnson would run through the very best material that she thinks teachers have to convince students that global warming is real. And Erin would tell her and us if it was convincing if it won her over. Was there anything a scientist could say to convince a kid who is already skeptical? Up until now Erin says her schools have not devoted a lot of time to teaching climate change and it is not really a big subject for Glenn Beck she says so most of what she knows is based in her own curiosity reading she is done poking around the internet. They both actually were pretty psyched for this. So Dr. Johnson we cannot give you a full semester here on the radio to walk through all of the arguments one might do but you are going to lay out some of this case for Erin. And I understand you are going to break this down into two parts. So can you walk through the first part of your presentation? Well I think the first part is that when we look at measurements taken around the world we have an overwhelming amount of evidence that the climate is warming. And we know that from the increase in temperature that we observe in the land the oceans and the sea. We know that ice and snow cover are decreasing. Permafrost is thawing. Sea level is rising. All of those things are indicators of a warming climate. Now then the question becomes how do we know that that has an association with carbon dioxide and greenhouse gases? And the other piece of that evidence is that we also know that carbon dioxide is increasing in the atmosphere dramatically. OK so that is the first part of your presentation what is the second part? I understand it has to do with something called ice cores? Yeah so there is these really cool ice cores-- cool I meant as a pun actually-- they have drilled these things now for decades in a number of different places-- there is got to be at least 20 or 30 of them that have been drilled in the Antarctic or in Greenland. These things are like two or three inches across and they drill these things down and down and down. And each ice core records a nice annual record of the temperature the atmospheric composition. It gathers dust it gathers volcanic debris. So they take these things out they take them back to laboratories and they can analyze them. And those records show very clearly temperature and CO2 have been very closely correlated for over 420000 years. So as temperature goes up CO2 goes up. And what we know is that the overall oscillation in temperature and CO2-- OK at this point Dr. Johnson got into some details that both Erin and I took awhile to grasp so I am going to just summarize for you to move things along. Basically Roberta Johnson was saying we can explain the way temperature and carbon dioxide rose and fell over 420000 years by looking at how the Earth was tilting-- its position relative to the sun. When the Earth would wobble towards the sun there would be more heat and carbon dioxide. When the Earth would wobble away a little bit less heat less carbon dioxide. It all matched up until now. Just based on the Earth's tilt and orientation the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere should now be a lot lower than it is. We are 35 higher than we should be. What is the cause? The logical culprit she says is human beings and the machines we have made that spew carbon dioxide-- CO2. You can analyze the CO2 itself and that is what scientists have done. And they have found that the carbon in the carbon dioxide gas is lighter in its isotopic ratio than it should be if it was from a natural source. So what that tells us is that there is a direct tie from the CO2 we are seeing to a fossil fuel source. OK so I feel like some of this has gotten actually a little bit technical. So Erin before I ask you if any of this is convincing I want to ask you do you have questions about any of this? I think I understand most of it so I am going to go with no. OK that is the way I feel too I feel like I understand most of it. And so Erin do you find any of this convincing? Not particularly not any more than what I have previously read. How come? Because I feel like there are still holes in the theory. Like the arguments that the highest temperatures that they have discovered have been in the 12th century. And that the satellite images that have taken that have shown the shrinking of the ice caps were not entirely correct. And that they have taken other pictures that show that there is not nearly as much melting as they thought. What Erin's talking about are arguments against global warming that you read. That the Earth got really warm back in the 12th century and it was not greenhouse gasses causing that-- maybe that is just happening again. And that satellite photos showed Arctic ice melting in one set of photos but in another did not look so bad. She also asked why have winters been colder and snowfall greater if climate change is already supposedly taking effect. And she very delicately asked Dr. Johnson about Climategate. Well if we have learned so much about-- I am sorry if this comes off as with the way I started that as disrespectful-- but if we have learned so much about this-- One by one Dr. Johnson answered each of these questions. Yes it got warmer in the 12th century but for reasons that we can name and it was nowhere near as warm as today. Yes it might be colder in any given winter but that is just the randomness of weather that is not the climate. Yes there is more snow now because a warmer planet means more water vapor trapped in the atmosphere which means storms of all kinds become more intense including snow. Yes climate scientists said some things in their stolen emails that might seem at first to be damning but several different commissions working independently all verified that they did not tamper with the data or the peer review process. Yes the Arctic ice in photos might fluctuate but the overall trend is clear. So Erin this explanation of what happened in the satellite pictures