From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life and distributed by Public Radio International I am Ira Glass. The voices that you are hearing is some children. What are they doing? They are just walking. Nothing else. This week I talked to a Haitian journalist Romuald Felix over his cell phone as he recorded himself walking around one of the tent cities where some of the 1.3 million displaced Haitians are still living. This was a small tent city in a plaza in the Place Saint Pierre crammed with people. You can see you know this music that you hear is a man who is putting a big speaker out and some people are dancing. And you can see a man is just sitting there doing nothing. He is just watching. Four months after the earthquake Romuald says that some people were working selling fruit charging cell phones for money on the street but lots are not. The rainy season-- which everyone has been dreading-- finally started in earnest last week. He was trapped in his office one day by water three feet deep. Camps get muddy. Water gets in the tents. People have trouble sleeping with it so wet. In this camp people still have to bathe where everybody can see. There are only six toilets for a thousand people or maybe it is a lot more than a thousand so lots of people go in plastic bags. And in the six camps that Romuald visited this week aid agencies had stopped giving out food.  You hear them?  It was 500 at night. Romuald asked these four children if they would eaten today.  Two of them said I ate something today and the others said No I have not eaten anything. When I talked this week to Nan Buzard-- who runs relief operations in Haiti for the American Red Cross-- she was unsurprised to hear that people are not getting food and services with over 1000 makeshift camps there are a lot of gaps. She would just returned from Haiti the day before we spoke and said that now that they are shifting from the immediate disaster relief to the rebuilding of the country the decisions have gotten very complicated. I know in Haiti already there are some evaluations where it is showing that local farmers do not feel like it is worth buying seed or bringing their crops into market because people have had free food distributions. And they are not going to buy from them. Yeah. So when should relief agencies stop giving away free food or providing shelter? When does that become counterproductive? What should they do about something as basic as water? Prior to the earthquake 70 of the water in Port-au-Prince was sold out of water tanker trucks by small commercial firms. So do we use aid money to actually put those small individual companies back in business so that they can then charge money for water? Do we try to support the government to actually create a water policy and plan an infrastructure that provides a certain amount of water free and then perhaps over that it is a cost to the government? So that seems like an impossible choice. What are we doing? We all-- we struggle. We all struggle. Today on our radio show-- there is been this fantastic outpouring of money and goodwill from around the world. Nearly half of all American households have donated to Haiti according to one survey. Haitians and foreigners have dedicated themselves to rebuilding the country. And now the question is how exactly do you do that? Even with all this money and expertise it is incredibly complicated. And today we join the people on the ground as they try to figure out what would be best. Next. Our show in three acts. Stay with us. Act One 10000 Brainiacs. We are all used to the basics. Haiti is the poorest country in the western hemisphere one of the 10 or so poorest countries on earth with the special designation of being one of the few countries in the world that-- for decades-- has gotten poorer and poorer over time. This despite billions in foreign aid despite the fact that even before the earthquake there were approximately 10000 non-governmental organizations trying to do good in the country. Two of the reporters that you hear a lot on our show doing economic stories-- Adam Davidson and Chana Joffe-Walt-- have been trying to figure out how it is possible Haiti is still so poor despite all that. They have been traveling back and forth to the country following developments over the last few months and have this story. Here's something that happens a lot in Haiti. You meet someone poor and they tell you the sad reality of their life some challenge they face every day that keeps them poor. You hear the details and you just cannot believe the magnitude of the problem not because it is big and complicated because it is so so small. For example we met a farmer at this farm a dusty patchy field nothing valuable growing on it except in the corner mangoes. How many trees do you have?  He has two. The farmer tells us two trees is barely enough to make a living. She wants more trees. She has the space for 100 trees. She has the time to tend them but she has no water. Mango trees need water.  But then we walk across the field. And right at the far end of it is this roaring river. Right there. Right next to her farm. Why is water a problem if you have water right here?  We talked about this question for a long time. It was really confusing. It just did not make sense to us that she could not come up with some way to get water from the river right next to her farm onto her farm. At one point I thought is she lying to us? Why would she lie? Is she just lazy? Does she not have a bucket? So many questions. How do you get water now? Why do not you have enough water to water these trees? Dozens of questions and a consultation with the local mayor-- Who happens to be a self-proclaimed amateur mango specialist. Yes that all ultimately reveals a wildly undramatic truth. She needs a canal some guys with shovels to dig a trench some concrete to protect it.  The world's simplest shortest canal. It is a little tricky. The water needs to sit in a particular way around the roots of the mango tree so you need some control over the water. But it is not that tricky. It is technology the Sumerians probably took for granted 5000 years ago. It would cost-- at most-- 2000. And if she gets a canal she and her family go from being some of the poorest people on earth to much better off. This is what kept striking us in Haiti just a little upfront investment and people could be living so much better. And with 10000 organizations in the country doing nothing but trying to make people's lives better-- 10000 organizations whose mission is to do things like building canals-- how come the average Haitian makes half as much as they did 50 years ago? How come life was not improving even before the earthquake? Well to answer that we have to leave the farm for a couple minutes-- we will be back-- and meet a businessman name Jean-Maurice Buteau and watch him try to work with one of those non-governmental organizations-- NGOs-- to solve one problem for Haitian farmers. The story begins two years ago. I heard about Jean-Maurice weeks before we met him. We would been going around Port-au-Prince asking what are the main industries? Who are the main players? And there are not a lot of big businessmen in Haiti. The ones that do exist all know each other. They are unusual Haitians in almost every way. They tend to have light skin they drive cars have college degrees speak English. Jean-Maurice though he is the only one known by a special name. First of all what do you sell specifically? Well we export mangoes. Mango is the number one agricultural export from Haiti. Are you Mr. Mango? That is what they call me. Just people started calling me like that. We actually found out later that most people call Jean-Maurice Mango Man not Mr. Mango. And Mango Man is one of the biggest mango exporters in Haiti. Mango Man has a very consistent look. Most any day any context he is in a white linen button-down sunglasses with the strap around the back of his head and a Bluetooth headset. He talks on the Bluetooth a lot usually while ramming his Jeep through Port-au-Prince's potholes even while he is talking to you. It is Bluetooth you Bluetooth you seamless and confusing if you are you. And Mango Man has a problem. Fruit wholesalers in New York and Miami want to buy a lot of his mangoes. But he cannot get enough to meet the demand-- Which is strange because Haiti actually grows enough mangoes to send to all of the Floridians and New Yorkers who want them. But most of those mangoes are not grown on big farms. They are grown by individual farmers with just two or three mango trees each. And every season those farmers pick the mangoes and then store them in a pile outside their houses or under their beds where they wait until some middle man-- usually a local guy with a donkey-- comes by and buys them. Americans-- as it turns out-- do not like mangoes that have sat under Haitian beds. Those usually have bruises on them marks. And so two years ago-- long before the earthquake-- Jean-Maurice came up with a solution a business concept that would double his revenue. The concept is-- the simplest thing is cleaning the fruit transporting it in a plastic crate to a facility that is not exposed to the sun. So basically you lose a huge amount of your crop because people do not use plastic containers? And they do not clean the fruit and they do not transport it correctly. The amount of damage we witness-- over 40 to 50 of our production in all sectors-- lost between the field and the table. So you are on a mission to get plastic crates to mango farmers. I mean it is very self-serving because I am going to have more product. I mean I am not a philanthropist. I am doing this because I need the product. So back two years ago before the earthquake the first thing Jean-Maurice did was he took a bunch of crates drove 45 minutes out of town to a small mango growing village called Casale. And he went to each house one by one. He would find the mango farmers on some tiny dirt road. He would get out of his jeep and hand out his crates. Unfortunately that with an enormous failure. Well first they used them as chairs. They would sit on them. They would carry too heavy stuff on it. They were being used for different things that is appropriate for them in school as bookshelves. Right? And they got lost. Well a lot of them got broken. When you talk to Jean-Maurice about the crate problem it seems confusing why this would ever be a problem in the first place. Just tell the farmers hey if you pack your mangoes in these crates everyone will make twice as much money. And then you actually go to the farms and you meet the farmers and you completely get it. Because you meet someone like  .  is that mango farmer from the beginning the one who needs a canal. And she lives in Casale where Jean-Maurice went and handed out his crates. She did not know who he was. In fact it is unclear that  even knew that her mangoes are being sent to America. Here's what she did know. Her trees earned her around 600 a year 2 a day. And in Haiti 2 a day gets you a house made out of cinder block and metal sheets with a dirt floor on a dirt road. She can only afford to send one of her two kids to school. She chose the younger one. She has no electricity no running water no doctor which makes  precisely the average Haitian. Average in every way but one.  It is that laugh. She starts every single sentence with it.   People in the neighborhood will say I love to laugh I love to joke. The loudest laughing mom with the two most sullen withdrawn teenagers in all of Haiti. I tried and tried. And here are the only few words I managed to extract from her oldest daughter. She is telling me about her sister's school.  Again daughter.  Mother.   has no car no bike no irrigation no mattress. So for some white guy from Port-au-Prince-- that is how she sees Jean-Maurice-- for him to show up at Jealin's in his jeep and start handing out crates she is not going to say oh OK this is a tool to increase my earning capacity.  does not mind bruises on her mangoes. She does not know anyone who does. She has no way of even conceptualizing a picky American consumer. If Jean-Maurice is at about the level of a US exporter 50 years ago  is living in the 1700s well with a cell phone. Jean-Maurice realized he was going to need an intermediary someone who could spend the time to train the farmers how to use the crates to train them why they should want to use the crates. Basically someone who can help the farmers accommodate the needs of people living in the 21st century people these farmers have never met before and cannot imagine. And here is where Jean-Maurice hooked up with one of those 10000 NGOs in Haiti-- non-governmental organizations. Lots of them specialize in training small farmers in agricultural techniques. In fact many are focused specifically on mangoes because study after study shows that mangoes are one of the greatest areas of potential growth for Haiti. So there is lots of money and there is lots of specialists ready to help those mango farmers. And here is where we begin to see what those 10000 organizations are up against. Now Jean-Maurice-- like a surprising number of Haitians-- does not like those NGOs. He says-- and we heard this all the time in Haiti-- those NGOs have been helping for 50 years. And every year Haiti is poorer and the NGOs are richer. Well we are working-- it is the first time I am working with some NGOs. I have stayed away from them for the longest time because sometimes I realized that they were causing more damage than good. But throughout the years I have identified certain ones that seem to want to do some things. The one he likes most is called MarChE. Well it was actually this guy he liked the most one of the staff named Pierre Brunache. Jean-Maurice liked that Pierre grew up in Haiti even though Pierre lives in D.C. now. So Mango Man calls Pierre and says hey I cannot get these mango farmers to use plastic crates. You are the expert. Can you help me? And Pierre says-- I did not think it was difficult at all. Jean-Maurice thought great. And then Pierre went on. It is just a matter of getting the land provide the technical assistance. I never thought it was something difficult. This is where Jean-Maurice gets nervous. Getting land? Technical assistance? Pierre explained. You cannot just hand out crates to thousands of dispersed farmers. You need a central place with just a simple structure. Picture a carport a quarter acre of land with a hose. Farmers will bring their mangoes learn how to pack the crates correctly how to wash the mangoes. Pierre says we have some rules about this because we have done this in other places. We have seen what works and what does not. And when you team up with an NGO you have to follow their rules. So if Mango Man wants crates he has to find a farmer with some land that they can build the mango carport on. To which Jean-Maurice replied have you ever met a Haitian farmer? Just imagine. You are a small farmer and you own that piece of land. That is all you have. To which Pierre replied and there is one other rule. The farmer cannot own the land the center will be on. They have to donate it. The center will become the economic powerhouse of the community so you need a neutral place. You cannot let one family own it. It has to become a cooperative owned by all of the farmers. And so Jean-Maurice began his campaign to convince some poor farmer to give up some of his precious land. He called someone he knew in Casale to find out who might have some land. The guy talked to his cousin  the one with the laugh.  family has a very nice piece of land in a great spot near the road and near the mango farms. Now this is where the mission to get some mango farmers a few plastic crates goes from involved to complicated. Because the thing is the land was passed down from a great-great-grandfather. Maybe a great-great-great-grandfather nobody remembers exactly. The point is a whole lot of cousins have equal claim to the land.  called a meeting gathered her family together to decide whether or not they wanted to donate the land.  Where we met there is a big tree. We have a lot of shadow. It is cool there. Then we sit down on some chairs around the tree. How many people?    60 or 80 people all sat under this tamarind tree? Really? A big big tree. Everyone all the cousins started asking questions.  Who is this white guy from the capital? Why does not he buy our land? What if he never does anything with it? We are going to give away all our land? What will we leave for our children?   Everyone all the 60 must agree. And then nine of them will sign for everyone. There were factions big disagreements. For a while Jealin's brother was a holdout. So were the loud cousins who nobody likes who left town a while ago but came back when they heard someone was interested in the land. So many meetings under that tamarind tree. Jean-Maurice drove in for many of them. It took months. It took months. I did not go everyday. We held meetings here. I went there. And their family came here now they are doing it with the land. So we have got the land. We can get those crates here. Training. Those mangoes will be beautiful. The farmers will start earning twice as much so will Jean-Maurice. He calls the NGO and says all right guys you can start building the center. The NGO says great we just need to see a copy of the deed. The deed. So Jean-Maurice goes back to the mango farmer with a quick simple request. The family had acquired the land from somebody else. They never did the papers but they had their understanding. So these papers first had to be transferred from the original owner to this family. Nobody knew who the original owner was who sold the land to Jealin's great-great-grandfather. Or great-great-great-grandfather. Right. Nobody knew who had the deed now. But finally  brother remembered wait there was that uncle who always kept papers the guy who left Haiti a while ago.  The person who had the paper is in New York? New York. How did you get the paper from him?  Someone who this person-- who is living in New York-- trusts came with the paper. The brother tells me that guy sent the paper from his basement in New York with someone he trusts to Haiti. So after weeks and weeks of waiting they get the paper. But it turns out to transfer a deed in Haiti involves literally hundreds of steps and hundreds of dollars. Transfer of land deed was not in the budget and if there is one rule every NGO sticks to it is you do not change the budget. This is where Jean-Maurice loses it. It has to go through this process it had to go through this process we had to put it in the budget. I said well we had to put it in the budget but you know there are sometimes things that occur that-- you know I am not God. I do not know every little detail of it. It is like Hilary Clinton has to approve it at the State Department. Can I just remind everyone we are talking about getting some farmers a few plastic crates? Crates that they want that Mango Man wants to just give them that the NGO wants them to have. But to get those crates to the village of Casale 60 farmers had to donate some precious land. And they did it. Mango Man had to trust an NGO. And he did it. MarChE-- the NGO-- had to be flexible and pay for something that was not in the budget. And they did it. Together all these people had to overcome more than a century of legal confusion and they did it. Success. They get to the final last step. December 2009 a year and a half after they began.  and the other farmers form into a cooperative that would own and operate the crate center. They did that. They took all the paperwork that very final document one last time into Port-au-Prince and delivered it to the government. This all happened at the very end of last year. And then on January 12 came the earthquake. The document that recognizes them is at the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Ministry of Social Affairs has been flattened like a pancake. Those certain documents are in the pile of rubble at the ministry under the rubble. It was several weeks before Jean-Maurice could even bring himself to go back to Casale to visit the farmers. It was not clear if the earthquake destroyed the crates project entirely or just set it back months maybe years. But as survivors started to think about their future they started asking this question we would hear every now and then-- usually after someone apologized for even thinking it. Was the earthquake the best thing that could have ever happened to Haiti? The argument goes like this the world is now focused on Haiti like never before. There is lots of money coming in. Before this you had those 10000 NGOs working independently on little projects making slow progress maybe if at all. But what if now there is an opportunity to take all the attention all the money and work together like never before? What if this is the shot-- instead of solving one small problem at a time-- to address all the country's problems all at once. Think about  and her mangoes. Her problems go way beyond those plastic crates. Remember she needs a canal. And while we are at it she needs a road. Once her mangoes get on the truck they go down this crazy choppy dirt road. In the rainy season sometimes the road is not even there. She really needs a paved road. But then if there is a lot more trucks carrying a lot more mangoes the Haitian port cannot handle that. Haiti's main seaport is really old. And they would need to buy new equipment which means a better banking system to give loans and more professional folks to operate things-- Which means better education to train those professional folks and while we are at it health hospitals.  brother cannot help her on the farm because he is really sick. She thinks he has malaria. Thinks. She does not know because there is no doctor around to ask. If all that seems like a lot for the world to take on seriously we went to the place where this is truly the ambition. We are in a conference room in a new hotel on a hill outside Port-au-Prince where experts from all over the world are sitting around foldable tables and trying to figure out how to do every one of those things and more. They are trying to figure out how much it would cost to address all of Haiti's problems at once. Experts are here from the U.N. the World Bank from all over the world doing the thing experts do staring at Excel spreadsheets and writing assessments. And they are all in these tables divided into groups. There is education water infrastructure. And Adam you and I go table to table asking what are you going to do for  And everyone has really long in depth answers. Infrastructure. Well first if she has a better telephone link in her village that is the first step to sell her products. If the roads are improved again a better way to sell the products. The health table tells us they are working on a plan for hospitals in her area. Education table? They are working on a plan for more free schools. At which point a Trinidadian woman grabs my arm to tell me kids need more than schools you know? They need activities dance classes that we are offering over at this table. And over at the environment table they are offering canals. So you have-- right here in your grid-- millions of dollars for canals. That is exactly the thing that she wants. She wants a canal. Yeah so hopefully she will get some. Hopefully. Hopefully your computer will result in her getting a canal. We are hoping so. So the people in this room have their plans. And the world is going to spend billions of dollars on those plans. But now that we have seen how complicated it is to do something basic like get some crates into the hands of some mango farmers it raises the question what will it take for all that money to do something? To actually result in canals and roads and electricity and crates actually getting to  So let us say you are the US government. You are committed-- as the US government is-- to spending lots of money rebuilding Haiti. You basically have two choices. Chana the first please. Number one. You could hire Haitian companies and American companies do build things. The Haitian companies will be the Haitian elite. The American companies will leave after a year or two. And if you are Hilary Clinton in a year-- the anniversary of the earthquake-- you can point to a bunch of successes big ones. Hospitals rebuilt and roads that are way better than any Haiti has seen. If you are  you probably still do not know how to pack your mangoes into crates and you probably are not lucky enough to have your tiny piece of land chosen for a tiny canal either. So Adam let us look at number two. Number two you do what development experts call capacity building. You teach the people of Haiti how to do all these things. You use this rebuilding process to give Haiti the ability to build itself. Which means do for  what America did for farmers more than 100 years ago create a class of ag-extension agents who go to farms and figure out the best solution for each one train farmers and laborers how to do things like build proper canals create small banks to lend the money to farmers for this kind of investment and you teach  how to pack her produce correctly to wash it and to sell it directly to the exporter. This option capacity building do I even need to say it? It takes a long time and it is really really hard. You need foreign money and you need Haitians to believe in the projects and to participate fully. And you need NGOs that are willing to stay for as long as it takes which brings us to a classic problem with NGOs and foreign assistance. How you doing? I am OK. I had a long day. I had a very long day. Several months after the earthquake we meet up with Jean-Maurice at his cousin's hotel the same place where the world's experts gathered together to figure out how much it would cost to build Haiti out of poverty. The conference room has emptied out and Jean-Maurice-- Mango Man-- told us he got a call earlier in the week from MarChE the NGO that was helping train  and the other farmers. USAID cut their funding. MarChE is closing their doors. Jean-Maurice shakes his head. Again that is the habit. It is the norm. They start something they do not finish it. These NGOs when they come on the field they make promises and they do not finish up and they do not deliver. This was confusing. There was just a major earthquake and everyone wants to help Haiti. People are sending money texting money and USAID is cancelling programs? I called USAID and our conversation with confusing too. We did not decide to close any program. This is Anthony Chan. He is deputy director for USAID in Haiti and at first he tells me technically they are not closing the program. They are just letting its funding run out. Then he tells me that with all this new money after the earthquake they need to reassess all their programs and think bigger than little ones like MarChE. And finally he tells me OK the program is going away but it is not his fault. I mean it is not us deciding. We have bosses in Washington and they are the ones who make those decisions. I mean eventually they are going to communicate that to us and we will get the money and we will begin to work in those areas. And the response to the farmers we are not going away forever. We are going to be back. Maybe the partners are going to be different but she should not feel abandoned. The actors may change but the movie and the plot will still go on. That movie has been going on for more than half a century. There is this recent report called Haiti in the Balance which documents how time after time USAID programs are started and then-- before they can actually help anyone-- a decision is made in Washington to send aid in a whole new direction. The two Marche staff we met left Haiti a couple of weeks ago. Mango season has opened without crates. And this of course is how you can continue to have 10000 NGOs in a country that keeps getting poorer. Chana Joffe-Walt and Adam Davidson are part of the Planet Money team. If you like this kind of story-- economics but interesting. You can be getting it twice a week on the Planet Money podcast and at their blog www.npr.orgmoney. It is a co-production between our program and NPR news. Coming up a new definition of atheist during an earthquake. That is in a minute. From Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. This American Life I am Ira Glass. Today's program Island Time stories about what happens next in Haiti now that the world is flooding it with money and help. We have arrived at Act Two of our show. Act TWO Compound Fracture. According to the US State Department there are about 40000 American citizens who live in Haiti year round. These are business people NGOs missionaries. In the 1980s and 1990s Apricot Irving's family was among them. Apricot's parents were missionaries agricultural missionaries. They did erosion control farming reforestation projects. They lived in a town called Limbe about 150 miles north of Port-au-Prince. It is been 20 years since her family left but her parents still go back to the north of Haiti every couple of years. And in March Apricot went with them to see how people are building a new Haiti and how different that effort is from when she was a kid. The missionary compound where I grew up-- that is what we called it the compound-- is about 15 miles away from where Columbus sank the Santa Maria in 1492. Columbus was just the first of many foreigners with big dreams of how to improve Haiti. We heard a lot about Columbus growing up on the compound because Dr. Hodges-- who ran the missionary hospital in Limbe-- was a huge fan. When I was a teenager the compound had everything we needed a missionary school a TV room friends. But when I went back this time to visit it was like a ghost town a ghost town with a very loud generator. It is kind of creepy in here. There is nobody around. There is all these houses that used to be full of missionary families and kids running around and there is not really anybody else. There is Joanna. Hi Joanna how are you? You look pretty good. You look pretty good too. Travelling all over the world. Feel great as long as I do not walk. Dr. Hodges died 15 years ago but his wife Joanna still spends a lot of time in Limbe. She is 87 years old and she is formidable. Everyone thought she would retire in 2004 when three guys with guns broke into her house. She ended up chasing them down the driveway as they tried to steal her car. One guy broke her arm by beating her with a stick. The watchman later found that the thing that he would hit me with it was the walking stick that my husband used to use. But anyway my arm is OK now. You cannot even see the scar. What did you tell the men when they came to your house? I told them if they killed me that was all right. Because I knew that God would take care of me and that I would come to Haiti mainly to tell the Haitians about God. And I knew that he had a place for me. And I said Does he have a place for you? Because I said I do not think he would want you to be doing what you are doing because it is not very nice. They said Shut her up and they tied a cloth around my mouth.  I cannot believe she can laugh about this now. But maybe that is what spending 52 years in Haiti will do for you. I am really fond of Joanna. I have known her since I was six years old and she is like a grandma to me. She epitomizes the old way of doing aid work sort of 19th century benevolence. The foreigners-- usually whites-- lead the way set an example do whatever they can and hope the Haitians catch on. In other words the foreigners are always in charge. It sounds a little crazy but until a few years ago Joanna kept the keys to the medical supply storage room on a chain around her neck. When the Haitian doctors needed to perform an emergency surgery in the middle of the night they had to wake her up. And because she was in her 80s carry her over the mud puddles to open it. The hospital is still run by Joanna's son even though he now lives in Florida and has not been to Haiti in years. So with all the different aid organizations coming into Haiti right now to help out with earthquake relief is there any advice that you would give to somebody who has never been to Haiti before? I would say that do not try to change the Haitian people. Try to deal with him and try to understand them. And take them as you would other people. They are people and they need help. They look at life differently than we do. But that does not mean that they