When I sat down to interview this guy Bill Tobin he made this request that I do not think anybody's ever made with me in all the years that I have been recording interviews for the radio.. You can cut out the dead air time right? I have a courtroom style and deposition style that when you live and die by the words that come out of your mouth I want to make sure I try to select the most appropriate phrase. So I have a tendency to be a-- my wife tells me you are not in the courtroom. Your speech is too deliberate and too slow. But anyway you can edit out. Yeah we will edit out the pauses yeah. Your wife will love you. When we are done with this she will be like--  All right. All right. Bill's a former FBI agent. And back in the early 1970s he was investigating organized crime and police corruption in Chicago for the FBI. A cop told them how it worked at the time. This cop said that when he was a rookie just coming on the force-- He was taken by his TO around the city-- and TO being a training officer-- and he expressed surprise that they were hitting all of the bowling alleys in their district and other businesses that had liquor licenses. And he was kind of confused with all the crime in the city why they were stopping at bowling alleys. But he said after they hit a number of them he was handed a white envelope by his training officer and he said here's yours. And he said he opened it up and there was this wad of money inside. And he said a light went off and he kind of said well thanks but no thanks. I do not want to participate in this. This is not my bag but you do not have to worry about me. I am not going to blow the whistle or dime anybody. So he said when the next duty roster came out he found himself on vertical patrol in a place called Cabrini-Green which at the time was a high-rise housing project that was so pervasive with crimes that for example I remember one incident several officers were on an elevator and residents had stopped the elevator between floors poured gasoline down the chute and ignited the gasoline. The place was so bad that they had to actually put an officer every second floor and they called that vertical patrol. So he worked that for a number of weeks but he said a number of weeks working vertical patrol and you just basically almost go crazy. So he says at that point you are willing to do almost anything. And he kind of after that began to accept those envelopes. And he said that was the only way he could get off vertical patrol. Do you have any sympathy for this guy's dilemma with the choice he made? Well to my knowledge at the time I would have to say the officer basically only had two choices either change jobs or agree to go on the take. I mean realistically or pragmatically those are the only two choices he had. And if you faced that choice you feel like that would be clear? What to do? Absolutely unequivocally. I mean to me police corruption is the height of dishonesty as far as I am concerned. That is what is so insidious about this kind of old boys' network is that it pulls in bad people and good ones also. You kind of have to take part if you want to stick around. You are with them or against them. The cop who told him this story really believed that. He said you know truth be told the overwhelming majority of officers with whom I have interactions would do anything for you guys to be able to come in and clean house. We really do not want to be on the take but the peer pressure is just so immense that he said you just have to go with the flow. Do you buy that? Oh absolutely. After one of the search warrants that we executed during the search we recovered a list of payees and we are showing 90-plus of the names on the police force were on the list who were recipients of biweekly or monthly payoffs. Well today on our radio show we have two stories. One is about people who do not want to go along with the old boy network. The other is about people who very obediently do go along with it. And I am just going to before we get these started. I am just going to give you a moment here to guess which of these two groups of people the ones who go along and the ones who do not go along are now sitting judges in Chicago. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by the sinister and all-encompassing old boys' network that is known everywhere on the seven seas and seven continents as Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One Messing With the Bull. A little over a year ago in a small west Texas town called Kermit two nurses were accused of something very strange. They were accused of harassing a doctor. The harassment basically was that they complained to the Texas Medical Board saying that this doctor was performing odd procedures and putting patients in danger. The nurses were fired for this and they were arrested and they were facing 10 years in prison. Their story made the national news. You may have heard of it. It seemed like a classic case of retribution against whistleblowers. And one reporter Saul Elbein looked into this. He realized that it was actually a group of powerful men in this small town who went to extreme and even ridiculous lengths to try to bring down these nurses. In particular one nurse. Anne Mitchell. Here's the story. Anne Mitchell's trial took place last February. It lasted four days and was filled with so many ridiculous moments that by the end it seemed like anything could happen though Anne's attorney John Cook was optimistic. I got a sense that we have won. We had blown them out of the water so hard. I did not need to tell the jury why we should win. I figured they already knew. And then they stayed out for an hour and I was hoping for a really quick verdict. So it stretched on an hour. When you are waiting for a verdict an hour is a long time. So we are waiting we are waiting we are waiting. And then suddenly they said the jury's back. This is Anne Mitchell. And Judge Rex got the papers and he flipped the page over and he said not guilty. Mrs. Mitchell you are free to go. Talking to the foreman after the trial I said how come it took you so long? He goes oh Mr. Cook it did not take that long. We got back there and I said to them does anybody think this lady did anything wrong? And everybody said no. And he goes well they all worked pretty hard so we better stay in here. We better stay in here and look like we are working too. So we sat back there for an hour and we talked about our families. But we could have had that verdict in less than five minutes. The absurd and disturbing events that led to this five-minute hour-long verdict began in 2008 when Dr. Rolando Arafiles took a job at the one hospital in Kermit Winkler County Memorial. It is tiny just 19 beds plus a rural health clinic for non-emergency outpatient care. And they could not hold on to doctors. It is hard to find anyone who wants to move there. Kermit is a tiny dusty oil town out in the west Texas plains about 20 miles from the New Mexico border. It is the kind of town where tumbleweed really does roll down the main drag in the afternoons. One of the nearest towns is called Notrees. But Arafiles seemed happy to settle in Kermit. And when he first came to Winkler Memorial former nurses and the current board president say everyone was charmed by him. He is a super nice guy. He is very charismatic. As a person he was very friendly easy to get along with. I mean he was down to earth. I will tell you one thing Dr. A. is not a bad doctor. He is a  a seamstress. You cut your head open man that guy can sew like crazy. For decades before Arafiles came the hospital had mostly relied on foreign doctors under something called the J-1 Visa System. They would come fresh out of medical school in places like India or Vietnam. They would serve for three years and then they would move on to a bigger city. Their care was mostly good but they were clearly just biding their time till they could leave. The hospital could only keep two to three doctors on staff at a time. But Dr. Arafiles had bought a house in town and put down roots. He was a native of the Philippines but he fit in well in Kermit. He and his wife joined the Lions Club. They sang in the choir at the Methodist church. It seemed like he was going to give this small town exactly the sort of small town doctor they would always wanted. But pretty quickly nurses started to get concerned. I had to go through his charts every day I worked on his side. This is Debby Eggers a nurse who worked directly with Arafiles. I really never saw him open up a chart to go through it to see if there is labs that had been done to see if medications need to be increased decreased discontinued. Or if patients needed to be on medication at all. Debby says she caught one chart where he put a non-diabetic patient on insulin. It was on a day that I was working on his side and he had signed something that I believe it was a pharmacy OK-ing some kind of diabetic medication. We had no documentation no labs or anything in our chart justifying that this patient was even diabetic. When I brought it to his attention he told me he said I like it when you work on my side. He said you are my eyes. I never look at anything. I just sign my name. Arafiles would diagnose patients without running labs. Or if the nurses had run labs he would not look at those either. Maybe this is stating the obvious but this is really unusual for a doctor. It is also potentially dangerous. But nurses say Arafiles had his own way of doing things. Like for example how he diagnosed thyroid conditions. Debby says he brought in this questionnaire. None of the medical professionals at the hospital had seen it before. And there would be like tests to see is your skin dry? Are you overweight? Is your hair dry? Do you get tired? Are you fatigued? Do you sleep a lot? Do you not sleep? And he would score it and depending on your score he would put you on thyroid medicine. I myself took the test. I mean because we had to make copies so of course I am going to see what all the questions are. I will take it myself. And yeah I would need medicine because I have got all the symptoms. But my lab it is normal. Naomi Warren was another nurse who saw this happening. She ran the clinic at Winkler and she says Arafiles was really proud of his method of diagnosing thyroid conditions. He told her you just look for obesity extra fat behind the arms. You do not need the labs. That is not the standard. I have never read that anywhere. I told him I could not follow that type of care without some sort of a medical reference to support it. And so he told me he would give me some references. He brought back two paperback books. Paperback books? Two paperback books that were obviously alternative medicine. Frankly I could only stand to read kind of look at one because I just did not believe any of it. Naomi says it is not just that he was a big believer in alternative medicine. He had no consistency. He would take people who had conditions off their medications and put people who had no need for medications on them. Thyroid was not the only thing. He would take people many times off of their cholesterol medicine or blood pressure medicine and offer an herbal alternative. This really shocked nurses at the hospital. Because not only was Arafiles pushing these herbal remedies on patients he was also selling them. One of these herbal medicines was something called Zrii a fruit juice advertised as being based on the ancient wisdom of the Ayurveda. Nurses never saw him sell at the hospital but it was well known that at the same time Arafiles was working in the hospital he was holding seminars at the Kermit Pizza Hut and the Methodist church signing people up as Zrii distributors. You sell Zrii sort of the same way you sell Tupperware or Amway. The more people you sign up to sell for you the more money you make. He had samples that he gave in the clinic. And then you would contact him after work? Yeah. He had fliers and email alerts and would give the patient a number to call if they wanted to order it. That kind of thing. What he was doing with Zrii and the other supplements he sold was not exactly illegal but it was sketchy as hell. And a violation of the hospital's policies. The nurses complained about Arafiles to the chief of staff Dr. Pham. At that time he was the only other doctor there. He refused to talk about it but nurses say he was just as concerned about things Arafiles was doing. He would bring up issues at medical board and staff meetings. Naomi Warren says that once she even heard Pham chewing out Arafiles. There was some yelling behind closed doors. I did hear it. And Dr. Pham at one point told me we have agreed to disagree. He will take care of his patients. I will take care of mine. A lot of nurses took their concerns about Arafiles to Anne Mitchell. She is the nurse from the beginning of our story who ended up on trial. Anne had spent 30 years as a nurse 20 of them at Winkler working her way up. She would held pretty much every nursing position from floor nurse to director of nursing. When Arafiles arrived she was the hospital's compliance officer. And it was her job to ensure the new doctors met the hospital's criteria. Arafiles did not. His license was restricted when he came. He could not supervise nurse practitioners. In 2007 the Texas Medical Board investigated Arafiles when he was working at a hospital in Victoria Texas. Basically it sounds like he was doing the same things there that the nurses would later see in Kermit. The TMB put Arafiles on probation. Anne says according to Winkler Memorial's bylaws they never should have hired him. When I checked with the National Practitioner Data Bank when he was first hired that information came back. I took it to the board of control because I wanted them to understand we were violating the medical staff bylaws and he was in violation of the contract that they signed to have him there. Why was he hired with a restricted license anyway? I cannot answer that. I can only speculate that-- I will tell you this. In far west Texas we do not have an abundance of people trying to get out here. That is why we had J-1 Visa doctors. And you have to wonder why a man in his 50's is not established somewhere. You have to question why somebody at that age at that time in their life would want to come to a small town like Kermit Texas. The person who hired Dr. Arafiles at Winkler Memorial was also a newcomer. Stan Wiley was the hospital's new administrator. He would worked in hospital administration before but when he was hired at Winkler he was selling mobile homes. And he came in promising the hospital's board that he would bring in more money. Nurses say that under him unnecessary tests were run and admission standards were relaxed. When nurses took their complaints about Arafiles to Wiley they say he seemed unconcerned. Here's Anne and Naomi. We were consistently bringing problems to Mr. Wiley. The thing about Mr. Wiley is you could tell him something. And he would look you right in the eye and he would say good point good point. But he never committed to fixing it. Every time we discussed it he bought a house here. That was the response I got. He bought a house here. This is Vickilyn Galle another nurse whose job it was to review care. My issue was not where he had real estate. My issue was patient care. And that really did not seem to be in my opinion a high priority for them. So you would come with your patient care concerns and Wiley would say he bought a house? Yes. I had that response several times. Now all this stuff not looking at charts prescribing herbal medicines. They were egregious. But not as shocking as what came next. Anne and Vicki started getting reports that Arafiles was performing surgeries and that was odd for two reasons. One Winkler Memorial did not do surgeries. They had not had a surgeon on staff in decades and any non-emergency surgeries were supposed to be sent to the hospital in Odessa 40 miles away. The other problem Dr. Arafiles was not a surgeon. He was a family practice doctor. One surgery he performed was on a 73-year-old diabetic who came in with a gash on his hand. Arafiles cut a strip out of the man's abdomen and performed a skin graft himself right there in the emergency room. Debby Eggers was at the clinic when the man came in for a follow-up. When I first saw it the hand looked good good blood supply did not look like it was infected. The next time I saw it it was black hard like charcoal and I could not see any blood supply or anything. I just thought the site did not take. Did Arafiles ever follow up with this guy? Did he see that the guy's graft had turned black? Yes. After we unwrap it and stuff he goes in there and he assessed the site. The patient actually told me that Dr. Arafiles called this his masterpiece. He thought it was OK and it was taking and there was no problems. I just want to make sure I have got this right. This guy has a giant black patch on the back of his hand and Arafiles looks at it and what does he say? That it looked good and come back in two weeks. Debbie told Naomi Warren and the hospital's chief of staff what she would seen. They referred the patient to a hand surgeon in Odessa. Another patient came in with a compound fracture on his thumb. Arafiles wanted to protect the thumb after he stabilized it so he cut off a piece of rubber from the packaging of a suture kit and he sewed it on to the patient's thumb. Now normally it is not nurses or even hospital administrators who are supposed to oversee doctors. It is other doctors. Since Winkler County only had two or three doctors at a time their performance was reviewed by outside statewide medical boards. One of these boards was a peer review service for rural hospitals provided by Texas AM University. Part of Vicki Galle's job was to send records to this peer review system. Sometimes they were files that were flagged for questionable care. Sometimes they were just random files. It was standard practice for rural hospitals across the state and the way it had worked at Winkler for years. Until one day when Stan Wiley the hospital administrator called Vicki into his office. I came in and sat down. I do not know if I was in his office over a minute. He was sitting there doing numbers as he usually is. And he would use a ruler because he had lost one eye. And he looked up at me and said do not send out any more records. I will let you know when you can resume. And that was it. He said that is it you can go. What was your reaction? I was very upset. I went back to my office talked to Anne about it when she came. And it just seemed to me to further show that they were trying to keep everything in house. In my opinion we were going to deliver substandard care and just cover it up. Anne Vicki and Naomi had become the main stopgap against what they saw as Arafiles' substandard care. All of them kept trying to bring up their concerns at medical staff meetings and board meetings but they were ignored. Meetings scheduled to discuss Arafiles' care kept getting cancelled. This is when some nurses at the hospital decided they would had enough. In February 2009 Naomi Warren quit. At her final board meeting Naomi tried to give a speech to explain why she was leaving. She said that it was a doctor's responsibility to submit his care to outside review that if the board wanted a quality hospital they must insist on quality patient care. That otherwise Kermit is shiny new hospital would be a useless building. During my talk the board chairman was walking around the room adjusting lights causing such a distraction. That I thought I was going to-- I asked him once if I should start over. It was clear to me he was not interested in what I had to say. And he really did not want anybody else to hear it either I guess. The chief of staff and at least two other nurses left the hospital around the same time. With Naomi gone Anne and Vicki felt they had only one option reporting Dr. Arafiles to the Texas Medical Board. It was a big deal sort of the last straw. Anne says she and Naomi and Vicki had long conversations about what to do. Finally I told her I said we have to do something because I do not know what else is going on that we do not know about. Anne and Vicki sat down and wrote their letter together. Anne was at the keyboard typing it on her computer. Naomi wrote a letter also. She signed hers. Anne and Vicki left theirs anonymous. They put both letters together in one envelope. Anne told Naomi she would mail the package from Odessa. She did not want to take the risk of mailing it from Kermit. Here's Anne. I knew that if Mr. Wiley found out that we had sent that letter in that he would do everything he could to fire us from our positions. And I said Anne do not be ridiculous they cannot find out. This is confidential. It is protected. They are never going to find out that we did it. And I was a little bit put out with her because I thought why are you being so cautious? Why are you being so upset? When in fact I should have realized I am leaving. I do not have to face the scrutiny of Winkler County and the officials there. She had a much better pulse on the type of people we were dealing with. Coming up how a confidential letter ends up in the hands of exactly the people that it is supposed to be kept confidential from and what kinds of things can happen as a result of that. Saul Elbein's story continues from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. If you are just tuning in our show today is about old boys' networks. And we are in the middle of Act One a story about some nurses who sent a letter off to the Texas Medical Board about what they saw as one doctor's questionable practices and then they found themselves tangling with all kinds of powerful people in their town. When we left off Anne Mitchell and two other nurses had just sent off their letters to the TMB. Here's reporter Saul Elbein. Six weeks later Anne Mitchell started to hear strange rumors that the Winkler County sheriff Robert Roberts was doing an investigation. Word was that he was trying to find out who had complained about Dr. Arafiles. There was one person in the hospital that notified a friend of mine who called me and said Roberts is going to arrest somebody over this. Do you know who did it? Well of course I am not going to say anything. I said are you kidding me? No Anne he is looking to arrest somebody. I said I cannot believe that. Then I had another person who works in the hospital she called me and she said that if someone was not arrested for this that Dr. Arafiles and Mr. Beckham were going to be very upset. Bill Beckham was the hospital's board president. I knew that I had the right to do that. I had the right to question poor care. I had the right to report anything that I thought was inappropriate. And I really felt that we had nursing laws in place that protected me. And then I began to hear that no he is going to arrest whoever sent that letter in for harassment. And I thought OK what do I do now? We need to find someone just in case. Just in case this happens. And so I called John Cook. And when she called I think the first thing she said is I am not crazy. This is John Cook Anne Mitchell's attorney during the trial. Both he and Anne say that the initial conversation was a little awkward. Our conversation consisted largely of Anne tell me what you did wrong. I would reiterate everything and he would say yes but tell me what you did wrong. Quite honestly I did not believe what she was telling me. So I asked her if I could call her back and I called a judge out in Kermit by the name of Bonnie Leck who was the county court judge. And I said hey Bonnie this lady called me. And immediately she said she is not crazy John. And I said really? Are they that stupid? And her response was they are going to do something. I was sure in my mind that once Sheriff Roberts started investigating and looked at what a nurse could and could not do and what was appropriate that he would realize there is nothing in this letter that was inappropriate. There was nothing in there that said he is a rotten guy I do not like him. There was nothing personal at all. It was all about how he practiced medicine. Winkler County sheriff Robert Roberts is a big man with a big voice. He is pretty much what comes to mind when you hear the words West Texas Sheriff. And if you are wondering like Anne was why the county sheriff would launch a criminal investigation into a formal complaint to a medical board there is this to consider. Roberts was good friends with Arafiles. The sheriff and the doctor played golf together. Roberts and his wife sold the herbal supplement Zrii for the Doctor. And Roberts says that Arafiles had saved his life when he had a heart attack in 2008. So when the Texas Medical Board sent Arafiles a letter telling him they had received a complaint about him and he was under investigation he went to Sheriff Roberts and said he was being harassed. Roberts turned around and started his own investigation. But Roberts was missing his main piece of evidence the actual letter the nurses had sent to the TMB. All he had was the notice that the TMB sent to Arafiles saying they were looking into certain patient case numbers. So Roberts took these case numbers and interviewed the corresponding patients. Taking this step was illegal. It was a breach of patient confidentiality. Because of pending criminal cases Dr. Arafiles Sheriff Roberts Stan Wiley and others are under a gag order and could not comment for this story. It is unclear how Roberts got the patients' contact information in the first place. In any event none of the patients said they would filed a complaint. So Roberts knew it must have come from inside Winkler Memorial. So next he got a list of 21 people who would have had access to the patient records. Both Vickilyn and Anne were on there. What happened then was the Sheriff came to the hospital and interviewed both of us Vickilyn and I. And he had the bylaws in my face saying you cannot do any outside reporting. I told him a nurse cannot be arrested for reporting their concerns to the Texas Medical Board. Obviously he did not believe me when I said that. And he kept asking me about policies and procedures and how my job worked and different things. And then he asked me he said now Annie I am going to read this to you and I do not want you to be scared. And I said OK. And he Mirandized me. And I just looked at him I said OK. He said now I am going to ask you a question. And I said I am not answering any of your questions Robert. I am working out here in a hostile environment. I am going to call my attorney. And I left. At this point Roberts still had not seen the letter he was investigating. So he had to get a copy. Roberts wrote a letter asking the TMB for the complaint against Arafiles and they sent it to him. By law the board is required to turn over information. It is just that simple. This is Leigh Hopper. She is a spokesperson for the Texas Medical Board. The sheriff contacted the medical board and asked us for information relating to the investigation of Dr. Arafiles. And I think there was a cover letter that said that the identity of the complainants has to be treated as confidential and it is protected by law and only used in connection with the criminal investigation of the doctor. And that it is not to be used for anything else. You guys sent the letter with the assumption that it was being used in an investigation of Arafiles? Right because anything else would have been illegal. So Roberts has Anne and Vicki's letter. Now remember Anne and Vicki's letter was anonymous but they did not work too hard to conceal their identities. In explaining why the letter is anonymous the last paragraph of the letter states that quote Due to the economic climate the fact that I am over 50 female and have been employed by this facility since the 1980s I am hesitant to place a signature on this information. There were only two employees who matched that description Anne and Vickilyn. But Roberts still did not have any solid evidence to connect them to the complaint. For that he needed a search warrant. That and the cooperation of another powerful man in Kermit Scott Tidwell. Scott Tidwell is the Winkler County attorney. This is Beau Berman. He covered the story for local CBS affiliate KOSA-TV in Odessa. Because the actual district attorney was ill Scott Tidwell took over the prosecuting duties. And some may argue that there is a conflict of interest there because he was also the personal attorney for Dr. Arafiles and Sheriff Robert Roberts. Not only was Tidwell Arafiles' and Robert's attorney he was also the hospital's attorney which meant that he was often in board meetings when the nurses were bringing up their concerns about Arafiles. And he was in on the decisions to ignore Anne and Vicki's concerns. Beau Berman says that when all this came out in the courtroom people lost it. There was just this chatter that overtook the courtroom this almost laughter when people found that out. Because it just seemed so ridiculous that this county attorney had such a close relationship-- and actually had clients-- that were so closely involved to this case. It was like a farce honestly. This whole deal was almost like a satire. At times you could not believe this was happening. And so Scott Tidwell talks about how he golfs with the sheriff how he is also the sheriff's personal attorney but then denied that there was any sort of conflict of interest or that he was just prosecuting this case because he liked the sheriff. Or because he knew him. Or anything like that. And Scott Tidwell does not have the best name in Odessa. He was involved in a prior incident in Odessa. But you can research that on your own probably. I did research it. What Beau is referring to is something that takes this case to a whole new level of seediness. In 2004 Scott Tidwell had been charged in a scandal involving a massage parlor called The Healing Touch. The Healing Touch was the subject of a year-long prostitution investigation that resulted in 61 arrests. According to press accounts Tidwell was a client and he threw parties with prostitutes for some of his firm's clients. He was charged with prostitution and promoting prostitution. He pled guilty to the prostitution charge and the other charges were dismissed. Tidwell left Odessa shortly after and moved to Kermit where he ran for county attorney. Sheriff Roberts campaigned for him. In any case with Tidwell's help Sheriff Roberts got a warrant to seize Anne and Vicki's computers. Anne had a part-time gig in Kermit is Homeland Security office and there in the My Documents folder of Anne's Homeland Security computer Roberts found what he was looking for. Anne and Vickilyn's letter to the TMB. Two weeks later Stan Wiley fired Anne and Vicki. 10 days after that they were both indicted. But looking at the facts of the case it is pretty obvious that the only nurse they were after was Anne Mitchell. Roberts did not know that Vicki had collaborated on the letter until she told him. And even though Naomi had signed her letter he never investigated her. He never even talked to her about it. Everyone in town says that Naomi was so beloved that there was no way they would go after her. But why Anne? I asked Naomi about it. Anne quite frankly is a Yankee. Anne had come from upstate New York but she moved to Texas over 20 years ago. She married an oil roughneck. She speaks with more than a hint of a Texas accent. But Naomi says there was something about Anne that stood out. When you come to an area like west Texas there is a certain culture here. You do not roll in and say what you think especially to a lot of men. So I think that she was unintentionally pushy but that that is her way. She says what she thinks. She does not play the southern belle. Which Vicki does? Yes and I to a certain extent because we are old southern gals. That is the way it is. So I do not think she went over really well with the good ol' boys. From the beginning it was clear that Scott Tidwell's case against Anne and Vicki was weak. The charge was misuse of official information. Essentially the accusation was that the nurses harassed Arafiles simply by sending their letter to the Texas Medical Board. It was a felony charge. Anne and Vicki were facing a possible 10000 fine and 10 years in prison. But in July a month after they were indicted Tidwell made their lawyer John 