Remember when the news was boring and politics was boring? That happened right? I am not imagining that. You were there. I was there. That happened in our lives. I miss it. I did not appreciate what a good thing it was when we had it. I do not know about you but me-- I have spent a full week obsessively reading about Judge Kavanaugh and watching videos online and calling people to discuss it. And I know this is just daily life in our totally divided country these days but can I say for me-- again for me-- of all the moments we have had these last few years where red America and blue America look at the exact same event and come to radically different conclusions-- to me this one feels the worst. I think because the original hearing itself with Dr. Ford and Judge Kavanaugh-- the testimony was just so long. It was so many hours. And then both witnesses were so emotionally raw that even watching it was emotional. It was upsetting. And then since that hearing we have had this week of waiting for the FBI report which held us all for a week in that same state of agitation and disbelief-- Republican disbelief at the Democrats Democrats' disbelief at the Republicans. But even in moments like this one there are people who have not picked a side. And incredibly sometimes those people are the ones who have to decide. They have to cast a vote in the United States Senate. And it does not seem fun for them. Today on our show we have somebody in that situation in our first act-- Arizona Senator Jeff Flake. In our second act we leave Washington behind. We have somebody who is literally deciding on a man's life or death with no real experience or understanding of how to do it. Both those people having to make these huge decisions-- they are not comfortable at all. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One. Judge. So Senator Jeff Flake was one of the central players in the drama on Capitol Hill this last week. Turn on the TV and you would see his tortured face. He dragged his decisions down to the wire over and over. He was undecided then seemed like a no on Kavanaugh then was a yes then was a let us wait a week. It was Jeff Flake who made the Senate wait for a new FBI investigation. Then he was a yes again. Our producer Zoe Chace has spent a lot of time with Jeff Flake over the last year. You may remember the hour-long episode she did recording him for months as he tried to pass some kind of DACA bill. And she was with him in the days before and after the Kavanaugh hearing watching what he was going through and talking to him about how he made his choices. Here's Zoe. The first thing I want to talk about is the elevator. It is a big story-- how Jeff Flake changed his mind because two women accosted him on an elevator. I am here to tell you that is not a true story. That is not what changed his mind. Look at me when I am talking to you! You are telling me that my assault does not matter! I was there right behind the women yelling. That is why my recording is not as clear as what you heard on CNN. I am just staring at Flake peering out from the elevator. He had just stood me up for an interview. Jeff Flake's face can be a little deceiving. He looks kind of miserable a lot of the time when inside he is just humming a little tune. In this case though I think he was miserable. He had just released a statement saying he was going to vote for Kavanaugh. He had dashed right past a bunch of CNN reporters and around the corner to get to the elevator to get to the vote. And now he was stuck. You are allowing someone who is unwilling to take responsibility-- Madam I would be happy to take you-- --for his own actions-- Talk-- madam? --to sit in the higher court of the country. And then he went to the meeting where he asked for an FBI investigation for one week. And what they said in that elevator door appears to have led a US senator to change his mind. Their words have now reverberated around this country. Flake had declared that he would be voting for Kavanaugh's nomination. Then he was confronted by a mob of screaming protesters the youth wing of the Democratic Party. Jeff Flake crumbled. Archila was one of the two women in that confrontation with Senator Flake. Good morning. Good morning. When that elevator door closed with Senator Flake did you think that history might change? Archila and Maria Gallagher-- the other woman at the elevator-- they always hedge how influential they were. But lots of others do not. I am reading things like it was the elevator pitch that altered the trajectory of American history. An online site Support the heroes who convinced Flake raised over 30000 in a couple days. Lots of people love this version of events and I think it is because they just want to believe protest works. So much of these last two weeks has been people watching the same stuff on TV and seeing what they want to see. Here's how I know that story about the elevator about how it changed Jeff Flake's mind is not true. First of all I saw him shake his head no when asked about it by other reporters. And did the women who confronted you this morning did they have any role in changing your mind? Also we talked about it. That was not the thing. It was a thing. It was a thing-- just not the thing that convinced him. Protesters do not affect him like that. I have seen him confronted by protesters over the health care bill the tax vote the Dreamers. And for days now the Capitol building has been choked with them. They are stopping senators as they move through the halls-- sometimes chanting sometimes telling horrific very personal stories of sexual assault. It is everywhere and it is a lot. Just the day before Flake and I got in an elevator on the other side of the building. He was in the middle of a story about Lindsey Graham. Lindsey pulled me aside last night. Women jumped on the elevator with us. They wore be a hero T-shirts and I believe women T-shirts. They were filming him and calling out Do you believe women Senator Flake? Do you believe them? Do you support women? We support women. Do you believe women? We support women. We support women. We believe women. Do you believe women? Thank you. Thank you. We believe survivors. Senator Flake? What do you have to say? Please? Do you have something you can say to women right now and the survivors? Glad we are having this hearing today. Yes. Are you going to do the right thing? I am glad we are having the hearing. Because it is not your body! Does it affect you when people yell at you like that? The benefits of being shallow. That is Flake making fun of himself. We have talked about this before. Like lots of men his age he does not connect too well to emotions. John McCain would have done the right thing. And he walked into the hearing to listen to Dr. Ford and Judge Kavanaugh not sure what to do. Before I explain what happened next I want to just say going into a day like this undecided is both very rare for a senator and very rare for everyone in America right now. I do not think being undecided could have been more scarce that day. Think about it. Do you know anybody who did not already know who they would believe and who they would not? The one time he spoke in the hearing he sounded just as unsure as he had going in. And it was at the end of the day. This is not a good process but it is all we have got. And I would just urge my colleagues to recognize that in the end we are 21 very imperfect senators trying to do our best to provide advice and consent. And in the end there is likely to be as much doubt as certainty going out of this room today. And just have a little humility on that front. So thank you. If you watch the news you know at least the outlines of what followed. But just to explain-- because I think you cannot understand what happens at the end with Jeff Flake unless you know what happens here-- the night after the Ford-Kavanaugh testimony Thursday night Flake stays up all night freaking out over what to do. Some close friends told him about their own sexual assaults. He talked to advisors. He talked to lawyers going over what was said. He found Ford credible and convincing but he came back over and over to the fact that there was nothing corroborating her testimony. No one else could put him in the room that night. He found Kavanaugh credible also and his anger was not as off-putting to him as I thought it might be. His staff said they would never seen him like this. It was agonizing I have to say. It really was-- more so than anything any decision on a vote. I have had debates with staff and discussions late last night too. And it was pretty raw you know? The next morning of course Flake finally releases the statement. He is going to vote yes on the judge. Whatever you do they say in the end you have got to come back to presumption of innocence. He goes to the elevator gets yelled at on TV then to the committee meeting. You know that part. Meanwhile Chris Coons Democratic senator from Delaware is on his way to the meeting with a bunch of reporters. And he gets the news that Flake's a yes. He chokes up reportedly says Oh fuck and then We each make choices for our own reason. I am struggling. Sorry. A lot of tears in the Capitol those two days. The meeting begins. The two sides rail against each other. Flake's stressing gets up and makes a call. He probably checks Twitter because he usually does. But he says he did not see how viral the elevator video was going and the bad PR of it. He says he was not thinking about that at all. So he comes back. And then Coons gives a speech at the committee meeting that he said was directed at one man-- Jeff Flake. They are actually friends. They are on the Foreign Relations Committee together. They have been all over Africa together too. And they have breakfast almost every week at the prayer breakfast. Coons is Presbyterian Flake reminds me while he is a Mormon. And there was something very Presbyterian he said-- just unadorned and practical-- about the way Coons was speaking. And I will say briefly at the outset that before yesterday began I prayed. I prayed for Dr. Ford and her family. I prayed for Judge Kavanaugh. And I prayed for all who would watch yesterday uncertain whether we could conduct ourselves respectfully. I know since the day that my Democratic colleagues and I learned of these allegations we have had one consistent request-- to allow the FBI to investigate them in a nonpartisan professional even-handed manner and deliver their findings to us so that we could reach a conclusion. Flake and I talked about that moment on the phone. That it had an impact and the biggest impact I am sure. That is far more accurate than this narrative out there that it was the protesters that moved it. That day at the meeting Flake gets up walks across the room taps Coons on the shoulder and they are on their way to a deal. Later he explained what was going through his head. I was not at peace with where I was. And when I got over there and then saw the food fight-- just resumption of yesterday's-- I said we cannot-- I cannot do this. I know how this is being viewed out there that people see this rush to judgment and as Republicans move through and not look at the facts and just try to get this done as quickly as possible-- and that is not good. It is not good. Long term look what it does to the institution it is just horrible. Preserving the integrity of the process on the Senate Judiciary Committee is a much less romantic story than the one about two survivors of sexual assault changing a senator's mind at the last second. That is what happened though. And finally that day the world sees Jeff Flake find a third way. It is something he is been looking for for a long time on a lot of issues-- a way to vote with his Republican colleagues but stand for certain principles with the Democrats. It is the weirdest niche. But he is a weirdo right now-- a ghost Republican. He does not really have a constituency he is speaking for being anti-Trump but pro his policies. He is retiring from the Senate in a few months. As he says he could never have done something like this if he were still running for office. There is no value to reaching across the aisle he says. There is no currency for that anymore. If you do that you will lose. So there is not much crossing over to the other side ever by anybody-- which is maybe why when you do cross over this is what happens. How you doing Senator? Doing well. How are you? Good for you man. Thanks. God bless you. Appreciate it. This is the consequence-- New York City loves Senator Jeff Flake. I know because the day after the committee vote I picked him up at Penn Station and got him a taxi. But I also called a car. Oh you did? Yeah. Oh well do not. Because I was like the Senator? I do not know if he wants to wait in a taxi line. I do not know if that is a thing you are used to doing. Yeah I will be all right. No Capitol police protection no staff-- just me and a lot of new Jeff Flake fans. Could we take a picture with you? Sure. You bet. I end up taking pictures for them. Do you think they know that you are going to vote for Kavanaugh? I do not know. I think that will all go away if I do. 86th and Central Park West. OK. I do not know. I think people are so starved for any sign of bipartisanship. I am going to go ahead and say bipartisan in New York means you agree with the Democrats. This is all happening because on my way back to New York from Washington on Saturday I ran into Chris Coons on Amtrak. He told me Flake was on the Acela right behind us. That Flake had invited himself along with Coons to the Global Citizen Concert at The Great Lawn in Central Park broadcast live on MSNBC. I cannot think of a bluer place to be honest-- a more on-the-nose location for the hashtag resistance. So I am surprised to hear Flake's coming too and I text him to see if I can go. He gets me credentials and I take him uptown. I get a little lost. Because I am from here I think I know where everything is but I do not. And then we are running across the 86th Street transverse. Senator Flake? Good work. Thank you. New York loves you Senator Flake. And we head to a little trailer backstage to meet up with Chris Coons. Outside tens of thousands of people are already out on the lawn. These two senators are going to deliver a short impromptu speech about bipartisanship to this crowd. Can I ask you who is performing before them and who is performing after? Cardi B. Cardi B? Is after. Is after? Yeah. You guys are the opening act for Cardi B. I do not know if he knows who Cardi B is. This is where Flake's reaching across the aisle gesture gets epically surreal-- and it is hard to top how surreal the week has been already. All these famous people keep popping into the trailer. What you did-- you are a hero. And it is so funny that other people do not know how simple it is to be a hero. It is Robert Di Niro who steps to Flake with a finger in his face like a scene from Goodfellas. We rely on you. Too much had gone down with this guy. He is got to go. I know it is because they want the midterms and this and that. But we are beyond all that. We are beyond all that. It is weird to hear Robert Di Niro say the word midterms. I am telling you you are a hero man. John Legend. I appreciate what you all did this week. And we just know that we are all watching and hoping that you make the right decision for the country. OK? That is all I am saying.  You know how I feel about it. The director Ava DuVernay. So thank you so much for listening to women. Katie Holmes and Suri. Coons does not know who that is. That is great. I do not know how to answer that question. Bring her on in. She is the actress who was-- Used to be married to Tom Cruise. --married to Tom Cruise. That is great. I have heard of him. I am so useless. Come in Katie. Hi you. Good to see you. Thank you. To be fair neither of the senators seems to know who any of these people are-- except Di Niro. Everyone wants a picture with the senators. Soon Coons and Flake are rushed towards the stage continuing to be mobbed by the Hollywood resistance. Darren Aronofsky yells to them I am a film maker. I made Black Swan. I am a filmmaker. I made Black Swan. Thank you for everything you are doing right now. I go around to the front to see how thousands of non-famous New Yorkers are receiving this still-Republican senator. Thanks to all of you global citizens-- Fuck you! --who have contacted us-- That is a real New York fuck you. The call for bipartisanship is drowned out by calls for Cardi B. We are standing here united for democracy. Cardi! Cardi! As soon as they are offstage though the star treatment starts again. The Reverend Al Sharpton catches him like we are on a red carpet. Hey Al. Senator Coons just called you a hero. Naw. Naw he is the guy. He is the guy. He is the guy. Do you think we can bring this country together? Al says. It is like a left-wing farce at this point. Random bit players keep popping out to cast liberal spells. Chris Martin from Coldplay gives Flake a magic pin of some sort to keep in his pocket. Oh yeah. Jeff here. Take this. Put it in your pocket in times of trouble. All right? Thank you. Oh! Flake drops it. Chris Martin leaves. We have a moment to sit down. What is it like? It is intimidating. Was it? Yeah. Well I mean it is not something you know. This is different than a conference on Social Security reform or-- you know? It is not the Cato Institute. Different. No it is not.  Far from. What is it like having people like Robert Di Niro and John Legend be like you are a hero? For a week-long FBI investigation? Well it will last a week too. My next vote for Kavanaugh or for something they do not like and I am a pariah again.  So you enjoy it for a week. Do you think they know you are still a Republican? You know I think probably so. You enjoy it while you can.  Jeff Flake's had a rough few years. They hate him on the right and he keeps disappointing the left. It feels good for once to be popular. Are you happy? Do you like it?  Oh yeah. Every politician does. We like it. Politicians-- we feed on it. That is a-- whether we admit it or not. And then it happens just like he predicted. After seven days of being treated as a Democrat-- or at least a Republican defector-- Flake comes home to the GOP. On Thursday the FBI releases the report that he called for. On Friday Flake announced his decision. He is a yes on Kavanaugh. I reached Chris Coons that afternoon. Look Jeff and I both went to the same place and read the same report. And I appreciate his friendship. We are viewing this through a different lens. Jeff is a conservative senator. He has always wanted a conservative on the Supreme Court. I am not and I do not. Coons thought the FBI report was a disgrace basically. They did not follow up on any leads he said. It was not the investigation he had asked for last week. He was mad. Frustrated. Kept going off the record and raging. He would not tell me about his conversations with Jeff Flake after they both read the FBI report. I am really trying not to either put words in his mouth or criticize him because-- I am restraining myself from saying something that is not appropriate here. As soon as Flake voted Friday he fled the Capitol. I talked to him in the car. People are mad at you again I said. Well that is how it goes he said. Why did you vote yes I asked him? Presumption of innocence he told me over and over. He was satisfied with the FBI report. Do you feel better now? You are kind of back among your people. You had kind of a week with the Democrats celebrating you but you are back among your people. Do I have people? I guess so. I am a man temporarily without a party. There is no bipartisan right now. There is no aisle to stand in the middle of. To quote a film that Robert Di Niro was not in but kind of-- Do not ever take sides with anyone against the family. Ever. Zoe Chace is one of the producers of our program. Let us turn now to this recording that we found of Justice Anthony Kennedy. Kennedy of course is the retiring judge whose seat Brett Kavanaugh was nominated for the swing vote on the Supreme Court for years. This is him being questioned in a QA back in 2010. As you stand here today Justice a potential colleague is starting the confirmation process. How has the process changed since you went through it? Well I liked my own.  Remember the Senate is a political body and they have to act in a political way. The framers knew that. And it is really not for me to tell the Senate how to structure that process. I do think it has the obligation to recognize the necessity of preserving the neutrality and the independence and the integrity of our court. What you should ask is whether the judge has the temperament the commitment the character the learning. I think the judge should be broadly read. I myself was fascinated with political theory. If you ask what makes a good judge you are going to get an autobiography so you have to be careful about that.  So the Senate has a-- really very difficult position. Kennedy was speaking to an audience including high school students. People asked him about his favorite cases if he had always wanted to be on the Supreme Court-- no by the way. He was funny. He was a good talker. And he explained his job-- how it works. We will meet just the nine of us and discuss the case. We begin in order of seniority from the most senior judge to the least senior. And if the case is one in which there are great issues of public policy involved we know that we are required to make a decision. The courts have been divided on it. And let us assume that it is a five-four case and it is not just reverse or affirm. It is a question of the rationale the principal the reasons that you give. And let us say it is five to four. The five in the majority do not have a lot of back slaps and high fives and thumbs up. There is a moment of awe as we realize one of us will have to write an opinion that commands the allegiance of the American people. An opinion that explains that teaches the principles of law the principles of the Constitution that control the result. And when we issue that opinion in say an unpopular case we draw down on a capital of trust. We make a withdrawal on the trust that the public has in our constitution. And it is our job always to replenish that trust by adhering to our judicial oath by adhering to the principles of neutrality and independence and fairness and quiet discussion and decency and courtesy and scholarship. That is the way our court works. OK one more story. I do not know if this tells us anything profound about Anthony Kennedy or the Supreme Court but it is just fun to hear how he talks about this. I was meeting one time with our judges and attorneys in Alabama. And I think it was a Saturday morning. And for my schedule or theirs or both it was at 9 oclock in the morning. And they were dressed casually ready to play golf or tennis. And they were gracious enough to hear me for a few minutes. And so I said well do you have any questions? And one attorney raised his hand and said now you have all that tremendous amount of reading to do-- all of those briefs. How do you possibly do that? I said well I have four clerks and I divide them up among the clerks. Of course I have to read them all. And if they are very difficult cases I will take them home and read the briefs a second time over the weekend just before argument. And I like music. I have opera playing in the background. And I sometimes have cases that are one-opera cases sometimes two-opera cases.  Well the minute I said that I kind of knew I lost the audience. They were too polite to roll their eyes but it sounded kind of what intellectually pretentious? You know here's some eastern guy talking about the opera. So I thought I would lost the audience but I was saved because an attorney in the room raised his hand. He said well I have a rule like that when I write those briefs. I said oh yes? He said I have a one six-pack brief and a two six-pack brief.  I said I think I remember your last one. It was a three six-pack brief.  Who'da thunk? Lawyer likes beer. Thanks to the Forum Club of the Palm Beaches for that recording of Anthony Kennedy. Coming up a total and complete amateur has to decide a death sentence. His only previous experience in these matters? Watching Law  Order. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program The Unhappy Deciders-- stories of people who are saddled with difficult momentous decisions to make-- decisions that will determine someone's fate for the rest of their life decisions that weigh on them. Act one of our program today was about a judge. Act Two is about a jury. And we will just get right to it. This story comes to us from the podcast Heavyweight. If you have not heard Heavyweight it is hosted by one of our regular contributors here and a former producer of This American Life Jonathan Goldstein. And the premise of the show is that each episode people come to Jonathan with something in their life that they want to fix they want to deal with they want to make right with another person. Usually it is something they have been living with for a long time and they are uncomfortable with. And Jonathan plays a kind of bumbling Detective Columbo figure but one who actually is kind of bumbling and awkward. But he gets the people to sit down and talk and hash things out. Many of the episodes are really funny. The one that we have today is a more serious one. Anyway here's Jonathan Goldstein. In 2008 Sven received a letter for jury duty. Lots of people would say oh this is such a boring thing. Oh no I hope I do not get jury duty. But I was more curious and interested in the process. And I liked watching stuff like Law  Order and other things like that. SVU Criminal Intent-- Sven liked them all. He was a software developer newly married. And he and his wife had just bought a new house-- his first. The house had a flagpole in the front and a hammock out back. After work he would come home relax on the couch and watch his legal dramas. Jury duty was going to offer an inside view of the TV shows he loved. I was not fooled into thinking it was some weird glamorous thing like that. But I thought juries were interesting-- the idea of judging your peers right or wrong. I have always sort of had a sense of civic responsibility. In my book the only thing that makes responsibility less appealing is adding the word civic to it. Paying your taxes appearing before a zoning board-- not for me. Like most when I appeared for jury duty I prayed for dismissal. Not Sven though. During the selection process he engaged with the questions the lawyers posed as best he could. And when he was asked how he felt about capital punishment he answered candidly. I believe bad people should be punished in that way or could be punished in that way. And so I would not say I was strongly for it but I was not against it. And consequently I got on the jury. The case was The State of Texas versus Paul David Storey. Storey was a 22-year-old accused of the murder of Jonas Cherry the manager of a mini golf course in Hurst Texas. Storey and an accomplice forced Cherry into the back office made him unlock the safe and put the money-- a few hundred dollars-- in a bag. And then they shot him multiple times. Storey's trial lasted two weeks and would have felt familiar to anyone who watches TV courtroom dramas. There were lawyers with thick binders full of ballistics reports and medical examinations character witnesses were called and disturbing photographs of the victim's body were shown. The only thing missing was any suspense about the verdict. There was no doubt that he was guilty of murder and robbery. And so really as a jury all we had to worry about was sentencing. The jury had to decide between life imprisonment or the death penalty. It seemed the victim's family knew what they wanted. It should go without saying the prosecutor announced to Sven and the other jurors that all of Jonas's family and everyone who loved him believe the death penalty is appropriate. The prosecutor asked the jurors to sentence Paul Storey to death. The instructions stated that for the death penalty to be imposed the jurors must judge three things to be true-- that Paul Storey was guilty that there were no mitigating circumstances-- like say mental illness or provocation-- and lastly that Storey posed a future threat to his community. That was the one I had issue with. I seriously doubted that he would be a continuing threat to the prison community. And what was it about Paul Storey that made you feel like you just did not necessarily see him as a continued threat? A couple of things. His testimony-- The young man Sven saw in the courtroom appeared confused in over his head and remorseful. This was his first offense. And some of the evidence suggested that it was Storey's accomplice who had been the mastermind behind the horrible crime as well as the one who had fired first. Sven was certain that Paul Storey should be punished but he did not think he should be put to death. But in the jury chambers there was a very different feel. Everyone else was in favor of the death penalty. And so faced with almost a dozen other people who already felt strongly I did not think I could convince anyone of what I was thinking. I will be honest-- I was scared. At 27 Sven was the youngest juror by several years. And he was the kind of guy who avoided speaking up at all costs. At home if his neighbor parked in his space he let it go. At the office if his boss told him to do something even if he disagreed he did it without question. In other words even though he would been looking forward to being a juror when he found himself in the jury room Sven was not exactly Henry Fonda in 12 Angry Men. The way he understood it the jurors had to reach a unanimous decision. And the idea of swaying 11 strangers over to his way of thinking seemed impossible. He was also afraid that if he opposed the group it would result in a hung jury and a mistrial. They would have to start the whole process over again with a new jury. Everyone would be mad at him. So Sven said nothing. An hour and a half later Paul Storey was sentenced to death by lethal injection. It was hard to look at him during the sentencing. We sat waiting for the judge to ask us what is the sentencing? And everyone was really tense. And the woman next to me-- another juror-- began crying. She was trying to hide it. And I gave her my handkerchief. And she just wept. Then the foreman announced the verdict and I think his mother cried out. They had an exit for us to go through after we collected our things. And we were out of that courtroom fast. It felt like a mistake right away. Sven went over to his parents' house where he had dinner and drank scotch with his dad. He told his family about the trial. And then he went home where he had more to drink before bed. And then that was that. Then it was over. And then I went on with my life. Or at least he tried to. But what did you do with these feelings? I was just stuck. It was done. It was cast in stone. And-- yeah no I felt terrible. I felt massive amounts of regret. I felt guilty sending someone to death row. When you think about the people that a trial effects you think of the victims and their loved ones. And you think of the accused their families and what they are going through. You do not usually think about what it does to the jurors. But for Sven the trial was not something you could put behind him at the crack of a gavel. In the days and weeks after the verdict he read every article about the case he could find. But the more he read the more shame he felt. So eventually he just stopped. I realized it was not really healthy. At the time Sven was a regular drinker. And it only got worse after the trial. It got a lot worse after the trial. He was drinking more beginning as soon as he got home from work and spending more days hungover. His wife did not understand what was going on. It may have contributed to my divorce which was the following year. A year after the trial and Sven's life had changed. The new house with the hammock and the flagpole was sold and Sven moved out of Texas. Sven settled in Olympia Washington to start his life over. He found an apartment for himself and his cat Niku. But he could not shake his memories of the trial. When a friend bought a secondhand silver Nissan Sven could not stop thinking about how that was the same car the victi