Steve Raucci. Let us just start with something that Steve Raucci was really good at-- cutting energy costs. He was legendary. If you worked in the Schenectady School District you knew that if you wanted to turn on extra lights or make some illicit toast in your classroom there would be hell to pay. Unauthorized coffee makers microwaves-- forbidden. I never saw this happen but I heard reports of people's electric cords being just cut at the source so that they could not be used again. Just physically snipped in half. So we did not want to cause trouble so we just tried to live reasonably. At one point Richard Agnello a special education teacher was working in the middle school and had this little office with no heat-- none. In winter it would be 56 degrees in there. He borrowed a thermometer from a science classroom to check. He asked for heat repeatedly. Nothing happened so he broke the rules brought in a little space heater which he would hide in a file cabinet at night. So one winter morning he gets to work and he turns on the space heater hangs up his coat. Suddenly Steve Raucci walks in and sees the heater. Eyes bulging and veins on his head throbbing. Started yelling at me and saying what are you doing with that space heater here? You are not supposed to have that here? That is against district policy. And I-- kind of taken aback that someone would get this upset over a little heat in the room. And I said you know what? You are right. And I am not trying to be a scofflaw but look at my thermometer. It is 57 degrees in here. And he did not have much to say. He sputtered and fumed and said well you have got to get rid of that. The next day Agnello is walking up a flight of stairs and sees a maintenance worker coming down the stairs. He is carrying my space heater in an arm cradled like a football and he is running down the stairs. And I saw him from about half a flash away and I said hey what are you doing with my space heater? And he said do not talk to me. Do not talk to me. Talk to my boss. And he ran out the front door ran past me jumped into the district van that was parked outside and tore away from the building just spewing rocks as he went. I got the thing tucked under my arm and I am going down the stairs-- That is John Lapointe Jr the district electrician who'd been sent to remedy this very very serious space heater infraction. And this guy goes-- right at the bottom of the stairs I am heading out to my truck-- hey that is my space heater. Where you going with that? I go you got to talk to facilities. You know Steve Raucci in facilities. And I just kept going. For the people who worked under Steve Raucci this story's a dime a dozen. And it is got all the hallmarks of Raucci's style-- the temper the fanatical control over every single detail around him the pettiness the comic strip antics even the fact that workers were forbidden to talk to teachers when they were out on a job. Schenectady School District has a good reputation academically and the people in town knew the usual things about their schools-- the test scores the good teachers the budget fights. What they did not know was that a huge scandal was slowly coming to a boil in one of the least likely places down Norwood Avenue along the side of Mount Pleasant Middle School behind the high chain link fence surrounding a parking lot filled with trucks and vans an area called the pen. Alongside the pen there is a big garage where they store lawn mowers and tons of supplies. That is where the workers hang out-- the custodians and the maintenance guys. They were Steve Raucci's subjects who only half-jokingly called Steve the King or the Doctor or sometimes even just God. Everybody who worked for him has an example of something that he did something just off enough they have never forgotten it. When I was in the restroom he slid newspapers on fire underneath the door. He had eggs. I have chickens so I would bring eggs in for the guys. And he saw them in the fridge or something. He goes oh here. He makes the gal-- his secretary-- pick who he throws the egg at. She did not want to pick anybody. I was on my way home one day and I see something smoking in the middle of the road as I am approaching it with my van. And all of a sudden this thing goes ba-boom. Scared the living daylights out of me. You know what I mean? This thing when it went off it shook the whole area. So I come to work the next morning. Steve's sitting there. He starts asking me so anything exciting happen or anything unusual happen? And I am like it was you? From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today on our program how one guy came to be untouchable how he grabbed power and dominated everybody around him sometimes with fear sometimes cruelty playing by rules that he invented. And how people all around him including people with the power to stop him let it happen. And what is so interesting about this is that all the intrigue and drama did not happen in a setting like national politics or big business. This guy was not a Harvey Weinstein with the power to make somebody a movie star. This is a study in tyranny writ small Machiavellian scheming in the maintenance office of school district. Act One of today's show is about what it was like at the height of Steve Raucci's power. Act Two is about how he fell. We first broadcast today's show years ago when all this happened. This week is the 10th anniversary of Raucci's arrest. And he just did an interview with a reporter about what happened where he says some things he is never said. Some details of that at the end of the program. The reporter for our story is Sarah Koenig who later became the host of the podcast Serial. And let us get right to it. Here's Sarah Koenig. Of course there are tyrannical manipulative bullies everywhere but Steve Raucci was special a virtuoso. Schenectady County District Attorney Bob Carney is something of an expert on tough characters of all kinds. Since he is been DA he is overseen the convictions of more than 80 murderers. And some of them did unspeakably bad things. But in terms of a person who bullies people and studies the art of intimidation and coercion I do not think there is anybody that compares with him because he made it the theme and the focus of his life. What also makes the Raucci affair unusual is that he got away with it quietly for decades. So that when he was finally arrested in February of 2009 charged with 26 felonies from weapons possession to arson to terrorism the citizens of Schenectady were incredulous. Carl Strock a writer for the Schenectady Daily Gazette wrote dozens of columns about the case. And he is not someone who ever thought the school district could yield interesting news. Not only Schenectady School District but any school district around here that I have heard of-- these are boring boring places for a journalist. If a clerk sometimes embezzles 20 from the petty cash drawer that would be a big event in a school district. School districts attract-- you know it is kind of noble-minded people. And so my first reaction and I think everybody's was wow. How could this happen? How can you have a mid-level employee in the school district being sort of a terrorist really? Vandalizing people's houses threatening them bodily and grabbing them physically humiliating them. And all this that had been going on for years how could this have happened? Steve Raucci grew up in Schenectady. It is a small mostly working class middle class city about three hours north of Manhattan. He started working in the district in 1973 making 3.12 an hour as a laborer. He worked his way up to groundskeeper then maintenance guy. And by the time his career ended 36 years later he was in charge of all 21 of the district school buildings. He was 60 years old married to his third wife Shelley no children living in a modest condo. The stories people tell about Steve's behavior-- and there are probably hundreds of stories-- fall into a few categories. First humiliating hijinks. Second insatiable control. And third retribution-- reserved for those who did not react well to the first and second categories. I talked to John Lapointe Jr the electrician Ellen Frederick Steve's former secretary Bryan Schaeffer a district carpenter and a few other people who did not want their names used. They all said that humiliation was a daily event and often creepily sexual. Here's Ellen Frederick. He walked around my desk and walked behind me pretended to grab my hair pretending to drag me in his office and bend me over his desk and proceeded to-- he simulated-- we got it. We knew exactly what he was doing. And then there was the so-called man game. He would put his hand on a guy's thigh and kind of jokingly wait for any sort of reaction from the person. Just because if you enjoyed that perhaps you would be gay. Once he asked a young employee to show me a picture of his girlfriend who was beautiful. So the guy did. The picture was on his phone. And Steve asked him to email it to him and the guy said no. Steve asked again. And the kid said no. And then Steve suggested that if he so wanted that raise they would talked about he would send the photo. So the guy did. The next morning a big blown-up copy of it was taped to the office whiteboard along with a caption too disgusting to repeat. The kid was horrified. Steve's answer was I did not know you were coming in today. I thought you were off. If you were out to breakfast with Steve-- and a core group of employees was compelled to attend these breakfasts-- he might pour a shaker of salt in your coffee when your back was turned or sneak up on you in the bathroom and steal your glasses. Steve would open your paycheck and write something embarrassing on the back or even the front. At morning meetings-- sometimes hour-long affairs at which Steve would read aggressive prepared remarks Soviet-style to the 20 or so guys gathered-- he might bring up your personal problems how your marriage was on the rocks your wife cheating on you apropos of nothing. An older guy who'd since retired from the school told me you can say a lot of it was funny but it was funny like this. We were at a restaurant and he took his beer bottle and put the base of it halfway across the edge of the table so it was teetering. At any moment crash. And then it was a disaster he said. You do not do stuff like this-- slide flaming newsprint under a door or pretend to have sex with your secretary-- unless you are sure you can get away with it. Steve was sure. He was methodical and utterly in charge. For one thing he controlled work assignments for the 110 people he managed and treated his department like a combination of an army unit and a fourth-grade classroom. If you messed up one of his many rules even in a small way he would make you write I will not do such and such over and over on that whiteboard every day. You were supposed to arrive at 655 AM. If you came in at 700 the official start of the workday he would make you sign in late up at the admin office in a different building a few streets away. Ellen Frederick his secretary was a favorite of Steve's for a while. She was the Faye Ray to his King Kong except that he is actually a small trim chiseled guy who wore a brown weave in his gray hair until he had to shave it for prison. Ellen was such a favorite that she even talked back to him sometimes. At meals she always had to be at his side. He would assign everyone else seats as well. He would tell her how he liked her to look-- hair long and curly skirts short leggings. Sometimes the staff was told they were not allowed to talk to her. She was his alone. But eventually even she crossed him. And if you crossed Steve you were done. She and a couple of other people in the office were having a casual conversation one day about romantic types. Steve asked Ellen what she meant so she explained. You know what I mean. You like Susan Lucci. He was obsessed with Susan Lucci. He loved her. He had pictures of her underneath his little desk his blotter. And I said well you are not my type. I like Matthew McConaughey. He is my type whatever. Well you thought that I just told him I put the knife right in his heart. His face turned beet red. His veins popped out of his neck. I mean he could not even talk. He was just like OK that is enough. We are done here. So that was it. Two weeks later I was in a different office. Ellen was moved to a different building different department no questions asked. It was not a demotion but it was not what she wanted. Other than Steve she really liked her job in the maintenance department had a lot of friends there. Administrators told her they were moving her for her own protection. They did not explain what they meant. She told me she later heard Steve had threatened her at a meeting with administrators saying if she does not go quietly she knows what is going to happen to her her house and her family. And all this time no one said anything because if they did they knew they would face the same sort of retribution from Steve. People said they were afraid to talk sometimes for fear they would accidentally say the wrong thing. Someone would report it back to Steve. He openly encouraged reporting back rewarding gossip with time off or overtime pay. A district carpenter even made a wooden wedge of cheese which would end up in your mailbox if you would been what Steve called a good rat. Steve flaunted his vengeance his mastery of it. At a union holiday party in 2007 everyone dressed up having a nice time. He stood up and asked for their attention so he could read a speech. Instead of a toast to all their hard work and the fun times to come he issued a yuletide warning. If you criticize me behind my back you will be very very sorry. It does not matter if you say it while you are in a drugstore a mall or one of our schools. Unless you are talking to yourself there is always a good chance of it leaking back to me. Police found the text of the speech in Steve's computer when they seized it. That is Bob Carney reading the district attorney who personally prosecuted Steve. So you understand how important it is for me to protect myself with my responsibilities I will mention the names of several people in our department that I have eliminated because they found out just how protective I can be. Some of you may remember them. If you are noticing a certain embattled tone for Raucci the maintenance department is an operatic drama of endless threats and intrigue. He cannot trust anyone. He is constantly undermined by disloyal minions. You are either with Steve or you are against Steve he would tell people. There is no on the fence. Fence riders get hurt. He would recite lines from Goodfellas and other tough guy movies without irony in conversations about routine office business. In his Christmas speech he went on to denounce a bunch of people he would eliminated including these guys. Bob Nunamacher who was a plumber in this department who thought he was better than the people he worked with including me. He even attempted to fight my decision to get rid of him by going to our union officials at the local and the region. It took me one day to eliminate him and his partner who said to me he had an allegiance to him not me. Two days later they were both gone. Now this was his holiday message. Sounds like a really fun party. Oh yeah. I think it probably upped the alcohol intake for the evening. The story of the plumbers was a classic case. There were two plumbers on staff. The senior plumber was giving Steve lip but to get rid of him Steve would have to get rid of the junior plumber first-- because of seniority rules. So he tried to get the junior plumber to take another position to make way for Steve to fire his partner. The guy did not want to do it. One longtime employee who did not want his name used told me about it. It disgusted him to see how easy it was for Steve to can the junior plumber. So he got rid of him. Just that easy. And it was no challenge. There was no question either from the administration the school board or anything. When it came across the table there was just no questions. The union did not question this guy's got a year and a half. Why are you getting rid of him all of a sudden? Nothing. Steve justified the firings as a cost-cutting measure to the administration saying the district did not need any plumbers. A month later of course they hired another plumber. But anyone who'd stuck up for the enemy plumbers was punished. This guy who is retired now had taken that risk questioning the firings to Steve's face. Well I told him-- I said I did not think it was right. And so after you said I do not think it is the right thing then what happened to you? I went to the high school. And what did it mean to be sent over to the high school? Well it was just to humiliate the employee that was involved in that. You would have to take out the trash. You would get the worst part of the building to clean up after the kids. The one part of the building that was kind of isolated where the milk was spilt and the chips were thrown and food was all over the windows and things. And there is nothing wrong with doing an honest day's work but it was not-- I spent my whole life getting into this position. And now I am demoted back to where I was 30 years ago. So you were kind of exiled there. Yes. And how long did your exile last? Seven weeks. The length of time was until he felt you learned your lesson. Did you learn your lesson? In other words did you speak up about things after that? No I did not because his big threat to me was that-- at the time I was 51 years old. I had 30-plus years in the school district. Where was I going to go and get a job? What was I going to do start over? How was I going to afford my child support? How was I going to support my children? How was I going to do things with my sons that I enjoyed doing without a job? And he used that. Wait. Are those things you were saying to yourself inside your head or things he was saying to you? No he was saying that to me. Those were quotes. I heard this over and over. I needed my job. What choice did I have? I had no one to complain to. I had nowhere to go for help. Steve convinced his workers that he was responsible for any pleasure any benefit that came their way which meant he could also take it away without warning. it is the oldest trick in the tyrant playbook. Steve knew the only way he could maintain the kind of absolute control he wanted over the people below him was to be in the excellent good graces of the many bosses above him-- in the union the school board and the district administration. Arguably his chief talent was figuring out how to make himself indispensable to them. Steve had worked in the school system so long he knew exactly which levers to pull and in what order. He started with the union. In the 1990s the district's maintenance department was in bad shape. It was unruly and supervisors were not lasting very long. The district was getting lots of grievances about working conditions and pay. It got so bad that the district considered getting rid of the maintenance department altogether hiring an outside company to do the work. Back in those days Steve Raucci was just a regular utility worker with a reputation for strangely aggressive pranks. He decided to run for president of his unit in the union which is the CSEA-- Civil Service Employees Association. He promised to help settle the workers problems himself and he won. John Lapointe the electrician from the space heater incident voted for Steve even campaigned for him. John's a slim dark-haired guy with a goatee and stylish glasses. He is in his 50s and his son also works in the maintenance department. John's a deeply nice and gentle man. And yet he became one of Steve's inner circle. John and his wife would go to dinner with Steve and his wife and a few other couples. You could not refuse these dinners. At the time 2001 John was impressed with Steve. In the beginning he was very effective jumping on issues immediately resolving them immediately and he seemed like wow this guy's a pit bull. You know what I mean? He is grabbing growling and getting stuff done. And you will not be surprised to learn that under his administration the number of grievances from that unit went from an average of 20 to 25 a year down to zero. That is Carl Strock again the columnist. There were no union grievances. So this of course is a big advantage to the administration. You know it is time consuming to deal with these grievances. He was a wonderful asset. As head of the union Steve had the opportunity to gain entrance to the inner workings of the entire school district all from his perch in the maintenance office. He became friendly with a guy named Jeff Janiszewski. They had breakfast meetings at a local chain restaurant. Janiszewski was school board president. But even when he was not on the board Janiszewski was widely known around town as the board's kingmaker. He chose candidates and got them elected. That is where Steve Raucci came in. Their whole electioneering effort was pretty much undertaken by the OM unit. That is DA Bob Carney. O and M is the operations and maintenance department the one Raucci ran. If they had phone banks at night he would bring 20 of his guys. The teachers would bring maybe two. They would pass out flyers. They would do phone banking of voters. And overwhelmingly it was his people. I do believe from what I know about electioneering and politics and the school board elections that that kind of level of effort would be effective to turn an election because you are only dealing with 400 or 500 people that vote. And for many years that faction was very successful in controlling the school district and consistently won school board elections. And Raucci took credit for that in memos and emails that he sent to them. Several people who worked for Raucci told me if they refused to do all this campaign grunt work they would most certainly be punished for it. They also told me they would had to pass out election flyers endorsing candidates or urging passage of the budget door-to-door on district time which is illegal in New York. Steve's influence earned him yet more influence. Two years after becoming union president he was promoted to director of buildings and grounds for the district. His salary jumped from 37500 to 67500. But he was not called the director because if he officially became a director or manager of anything that meant he could not also be in the union much less run his unit a position he very much wanted to keep. So on paper he finagled the underwhelming title of quote head utility worker. That way he could keep his union control. In addition he would not have to take the civil service exam required to qualify for a manager's job. And importantly he could still get overtime pay which managers do not. I asked a former district official who did not want to be named about all this why he allowed Raucci to cut all these corners in terms of his title and his pay while he promoted him at all considering his history. In the past Raucci had been disciplined for taking work trucks home or disappearing on the job and there were rumors about explosives. An administrator's car had been set on fire for instance and there was talk that Raucci was involved. The former official sorrowfully defended his decisions. I believed in Steve Raucci he told me. The maintenance department was a tough unit a troubled unit and I thought he was someone who cared about the district who would do a good job. I am sorry now. But it is hard to say publicly that I believed in him at the time. It is like saying you think Hitler was a good guy. As for the personnel file the former official said he did not know about all the complaints and suspicions about Steve at the time because he never looked at the file. This part of Steve's story is the most confounding to me. How it could have happened that a boss of 110 people was also their union president which in Steve's case meant he could threaten their jobs prevent them from going over his head cut off all avenues of complaint. How was such a blatant conflict of interest allowed to stand? Some people had brought it up and it was squelched pretty quick. Steve dealt with that very quickly. John Lapointe again. We actually had a meeting at CSEA headquarters in Latham and it was explained to us that it was actually quite common for a boss to also be a union president. In fact it is not that strange for a so-called straw boss to be a union president-- someone who is supervising maybe four or five people. What is unheard of at CSEA however and probably at any union is a union president who is an actual boss over 110 people capable of hiring and firing at will. It seems only a couple of people tried to do anything about this. One of them was Michelle Tabbano co-chair of the union's grievance committee for Schenectady County. She tried hard to boot him but she was blocked at every turn. I was part of three meetings trying to get Steve Raucci out. I knew that with the position he was in was a conflict of interest and that he should have had judicial charges filed against him. I knew that. So I had a meeting with Kathy Garrison. Kathy Garrison is the region four president of CSEA. I know Steve Raucci was there and I told him I wanted him out of the union. I thought we had all evidence in the world to prove that he was part of management. What more egregious thing can you have is the union present to be in bed with the school board with the facilities supervisor with the attorneys? Are you kidding me? That is who represents our members? Just one of those things he should have been-- you are working me all up.  I am sorry. Tabbano took up this fight when she started getting phone calls. Two three then six maybe eight total-- people who worked for Steve. And it was always the same complaint-- bullying belittling people embarrassing people threatening to fire them if they did not do what he said. And I told them that we could file grievances but I needed them to give me their name and we could talk about it so-- but nobody ever would. And then I would not hear from them again. They said they were afraid of the repercussions. The reason they were calling her is because they could not use the normal chain of command. If a worker had a problem they were first supposed to go to their supervisor Steve. Then their complaint went go up a level to the district's director of human resources Mike Stricos a pal of Steve's who once presented him with a framed picture of Marlon Brando as the Godfather at a morning staff meeting. After that there was the union's labor relations specialist a guy named Mike Campon who was good friends with school board president Jeff Janiszewski another Steve supporter. And the head of the union local? Also friends with Steve. It was a spider's web of good old boys. Since Tabbano could not get workers to go public she tried to oust Steve on a technicality. He was clearly making too much money for his title of head utility worker which therefore had to be a phony. She filed official requests twice with the school district demanding that they disclose financial information about Steve. And how did the school district respond to these official requests for transparency regarding Steve's position? Request they are required to respond to according to labor law? They never answered me. They never answered me. Tabbano could not prove anything. And none of her union superiors cared to press it. The higher ups at CSEA liked Steve. He helped them with their campaigns. You know the union I think broke down at every level. I blame myself for a lot of these things. I wish I could have fought more to get him out of there. CSEA blew this one big time. We blew it. One of the main ways Steve ingratiated himself with his bosses was also the most traditional one used by any manager in any workplace to get in good with the people in charge. He saved them money-- lots of it. And the way he did that was pretty ingenious. In 2004 a year after he takes over the maintenance department Steve also becomes the de facto energy manager for the district hence the space heater incident. Another guy had had the job but he was not meeting his energy reduction goals. What happened was that the district had invested in energy-tracking software that if used properly was supposed to reduce its energy consumption by say 20 a big savings. A guy named Lou Semione was put in charge of the program a seventy-something thousand dollar a year job. Steve decided he wanted it so he began to sabotage Lou. John Lapointe knew what was going on. Steve would make it very difficult for Lou to have any access on the computer to make any changes to the heating system lighting and so on. So wait. So Lou's in charge of getting the numbers down but he does not actually have his hands on the buttons to make that happen? You got it. Right. There is a computer that you access and you could see all the buildings through it and make your changes. And Steve would let Lou see it but not change anything. Somebody else would make the changes. So you can kind of take it from there what kind of changes were being made and it was not in Lou's favor. OK? Steve for instance left the heat and lights on in every building over the three-day Columbus Day holiday. He once pretended the school's football lights were broken and John had to pretend to fix them. These football field lights-- there is god I am thinking about 120 of these lights. And they would draw a lot of power. So we had them turned on during the day and they stayed on for a few hours to eat up some energy. And in fact they were not being worked on. They were just being left on. And-- And did you know why? Well yeah. I mean Steve did not really hide the fact that he was screwing with Lou. You know what I mean? You knew what he was doing. Well how did you feel that he was asking you to do this thing which you knew was totally baloney and also unfair to this other guy? Again you just did what the guy wanted you to do. Did it make you mad? Well of course. Well you know-- It is upsetting. It is upsetting that you are doing this type of stuff. But again I keep telling myself I am just doing what my boss asked me to do. He is your union president your boss. With Steve again you are either with him or you are against him. That is the way it was. So Lou's energy savings numbers were bad maybe single digits. Steve persuaded the administration to give him the job instead. But again not the title of energy manager since that would jeopardize his union situation. He said he would do the job for half Lou's salary which he would collect in overtime. In this way Steve's salary nearly doubled so that by the time he was arrested in 2009 he was making about 125000 a year. The superintendent by contrast was making about 194000. As energy czar Steve was fearless. He would openly do battle with anyone who tried to turn on a switch he did not think needed turning on. Did not matter if you were a teacher or an administrator or one time a priest who wanted weekend heat in a classroom being leased from a church. In an email Steve called the clergyman a quote joker and a crook with a collar and vowed to fight him. Because of all this Steve's energy reduction numbers were great. He got consumption down by a stunning 30 saved the district millions in bills and was publicly praised by the administration. And in particular by superintendent Eric Ely for whom Raucci had a soft spot. Judging from their email exchanges the two became pretty cozy. It is an email from Raucci to Eric Ely superintendent of schools dated September 4 2008. That is DA Bob Carney. I have often told you that you and I are alike in many ways. We just have different backgrounds. We both like to win and we do not care how we do it as long as we win. We both tell it like it is and if someone does not like what we say that is too damn bad. If we do not like someone we let them know about it and usually do something about it. There we may differ a little. According to rumors when I do not like someone I force them to go away or make them disappear. When you do not like someone you have to wait until they die of old age unless you give me their name. The columnist Carl Strock has a favorite from these emails. Here's one from the superintendent Eric Ely to Steve Raucci dated February 16 2009 which was just a couple of days before Raucci was arrested. When he had done everything he was going to do-- he had committed all hi