Parents here is all the evidence you need that TV is bad for kids especially public TV. When Sean was 14 he loved watching those British TV shows they are always running on PBS-- Masterpiece Theater Doctor Who. And then there was this show that I would stay up really late and watch and tape and watch over and over again the tapes called Dempsey and Makepeace which was about an American detective who went to London because he had been like setup at home. And he was teamed up with a woman who was this aristocrat named Lady Harriet Makepeace. And I was really on her side.  I thought you know she is got it going on. You looked down on the American. Oh yeah. What Sean liked about Lady Harriet Makepeace and all the other Brits on TV was their aloofness how they seemed above it all how they looked down on Americans. Which Sean did also convinced there must be something wrong with the nation that produced jocks and bullies who harassed him in school. And sometimes joking around with his friends he would talk with a British accent. And then it was just something that spiraled out of control. I know that eventually I was just using an English accent literally from waking to sleeping morning noon and night. Sean spoke with a British accent from the time he was 14 until he was 16. And at some point his mom thought you know maybe I need to do something about this and took him to see a psychiatrist. I do not know the different schools of psychology but he was really very confrontative. And he is like well you have got to stop doing this he said because you are not British. And my mom just sort of sat over next to me and she sort of went yeah to agree with him and to sort of help him in showing me this. Sean was furious. He had an impulse to lecture the guy on how in fact he was British. And the only problem with that was that A he knew very well that he was not. And B his mom was sitting right there. She was sure to contradict him. He did not know what to do. His situation seemed impossible. Because that is what I was thinking. Like there has to be a way that I can be British still. There must be a way that this is true somehow. Yeah exactly. Well today on our radio program stories of people who tell a lie and they get to the point where they believe the lie more than anybody else does. It feels like it must be true. Happens all the time. And can I say we are not even going to get into what happens with political figures in this show kidding themselves about the facts of things. Today we have stories of civilians people like you and me basically pulling hoaxes on ourselves. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Act One of our program today The Sun Never Sets-- On The Moosewood Restaurant in which two young men both from small towns try on new identities-- false identities-- and what they have to do to keep the lies going. Act Two Conning the Con Men. Nancy Updike reports on a federal sting operation and how it caught con men by setting up a con of its own. Act Three Oedipus Hex. A little kid tries to get rid of his own father with a very very unlikely plan. Stay with us. Act One The Sun Never Sets-- On the Moosewood Restaurant. So this is the story of two young people who for a period in their lives in their search to figure out who they were pretended to be people who they were not. We are going to hear from Sean Cole and from Joel Lovell. We are going to start with Sean. Today's show is a rerun. This was recorded years ago. These days Sean is a producer here at our show. Sean grew up in a small town in Massachusetts a town that was approximately 3350 miles from London. It was second nature. It was first nature. To this day I have trouble saying oh I faked an accent for two years. I mean I had an accent for two years. I like-- Sean could I just get to take a deep breath and describe for me what you had for lunch today or perhaps for breakfast this morning in as close to the accent that you can-- As close as I can? --muster? Yeah. OK. I am going to take a sip of water here. Well Ira I had a salad. I had it at the Boston House of Pancakes-- or Pizza rather. What was the beverage? It was a Snapple just lemon flavored. I do not really like the peach. Joel Lovell's story began when he left the working class town where he grew up in upstate New York. His parents owned a liquor store in a small town. He was the first member of his family to go to college. And it was an especially big deal because he got into an Ivy League school Cornell. It was one of those first days of college. You know when you spend a lot of time everybody kind of moves in hordes and you spend a lot of time in each other's dorm rooms. And there were about oh I do not know 10 or 11 of us in this one guy's room. And we were just like sitting around eating pizza and talking and people were talking about where they were from and what their parents did and stuff like that. And there was one guy whose dad was a doctor for the Knicks. There was another guy whose father was an elected representative from New York State. And then this other guy whose father was on the World Court-- literally was a member of the World Court. Oh my. And so it suddenly seemed like this incredibly sort of impressive group to me and they seemed like just sort of worldly in ways that was just beyond my wildest imagination and worldly beyond what I am now frankly. And I remember sort of sitting there at the time thinking oh my god. I am so out of my league here. And then completely unplanned I suddenly said-- as a slice of pizza was passed to me this pizza with sausage on top of it I said you know I cannot take that because my parents are vegetarians. And everybody in the room sort of turned and looked at me because it was not even as if I said well I am a vegetarian. But I said you know my parents are vegetarians. And there is a sort of puzzled look on everybody in the room. And I said well and I am too. I have never eaten meat. And I am not entirely-- well I mean I have some ideas now about why I said that. But at the time I had no idea what I was saying. It was like suddenly I would become possessed and I had to think of something to say about myself that seemed interesting. And vegetarianism was the thing that I chose. Now do you tell people that you were actually from England? No no never that I was from Britain. But in a way that I was British. You know there was a real distinction there for me. Like I would taken it on like I was culturally British now. Well I think what it was is I think I did some sort of calculus that took like a nanosecond in my head. And I thought you know I cannot actually lie about what my parents do. But I think the connections that I was making were this that somehow because I was from this town in the sticks if my folks were vegetarians then the whole history that that suggested was that they were sort of these kind of leftist academic radicals who had sort of dropped out of society and gone back to the land. And I was living in this bumpkin town in upstate New York. And my folks were living some sort of life that was driven by their political philosophy rather than I was just a guy who grew up in upstate New York. You know I did the old kid thing of like wishing that my real British parents would come and tell me I was adopted and take me back to London. So I am sitting there in the room and all these guys are looking at me. And they are like dude. What do you eat? And suddenly I realized in that moment how little I knew about vegetarianism. And I kind of tried to be sort of vague about it. You know we eat salads and lentils. I remember sort of saying lentils a lot. And there was a gap certainly in my education because I would be using words that Americans just do not use. You know instead of saying drugstore I would say chemist. Or I would try my best to remember to say bonnet instead of hood or boot instead of trunk but I often could not. On the meal plan I ended up eating a lot of big piles of iceberg lettuce and chickpeas. And during that time would you find yourself sneaking to go to get meat somewhere? Yeah definitely. At first I would go really far from campus in order to have like a BLT. There is this diner downtown in Ithaca. It felt incredibly illicit. I would be sitting there and I would have some reading material or something with me. And I would be the lonely guy in my booth. And I would order the BLT and I would sort of watch it coming from across the room with its toothpick in the top of it and a side of French fries with the meat gravy on top. And when it landed on the table it would just seem like this incredibly sort of wonderful moment you know when you are doing something just totally unlike what anybody would expect of you. I was a nobody. I mean I was living in an extremely small kind of rural town in the middle of nowhere. It was I guess in a way this was my way of traveling in a way and of being somebody and sort of achieving an identity which I guess I did not feel like I had. I did not feel like I-- I am just sort of really realizing this now. But I guess I did not feel as though I had anything that made me up. I mean what I realized fairly quickly is that if this is going to be believable I actually have to-- well I have to believe in it. But I also began to not only believe but really sort of take on as my persona all of the stuff that I imagined was associated with vegetarianism. Like what? Well certain political convictions and ways of dress. I wore ripped jeans and I wore combat boots but I also wore like a kind of stage jacket that you would see in a community theater production of Hamlet. Yeah. You know I bought sandals. I very specifically remember going down to this thrift store in downtown Ithaca and buying a pair of fatigue shorts which just seemed like you know I might as well have been Che Guevara at that point.  I mean as far as I was concerned yeah I was a dangerous leftist. Did you at any point during this find yourself in the following argument where you would say I have never had a hamburger. And somebody would insist oh you must have had meat at some point.  And then you had to argue your side? Yeah definitely. It was not pretty. And of course you know I had grown up-- just to put this in context for a second if you do not mind. Mhm. Not only had I had hundreds of hamburgers and gone to the McDonald's drive-through hundreds of times but the counterpoint situation that I always think about when I remember this time is that when I was a senior in high school my family for sort of time-saving reasons decided that a great thing to do would be to go to Arby's Roast Beef. I do not know if you have those out in Chicago. I think they are countrywide. So my dad and I would go to Arby's on say like a Thursday afternoon or something after I got out of school. And we would go in there and we would buy 48 Arby's roast beef sandwiches.  And they would put them in this cardboard box and we would bring home this giant box full of those tinfoil-covered Arby's roast beef sandwiches. And we would stuff them in our freezer. We would freeze the Arby's roast beef sandwiches and then we would have them there. Buns and all? Buns and all yeah. And so we would have them there as ready-made snacks whenever we might want one. I mean that is the kind of meat-eating that my family was engaged in.   The other thing was that I had these run-ins with doubting my British identity like-- Oh really? Yeah as though it were slipping away. And I would really go nuts at that point. And there was one time it happened at home. I was at home and I was like oh my god I have to do something. I have to affirm my devotion. So I think I-- well I know I opened up the window. And I psyched myself to do it. I was like oh man. If I do not do this it will not come back. And I opened up the window. And then I screamed-- this is the middle of the night or 1000 at night. I screamed I love England and of course in a British accent outside the window. And then you felt better? You felt like you had reasserted yourself? I felt like I had done something at least. For England. Yeah. I had fortified my Britishness. I would find myself in these conversations where people were saying you know you have never had a McDonald's hamburger? What kind of 18-year-old American has never had a hamburger from McDonald's? Quite a legitimate question I would add. Absolutely. Absolutely. And I would say yeah I have just never had one. They scare me. And I would sort of like talk about the ways-- I would make up these stories about how I would come close a couple of times how a friend of mine in high school had bought me a Big Mac and there I was sitting on the front seat of his car and I almost ate it and then could not bring myself to do it. So yeah there was all this sort of drama that I lied about. My mom and dad came down to visit for parent's weekend. And they were really proud that I was going there and really excited to come down. And they came down to visit. And really proud because you were the first generation to go to college? Right. You made it into this Ivy League school. It was a big big deal. Right exactly. Exactly. And so they drove down from Camillus which is about between an hour and an hour and a half. They came down. And in that week leading up to parent's weekend everybody's talking about their parents coming and everybody's making reservations at restaurants where to eat on Saturday night. And everybody's sort of planning on taking their parents to the football game on Saturday during the day. And it suddenly occurred to me-- this real sort of panic set in that you know my parents would come down and we would go to a football game and my dad would buy a hot dog. And somebody across the field would see Mr. Lovell eating a hot dog and then of course the cat would be out of the bag.   And so I thought you know I have got to make a reservation at a restaurant at someplace either A where nobody else's parents will be or at a vegetarian restaurant. And so what I did was make a reservation at the Moosewood Restaurant which is in Ithaca. And there is the Moosewood cookbooks that are out. Vegetarian cookbooks. Exactly. Yeah. Mhm. And it is this nice little vegetarian restaurant in Ithaca and a slightly famous place. But then we got there and I remember sitting down at the table in the Moosewood. And the bowls are these kind of carved wooden bowls. And I mean everything about it feels like well like a vegetarian restaurant. Not just a vegetarian restaurant but kind of a cartoon of a vegetarian restaurant. Exactly. Exactly. And I was looking at my parents across the table and they were sort of dressed up and they were excited to be coming down. And I could tell my dad was sitting there and sort of perusing the menu and thinking well you know maybe this lentil salad will be good or whatever. And I could tell he was sitting there thinking now geez. I just drove an hour and a half. All I want is a steak and a baked potato and a beer. And there I was bringing them here. But they were so game about it. They were so sort of willing to go along with it because for some reason they thought I really wanted to bring them there. And I just thought geez these people my parents have really given up a lot for me to come there. I mean financially they were really stretching themselves and we were taking out all sorts of loans. You know all those things that people do in order to go to college. And they never complained once about doing it. And they just wanted to come down and see me there and feel proud that I was there and I was sort of hiding them out in this vegetarian restaurant. I felt so bad about it afterwards. And they never once complained and they went home. And sort of imagine them stopping at a Hardee's just outside of Ithaca and getting a burger as soon as they say goodbye. But after that I just thought geez I got to find some way to come clean about this. I mean is it OK if your child decides to express himself in an alternate personality for a period of two years? I think there is-- it is funny. I never thought I would say this. But I think there is nothing wrong with that. I never thought I would say it because I wish that I had not done it now but I do not know. Maybe I learned something from doing it. I mean I think that that is par for the course. Now I think that is part of growing up. But I think it was probably necessary for me at that time in my life. Because it gave you more confidence. Yeah. And there was some bridge that this allowed me to cross. Joel Lovell and Sean Cole. Joel Lovell is the executive editor of a podcast company called Pineapple Street Media. Sean Cole works in public radio. Indeed he does. He is one of the producers of our program.   Act Two Conning the Con Men. The American legal system for the most part does not uphold the principle of eye for an eye. If you steal somebody's car the judge does not steal your car in return. If they catch you selling weed they do not sell weed to you as your punishment. But if you are in the business of running scams authorities catch you by running a scam on you. This is the story of a con man who made millions by fooling people over the phone until he was the one who got fooled. Nancy Updike reports. The guy's name is David Diamond. That is his actual name. He was one of the most successful salesmen in one of the longest-running telemarketing scams in Los Angeles history. David Diamond was a salesman at a boiler room. This is Dale Sekovich. He is been a Federal Trade Commission investigator for 29 years. He is the one who busted Diamond. He was living in a very expensive home up in the hills in Woodland Hills. He drove a custom Porsche Carrera that he had shipped over here by airplane from Germany from the factory. They lived very high on the hog. David Diamond was just one of a whole bunch of guys making money hand over fist in an operation in Southern California that was basically running the same scam over and over under different names for seven years. It was an investment scheme. Give us your money and we will put it into this great 900-number business or this online shopping network or this hot new internet service provider. Needless to say no one ever made a dime except the people running the scam who cleared 40 million. Since Diamond was one of the operation's top salesmen he made 2 million in commissions in just four years on the job. He got 30 of whatever he talked a person into investing. That means he personally conned people out of more than 6 million. The FTC caught Diamond and the others in the operation essentially by conning the con men. They had volunteers pose as dupes and record their phone calls. Because the FTC brought a case against the operation Diamond worked in some of those recordings are now part of the public record. I got Dale Sekovich to listen to the tapes with me and talk about David Diamond and the FBI volunteer who caught him. The woman on the tape-- I cannot tell you her real name but she uses the alias of Marge. She assumed the identity of a person who is named Marge. Marge was a real person who we in law enforcement and who people in the telemarketing business refer to as a mooch. A mooch is someone who will essentially buy anything from anybody who calls her on the telephone. And in fact she did over a number of years. She spent hundreds of thousands of dollars-- The real Marge. The real Marge spent hundreds of thousands of dollars on bogus prize promotions investments gold coins you name it. So the FBI went to Marge and said we really think that we need to take your telephone number away from you because it is being used to ruin your life. So once Marge agreed to that her telephone number was installed in the home of an FBI volunteer. Every time that phone line rang-- the Marge line-- that volunteer would pick up that telephone and answer it and pose as Marge. Marge? Yes. It is David Diamond. How are you? I am OK. Good. It is kind of warm here. Yeah? I sent you off a video and a package. Yes I have it. OK. The video is with regard to Mark Ericson. Mark Ericson is the person who is heading up the program and he is very successful in taking upstart companies and making them successful. You have probably heard of Hard Copy? He is an original producer of Hard Copy. I have heard of it yes. OK. You are smiling as you listen to this. What are you smiling about? Well I am smiling because it is been a while since I have heard Marge and she sounds so old and so fragile and such an easy mark when in fact you know she is this sharp FBI informant. She does not look as old as she sounds trust me. So that is one aspect of it. The other aspect is this whole Mark Ericson thing. Yeah. Is he a real person? Mark Ericson is a real person. He was named in our lawsuit. And was he an original producer of Hard Copy? No. He was a segment producer and on-the-air reporter for Hard Copy for a brief period of time. And I mean is this sort of typical of the cons in the tapes that you have heard that they will try to associate what they are selling with a legitimate business or organization or television show? Something that people have heard of? Exactly. They want to make this-- yeah something people can relate to. Here's the thing. You have to invest everything you have got or do nothing at all. And I will say that again. You should invest everything you have. You should transfer all of your investments into this program or do nothing. It does not make sense to do just a little bit. You should think about doing 1 million in this program. Oh. I do not know. That is a lot of money. You need to liquidate every nickel you have got. You either want to be in this situation-- you either want to be in this situation wholeheartedly and upgrade your investments or you do not. My suggestion to you is just do the whole thing. Well I would never liquidate everything I have. My question is why not? Because there is always gambles in anything like this. Anything like what? Well any investment like this. Like this? What does that mean? Well anything you invest in there is always a gamble. Now I want to ask you. You told me once that you thought he sounded nervous on this tape. And in this part where she is saying you know an investment like this and he is sort of questioning her well what do you mean like this. I wonder do you have any sense that he is suspicious that she might know what he is up to? I mean do they know that volunteers are out there trying to trap them posing as dupes? No. Since we talked about this tape last I actually sort of had a revelation that came to me as to why. I listened to over 40 individual tapes of David Diamond-- conversations with Marge and conversations with others-- over the course of about a year. And one of the things when you have listened to all of them you find that David in the earlier part of that year was much more kind of sweet and cautious and trying to bond with these women and patient. And sometimes would spend an hour on the phone with them-- the tape would be an hour long. But this tape was made towards the very end of that year period probably within a week or two of our raid. Having gone in on the raid and searched David Diamond's desk that day I came to realize that David Diamond was starting to question whether he wanted to do this anymore. He was starting to really have some concerns about-- Moral concerns? Moral concerns about what they were doing. And I believe that in these last couple of weeks and it is kind of shown in this tape he was becoming a little bit desperate. He wanted to make a couple more big hits and he just could not figure out why this woman was not going to write him a check. So he started getting frustrated and it comes out in his voice. What evidence did you see that he was starting to have moral qualms about what he was doing? David had become a born again. There were religious tracts all over his office and posters on his wall. Just recently. I do not know exactly what the time frame was. We do know that he had given a lot of the money that he had made to his church. And we believe that a lot of that was sort of a self-imposed penance that he could justify what he was doing because he was giving he was tithing this money that he was taking from these poor victims into his church. If 30000 is what you made on every 5000 and you put 50000 in this program that is 300000 return. That is why I am telling you you need to do 1 million in this program. Mhm. I do not know. I would never put that much in any program. Do you have an obligation to yourself as an investor to make the most amount of money possible? Well you know at my age it is really not that-- what do I want to say? I have enough to live on for the rest of my life. I understand. But is it still in your best interest to make the most amount of money possible if you could finally do it as safely as possible? It is my obligation not to lose what I have. Correct but it is also your obligation to keep your money working for you-- Right right. --because otherwise what is the point? When I heard this part of the tape even though I knew that this particular woman was not getting conned that she was in fact conning him and trapping him I started to get so angry because I was thinking you know he is really trying to take all of this old woman's money-- all of it. She is saying I have enough to live on. He is saying you have an obligation to make more. Do you ever hear things like that and just get angry? Even though you know that she is sort of in on the con on the joke? Every time I hear these pitches I am outraged because I am the person that spoke to the people who really did send David Diamond tens of thousands of dollars that consisted of their life savings and now do not have any money to even buy groceries. I have interviewed them. I have seen them sob. Yeah it makes me very angry. And what sort of recourse do they have? Slim and none. Slim and none. We have public companies that want to take you public. So if you have got a public company that is passed judgment on it it is not even me talking anymore. If Mark Ericson wants to do business with you it is not even me talking anymore. You have the ability to make an absolute fortune. And it does not make sense not to have every nickel you have got in this particular program. That is why I said it is the emergency investment situation and you should do at least 50-100 150 units while you have the opportunity. Mhm. Well how much are you investing in this? I am not investing anything in this. My investment comes in the time that I put with my client. Yes. Right. And the fact that when they make money they reinvest with me. Right. That is the whole point. Uh-huh. You were smiling again when she said you know how much are you investing? I mean is she just screwing around with him? Of course. She is playing with him. Yeah. I mean she is trained to ask him those kinds of questions so that he responds with a misrepresentation. But that does not sound like it is part of the script. That just sounds like her being mean in sort of a delicious way. Well no. I think what we were trying to do or her handler was trying to do was to get him to say oh yeah. I am in it and I have got my mother and my grandmother in it and I am putting away money for my child's education with it because then we could show later that he had not. Did you ever talk to Marge about what it is like to do this? I mean do they ever sort of have fun? Just thinking I am just turning the tables on this guy. He has no idea. I wish I could answer the question. I have never spoken to them. I would love to get the answer to that myself. I would like to ask that question myself. I think they get a lot of personal satisfaction though. How often do you get a chance to catch a bad guy as just a regular civilian? Yeah exactly. You know I do it too. I tape people using an alias in cases that I work. And is it fun? I love it. I love to get these people to tell me stuff. You know it is like acting. There is a rush. The rush of a con the pleasure of it is knowing that you have more power than the person you are conning. You know more. You know that it is a con. And let us face it given the choice between being the mark and being the con man nobody's going to choose to be the mark. But the problem is the more confidence you have in your own con the more easily you become a mark yourself. Con men get taken by other con men all the time. There just seems to be something about the particular arrogance of always being on the knowing side of the con that makes for a really really good mark. Nancy Updike is one of the producers of our program. In the years since we first broadcast this episode-- today's show is a rerun-- Dale Sekovich the FTC investigator who busted David Diamond has died. Coming up a child tries to fix his own family by harnessing the most powerful force that exists anywhere. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on the program of course we choose a theme bring you a variety of different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show Hoaxing Yourself stories of people who are fooling themselves. Sometimes that is a side effect of trying to fool others. Sometimes they just do not know better and pin their hopes and beliefs on something that is simply not true at all. We have arrived at Act Three of our show. Act Three Oedipus Hex. Shalom Auslander tells a story which happened to him when he was a boy in one of those ultra Orthodox Jewish religious schools called yeshivas. A warning to listeners that although this story is about a little boy in the story the dad is not so nice to his kids which might not be a thing that little kids will enjoy hearing at all. So take that under advisement. Here's Shalom. Rabbi Breyer walked into our third-grade classroom hung up his long black coat took off his big black hat and handed each student a small black booklet entitled The Guide to Blessings. We had one week he told us to prepare for the annual Yeshiva of Spring Valley Blessing Bee. My heart leaped. This was just what my mother needed. The Blessing Bee would make her forget all the troubles of our home. To have a son who is a talmid chuchum a wise student that was the ultimate. Her brother was a respected rabbi. And if her husband could not be one well maybe her son could be. The Guide to Blessings was a 70-page-long listing of hundreds of different foods-- soups breads fish desserts. I flipped through it slowly realizing the size of the challenge that lay ahead. Falafel? Herring? Eggplant parmigiana? I had my work cut out for me. Friday afternoons the yeshiva closed early so that we could all rush home to help our parents prepare for Shabbos-- the Sabbath. Rabbi Breyer told us that the Sages tell us that the Torah tells us that the preparation for Shabbos is equal to the importance of Shabbos itself. Most of my preparations involved searching the house for kosher wine and pouring it down the toilet. It was a thankless job I admitted to nobody. My father's frustrated rage at not having his Manischewitz Concord grape was fearsome but it was far better than his drunken rage if he did have it. I would search the pantry. I would search the garage. I would search my father's closet. But I was only eight years old and there was always a bottle of Kedem hiding somewhere I just had not thought to check. That night my father drunk on a bottle of blush Chablis that got away grabbed my older brother by his shirt collar and dragged him away from the Shabbos table. He dragged him all the way down the stairs to our bedroom in the basement and slammed the door shut. Even the silverware jumped. Who wants the last matzoh ball my mother asked? I made extra. When my brother returned to the table his nose was bleeding. My mother brought him a can of frozen orange juice to hold against the back of his neck which was supposed to somehow stop the bleeding. Rabbi Breyer taught us that it is prohibited to defrost orange juice on Shabbos because changing food from solid to liquid is considered cooking and cooking is considered working. And even God refrained from working on Shabbos. There are 39 different categories of work that are prohibited on Shabbos. That is also why you are not allowed to switch on lights on Shabbos. The electricity causes the filament to glow which is considered burning which is considered working. Category number two. My father came back to the table and drunkenly sang a few Shabbos songs fudging the words and bangi