Hey there everybody. If you are listening on our podcast or at the internet there are words in this episode that we have unbeeped. If you prefer a beeped version of the show you could find that at our website Thisamericanlife.org. One of our producers here at This American Life Robyn Semien wanted to find a New York police officer to talk to for today's program. And she spent two weeks calling police union offices in different boroughs. She reached out to crime reporters you know a lot of cops. Robyn used to work in a corrections facility in the Bronx so she knows lots of cops. And finally she managed to convince one of them. She convinced a friend on the NYPD to sit down with her. And the climate for cops in New York right now is so embattled that this officer asked that we not use her name or her voice or say what neighborhood she works in. We can say that she works in a high crime area with not many white people in it. And she and Robyn sat down to watch the Eric Garner video together. Robyn is black and not a cop. Her police officer friend is white and a cop. Eric Garner of course was an unarmed black man who died when a group of NYPD tried to arrest him for allegedly selling loose cigarettes on the street in July. And Robyn wanted to understand what a police officer sees when they watch the video. Is this good policing bad policing? Where does this go wrong? What does Eric Garner do right? What does he do wrong? Like these kinds of questions basic stuff-- That is Robyn. She says that she and her friend sat down in front of a computer and they basically just walked through the video stopping and starting and talking. And her friend told her that at every step right from the start Eric Garner seems to be resisting arrest. He is not compliant. He does not produce an ID. He keeps talking and stalling. Even once he is on the ground there is this five or six seconds where he is laying on his right side. Police go to cuff his left hand. Meanwhile his right arm is extended on the concrete his right palm facing up. His fingers are apart. Robyn showed this to me on the video. Just watch his right hand. It is face up. Put your hand behind your back. Put your hand behind your back they say. OK and it is right at this moment where there is five police officers on him. His hands are spread. She is saying why is not he put-- she says to me over and over why is not he putting his hand behind his back? See he is resisting. At that moment five officers on him he is on the ground-- yeah like I do not see how he could put his hand behind his back if he wanted to. OK play it again. Yeah he is down on the ground. He is crawling. His arm is pinned. His right arm is pinned and then they all pull his arm around and handcuff him. So it is just that fast OK. It is that fast. We watched it over and over. She only saw it as him not complying basically wrestling and refusing to be arrested. And I can only ever see it I mean as the opposite. I can only ever see it as like a person who seems thoroughly detained. Like I am thinking at this point it is under control. Why keep applying force? And she is like it is clearly not under control and there is more force to be applied. When Eric Garner says over and over I cannot breathe Robyn sees a man who is dying. Her friend does not. She tells Robyn people say that all the time when they are being arrested. They cannot breathe. You are hurting them. It happens all the time. The officer totally understood why the police on the scene did not pay any attention to it. And does she understand why you see it the way you do? No. She thinks that when you look at it you should see it the way she sees it. Yeah. And did it make her mad that you could not see it? Yeah. Yeah it did. Because to her it is obvious. Yeah and that is a very weird feeling to be sitting next to someone-- anyone let alone a friend-- and to be watching a video and saying like do not you see this person is in pain struggling to communicate? What is odd to me is that now even after the fact we know that he really could not breathe. And she kind of would not even totally cop to the fact that he was probably telling the truth as we watched the video. Robyn went into this conversation figuring they would have at least some common ground. But they talked for four hours and the longer they talked the more they both realized there was just nothing just none. Robyn's friend said she did understand why people saw this as a racial incident but she definitely did not. When Robyn asked her what should be done now she did not think anything should be done. We are doing a good job she said. Other police have said this too and pointed out that New York in particular-- a city of 8.4 million people 35 thousand officers guns everywhere everywhere in our country-- in the last year that is been tallied 2013 New York officers fired their weapons just 40 times in adversarial conflict-- 40 times. This is the second week in a row that we are doing a program about how cops see things differently doing stories about policing and race. And we have two stories for you today. One of them is about a city where things went just terribly between police and black residents. And the other story is about a place that is the opposite where they seem to be going kind of great or anyway things have improved dramatically. And we chose these stories because in both of them we learned things that we had not heard before anywhere about how much can go wrong and how it goes wrong when it goes wrong and about just how rigorous and aggressive and smart police have to be if they want things to go well. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One Inconvenience Store. So the community where policing went so badly is called Miami Gardens. It is a city of about 110000 people with a lot of crime a higher murder rate than Chicago or New York or Miami. In fact it used to be part of Miami-Dade County and broke off in 2003. It became a separate city started their own police force after that partly because the Miami-Dade cops had not been so responsive to the community. And at first apparently people loved the new cops. Miami Gardens is an overwhelmingly black community. Its leaders are black. They had a black police chief. Residents called the new cops the bumblebees because they seemed to be swarming everywhere and people liked that. And really it just took a couple years for it to become a total mess as you will hear. And the best illustration of how bad it got happened to two men-- the owner of a convenience store called the Quickstop and one of his employees. Miki Meek tells the story. The Quickstop in Miami Gardens is a hangout spot in the poorer part of the city. There is a big parking lot where groups of men sit on their cars listening to music and smoking cigarettes. A constant stream of customers keeps the front door swinging back and forth. They are stopping in to pick up a bag of chips some candy a few beers. When I first showed up it seemed pretty rough. Some of the regulars clearly had mental health problems. There is been a lot of drug arrests in the parking lot. And back in 2008 right after the city launched its new police department officers stopped by and they talked to the owner of the Quickstop a guy named Alex Saleh. They asked him if he wanted to partner with the police in a new initiative called The Zero-Tolerance Zone Trespassing Program. You know what why not? I am pro-police. I am pro-cop. Alex says he never had any problems inside his store. But under the program the police would keep an extra eye on the Quickstop and on the parking lot and if they thought something was up they would not have to wait for Alex to phone in a complaint. They could stop and question or apprehend someone if they felt they had cause. So Alex thought-- We are going to work together fight crime together. He said you see the new police department. You are going to be able to build you know a great relation with the officers. You know this sounds great. Alex screwed a metal sign onto the front of his store declaring it a zero-tolerance zone. He liked how official it looked with the city seal. He felt proud but then after just a couple weeks something odd started happening. Cops start coming to the parking lot almost every other day. They used to go inside the store and tell the customer while they are paying in the line excuse me. You you and you come outside. I was like outside? Alex says he would be standing right there in the store right behind the counter and officers would ignore him and tell his customers to put down their things. Then they would take the customers outside and line them up against the wall. The customers were always black. The officers were almost always white. Sometimes you would see like 10 people against the wall searching everyone. But I am confused. Did those guys commit a crime? Did those guys really do something? And what would you do in that point? You would see them pull customers out of line and what would you say? I told the officers excuse me. What is this situation? Where is the problem? Can somebody explain to me what is? They said do not worry about it. That is our job. Before long it was not just the customers being questioned. The police started including a guy named Earl. Alex paid him to do odd jobs around the store. One night right before closing Alex sent Earl out to the parking lot with a broom and a dustpan. When he did not come back Alex want out to check on him. I see only the dustpan and the broom. And I do not see Earl. It was not like Earl to walk off the job. The next day when he arrived at the store Alex asked him about it. Earl said I was in jail last night. I said why? He said for trespassing. Trespassing at the store-- Earl says he was charged with trespassing where he works. I was upset. I was burning myself inside. I was like this is impossible. Alex is more than just a boss to Earl more like a father figure to him. Earl has some mental health issues and in general he has a kid-like quality. He first started coming to the Quickstop years before when he was 14. He had just moved around the corner but his family life was rough. And his mom could not really take care of him. So Alex started keeping an eye on him. Here's Earl. That is why I started hanging around the store you know it is because Alex treat me like a son though. Sometimes he let me credit stuff like milk or something bread or something. I would go to the store and get it. I would holler at him. And then he gave me a job and I started working. I love my job. I love working at it. We are like a family though. That incident with the police where Alex walked outside to check on Earl at the end of the night and found only a dustpan and broom that happened two more times that month. They will like come and grab me from like outside. Like they will not go in the store and ask Alex or nothing though. They would just grab me put me in a police car take me down to jail you know? I am like well I work here though. You feel me? So you would say I work here. And what would they say? Come on. You as not supposed to be here. You trespassing here. I would be like ask my boss. I would be telling ask my boss. They are still oh we do not care. They will take me down. Each time the police picked up Earl they would book him into the county jail. He would spend the night there go to court the next day and there he would be given a choice. Plead guilty to trespassing and get out of jail right away or he could fight the trespassing charge but it would be a hassle. And it would be expensive. He would have to hire a lawyer and post bond and wait for a trial date. So Earl always pleaded guilty. Some of the officers coming into Alex's store were from a specialized unit that was one of the pillars of the new police department. Their job was to fight serious crime in the city. So Alex wanted to know why were they even bothering with his store? Why were they bothering with Earl? He says he went and talked to their boss the commander of investigations Major Anthony Chapman. I explained to Major Chapman the situation was going on in the store with the different specialized unit that was coming and threatening my guy my clerks threatening my customers. You know he told me do not worry about it. Everything is going to be fine. I am trained to handle this. I am going to talk to my guys. And he told me this is my phone number. You can call me anytime. Obviously it was a big mistake. A mistake because officers started showing up more and more he says. Actually one day one of the officers from the specialized unit a female drove to the parking lot put the window down and said great complaint. She stick the finger on me the middle finger like  you. And at that time I was kind of scared. I do not know what to do. It was like you feel like you cannot do anything about it. Alex had never felt this way about the police that they were not on his side. He thought maybe he could make them go away by quitting the zero tolerance program. So he took down the sign from his store. When he showed up one morning someone had screwed another one back into its place. Meanwhile Earl was now getting picked up everywhere all over town. Three years into the program he had been arrested 63 times and stopped another 99 times. On the police reports the reason was almost always the same. Earl seemed quote suspicious. Suspicious while waiting at the bus stop or playing basketball for buying food or walking to a public restroom-- only once did Earl run. In the arrest report the officer wrote quote Earl stated that he was running because he was tired of the police arresting him for no reason. After that Earl says it was just easier to give himself up. Sometimes when they would pull up I would just walk to them and pull out my ID put my ID on the car put my hands on the car because I already know what they are going to do. Put my hands behind my back. I accept what they got for me though. Why? Because I would be too scared. I would be scared they are going to shoot me. Man it was like I was a target though. Like everywhere they see me they will stop me. I was getting trespassing from the park the library. Sometimes they used to come around my door at 5 oclock in the morning looking like I am really like a fugitive or something. Why were they after him? Every time he got arrested he never fought back. He would just follow whatever they tell him to do. Earl honestly is a quiet kid. In other words easy pickings for the police. That is the only explanation Alex could think of. It is not like Earl had some serious criminal record. He was so shy that Alex gave him jobs like cleaning and stocking so he did not have to interact with customers much. It almost seemed like officers were saying to each other flat out-- Let us go over to the Quickstop. We will stop Earl-- low-hanging fruit. This is Jeff Mason. He was a sergeant with the Miami Gardens police. Alex knew him. His store was in his district and Alex flagged him down a couple times to complain about what was happening at his store. Jeff told him it was no accident that some officers were targeting Earl. Orders had been coming down. They needed to bring in numbers. We would have roll calls not only with the sergeants but with the captains. And yeah the message would be we need to see evidence that you guys are making an impact. And you need to justify your existence through numbers. You stop enough people you will find something. These were new officers in a new police department that was trying to prove itself. Their zero tolerance program was a version of the broken windows policing theory that seemed so successful in other cities. If you stamp out small offenses the theory goes it deters bigger ones. They were sending a message to residents in Miami Gardens that no crime would go unchecked. So officers had to prove they were catching the small stuff Jeff says like trespassing. As supervisors we were expected to do our monthly stats sheet to tally up pretty much everything that the officers did on a daily basis turn it in. And at one time it was posted. You know you had competition between platoons and squads. So the culture was established to where if you wanted to get anywhere in that department or if you wanted to get promoted then you would bring in numbers. It seemed like this was what residents wanted. Minutes from city council meetings for those first few years show hardly any complaints about police harassment. If anything when people did complain it was because they felt like officers were not responding fast enough. They wanted more police. By 2012 four years into the zero tolerance program the violent crimes that people were most concerned about had not dropped. In fact murders had increased and so had assaults. Though burglaries were down and vehicle thefts fell by half. Meanwhile after four years of Earl getting stopped constantly everywhere he went Earl and Alex had tried all the normal things you do when you are having problems with the police. So Alex came up with a plan-- a pretty extreme one. I explained to Earl. I said Earl I think the better place for you to live is inside the store. You know we bring mattress stuff like that and I told him you live here. You sleep here. Anything you need to eat and drink at night when you are here you can you know you can get it. Way in the back corner of the store at the end of an aisle there is an 11 by 11 foot room built out of plywood and sheet rock. And inside that room is a mattress and a sink for Earl to wash up in. If you were picking up laundry detergent or toilet paper you would be standing right next to where he sleeps. But even that did not prevent the police from coming in and getting Earl. Not long after his room was built he got arrested again for trespassing at the store. Earl did not immediately take a plea this time. Alex does not know why but Earl spent 20 days in jail. And the judge issued a stay away warning from the store. Alex's next move-- he bought a surveillance camera. In fact he bought four. He decided that that was the only way anyone would believe that he was not making this stuff up. It is like I do not know how to fight back. But I said you know what I have it on video. Let them keep doing it on video. Soon he was up to 16 cameras covering his store inside and out. Now on camera five you are going to see Officer William Dunaske taking Earl out of the store. Alex showed me some of the videos. There is no sound on them. His cameras do not have microphones but it is incredible to watch police just come in and grab Earl while he is stocking coolers or taking out the trash. In one video two police officers are walking up and down the aisles glancing at customers. And then they head straight for Earl's room in the back of the store. And they take their guns out. I am laying in my room and the door just opened. And I see the police. I am like dang. I am like what I done did? They like oh you as not supposed to be here. Get out of the room. So what you are putting your shoes on in the aisle? Mm-hm. In the aisle though. I am putting on my shoes in the aisle though. In the videos the cops pretty much leave Alex's other employees alone. His other employees are not black. His customers are. And one of the overwhelming things about watching these videos is the pleasure some officers seem to take in harassing them. In one video a woman in a skirt sits on top of a newspaper box outside the store. A police officer grabs her purse and starts rummaging through it. He turns it upside down and dumps the contents onto the ground. And then he just kicks her stuff around. The officer in this instance is Michael Malone. Of all the police officers Alex captured on tape he stands out as the biggest bully. In another scene Malone takes a guy's bag of Red Bulls and hurls the cans all over the sidewalk. And I went to the officer and said you know what why you throw all those Red Bull all over the place man? You think that was right? He said fuck him. Why do you care? Alex continued complaining to the police department and continued to get nowhere. And then he says one day not long after one of these complaints a group of officers showed up at the store with their Sergeant-- Sergeant Martin Santiago. They stood in a line shoulder to shoulder blocking the aisles. Another time Alex says they confronted him outside the store. He started to feel like they were not just going after Earl anymore. They were going after him too. Officers followed me from the store four blocks away. And they stopped me. And that traffic stop was six police cars. And that is when Sergeant Santiago walked to my window. He said my tailgate light was out. Tires-- he said your tire is bald. So I am like OK. My tire's not bald. And so what happened after that? The sergeant Santiago came to the passenger side and told me I am gonna get you motherfucker. I was kind of getting scared. And I was home. I was thinking you know the only way that those officers and the department feel pressure is to show the whole world what is going on-- just to have it on record to protect myself. So he walked into a building he would never been in before the offices of the Miami Herald and asked to speak to a reporter. Two months later the Herald published Alex's story on the front page and put some of the surveillance videos online. One of the Herald's reporters Julie Brown pulled records that showed police had arrested Earl at least 62 times for trespassing. Most of the citations were issued at the Quickstop. And overall Earl had been stopped and questioned more than 250 times. His criminal record was 38 pages long. News outlets all over the country picked up the story. Right now at 530 Miami Gardens police are being questioned about officers stopping and harassing customers at a particular convenience store. My biggest surprise that we have at least about 30 40 reporters in the parking lot of every TV station every radio station newspaper. I got people drove from Tampa-- a family. The whole family just came. They want to shake my hand. I feel happy. That day was honestly was like a party actually yes. The press attention worked. Police now completely avoided the Quickstop. To Alex it was a huge relief. But the story of police harassment was about to go way beyond just Earl. Two investigative journalists Alice Brennan and Dan Lieberman they are from a new startup called Fusion. And they decided to compile stats for all the stops the Miami Gardens Police Department had made since it first started in 2008. It was stunning. This is Alice. The results were stunning. Because in a city of 110000 people-- Miami Gardens only has 110000 people. And the number of stops that had occurred over a five-year period was 99980. And so then to compare that to the city of Miami-- it has a population four times as large as Miami Gardens-- over the same period of time they had only made 3753 stops. 3700 stops for the city of Miami compared to 99000 for Miami Gardens. It is like I am going to have to look at that again because what? When you first saw that did you think that number was wrong? I did. I am like this cannot be real. This cannot be real. This cannot be happening. I thought all of the data was wrong. It was not wrong. What shocked Alice the most though was more than 11000 of the stops were for kids. Kids who in the field contact reports were labeled suspicious while doing things like playing freeze tag riding bikes swimming at pools or hanging out a public park. To give me a better sense of just how strange all these police stops looked Alice ran me through her spreadsheet. I will just sort this really quickly for you. Here we go. So what I am going to do now is I am going to sort for age right? So we have got ages one two we have got seven year olds. This is a particularly alarming one. Five years old this kid is and it says the listed subject was fitting the description of the suspect in the area of a burglary. I mean what is that? Who knows? OK so here's another one. This kid was seven years old stopped for being a suspicious person. Officer says in the remarks I was dispatched to the above location. Several subjects possibly selling narcotics. This subject was observed in front of this location. And pat searched was conducted after consent. No wants nor warrants. So they say they ran a seven-year-old's name. Yeah they ran the name. And what do you know? No wants or warrants were found. It says here in the physical characteristics that this seven-year-old had a slight beard. Right now Miami Gardens has at least five lawsuits filed against it all alleging that the police engaged in serious misconduct racial profiling and were operating according to a quota system. One of those is a civil rights lawsuit brought by Alex. Two other cases were brought by whistleblowers former police employees who say that when they spoke out against the department's pressure to rack up numbers their positions were terminated. Miami Gardens officials through their lawyers denied all of these allegations and did not respond to multiple requests for interviews about the cases and about Alice's numbers. Wanda Gilbert is one of the whistle blowers suing Miami Gardens. She was a crime analyst at Miami Garden's PD from 2007 to 2011. It was her job to compile all the field contact numbers and present them at regular staff meetings. What she realized looking at all those numbers Wanda says was that they had no meaningful connection to fighting real crime or making the city safer. No one was saying-- OK we did 556 field contacts. So therefore by them doing this we only had one burglary-- never. It was just gathering stats. In her old job Wanda says officers would look at their field contacts database for suspects when they were trying to solve a crime. But Miami Gardens had collected so many people in its database that it was not helpful at all. Jeff Mason filed the other whistleblower lawsuit against the city. He is the former patrol sergeant you heard earlier. They were making so many stops Jeff says that supervisors like him could not keep up. That five-year-old who was written up as a burglary suspect? Jeff signed off on that one. I mean how many supervisors do you think were actually reading the remarks on these? Um as a supervisor because there were so many coming through to be specifically reading the remarks it was next to impossible. If the numbers were not being used in the service of smart policing than what purpose did they serve? When I first started reporting this story I heard speculation that the Miami Gardens Police Department needed these numbers in order to get federal grants. There have been reports about other police departments been fixated on quotas and numbers for this purpose. Miami Gardens police received 21 grants with millions of dollars from the Department of Justice Community Policing Program. But I read through a lot of those applications. Field contact numbers were not a requirement to qualify. They rarely came up at all. I also looked through city council minutes. I thought maybe the police chief was presenting field contact numbers to the city to show that his department was making an impact. But no nothing there either. In five years the chief mentioned field contacts only once. So where did this policy come from? Well I started with the person who was running the city at the time-- Mayor Shirley Gibson. She says she did not know anything about it or the 99000 stops that happened in the city. I am not saying you know it is true or untrue. I just do not know so I am not going to have a comment. OK they did this or they did not do that. I am just telling you I had no knowledge of that. And I am not trying to not say I have some responsibility but I did not know about it. So many people have denied responsibility for these numbers. No one will say this policy started with me. No one could point to a piece of paper or a meeting where it was adopted. No one could say where it came from or why. And as much as it may be satisfying to find one culprit who is responsible for a department run amok or one idea that spread and infected so many of its officers the reality is it failed in the way that so many systems fail-- a whole bunch of mistakes that compounded over time. No one had a clear vision for what they were doing and why. And in the absence of a plan things went bad in big ways and small ways. One thing that is clear is there was a weird lack of accountability in Miami Gardens. Officially the police were supposed to be overseen by an entity called the City Manager's Office which many people told me was asleep on the job. There was a city council that appears to have been totally in the dark. The mayor like you heard says she had no idea. And there was a police chief Matthew Boyd who did not really seem like he was around much. He was a great guy in the beginning. He was everywhere. He was out there in his car running around you know doing stuff. This is Stephen Kolackovsky He was a sergeant in Miami Gardens from 2007 to 2010. By year three I never saw him and then you know the rumor starts that that city controller busted him in the butt about golfing too much and stuff. I do not know. A former vice mayor from Miami Gardens told me he does not know if the city ever officially reprimanded Boyd for playing too much golf. But he does remember that it was a problem. Boyd's golf game also came up with every former police employee I talked to. Boyd has denied misusing company time. As Stephen remembers it there just seemed to be an absence at the top that was confusing. Maybe he started the department got it going felt he was done. And maybe he just did not want to be there anymore. I would like to ask him that though. I would like to know why. It almost felt like it was a ship without a captain and that is kind of the way everybody-- well I felt and a lot of the people I knew felt like you know there is no chief here. You know what I mean? Like everybody knew he was not around and they had the first mate running the boat. The first mate in this case was the former deputy chief. Like the chief he is denied being the person who brought this policy to Miami Gardens. Their attorney declined my request for interviews. While no one will take responsibility for initiating the policy former department employees say the message that officers needed to stop and question large numbers of residents was being conveyed loud and clear. And the officers on the receiving end of that message were mostly white and Hispanic and they were not from Miami Gardens or anywhere nearby. And generally speaking they had little experience dealing with a black population. Wanda Gilbert the former crime analyst did some of the background checks during hiring. And one of the things that I had even spoke to the chief about because I am doing the background work on these people I am going like what is going on here? What is going on here because you know it was a vast amount of white officers. And second what was the demographic then mostly of the officers if you were to break it down? If I break it down I think at the time the department was like 200 and maybe 26. And out of that it was probably maybe 40-- and that is guesstimating high-- but that includes all the black officers. And one of the things that was a challenge to us because a lot of the officers were new-- meaning they were from various areas around the United States. Like where? Oh from Alaska Kansas Missouri-- you name it. They were from around the country. And some of them this was all new to them-- not only just being Miami Gardens but also too here they are some of them now they are working with a black community. And that was a problem. You did not know the nuances. In fact I have even heard officers say that oh everybody in this community is you know is a criminal. Former city council members and police employees who were involved in hiring all say that they did try hard to recruit from local police departments but many in the area thought that the newly formed Miami Gardens Police would not last longer than a year. And so local officers did not want to risk taking jobs there. Stephen Kolackovsky he was a sergeant in Miami gardens from 2007 to 2010. He came down from the Baltimore Police Department and he says that in Miami Gardens they ended up with a lot of officers who just seemed out of place. You know you could see it on their face. They were in culture shock. Like it was almost overwhelming to them. Just you could almost see they we