From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. See now these are new. These I had not seen before. Those are big. That one's probably two inches wide. The other one's a good inch. I am in suburban Connecticut and an 83-year-old man Dick Paterniti is showing me the holes that woodpeckers have made in his house. For over two decades he is been replacing shingles and patching these holes. For over two decades he has been aggravated by their birdy jackhammer noise. For over two decades he is tried all kinds of things to get them to leave his house alone. Like for instance the plastic owl that he bought. What I did was I rigged a pulley system where I put a pulley at either corner of the house. And then-- So about the height of that window there? Yes. Well 15 to 20 feet in the air at the height of the second story window. And then I looped it from one end of the house to the other going through pulleys on both sides. He hung the owl on the rope and pulled him side to side using the pulleys. He did this because he learned through bitter experience that just putting the owl at the top of a ladder did not work. After about a week the woodpecker realized that the plastic owl was not a threat to it in any way. And it not only returned once Dick came outside and saw the owl and a woodpecker-- It was sitting on his head. So the woodpecker won that round. Won that round. Yeah. This man Dick Paterniti was at IBM for years-- did integrated planning and strategic planning. And when he latches on to a problem he takes it on with a breathtaking thoroughness. Regular listeners to our program might remember his years' long search to figure out the origin of a piece of music that he would hear when he was put on hold at his local hospital. And he is tackled this woodpecker situation with a kind of leave no stone unturned 1960s engineering mentality that got a man on the moon. He showed me articles-- highlighted in multiple colors-- about the birds. He showed me a table full of gear and chemicals foam to fill holes in his house aluminum flashing. But also metal pie tins that he would hang from strings and colored streamers on the theory that that scares woodpeckers away. Because everybody knows woodpeckers hate tacky . They like a nice classy house. Kidding. I think it works because of movement and because of the reflectiveness. I have also used balloons but when you get balloons hanging on your house-- all around the house-- people are saying what is going on here? It is a perpetual birthday party or something. Wait. How long did you do the balloons? I did not do the balloons for long but I had them in there for a couple of weeks. His latest idea? While the woodpecker's been away this winter a hawk showed up in his yard. Hawks are natural predators for woodpeckers. Just hearing a hawk's call he thinks should be enough to scare woodpeckers away. So I am thinking now as my forward plan of making an alliance with the hawk and seeing whether I can entice him to come more often. Because if he comes the woodpeckers will not come. So we are working on that as one of our forward strategies. Which of course raises the question how exactly do you form an alliance with a hawk? Stocking his yard with mice or with rabbits seemed to Dick like it crossed the line into crazy town. Putting up peanut butter might just attract rats. And do hawks even eat peanut butter? So Dick's backup plan if the hawk does not stick around for the summer is to rig up some kind of audio playback gear and a loudspeaker to play prerecorded hawk sounds. But it is a terrible sound of a shrieking hawk and a distressed woodpecker. So now my plan for this spring is going to be very extensive. It is going to be broad-based multi-faceted. So you are very aware of the bird. Does the bird know you exist? I do not think so. As a matter of fact sometimes I will go out in the morning and I will yell at him or clap my hands and he will just continue and just not even pay attention. I am sort of incidental in his life. He is thinking about food and a mate. Dick's son told me Dick overthinks everything. And the bird does not think anything at all. The bird does not care. And that is maybe why the bird is winning. The bird's in charge. Today on our program When the Beasts Come Marching In we human beings think we run the world. We think we have got things under control. And then an animal shows up and things do not go like we planned. We have three stories today-- seals and wolves and a moose dropping in on our human lives and showing us who is not the boss. Stay with us. Act One Beaching and Moaning. And even when an animal is not a pest-- not chewing up homes not spreading disease not biting average citizens-- even when an animal is pretty much universally loved it can still wreak havoc when it arrives in our world. James Spring has this example. A community of seals-- harbor seals-- in La Jolla California near San Diego. Note that the version of this story that we are putting online and as a podcast includes some curse words that we have unbeeped. If you prefer a beeped version of our show you can find that at our website thisamericanlife.org. Anyway here's James. I feel like it all starts with their little noses so cute. Soft and rubbery like a pony's. And their stubby flippers. Their plump little bodies like speckled bean bags. Visitors come from all over the world to watch the harbor seals of La Jolla wiggle across the white sand of a little beach called Children's Pool. It is called Children's Pool because back in 1931 the city built a seawall along a curved peninsula to make a protected cove for children. And it totally worked. I played there when I was a kid. I did not drown even once. There were not any seals back then. But later in the mid-'80s when I was a teenager they started to come ashore at night. Just a few at first and then a bunch. One night my friend Tom and I ended up at the Children's Pool after a Wang Chung concert. Do not judge me. It was late. I feel like there were maybe 20 seals on the sand. And I sat down next to the small one. He looked up at me and I reached out with my hand and then he totally leaned into it with his neck like a cat and I thought oh rad. The seals like us. Then I went away to college to become a marine biologist. It did not work out. Then a whole bunch of other stuff did not work out either and I moved away. And when I came back years later the Children's Pool was a very different place. Get off the beach! Get off the beach! Get off the beach! Get off the beach! Get off the beach! The beach is only 150 feet wide and by the winter of 2010 it was covered with seals. They would pretty much taken over half the sand and established a permanent rookery here. That is what it is called-- a rookery. It is where they give birth and nurse their pups. And people loved to come here and sunbathe and swim and take selfies with the seals. And everybody seemed happy. Except for this one group of activists that believe that humans should not be on the beach at all. That it was bad for the seals. Some of them wore these matching blue shirts and they had laminated badges. They looked official. They would patrol the sand calling themselves docents like in a museum. But they were really there to discourage people from putting down their towels and coolers. They would tell visitors that the seals needed to be left alone. Then they would try to shame them into leaving or at least keeping their distance. Because you are scaring them away. It is OK. It is a public beach. No it is not OK to harass the seals. It is against the law. That is not harassing the seals. He can go on the sand. I can go on the sand. The activists set up camp on a sidewalk at the top of the steep steps leading down to the sand. They just had a folding table with signs and flyers and they would yell down at anybody they thought was too close to the harbor seals. They also used video cameras to document people getting close to the animals and then they would upload the videos to YouTube and Facebook like the ones you are listening to right now. Get that off the beach! Come on! Let the seals get up there. Brian Pease is one of the leaders of the seal activists. But he is not one of the yelley ones. He is more deliberate. An attorney who founded the Animal Protection and Rescue League after he moved here 12 years ago. At that time there were news reports that people had been seen stabbing seals and burning them with their cigarette butts and things like that. Some really extreme stuff that people had claimed to have witnessed. I do not know that any of that was actually substantiated but this was the climate at the time. It had been in the media that this was occurring. So the first time I went there was actually at night. And I remember there was a guy who went up to the seals and started just dancing around and just annoying them. And then the seals left. They flushed into the water. Flushed is actually a scientific word. When the seals get scared they all do this sort of wiggle stampede back into the water. Biologists call it flushing. And to Bryan and the other seal activists flushing the seals is abuse especially during the pupping season when the mothers are nursing their young. If you flush them it is interfering with their biological-- it would be like if you were sleeping and somebody came in and shook you awake and told you to leave your house or something. It is just disruptive. And it is never an extreme thing where somebody is running up and they start clubbing a seal or something like that. It is more like this incremental-- people want to-- well how close can I get? And they want-- they keep itching forward. And you are just thinking oh just a couple more minutes they are going to flush all the seals away. And you are just waiting for this to happen and you know it is going to happen. And it always does happen. Here they go. Boo. Here they go. You are harassing the seals. Flushing the seals is also illegal. It is a violation of the Marine Mammal Protection Act a federal law that prohibits the hunting and harassment of any marine mammal. That part about harassment though is where interpretations seem to vary. Because when the seals flushed they always came back. The harbor seal rookery here was thriving. Most people liked the seals. Locals had been sharing this beach with them for 20 years. But now these activists were walking around with megaphones telling everybody that they could not be down on the sand or in the water yelling. And if anybody disagreed with the activists or their methods they were branded seal haters. Some of the locals began to talk about how to best handle this. They decided to form their own group set up their own tables at the beach with their own flyers and banners. Their goal in all of this was just to make sure that the beach stayed open to people that they could keep sharing it with the seals. And these newly minted shared use advocates-- they were done taking orders from the seal activists. So if you happened to show up at the beach on a Saturday with your kids and a picnic basket you would see the two opposing sides-- pro-seal and shared use. And they were ready to rumble. The city council actually voted to close this beach during pupping season which is-- This is that pro-seal attorney guy Bryan Pease. And you can make donations. You can sign up for our email list. You can buy a t-shirt or a seal toy. All these other booths that are set up here are either here just to make money-- that is the tie-dye booth. Or in the case of this booth in the corner over here are actually here to oppose the seals. We are opposing you. They are selling-- We are opposing you. You know you sound stupid. We are opposing you. That is so stupid. We are opposing you. Look at you. Look how stupid you look. This is how it usually went down. Talking led to yelling and the yelling led to just a cacophonous din of outrage. It seemed like everybody in San Diego took a hard-line stance and they all fell into one of these two camps. Both sides dished out a lot of propaganda. The shared use people would say that the seals were never in any jeopardy-- that the activists' crusade was nothing but an elaborate scam. Here's a shared use guy talking into the camera of a seal activist. What are you saving them from? No response. What are you saving him from? This is a seal crookery as far as I am concerned. You are here stealing money from tourists. You are conning them out of their hard-earned money that they come here on vacation with. And claiming to say that you are saving seals. This was a common claim made by the shared use people-- that the whole pro-seal movement was just a way to rake in a bunch of cash. Bryan Pease the pro-seal guy who started the Animal Protection and Rescue League says that the money collected through donations was barely enough to hire a nighttime security guard. But the other part is kind of true. The seals were not endangered. In fact on the International List of Threatened Species harbor seals are classified as a species of least concern-- the exact same designation that is given to the common pigeon and to the house rat. But the rallying chant of most seal activists was that shared use is abuse-- any shared use. And that the shared use people were animal haters-- that they just wanted the seals gone. But if you actually talked to a shared use advocate they would tell you something different. Oh I never had any problems with the seals. I never had any problems with the seals. This is Kent Trego. He is a consultant at Coastal Environments and he started a research based organization called the Nautilus Oceanic Institute. He is published more than 50 scientific papers. He also swam at the Children's Pool as a kid back in the 1960s. He is been sort of a voice of reason for the shared use side. Everybody that I know likes the animals. The divers enjoy swimming with them. But they are making a fuss for whatever. The seal activists he means. And they are disturbing the peace. They are violating people's civil rights by harassing them in a public area. Tourist stuff-- they do not want to listen to that. They do not want to hear that. They do not want kids seeing that. You could draw a similar situation and a similar argument. Let us say there is a public park you took your kids to and somebody came along and said you people cannot be here. This is the rare something-something ground squirrel habitat and you are bothering them. You would probably go are you out of your mind? This is a public park. Maybe there is an issue but they are spewing all this and being antagonistic towards you or your kids. Down there-- one day I was there. I was talking to this one guy and this little girl. She is got to be six. His daughter comes around crying. And she said that man came after me. She points to this guy-- A pro-seal activist. This guy-- he is running up the beach and says keep your kid away from seals. I am watching this and I am going who the hell is this guy? The father is incensed and he is yelling at the guy what are doing around my daughter? And she was-- she was terrified. She was screaming. It was that kind of incident where it just shocks you. You do not see that thing. And there is a guy chasing a child? There were definitely times when you would see kids in the videos walk right up to the seals and try to pet them. And the pro-seal activists would lose their minds. Get your kid in check! Whoever's kid is in the pink! Keep them away from the seals! Relax. As the years dragged on more and more of these confrontations were ending up in court. And Bryan Pease began to spend a lot of his time there defending pro-seal activists who'd been arrested or had been issued citations. He was also bringing civil cases against the other side-- shared use advocates who'd been arrested during confrontations with pro-seal folks. At a certain point he stopped going to the Children's Pool altogether. He says it just stressed him out too much. I tried to stay out of most of it. Sometimes I would be down there but generally it is not very productive to be engaging in shouting matches with people that just do not agree with you. It is why they call it the Children's Pool because it is where adults go to act like children. Kent Trego our marine sciencey shared use guy did not engage in all the fighting either. He just tried to educate the public with a little logic and some biology 101. And he went about it in sort of a quaint bygone way that he hoped might rise above the shouts of the angry mob. He wrote letters to the local editors. The papers printed the letters with Kent's name and his title. And then the hate mail started to roll in-- threatening phone calls and emails-- by Kent's count more than 200 of them. Were they anonymous or did they-- Yeah they were anonymous. We know who you are. We know you want to get rid of the seals. That is what people would say to me. That is what certain people would say to me. We know you are in a plot and that the city's involved. I do not know if they are kidding or if they got problems-- if they are drunk. If they are on drugs. I do not know. How did you respond to that? You do not respond. You do not-- you are not supposed to-- what I was told by my attorney and other people-- you do not talk to those people. If there is an incident like that you report it to the police. And the police got called a lot. And then they get tired of coming down there. At the height of the conflict in 2013 the San Diego police department responded to 227 calls at the Children's Pool. And it seems like neither camp was really consulting the dictionary before they tossed around words like abuse and harassment and assault. In one video a cop arrives on the scene to find a shared use lady in her 60s and a Middle Eastern guy holding a skateboard and a camera. The lady's saying that the seal activists are blocking her from sitting on a bench. And the skater's filming it and she just glancingly brushes the camera away. And the cop's watching all this happen. Do not touch me. You touch me. Madam if you assault him-- She touched me. You cannot-- Sir she touched me. Yeah I saw that. And it was-- I know it was brutal. I know the way she touched you was brutal. You are in pain. That is the cop. He is being sarcastic. Yes I am in pain. You are doing fine. Now just try to relax there. I am trying. Just relax. I am trying. I touched his arm to get the camera out of my face. I find it very intimidating to have a camera in my face. The cop at this point has had enough. This is all very childish in my opinion. It really is. It is very childish. It is a loss. Give up. I said very childish. Have you got that on camera? Everybody was filming everybody. It was like a stand off with camcorders and cell phones. A bunch of videos just show a close up of a face holding a video camera pointing right back filling the frame. It is like the worst art film of all time. Like in this video a shared use guy is being all pushy with his camera. Can you say what you just said out loud? Why do you talk under your breath? Why do not you stop intimidating her? Why do you talk under your breath? Why do not you stop intimidating her? Can you please stay-- Speak a bit louder so I can get a recording. Could you please stay back from me? I really feel like you are invading my privacy right now. Stay back. You are annoying us and invading our privacy and I am asking you politely now to move away. You are almost touching me. You are less than a foot away. I am just here to record what she is telling the public. The two sides became so fixated on their hatred for each other that in a lot of videos they do not even mention the seals. One morning it is cold and foggy on the beach and a 70-year-old pro-seal activist just has had enough of a shared use guy who is filming her and she charges right up to his camera. So you are spitting on me now huh? That is battery. I did not touch you. You spit on me. You are harassing me. You spit on me. I did. I spit on your camera. No you spit on me right in the forehead. Poor boy. At a certain point the factions had been battling so long that they knew each other by name knew where each other lived and worked. And the attacks were becoming more personal the threats more vicious. Back away from us right now you disgusting little turd. And you are a fucking bitch. Piss off. And somebody needs to fucking kill you. Yeah? Want to kill me? Why do not you give it a try? Why do not you give it a try? Do not let me catch you in an alley some time. Oh really? How about it? People on the shared use side had always accused the seal activists of valuing the lives of animals over people. And now the sentiment began to ring more true. This one's a little hard to hear. Do not get too close to the seals or I will make your life miserable. He said do not get too close to the seals or I will make your life miserable. I will bring my guns here. I will bring my guns here. I will fuck you all up. And I will fuck you all up. Throughout this war the pro-seal camp had a unique weapon on their side-- the power of the federal government. And at some point they really began to brandish it. The feds could arrest or issue citations to anyone who violates the Marine Mammal Protection Act. So the seal activists would film people as they harassed the seals or drove them from the beach. These are the lads that went for the swim. And then they would keep the camera rolling and they would get all shaky-- Cover your license plate. --as they chased the lawbreakers all the way back to their car. Cover your license plate. --to record their license plate. Oh I got it. And then when they had it the activists would turn over the video to the National Marine Fisheries Service and the feds would issue fines of 500 to anybody who made the seals flush. It was an incident like this one that brought the seal war to one of its darkest hours. You really want me to read this? Read this all. I guess I was the first one who read it. One day Bryan Pease received an email that was addressed to one of his volunteers. It was a threat. The volunteer a young woman who is identified only as witness in the federal court documents had filmed the license plate of a pair of scuba divers who'd flushed some seals when they came up on the beach. Bryan read me the email. OK. Two divers that used the Children's Pool in September have been cited by federal wildlife marshals for disturbing the seals. Witness was apparently the one who turned them in. The problem is now that revenge will be taken out on witness. The email continues Many of the local divers have close friends in the California motorcycle clubs. Motorcycle club members have been contacted about witness and she will be dealt with very harshly if she is not killed. They know that if she is not in San Diego she may be found in San Francisco. Either San Diego or Oakland hit hogs will be involved in her punishment. She is brought this on herself. And then it is signed Biker Bobbie with an I-E. Probably the least threatening Hell's Angels nickname of all time but still. Was your coll-- was the woman who was threatened-- was she scared? Oh she was terrified. Yeah. And I know her mother who is also involved in the pro-seal protection campaign. And she had said that they were-- their whole family was scared for quite a while. So it was pretty serious. Biker Bobbie emailed two other threats to the Animal Protection and Rescue League. In one he threatened to burn down the organization's storefront and to bomb a coffee shop. Bryan Pease turned the emails over to authorities. The female volunteer-- the one who was singled out with the death threat-- the one who'd sent the video of the two scuba divers to the National Marine Fisheries Service-- she was considered a federal witness. And threatening a federal witness is a federal crime so the FBI got involved. They tracked the email sender's IP address to a public library about five blocks away from the Children's Pool. The feds had Biker Bobbie in the crosshairs. Now what he did was he went to the public library and he had an account called-- it was  And then he would log in to his personal account two seconds later. So that is how they caught him. And when they confronted the author of the emails it turned out he was not an actual biker nor was he a Bobbie. He was a scientist. Yeah I sent them. Yeah. I sent them out of anger. It was our marine science guy Kent Trego. I regretted it. I regretted it after I did it. It just built up on me. And it was just one of those moments. But it was all words. There was never any-- never any intentions to hurt anybody. Kent remembers being at the Children's Pool on that day when the seal activist filmed the license plate of his two scuba diver pals. But he says he does not remember much else. He could not tell me any details from that day. Says he cannot remember what he wrote in the emails. Even talking about it now-- it makes him squirm pretty good. It was not meant to be a real threat or anything like that. Obviously the person receiving it on the other side would take it a little differently I guess. The plan I am guessing was just to scare them back-- to brush them back. But I did not even-- I did not even-- as far as I recall the content was not even meant to scare anybody. It was just more of a-- just a reaction. You were pretty direct about some stuff. Yeah like I said I do not remember what I said. But I should not have said it. But no I did not have any intention of hurting anybody. It is not a common sense reaction. Things started to come into sharper focus after he was arrested by federal agents as he walked back to his car from the beach. Kent pled guilty to the charge of threatening a federal witness. He served four and a half months in federal prison and then another six months of house arrest. He was banned from using a computer for a couple of years and ordered to stay away from the Children's Pool. He took full responsibility for his actions. He apologized to the victim in court. He sent a letter of apology to the Animal Protection and Rescue League. I tried to push Kent for details-- for an explanation-- just why he did it. Was there a chain of events? A final straw? He could not really give me a clear reason. I guess just wanted-- felt like you wanted to get even for some reason or whatever or do something. I do know because I am a human being. And really who has not taken things a step or two further than maybe they should have? Like one time-- I have got this neighbor. He is a half block away from me. And on hot summer days he would blast his music really loud and it was always Alice in Chains a band that I used to love before this. Anyway my daughter Addie-- she was less than two-- 18 months. And she was a light sleeper. And it was already hard to get her down for naps. And then Alice in Chains would start rattling the neighborhood. Addie starts crying so I run to the neighbor's house and pound on the door. The guy does not answer so I call the cops. They show up and shut the neighbor down. The next day same thing. It happened like six more times. Eventually the cops stopped responding and nobody else seemed to care. And the sound blasting out of the neighbor's stereo made something come loose inside me. I went to my bedroom and unlocked my gun case and I loaded a revolver. And I walked out in my backyard to the corner closest to the music and bam bam bam bam. I fired four shots into the dirt. My wife is screaming at me and it hits me all at once. I am the guy who is terrorizing the neighborhood. My wife did not speak to me for a week. So I get it. Everybody has their limits. All of us. Tell me about the stun gun. Well that. Yeah. I am happy to talk about that. I am so sick of talking about it that I did not bring it up. But you guys have turned over every rock in this. Yep. Even our animal-protecting confrontation-avoiding attorney Brian Pease. One of his fellow seal activists-- a woman-- had been raking seaweed one day at the Children's Pool trying to create a mound or a barrier so she could tell visitors to stay behind it. And there was this 55-year-old shared use guy who was kicking away the seaweed line and just being a jerk. She called me and told me that he is drunk. He is harassing the seals. He is harassing her. Can you do something? So I said all right I am going to come down there. And I brought this thing for protection. This thing being the stun gun. Now Brian went out of his way to explain that it was not technically a stun gun. This point was really important to him. Says he had an expert witness declare it not a stun gun. But it says stun gun on the package and that is how the newspapers reported it. In any case when he got down to the beach the seaweed kicker confronted him. And then I am standing near where this kelp line is. And he is just going back and forth from the kelp and then dumping it in the water. And then he comes back picks up another two handfuls full of kelp and he goes oh you want some of this? And he just slings it right in my face-- just whips it right at me. That is when I pulled out the device which I now know is not a stun gun but it was a deterrent device. And I did try to-- I pushed him back with it. He admitted in the police report that he was not shocked through his thick sweatshirt. You brought this device down there? You had a reason and then you felt emboldened enough to use it right? From my perspective I was enforcing the law. He is harassing seals. He is harassing people. And he attacked me and I was using reasonable force to defend myself. Anyway the two men grappled and went to the ground. Yeah. I think I pinned him down. I was saying call the police. He was drunk. He was agitated. He was just being belligerent. But the stun-- yeah. I guess when you ask what would I have done over again I probably would have just pinned him down again. But the stun gun would not have been-- I call it a stun gun but it is really not. This zapping device would not have been involved. Bryan was the one who was arrested. He pled no contest to assault with a stun gun. Bryan's a smart guy and super thoughtful. But I think he got caught up in his herd's mentality and people here forgot that there are more options than just fight or flight. They went right to their reptilian brain and their prefrontal cortex got shut off there. Is that you are saying? Yeah. It feels that way. And for me personally somebody gets in my face I do not think about the legal parts of it or whatever. I react from the animal part of me right? That is what I did. And that is why I did not want to go there anymore. It is almost like asking for trouble. Why do it? Why go there? The appropriate thing would be just to walk away from it and just be gone. This is Kent again. And on this point both men agree. And that is what I should have done if I had been smart about it. I think that is what people need to do in conflicting situations-- walk away from them. I will never be involved in anything like this again. Period. In the summer of 2014 the California Coastal Commission voted to completely close the beach at Children's Pool to humans during pupping season from December 15 to May 15. Bryan and Kent both support this decision. Anybody who wants to see the seals can still watch them from the sidewalk and the seawall. And it works. People are not screaming at each other. Seals are not being flushed from the beach. During the rest of the year there is a permanent guideline rope down on the sand to provide a buffer between humans and harbor seals. It is not perfect but it is a pretty good compromise. Some of the seal activists are still patrolling the beach during the seven months when it is partially opened to the public. And some of the shared use people are mounting a legal campaign to have the Coastal Commission decision overturned. But mostly it is just nice now. Daddy look I see one! Right there! Right there. Oh yeah. The thing that you do not hear in all those YouTube videos is the sound of the place without the hate when people are not screaming. When the sun is shining and the seals are sprawled out across the white sand. Look he is rolling onto his stomach. Sometimes you see a mother nursing her pups. It feels like you are being let in on a secret like this is how the world is without us. We as a species are aggressive. We are predatory territorial. We are pretty selfish. And here at the Children's Pool we have got the place surrounded. The seals keep coming back. Clearly they like it here. He