The town of Florencia de Benito Juarez was a typical little mountain town in Mexico just 4000 people. Quiet until last Fall. Then a drug gang called the Zetas affiliated with one of the big drug cartels rolled into town. And people were pretty scared. The Zetas would stop people in the road and take their trucks. They walked the streets freely. The police were defenseless or maybe they were just on the take in the pockets of the gang. I talked to a reporter who lives in the region who asked as a precaution not to be named on the radio. The drug gangs are that powerful in the area. He is been talking to people in Florencia about this since the beginning and he told me what happened. He said that in May after months where people were terrified of these thugs who'd more or less taken over the Zetas went away for a few days. The reporter said this was not strange behavior for a Mexican drug gang. Everybody knew that they would be back soon enough. But while the Zetas were away something really strange did happen. Another gang showed up the Chapos named or nicknamed presumably for Chapo Guzman who runs one of the other big Mexican drug cartels.  For a while they thought they were from the same group. But the next day the group of people went to go visit each of the different business establishments. They told them that they were from the Gulf Cartel and that they were coming to liberate the town so that they can live with peace and tranquility. In fact the leader this new group the Chapos told store owners that if any gang member did something as petty as taking food from a store without paying please come let him know. It would not be tolerated.  They were here to take out the garbage meaning the Zetas a woman from Florencia told this reporter. They said they were good people. They were not going to cause anybody in town any harm.  For the people of Florencia they were protectors. The police fled town as did the Mayor. And things were peaceful with the Chapos in charge for just a few days. And then the Zetas returned. This was May 20 of this year a Friday morning. Everybody expected and feared a big battle between the two.  What occurred then was that the Chapos warned the population that this was going to occur. And so the people stayed indoors in their houses. The fight started in town and then continued in the mountains for a full day. And when it was over authorities said that about a dozen were dead. The people in Florencia said it was a lot more many dozens. The Chapos the supposed protectors of Florencia won the day. And as with anything heroic or sensational that happens in Mexico these days of course there are now corridos folk ballads about the battle.  Only 10 fallen men reported the government but I am not stupid. I know what I am saying. More than 60 idiots were left on the ground. After that fight people in town felt pretty safe.  The truth is people feel protected this woman's saying. When the gang is not around that is when people are fearful. This reporter has seen a lot of what drug gangs do in small towns in Mexico and he says he has never heard of this a gang coming to town and people feeling safer.  It is surprising. Why is this one gang being so nice to this town?  In truth I do not really know what is occurring. I really do not know why. I know that they are fighting over territories. It is interesting to think that they would decide it would help them hold territory if they were simply nicer.  It is a good strategy no? The strategy seems to be winning people over. On Father's Day just a few weeks after the shoot-out the Chapos hung a banner in town that read Happy Father's Day. We know that the family is the most important thing. CDG. CDG stands for Cartel de Gulfo the Gulf Cartel.  I was not there but my family told me about it she is saying. They told me that somebody went from street to street handing out bottles of tequila to all the fathers and wishing Happy Father's Day from the cartel the Gulf Cartel.  The reporter says to her So they are the promoters of the family? And she says Yes. And then he jokes At this rate they will be dating the local girls soon. That is already happening she says.  These are not older guys she says. They are boys at the most 20 22 years old. Young guys at the age where a woman wants to fall in love. The girls they see a cute guy in a truck and their eyes meet.  It is not all kittens and flowers though. The Chapos have checkpoints at two entrances to the town and keep a close eye on who can enter and exit. They issue orders. Like at the end of the school year when people usually throw big parties they told them not to and everybody obeyed. And just when the people of Florencia were feeling like things were fine they were safe this week the mayor of the town who apparently started cooperating with the Chapos and the treasurer of the local ranchers association both turned up dead their bodies blindfolded and bound hand and foot with a note presumably from the Zetas saying this will happen to everyone who supports and gives information to the Chapos. But this reporter says that despite all that as best as he can tell people in town do not want the police and the traditional authorities to come back and run the place. They prefer the Chapos. The gangs are stronger than the authorities. They are better armed better organized. And unlike the Mexican army who sometimes breeze into town in a show of force for a couple days the Chapos care enough to stick around.  There is so many towns so many places. So then a town that is not on an important highway that is in the mountains kind of lost there. Unfortunately that is of little importance to many people. So for peace and peace of mind Florencia has the cartel. Thugs keeping order. And they keep out the Zetas better than the authorities ever did. It is a very romantic idea that thugs are not just killers that they can be protectors good guys. Lots of great movie characters are based on this very idea. Today on our show we have stories of people who look like thugs. They are accused of being thugs. Some of them act like thugs. But are they thugs? From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Our show in two acts today. The first takes place in a city that you could argue for decades has been plagued by thugs. The second is about a woman who is stuck asking this very question I am raising right here is this guy a thug or not about somebody who she is close to. Stay with us. Act One. Thug me? No Thug you. Thug is an imprecise word used to describe so many kinds of people. And it is subjective. One man's thug is another man's friendly neighborhood drug cartel. And the imprecision of the subjectivity of the word has been very apparent recently during a massive world-changing drama the revolution in Egypt that ousted president Hosni Mubarak and during the months since then. Nancy Updike explains. The word thug has exploded in Egypt since the revolution. Street violence and crime are up. Muggings and break-ins and car theft. Who is to blame? Thugs. Churches have been attacked and burned and deadly battles followed. Not just Christians versus Salafi Muslims. Also thugs according to witnesses. Convicts have escaped in several jail and prison breaks freeing up thugs. Rumors are constantly circulating that elements of the former regime are paying thugs to create mayhem and unravel the revolution. Thugs-- the word in Arabic is bultigiya-- can be anywhere. They are capable of anything and everyone is against thugs. Which means that just about any person if they are unlucky enough can now be called a thug and wind up in prison for it. I will get to that in a minute. Because the word thug has a particular history in Egypt. For almost 30 years during the dictatorship thugs meant street criminals yes but it also meant men hired by the regime to intimidate and beat up citizens alongside the police or on their own. Some of them were trained employees of the state security forces. Others were freelance thugs drawn from a pool of criminals informants men who needed money. Both groups the trained men and the freelancers wore ordinary clothes no uniform. And they would show up at rallies and protests in voting stations any place where citizens might need to be reminded that they could be beaten anytime. During the revolution the regime sent thugs into Tahrir Square on foot and on horseback and on camel back. It was one of the craziest images of the entire uprising these men galloping through the crowd and hitting people with sticks and whips as they rode. But that was the old Egypt. The new Egypt is being run by the government force that famously crucially did not attack the protesters on Tahrir Square refused to shoot civilians the military. The army is one of the few national institutions that many Egyptians trust. It is a conscript army. So lots of Egyptians have either served themselves or know a family member who is serving. A popular chant during the uprising was The army and the people are one or The army and the people or one hand. This is in contrast to the police who killed over 800 people and injured thousands. They were the villains of the revolution. The army for many Egyptians was the revolution's protectors. One of the people who was on Tahrir Square during the revolution was the protagonist of this story Ali Sobhi a 28-year old actor I met in Cairo. Not a famous actor just a working actor. While I was waiting to interview him I watched him rehearse with a friend for a kid's performance juggling these buckets back and forth in a small room in one of Cairo's grand old buildings. During the revolution Ali was on Tahrir Square every day except for two days he said when he went to check on his parents because their neighborhood was being attacked by thugs. After the regime fell Ali was one of the thousands of Egyptians walking the streets of Cairo giddy with freedom. One chant that took off during this period was Hold your head high you are Egyptian. People would break into it spontaneously on the street just this shout of pure joy and pride in the new Egypt. Ali says it was incredible how quickly people got used to not living in a police state not being afraid.  Yes I felt I had nothing to worry about. Even this whole idea of curfew. All over Egypt no one felt that there was a curfew. The cafes were open. People were on the street. There are two chants that came out like What curfew? The Egyptians are here. What is this curfew that you are speaking about and actually both rhyme in Arabic. The entire country was alive. Even in the midst of this euphoria after the dictatorship ended Tahrir Square did not fully empty out. Some people including friends of Ali's stayed living in tents cooking on butane stoves. Because to them the revolution was not finished. The new Egypt was still being constructed. The country's hated emergency laws were still in effect. And they were going to keep up the pressure for reform. Almost a month to the day after the old regime fell on March 9 Ali was walking by Tahrir Square on his way to somewhere else and he saw a wild scene. The army was there and they were arresting people. And along with the army there were also men in ordinary clothes with sticks beating protesters. In the old Egypt it would have been immediately clear what was going on. The men with sticks were thugs working with the authorities. But Ali was not used to seeing thugs with the army. The army that had sided with the people and refused to attack them during the revolution. He was used to seeing thugs with the police. This was new and disturbing. Ali is slight maybe 5'7 120 pounds. And he had long hair then so he figured he would be spotted and arrested if he stayed. But he wanted to help his friends so he pulled out his cell phone to let others know what was happening. He decided he was fine with being afraid and sticking around anyway.  The feeling was I got rid of a president that had been in power for 30 years in 18 days a prime minister that he appointed for us in seven days or actually in five days. We could certainly overcome those thugs. Ali wrote about what happened to him next in a 4000 word Facebook post a detailed inside account that stunned a lot of Egyptians when they read it. Ali's Facebook post is full of amazement at everything he saw the army do during the four days they held him. He is not afraid to be funny about something that is absolutely terrible. But mostly he is just a careful observer. He gave us permission to have an actor read an English translation of what he wrote. In this excerpt Ali's just been arrested by the army along with almost 200 other people and taken into the grounds of the Egyptian Museum which the army had taken over and was using as an outpost in the area. First thing was a nice head-butt from a short soldier kid who could not reach my head. And I was telling him What is up my cousin? Relax. What did I do? By the way I call all soldiers my cousin. So my cousin says You screwed up the country you dirty sons of bitches. Another soldier was hitting me on the back of the neck and I could see in the background an uneven battle between people hitting and people getting hit. Suddenly an officer who looked like he would had special forces training super tough was flying with his legs in the air like Bruce Lee right towards me. The soldier kids were holding me by the arms and pushing me forward for him and he slammed me in the chest with those army issued boots. You know the army that is with the people? The army that people used to see and chant The people and the army are one? I took the blow square in the chest in precisely in the spot where I had my lung surgery two years ago. I fell on the ground and they dragged me by the hair. And they stood me up and tied me by the hair from a horizontal pole. And they kept hitting me in the knees and shins and I would fall towards the ground and my hair would pull me back up. Then one soldier was holding a razor and hacking away at my hair. And an officer was doing his Kung Fu moves on me. And another soldier's hitting me with a wooden staff across my back and another soldier's electrocuting me. My cousin says Lie down you son of a bitch. He tied my hands behind my back and blindfolded me with this silly thing I could see everything through. And then he dragged me into a place he made me feel certain I would die in. There were a lot of us there. We looked like piles of meat thrown on the ground. And soldiers were on top of us raining down all kinds of beatings electrocution sticks wooden staffs electric cables their boots. And after a bit they got this great idea because we were refusing to die. So they thought instead they would kill the thing inside us that if it were to die we would die. All the soldiers together military style Raise your head high boy you are Egyptian. Us the people on the ground all of us Wow they laid off and finally got it. Thank you God. And as we raised our heads up because we are Egyptian they kicked us in the head with their boots. Shock of a lifetime. This happened to everyone which proved to me that it happened in a collective way and that I would really heard right when they all said together Raise your head high boy you are Egyptian and then bang in your face. Long live Egypt. This was just the first of many beatings and threats of worse beatings. Ali had been hassled and arrested and beaten up by the police since he was a teenager. And he figured he would probably be roughed up this time too. But he had not counted on systematic sustained brutality. Not from the army. Then he started to figure out that the beatings were just a preamble to being framed as a thug. The whole experience went from terrifying to bizarre. As an actor Ali's been in movies. He is worked on location. And he knew what was happening as he watched the soldiers setting the scene for the frame up. They started taking closeup shots of our faces one by one. Three hand-held cameras and one B2 camera and a senior officer behind the B2 camera telling the soldiers with the other cameras what to do like a movie director talking to a cinematographer. So they filmed us and documented the state we were in. And we stood in rows like in the army and one by one we were searched and then got on the bus. The bus drove us to the next scene in the movie which was the military prosecution where the set was prepared so that our arrests could be broadcast on television. An interior decoration officer was fixing up the set with two soldier assistants under him. There was a director of photography officer with three or four light crew guys and one cameraman all soldiers. Anyway they brought out the kids who looked dodgy which included me because my front teeth are gone and my hair was a mess and put us in the front. There was a soldier fixing the lighting. The lighting is ready sir. The director. Get me their seized weapons. So the soldiers got knives and molotov cocktails and what they said were bombs which were the butane stoves we used to make tea and laid them out on the table. And the interior decorator started adding his personal touch to the display this next to that this butane stove next to that knife. And this I have to be fair was indeed the fine touch of a master film industry decorator. Anyway. All ready sir. And the director of photography gave his order to the cameraman. And the man took his word and started to take closeups and medium shots and wide angles and everything any director's heart would desire.  This is the news report where Ali appeared. The entire broadcast is on YouTube. You will hear the announcer say bultigiya thugs right here.  And the scene is exactly as Ali described it. There are several rows of men kneeling with their hands behind their backs in front of a long low table with a table cloth where weapons have been laid out like a banquet. The camera shifts from panning shots to wide angles to closeups. And a spotlight is playing over the group. It is night time so the spotlight is especially harsh. And about one minute in the spotlight lands on Ali's face right there in the front row. He thought they did a pretty good job of making him look like a thug.  I had broken teeth and my hair was all over the place and I had mud on my face. And the people next to me also. Their hair was cut with razors and they were beaten in the face so they had bloody face. In our culture a thug has a scarred face. So yes we all looked like thugs and when I saw the recording of the video that they had broadcast yes of course I looked like a thug. I did look like a thug. The governing body that the military set up to run Egypt after the revolution is called the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces SCAF some Egyptians call it. One of the first things SCAF did was set up a Facebook page. This is a way they communicate with the country. And in one Facebook posting after another SCAF has promised to protect the country from thugs and thuggery. They even added a new crime called thuggery to the penal code. And they made demonstrations illegal if the demonstrations quote harm national unity societal peace or public order. That is on top of the country's emergency laws. So thugs are public enemy number one in these SCAF postings. And the opposite of thuggery and thugs? The noble youth of the revolution. That is a phrase that comes up a lot. It means people who helped topple the former regime. People like Ali. The military council SCAF wants stability. Egyptians want stability. They are tired of crime and uncertainty and plenty of people are tired of the protests too. I noticed that right before the report on Ali and the others' arrest-- this is the state TV newscast by the way-- there was a story that combined the issues of thugs and stability and seemed perfectly placed to tee up their report on Ali and the other supposed thugs the army had arrested. In the story against the backdrop of the newly cleared Tahrir Square people said they were glad to see some police were back. The news anchor said the police were there quote to protect citizens passers-by and employees of governmental entities from troublemakers and outlaws. Ali was charged with thuggery among other things. But he was too well known as an activist from the revolution. After four days he was freed and he was acquitted of the charges. Other people arrested at that time and in later months were tried in military tribunals often charged with thuggery and sometimes getting a sentence of three or five or seven years after a 20-minute trial. More than 7000 civilians since February. The military council SCAF denies that the army has tortured anyone in custody although what Ali described was corroborated by many others. And SCAF basically admitted after months of pressure that its arrest of Ali and others on March 9 and the quickie trials that followed were a serious overreach. This is from their Facebook page. The head of SCAF has ordered a retrial especially those arrested in the events of the months of March and April in order to take the necessary action and immediately release all the noble youth of the revolution. The army is still very popular among the majority of Egyptians. But arrests and clashes keep happening along with military trials. Ali never idealized the army. He was not one of the people chanting The army and the people are one during the revolution. But even a realist can be shocked.  They would order us to say The people and the army are one hand and whoever would not say it would be beaten up. As a joke they made you say it? I do not understand.  They were playing. They were playing. They were having a good laugh. They were making light of the revolution. They would say What you want to get rid of Mubarak. We are going to get rid of all of you God willing. And I would say Mubarak's gone. He left. And they would say No he did not. There are new protests on Tahrir Square. And just last week according to the Egyptian newspaper Almasry Alyoum a military committee said that the sit-in on Tahrir Square should end because there are thugs on the square who could harm the cause of the revolution. It could be true. But who is going to trust the military now to decide who is a thug and who is a noble youth? Nancy Updike is one of the producers of our show. Ali's Facebook posting was translated into English by Moataz Atallah and Wiam el-Tamimi. The actor reading the translation was Michael Chernus. Coming up Hugs not Thugs. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life I am Ira Glass. Each week on our show of course we choose some theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show thugs the many forms of them and the many forms of thuggery. We have arrived at Act Two of our show. Act Two Lifers. This is a story of a kid named Kenneth Williams and it is the story of an adult named Ton'Nea Williams. And just so you do not get tripped up here Ton'nea and Kenneth have the same last name but they are not related. And for most of Kenneth's life Ton'Nea has had all kinds of ideas about Kenneth and his thuggishness that Kenneth may or may not have shared. Reporter Laura Beil spoke to Ton'Nea about this. Ton'Nea Williams and I are moms at the same elementary school. Until recently I did not know much about her beyond the basics. I knew she was an assistant principal at the high school. She is the one in charge of discipline and she looks the part. She is poised commanding meticulously put together and beautiful. We forged a friendship last December during a trip abroad with the school choir. On one long bus ride I learned about how she got into education and about how she would been affected deeply affected by her relationship with one of the kids she had tried to mentor. She started in 1992 when she was fresh out of college. I was going to save the world she said. She took a job at the Alexander Youth Services Center the juvenile detention facility outside of Little Rock Arkansas. She had been on the job exactly one day when she was assigned an intake interview on a kid named Kenneth. He had escaped from prison and had just been recaptured a couple of miles away in the woods of central Arkansas. He was to be her first assignment. She was not sure what to expect. I remember looking at this four foot eleven kid that weighed no more than 98 pounds with twigs in his hair and scratches on his arm from running through the woods. And I thought to myself how does a kid get into this place at 11 or 12? What do you do? What did he do? And it was not until I finished the intake interview that I realized what he was sent to Youth Services for in the beginning. He was stealing vehicles from a dealership in Pine Bluff. He was stealing but he was so young more boy than criminal even as she was questioning him. He is this polite kid. I am not even expecting him to be you know nice. He is in a correctional facility for youth. And he is yes madam and he is no madam. And I expressed to the lady that was training me Oh my God. She basically told me not to open my heart too wide because I would be let down. But I just did not see that. I said Well if you love on kids enough if you provide them with opportunity at this young age they will not come here. But she told me Guard your heart and get used to it. She did not guard her heart. It just did not seem right. Instead Ton'Nea made a promise to herself. She would find a way to connect with Kenneth and set him on a better path. It is important to understand that Ton'Nea was not just a naive 22-year old who wanted to change the world one kid at the time. She would had a hard time coming up herself. When Ton'Nea was nine her mother sent her and her five brothers and sisters to live in foster care. All six stayed in a state-run home until families took them in one by one. Ton'Nea and her sister were the last two to be placed. After more than a year parentless and adrift her father showed up and claimed her. She remembers thinking if only I could get someone to love me and care about me I will be OK. And in her case she was right. She survived those years because of mentors she met mostly through school who saw her potential and kept encouraging her. So when Ton'Nea met Kenneth she looked to her own life as a blueprint for what to do. She counseled him around the clock about the importance of staying in school and setting long term goals. She paid Kenneth to babysit her children to teach him responsibility. Ton'Nea got her husband involved too as a male role model since Kenneth's dad was long gone. She helped Kenneth's mom get a better job and moved his family to a safer neighborhood right around the corner from her own. And for all of her efforts she could see him becoming more accountable. He was going to school. He was meeting curfew. It sounds simple to say he went to school and it is not a big accomplishment. But considering what I was working with in terms of his past that was huge. It was also huge that he would volunteer his time and that he would go to church. One morning he shows up no prior notice. I would like to go to church with you. So it was signs like that that I felt there was progress being made. I felt like we were on the right track. It was a really good feeling. And the naysayers that said Once the kids get caught up in the juvenile correctional system they never change. I wanted to say See? It can be done. It can be done. We can change these kids. See here's an example. He was to be my poster child for change. He was like family. He would drop in from time to time to say hello or grab a burger at a weekend barbecue. Things with kids at the detention center and especially with Kenneth were going so well that she decided to move beyond her nine-to-five job as a government caseworker and become an activist. She and her husband started youth basketball camps outside Little Rock. In 1997 Ton'nea capitalized on the fact that she is a towering beauty to run for and win the title of Mrs. Arkansas America. You need a cause to be in a pageant of course and hers was juvenile crime prevention. Her slogan? Helping all youth see their potential through education and extracurricular activities. Not catchy but sincere. She would give speeches to churches and youth groups throughout the state about the importance of staying in school and keeping out of trouble. But the next year things changed. In Pine Bluff where she lived two University of Arkansas students were robbed at gunpoint outside a local restaurant kidnapped and shot in a nearby field. The girl a cheerleader at the university died. But the other student survived remaining conscious enough to crawl to a road and flag down help. After a three-day manhunt the police found their suspect. This afternoon Jefferson County Sheriff's deputies arrested 19 year old Kenneth Williams. He is now charged with capital murder and attempted capital murder. I heard it on television and I sat. It is like the wind was knocked out of me. And I got on the phone and I called a friend of mine and I asked them had they heard anything about him being arrested? And they told me yes. And I just held the phone and I could hear them saying hello hello. And I was just sitting there. And what did you think? What were you thinking? You have made a mistake. This is not possible. It is not possible. Prior to Kenneth being arrested as a suspect I remember hearing about a gold tooth. This person had a gold tooth. He does not have one. Kenneth had a cousin who did have a gold tooth and the police sketches Ton'Nea had seen looked just like this cousin. She was sure police had gotten the wrong guy. Ton'Nea says everyone around her-- friends coworkers-- washed their hands of Kenneth. When Kenneth's defense attorneys asked Ton'Nea to be a character witness on his behalf even her husband Shawn tried to talk her out of it. She took the stand anyway. What I remember most is sharing with them this is not the person that I know. I do not know someone that would repeatedly shoot a female and kill her. And I do not know anyone that would leave another person for dead. I do not know anyone like that. And was Kenneth-- tell me his reaction. I remember him sitting at the table with his attorneys. And after I testified he looked over at the area of the courtroom that I was sitting in and he smiled at me. I took his smile as-- I saw pain in it. I saw a smile but I saw a pain in it that he was going through this process that he was innocent of something that he would now spend the rest of his life in prison for. But it was of gratitude. Thank you. Thank you for caring enough to be here. Thank you for caring enough to share the person that I am. The jury was not so sympathetic. Kenneth was convicted of capital murder attempted capital murder and seven other counts including kidnapping aggravated robbery and theft. He was sentenced to life without parole. Still prosecutors told Ton'Nea that because of her Kenneth had probably been spared the death penalty. Even as Kenneth sat behind bars Ton'Nea could not let him go. She had spent most of her adult life with one eye on Kenneth trying to keep him out of prison. And now that is exactly where he was. Kenneth called every so often. Ton'Nea tried to keep his spirits up. She told him to put his faith in God and in the truth. Her life was changing by then. She would quit her job at the juvenile detention center where she would first met Kenneth and became a teacher. Instead of trying to rescue kids who were already in trouble with the law she wanted to keep them out of jail altogether. She threw herself into her new job. She focused on raising her family. And she tried not to be preoccupied with Kenneth. One night I saw the caller ID and I knew that it was a call coming through from Kenneth and I did not answer. I got up the next morning as usual. I stopped by the corner convenience store and I remember the clerk telling me that she heard my address or my street over the scanner that someone had escaped from prison. I was taken back by it but I continued on to work. And the state trooper came to my job and shared what had happened. Kenneth had escaped and they were looking for him. I was scared for him. State troopers use real guns. And he may have the mindset of I will not go back to prison. You are going to have to kill me. News reports announced round-the-clock updates on the manhunt. But also stories asked how on earth does an inmate escape a maximum security prison after being there less than a m