I know so many people who have films that they have watched over and over and I have never really gotten that. I always feel like there are so many films that I have not seen why would I watch one again? But we get into these conversations. And there always comes a moment where I am asked well what is the film that you have seen the most? And then I have to admit it is The Poseidon Adventure which I know is not a good film. It is this '70s movie about an ocean liner that gets hit by a tsunami flips upside down and the passengers try to make their way to safety. It is part of an entire genre of films disaster films that have never gotten any respect. Nobody thinks of these films as art. But I loved it at the time when I saw it. It felt big and it felt important and serious. And I remember it was very emotional. And the reason that I saw it so many times that this is the film that I saw more than any other was not because I loved the film. It is because of where I saw it. I was on vacation. We did not take many vacations when I was a kid but on one of them we stayed at this hotel in Florida where the rooms had this thing where they offered a couple of movies all day long. And this was so long ago in the 1970s. My sisters and I we had never seen anything like that. Even cable TV was rare back then. The Poseidon Adventure was the film that they offered. And my sister Karen and I we ate it up. That was the movie we watched over and over again yeah. Oh so this was a very important movie. That is Karen and her son Zach my nephew who we tried to explain this to recently. So we ended up watching it on TV at night if our parents went out to dinner or if it was a rainy day. Yeah we loved it. The way that I remember it is that the hotel just had this movie on a loop. And it would just as soon as it would finish it would start again. And the way I remember it is that every time we would come into the hotel room you could turn on the TV and you would be somewhere in The Poseidon Adventure. That sounds vaguely familiar to me. I do not totally remember that but that might be right yeah. And I remember it having a lot of feeling. Do you remember it having a lot of feeling? What does that mean having a lot of feeling? Like eliciting-- I remember feeling a lot of emotions. Yeah well it is scary. And you are really invested in their journey to escape alive. I do not think I am giving anything away by saying that. Sort of are. Here at the radio show these last few weeks we have been talking about the random films that people have strong attachments to thinking that might be a good episode of the show. And I started to think about The Poseidon Adventure. And I wondered what it would be like to see it again. Would it have any feeling? Would any of it feel the way it did to me as a kid? Would it feel that way to Karen? So my sister and I we watched it. And I invited Zach too since he is the age that we were when we watched it back in the '70s. He is 13. I was 14 at the time. Karen was 11. And I want to say I did not expect Zach to like it. He does not like a lot of films. And right away the very first scene let us know the kind of film we were in for. A little boy visits the bridge of the SS Poseidon this ocean liner in the middle of a big storm. And the little boy is greeted by the captain who is played by Leslie Nielsen-- who at this point had not made the career transition to parodying characters like this captain. Mr. Shelby you have picked a particularly fascinating moment to accept my invitation. These waves do not bother you huh? I have surfed up to 18 feet but these look more like 30. 35 to be exact. Wow surf's really up. Oh my. What is oh my? Those lines. So cheesy. I did not remember how wincey the acting got in some places. When Ernest Borgnine shows up it is clear that the 1956 Oscar winner for Best Actor is not in one of his best roles. Linda you hear me Why is he so angry? Borgnine does seem to shout nearly every one of his lines in the film. One thing that kind of stunned me and I did not expect seeing the film again was how much of the dialogue I remember from decades ago. And I was also surprised to realize-- and I do not know what this says about me-- the lines that I remember the most are the little comic zingers like when a crew member is asked if he is married I know his corny response before he says it. No marriage for me Mrs. Rosen. I have got a mistress. What? The sea. Hey that is good. Something I did remember and remember liking from the film was that this was an old-fashioned enough movie that the producers tried to insert some big ideas into the adventure so it would all mean something. These big ideas are provided by Gene Hackman who plays a rebellious young priest in a turtleneck whose big theological idea is a very conveniently helpful one for people who are about to be capsized in the middle of the ocean. God does not want you to wait for miracles. You have to take matters into your own hands. Do not pray to God to solve your problems. This is from a sermon he delivers early in the film. Have the guts to fight for yourself. God wants brave souls. He wants winners not quitters. If you cannot win at least try to win. He comes back to this over and over through the film rallying the passengers to fight on. I loved that as a teenager that there was this idealistic guy with this principle that he is trying to live by and this idea about God that the film is testing. And I have to say seeing it today I still loved it that they put that in there. Anyway soon enough right at the stroke of midnight on New Year's Eve the tsunami hits the boat flips the plot line tips.   In the wreckage of the upside down New Year's party Gene Hackman convinces only eight passengers that they should not stay and wait for God to send rescuers but climb with him to safety. Now please for God's sake come with me. They creep from deck to deck barely escaping the rising water as they go. The ceilings of the rooms are the floors that they walk on and the floors are the ceilings. There is a fiery upside-down kitchen. They go up slippery ladders and inverted staircases. And by the time they start dying one by one for Karen and me and even Zach it is no joke. We are in it. We care.    Did she just have a heart attack? Wait did she just have a heart attack? Yes. Wow. That is a pretty random heart attack. Not really. Think about the fact that she just did all that swimming and she is out of shape. After Mrs. Rosen the menschy grandma in the film dies. Her husband discovers her dead body. Oh that guy is going to be so sad. I remember this moment so well. I remember this too really well. This was very affecting. I have been really invested in this movie. It is sort of good. You do feel very invested? Yeah it is like I am not sure what is going to happen next unlike most other movies. I would wondered if Zach was going to feel the same big feelings that I felt for the film at his age. And he totally did.   Wow she dies? Linda! No. Oh he dies too? No. Linda! They were so close. Linda! Linda! No. Linda! By the time we get to Gene Hackman's big climactic speech to God-- What more do you want of us? We have come all this way no thanks to you. --it was clear The Poseidon Adventure it does its job. It gets to you. But thinking about the experience that Zach had watching the film and the one that I was having it is so different right? For me it was like walking into a room from my childhood home and finding it intact and exactly how I remembered it. Or we would get to a scene and I would remember things I did not realize I remembered. Is there even a name for that? When we watch a movie together we think we are watching the same thing but we are not. For me The Poseidon Adventure is a portal back to that vacation and being in that hotel room with Karen and knowing those movie stars from other things they made and just that whole time in my life. I cannot show Zach that movie. Well from WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today on our program we are at a point in the pandemic where so many of us are still not going out to movie theaters. And we thought here at our show let us do a movie night. Let us do a show about movies. And in particular we decided to get people who have watched a film over and over who see something in it that most people do not see films for which they are an audience of one. These are stories about how we connect to films sometimes very deeply but sometimes in very strange and random ways. Stay with us. Act One Many a Thing She Ought to Understand. One of our producers Diane Wu spent most of her life thinking that she did not have a unique and personal take on the film The Sound of Music. The Sound of Music-- after all everybody loves it. What is there to say? And then she learned no her take is very different. I watched The Sound of Music all the time as a kid. It was one of maybe six VHS tapes we had at home along with Bambi and 101 Dalmatians. And a few years ago I was talking with a friend about how much I loved the movie growing up. And he said me too though the Nazis scared me. And I said what Nazis? And that is when I learned I would never seen the second half of the film. It turns out the movie came out in a two VHS box set. And I for some reason had only ever seen the first tape. My dad does not remember a second tape either. And why would you need one? The first half makes perfect sense on its own. Here's the plot. It is a movie about a woman named Maria who is sent to the countryside to babysit a giant family of children with a mean dad the von Trapps. Maria shows up bubbly fun and teaches them to sing and play and be kids all against the wishes of their father. But the singing wins him over. They sing together as a family. And finally at a party the kids sing a beautiful song for the guests. Farewell. And after that Maria having successfully fixed the family leaves just like Mary Poppins did when she fixed that family. And that is the end of the movie. I had very clear fond memories of the goatherd puppet show and the scene in the gazebo where Liesl the eldest daughter secretly met with the mailman she was in love with. And they sang and danced and it was so romantic. I had no further questions about any of the characters. So when I learned that there were 70 more minutes to the film I did not bother going to look for them. The Sound of Music was a full complete and wonderful artifact from my childhood. I did not want to taint it with Nazis. But when my co-worker Lina who is producing this week's show and is a musical theater fan-- which I most definitely am not-- when she found out I still had not seen the whole thing it seemed heretical to her. She could not let it stand. So we watched it together over the internet one Sunday afternoon. And I prepared to have a childhood memory either slightly enhanced or completely ruined. Before we started she had me predict what was going to be in the second half. I want based on-- and this is based on my childhood memory and just what I would like to see is the second half is just focused on my favorite two characters Liesl and the hot mailman. I want to see their courtship. And then they get married. And that is the end of the movie. We hit play and started at the very beginning started with the part I know. And the first half was more or less the simple sunny movie I remembered. Seeing the kindly and dour nuns come on screen early on was like recognizing teachers I had in elementary school. Reverend Mother. Sister Bernice. I simply cannot find her. Maria? There is that gazebo scene when the mailman and Liesl sing to each other. SINGING I am 16 going on 17. I know that I am naive. Then whirl around the gazebo dancing. Oh my God. This still looks like so much fun. Watching now though I saw a lot of things that I had completely missed as a kid because as a child I would apparently ignored anything that adults who are not Maria said to each other. Literally none of that dialogue registered. It was like the mumbly grown-ups in Charlie Brown. My kid self had edited full characters out of the film. I barely remembered the baroness who wants to marry the dad. This really is exciting for me Georg being here with you. Oh trees lakes mountains. When you have seen one you have seen them all! That is not what I mean and you know it. So any of their plot lines that were not resolved in the first half moot. I also missed of course how Maria and the dad supposedly fall in love. The dad by the way was even meaner than I remembered just cruel to Maria. Turn around please. What? Turn. Hat off. It is the dress. You will have to put on another one before you meet the children. But I do not have another one. And because of that I still had a lot of trouble squaring the idea that anything between the two of them was remotely romantic. He thinks he is in love with you. But that is not true. Oh they really spell it out. Yeah buddy. You missed kind of a lot. Surely you have noticed the way he looks into your eyes. And you blushed in his arms when you were dancing just now. The one romance that still sparkled was between Liesl and the mailman. Though watching again I have to say the mailman was not as cute as I remembered. It is the mailman! Oh he kind of looks like a Nazi. Ralph the mailman comes back later in the first half to throw rocks on Liesl's window. That moment I remember. Again so dreamy. But the one that followed was completely over my head as a kid. I did not see. I mean I did not know you were-- Heil Hitler! Oh. Heil Hitler? Yeah Heil Hitler. The hero of my version of The Sound of Music who I would hoped the second half would center around he was the Nazi. Also not the mailman. Yes he was wearing a uniform and delivering messages but he was not employed by the postal service as my child self had understood. He was some kind of military messenger. The first half is peppered with a few more hints like this that things are going to take a turn historically in the second half of the movie. Uneasy talk about Austrian flags and something called an Anschluss but all against the backdrop of a glamorous party. They are kind of easy to miss if you are seven. The last thing I missed as a kid? The big title card that says intermission in yellow script that comes on screen after Maria closes the door. Maybe it was on the second VHS. Lina and I fast forward through the music at intermission. And the second half starts. Oh my god Lina. I cannot believe there is more. This is like a second movie for you. Two three-- Oh this is really weird. You have not seen any of this. --fixe six seven. Except as the second half starts I suddenly feel like I have seen all of this. Watching the children play ball in their backyard felt strangely familiar. Six! Oh. I would spent so much time already with the von Trapps at their home that this new scene just felt like part of my memories. This confusing deja vu sticks with me all the way through the scenes of Maria back at the abbey. It is not until the dad goes to meet Maria at the gazebo and declare his love for her that I am certain I have never seen this before. Do you know when I first started loving you? That night at the dinner table when you sat on that ridiculous pine cone. What? I knew the first time you blew that silly whistle. Oh my god. Oh my love. This is so gross. They basically just stared at each other three times and now Maria was letting this horrible man marry her? I could not believe it. Just as I am settling into the newness of the second half gawking at Maria's wedding dress everything in the movie shifts. The Nazis roll into town. It is incredibly abrupt a cut from literal wedding bells to a bell tolling over a giant swastika flag on the town square. Lines of soldiers march across the plaza ominously. The colors seemed to drain out of the movie. The children show up next in drab brown clothes against a stony backdrop instead of their perky curtain outfits from the first half. The characters meanwhile are dealing with their own whiplash. Rolfe surprises Liesl as she is getting into a car. Liesl! Liesl! Rolfe! I am basically as excited to see Rolfe as Liesl is right here because maybe this is when we get to the version of the second half I would been wanting to see-- Rolfe and Liesl's courtship. Rolfe I am so glad to see you. It is been such-- Good afternoon. You will take this please and deliver it to your father as soon as he comes home. Ouch Rolfe. He is standing in front of a Nazi flag. Liesl is clearly disoriented but still hopeful as she holds the telegram and coyly asks-- Do not you want to come over tonight and deliver it yourself? I am now occupied with more important matters. And your father better be too if he knows what is good for him. But Rolfe-- Aw Liesl you chose a bad one. This was the only relationship in the movie that interested me at all as a child. And it is sobering to see the whole realistic arc of it. As for the rest of the second half it is predictable. You know their first escape is not going to work out. It is obvious they will win the singing contest. Great songs from the first half are just recycled in a weird way. The one moment that moves me though does not have anything to do with the characters I was attached to from the first half. It happens surprisingly when the dad starts singing a love song to his country onstage. SINGING Edelweiss Edelweiss every morning you greet me. He is doing it as an act of gentle defiance that makes the Nazi official's mustache twitch. And as the crowd joins in with him I feel my throat catch a little. They remind me of people all around the world this summer in Hong Kong Beirut Belarus here in America who are longing to hold on to something as their own countries change rapidly excruciatingly around them. SINGING Edelweiss Edelweiss bless my hometown forever. The darkest moment of the movie is perhaps at the very end when the family has almost escaped but then Rolfe finds them in the abbey. He raises a whistle to turn them in. But the dad stops and reasons with him. You do not really belong to them. Stay where you are. Come away with us-- before it is too late. Rolfe looks scared and boyish. He relinquishes his gun and leans over relieved. But then the dad takes it one step too far. You will never be one of them. Lieutenant! Lieutenant they are here! They are here lieutenant! Rolfe chooses to betray them. It is such a sinister and dissonant scene held up against the cotton candy first half. The family still makes it out in time but in spite of him not with his help. And that is the actual end of the movie as far as I know today. So here's my conclusion having seen it all. You do not need the second half. It is actually better without it. The second half just takes one of my kid self's favorite characters Rolfe and makes him a villain then takes the worst character the dad and makes him a hero. There are barely any new songs. Maria disappears as a person. Liesl just looks uncomfortable the whole time trying to act like a child for another hour. Everything memorable and iconic about the movie-- My Favorite Things the kids singing good night Doe a deer-- that all happens in the first half. But then I was at the beach this weekend with a friend staring at the clouds and the kids throwing sand. And he said a thing that changed my feeling about the second half. He told me that lately he can last about three minutes feeling like everything is normal before he remembers it is not. It made me understand the urge to include the dark end of the story in the movie about the singing family. Because once everything in the world has changed you cannot really will it to stay outside the frame. Diane Wu is one of the producers of our show. Coming up your ex-wife has a few thoughts about your marriage and she makes a movie about that. That does not sound like that is going to be a good experience for you. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today on our program at this point in the pandemic where so many of us are still not going out to movie theaters we thought here at our program let us do a movie night a show about movies stories about people who see something that most of us do not see in some film. Today's show is a rerun. We have arrived at act two of our program. Act Two Putting the Ease in Disease. So back when the pandemic first took hold a lot of people were watching or rewatching the movie Contagion which originally came out in 2011. Maybe you have seen this. It is about a deadly and fast-spreading virus that is spread by respiratory droplets. It goes around the world. Governments fail to contain it. And I think when we watch films like that or read books about the 1918 flu-- because it just I do not know scratches this itch where we want some way to think about what we are going through right now. And it is just nice to see somebody else go through some version of it. One of our producers Sean Cole has never seen Contagion but he found himself turning to this other movie a movie about a virus that you have probably never heard of. It is a very different spin on the subject. Here's Sean. You will not find this movie on Netflix or YouTube or anywhere like that-- or at least I could not find it that way. I finally had to order a DVD from an online vintage movie store. It is clear my copy was pirated off cable-- skips a lot. And like all of the Contagion geeks I was floored by some of the parallels to now especially given that this movie came out in 1968 more than half a century ago. For instance in this movie instead of a bat the vector of the virus is a bird a toucan that is stowed away aboard a Greek freighter somewhere near Central America. Then the boat docks in New York Harbor for inspection and the first mate alerts the military that a lot of the crew is sick. We will have to hold the ship in quarantine indefinitely. If it is a virus my guess it is a brand new one some kind of a mutation. No telling how long it will take to identify it. The toucan is still on board held in a makeshift chicken wire fence. But then it gets loose flies straight into the city and starts infecting people. Just a few at first. The mayor of New York an empty suit motivated mostly by money and poll numbers holds a press conference speaking into a microphone labeled WNYC the public radio station in New York where I used to work. It was weird. There is absolutely no cause for alarm. Only 47 cases have been reported so far. However the commissioner of health recommends that you wear a surgical mask when you are out in public. Now-- He holds up a mask exactly like the one I wear every day. After the reporters leave though there is deep concern and dread. The health commissioner an older Anthony Fauci type scolds the mayor for underplaying the threat everyone's facing. True we have got a line on the 47 who reported to doctors but-- But when you feel good you do not go to a doctor. Lord knows how many more have it. But the virus only has a life of 10 days or so. You said so yourself. Yes but somebody who gets it on the 10th day and has it for another 10 days and a week after he gets it he gives it to somebody else and so on. Theoretically it could go on for years. Soon everyone is scurrying around the city in a masked panic. Businesses suffer. A presidential envoy fast tracks the development of a vaccine. If it were not for the 20-foot long cop cars and A-line mod dresses it feels like some of these scenes could have been shot in Manhattan last weekend. Except there is one major difference between this film and the Steven Soderberghian Contagion-like reality we are all living in. Because in this movie the virus is not fatal. It does not even cause a fever or a cough. Instead the main and only symptom is absolute euphoria. That is it. Everyone it infects experiences unbridled happiness and elation. Its victims begin acting kindly to one another deferential. In just a couple of days the city is transformed from this-- Come on you jerk! The light as not going to get any greener! Why you lazy no good rotten stinking-- You are telling me when I came in? You are damn right I am! Who you shoving mac? You own the sidewalk? --to this. Good morning. Nice day is not it? I am sorry. Pardon me. May I help you? The movie is called What is So Bad About Feeling Good? It is a comedy-- a romcom really. And it is not a good movie which is why you likely have not heard of it even though the lead actors are George Peppard from Breakfast at Tiffany's and The A-Team and Mary Tyler Moore from Mary Tyler Moore. And they do a good job. Pretty much everyone in the cast is really skilled. But the whole production is outlandishly campy and caricaturistic. There are a few very awkward choices. Cartoon word balloons emerge from the toucan's mouth sometimes when it squawks so you know what it is thinking. Oh and there is a schmaltzy AM radio theme song kind of a knockoff of Burt Bacharach. SINGING What is so wrong with that happy sensation that sense of utter elation? What is so bad about feeling good? That said it is also a great movie in the way that silly B movies can be so satisfying especially the arcane ones that make you feel like a kid watching adults mess up for the first time. I have a greatest hits list of them in my head. Wild in the Streets about ageist hippies waging a coup against the US government. Invasion of the Bee Girls about a race of murderous women who are also bees. Both of which you can watch online for free. But since it is so hard to find a copy of this movie let me just continue taking you through the plot in a kind of abbreviated radio-ified Cliff's Notes version for your movie not-going enjoyment. So George Peppard and Mary Tyler Moore are Pete and Liz two characters who are tailor-made for this particular plot because they do not contain an ounce of euphoria. They are brooding existentialist archetypes that have dropped out of society living in the East Village. They would be boyfriend and girlfriend if they believed in that sort of thing. For no discernible reason or maybe because the script was not working and they had to fix it quickly there is a lot of voiceover by these two. A couple of years ago I was just like the rest of you conformists. I was in advertising name on the door carpet on the floor an ulcer headaches the whole bit. But I wised up to that phony world and came down here. So did Liz. She was on the treadmill too. I sure was. Uptown supper clubs singing schmaltzy songs to the drunks fighting to get to the top of the ladder. And then my heart got into the act and somebody stepped on it. Pills to sleep pills to stay awake. Finally I asked myself for what? This was the answer. This being the communal building they live in with a tribe of other unhappy nihilists collecting unemployment. They all look a little like cave people at a gallery opening. One of them spends every hour of every day completely enveloped inside of a sack. They call her the Sack. Since the problems of life are insoluble one should draw into complete isolation and live a life of total non-involvement with other people. The Sack is right. Meanwhile a little ways downtown the Faucian commissioner of health pretty quickly figures out how the virus works. And it has to be transmitted by respiration. All that bird has to do is get within breathing distance of somebody and pop goes the weasel. Cue the toucan who flies into Pete and Liz's window one morning while they are sleeping loiters for a minute next to Pete's face and leaves. Pete wakes up early and heads up to the roof. Liz climbs up after him concerned. Pete! Come here. What happened? Come here. Look. In this cruddy pile of junk a flower. Pete what is wrong? What is the matter with you? I do not know. Ever since I got up I have been feeling strange kind of-- I do not think I can explain it to you but everything seems different. Hey listen. To what? The traffic? Kids laughing. You know why they are laughing? Because they are not old enough to read the newspaper. You take a look at the front page and then try laughing. The world's a stinking hopeless mess! Oh Pete you are sick. You know sometimes a high fever can make you feel this way. I feel great. That is what I mean! At this point it is worth noting why someone might want to make a film about the need for euphoria in 1968. The front page Liz is talking about would include headlines like Martin Luther King is Slain in Memphis Robert Kennedy Dead Police Battle Demonstrators in the Streets-- also Viet Cong Storm US Embassy. We were a nation at war both abroad and with itself with protests and riots in cities across the country and a presidential candidate running on a platform of law and order and also courting segregationists. And given all that you might ask what is so bad about feeling good? Which is what the mayor in the movie wanted to know. In one of the first crisis management meetings with his cabinet they are running down the symptoms for him and tell him the virus stops people from brooding. But it is worse than that. Mr. Mayor 82 not only stop brooding they stop smoking. 93 stop drinking. What is wrong with that? In terms of dollars and cents it is disastrous. Our city is facing a drastic loss in income from sales tax. That is ridiculous. 47 people? Drop in a bucket. But if this goes unchecked for a month by mathematical progression half of New York will have the virus. You know what that means. It means a loss in cigarette and liquor taxes more than 180 million. 180 million? Brady what are you sitting there for? Get that bird! Yes sir. Brady is the chief of police. Capture the bird they can extract its tissues come up with a cure and stave off an economic crisis. Because of course what is the most important thing a politician thinks of in a potential pandemic? How to save the economy. Meantime Pete much to Liz's horror has shaved off his beard cut his hair and is talking about trying to get his old advertising job back. Which-- quick digression-- interests me because it is the opposite of subversive. Once these nonconformists get infected instead of dropping out they drop in. Pete feels so good in fact that once he figures out what is quote unquote wrong with him he wants to share it with everyone starting with Liz. In an age when all of us are actively avoiding each other's bodies like the plague because of the plague it is wild to watch someone actively trying to spread a virus like this. One little kiss and you will have it too. I do not want it. Just one little kiss. You will like yourself in the morning. I do not want it Pete. We will get married a real marriage-- I do not want it. --a church wedding. Chasing her around the room. We will get a little place in Jersey. We will have some kids and I will mow the lawn. And give up all this? Eventually in a completely unbelievable moment that would never have survived the MeToo movement Pete disguises himself as a nihilist German philosopher and tries to pressure Liz into bed finally settling for a kiss. He exposes the rest of the gang too. They all shave cut their hair Queer Eye their apartments. The Sack climbs out of her sack. And the toucan remarkably keeps coming back. It becomes their pet. They call him Amigo. At the same time the mayor is bundled off to an emergency bunker so that he does not get sick. A TV reporter buttonholes him on the way in. Tell me sir is there any truth to the rumor that there is been a spread in the epidemic? Epidemic? Well I would hardly call it an epidemic. After all we only have 180 million-- 47 cases. Well why then sir are you visiting the fallout shelter? Just a routine inspection last Friday of every month. But today is Saturday sir. Well better late than never. It took me watching this scene a few times trying to figure out why it sounded so familiar. And then I was like oh yeah. At the height of the protest outside the White House President Trump was moved for a time to the bunker something that has not happened since 911. I was there for a tiny little short period of time and it was much more for an inspection. There was no-- Anyway there are not only 47 cases for long. And that is largely due to the efforts of Pete and Liz and their friends. They wage a campaign to spread the virus intentionally by subterfuge. Liz and the Sack volunteer to hand out masks to their fellow citizens breathing on them first. While the Sack made sure that every mask was specially treated with the virus I made sure that nobody got away without one. I was in charge of transportatio