So one of the things that is happening right now around the world is that you have all these couples-- happy ones struggling couples couples in that kind of things seem OK but I do not know haze. Tens of millions of couples confined for weeks now the relationships being remolded by this lockdown. It is an accelerator. It is a relationship accelerator. So it rearranges the priority and throws the superfluous overboard in a very clarifying way for many of us. Wondering what is happening with couples I reached out to Esther Perel who is a couples therapist. If you have heard of her she is probably best known for this idea from her book Mating in Captivity that it takes a toll on couples and kills passion when there is not enough distance between the partners. And they turn to each other for everything. For friendship and a sense of identity and comfort and everything a whole village used to provide a person. And she is very aware that under lockdown people are literally turning to their partners for everything. These days she is seeing a full schedule of couples more than she usually does. Interestingly she says this is an unusually good moment for therapy. And in lockdown lots of clients who are opening up and figuring out things in ways they do not normally like some of the men in the couples-- It is like for the first time they are actually doing therapy. It is exciting basically because they stopped. They slowed down their home. And they are like this blossoming of opening up and-- Wow. Three dudes you know three men-- it is just exci-- like I do not want to get off the phone because it is very moving. For most of the couples that you are seeing what is your sense? Has the lockdown been good for them or bad for them? Hm. It is just such an interesting thing to see. Really both really both. I cannot say one or the other. The couples struggling the most are pretty much exactly the ones you would expect people who even before all this were quick to pick at their partners and criticize them and argue over who is sacrificing the most for whom. But also in this moment when our lives have been so profoundly disrupted another group doing badly-- People who-- they have lost someone or they have someone who is sick or they are anxious. They are worried. And basically their partner is unable to have an emphatic response. You know what are you worried about? There is nothing. And people tell you my partner is the last person I am turning to for anything I am feeling right now. It is like I have nowhere to go with this to just be able to be upset or scared or this constant sense of loss just of the world they have known their own identity their work all of that. The extreme circumstances are also driving people to re-prioritize. Esther has seen couples split up and others move in together. And one of her most fascinating role reversals-- she is counseling one couple where one of the partners was always seen as the insecure one. She would struggled through a traumatic childhood. It was agreed between the two of them that she was the troubled one who leaned on her stronger more together partner. But now with the deadly virus everywhere she is found that her difficult childhood gave her all kinds of coping and managing skills. She is basically I have known chaos. You put me in this crisis. I know what to do. I knew what to do before anybody around me. I was in that supermarket. I even knew to get the stuff for the parents of my girlfriend who is not even here because I knew that they would need this. And I just felt like now the world is clear to me. I know what it needs from me. And in this particular relationship it is two women. And it was a very interesting thing because it had-- I do not think that side of her had ever been known. It had always been described as you are the one with the issues because you come from this very traumatic background. So she became the functional one in the relationship. It was like a whole different way of being but it was also a revelation to her self. This turned everything around. Suddenly she was not seeking her partner's approval all the time. She did not need it which of course is healthy and great except for the partner who is used to being the strong one. It is one thing to wish that the person you are with is more assertive and less needy. What do you do when you get that wish? It made her uncomfortable. And the way this played out did not surprise Esther. Oh when I am not comfortable with someone who is emancipating right next to me I basically try to make them doubt themselves again. Because if they doubt themselves if they are not sure then they come to me. So that is what she was doing? Yes in all kinds of very subtle ways of course. This is not flagrant. So she would say things to encourage her formerly dependent partner to second-guess herself to doubt herself things like-- It is so interesting that you want to do that. I thought you did not really-- that that was not what you wanted to do. Or you once mentioned to me that you do not want to bring your mom you do not want to call your father. Little doubts. It is a bit of a mind twist just gentle mind twists. You do not mean to. It looks like it is a very rational conversation. With other couples Esther Perel says being on lockdown is forcing them to confront things that they would been avoiding but have never actually stopped to figure out. There is a couple like this on her podcast. She does a show called Where Should We Begin? where she records therapy sessions with real couples who volunteer to do this anonymously on a podcast. Right now all the sessions are couples on lockdown. In episode two of the season the couple was living apart before COVID-19. They had been together living in Italy but she got a job offer in Germany caused a huge rift. She moved to Germany with her teenage daughter. He did not. Then this year when it really became a hotspot for the virus he finally moved in with them. And finally he and she had to deal with each other. They were on the verge of divorcing the moment this is over. This is an interesting situation because COVID-19 basically brought them together under one roof. They have been apart for a year and a half and each one feels the other one abandoned them. So COVID-19 resolved the standoff between them because neither of them had to make the decision because the virus decided. And now they are under the same roof. And neither of them had to give in. But once they are together they are in a constant-- it is like one person talks the other one listens until they find a thing they can disagree with. And that is where they enter. And now they are going to start arguing. And it is interesting. There is a point where they keep having the same fight over and over. And you keep saying to them stop having this fight. And there is a moment in the session where he actually is being kind to her and sort of inviting. And it is so interesting what happens. Like you said I am very busy. And today I wanted to cook for you instead of doing something else. So I did that without even telling you. And these are the things that you do not appreciate. No I appreciate but would have been better if I would have cooked and then we were eating all together. So you did a great thing today to cook the lunch. But you did not have lunch with us basically because you were between two calls. You had just five minutes to eat. And I prefer to eat anything with you besides you cooking to let us eat you know what I mean? I do not know. Let us plan what makes us happy maybe 'ecause would have been better if we would have shared those 15 minutes of the lunch. I also cannot make it right. No no. But there is nothing wrong. Did you hear this as a criticism? Yes. But it is not. It is not. I am just saying I would love to have lunch with you and I would prefer to cook instead of you. If you have to spend those 15 minutes cooking for us it is better that you make one call in those 15 minutes while I am cooking and then you dedicate the next 15 minutes just to eat together. I am not criticizing anything. But I am scared to ask you to cook again because I see all the things that you are doing right. What the fuck? I am just cooking. One second one second one second. This moment was important. If you go to a class you would miss this because you want to know if he cares. And he just told you. I would rather eat with you whatever. He just gave it to you on a platter. But you only heard the piece about it would have been better if you had not cooked. You did not hear that what he meant with that was because I would have wanted that time with you. It is like you hear that which you want to hear even if it is what you fear hearing and that you are not hearing what he is actually telling you. I am not so sure that love is gone but I think that the lovers have become invisible to the love that is. That is-- wow. But she just said oh my god that was the wow effect. She says this thing to the couple that-- I do not know-- maybe anybody who is ever been in a couple would find useful. She says to them notice that behind every criticism there is a wish a wish to be closer. Esther says she sees other couples in the same situation as this one. They are stuck in the same fight and everything leads back to that fight everything the other person says. And they are too far gone to fix it. But what this couple was able to do she says was put aside the fight for a moment and talk about the feelings they were having for each other underneath all that. By the end of the therapy session they are speaking in a sincere and heartfelt way that they had not in a long time. So I called you when this crisis started and you came to take care of us. And I appreciate that. And I do not want to lose this. This COVID-19 for this couple will save the couple that was literally otherwise on its way out. They were going to do another one year of fighting like this. And then one of them would meet somebody else and that would be the end of that story. 17 years-- it is not like they have just met yesterday. Other couples do not get to this point. Episode three of her podcast this season has another couple who cannot stop themselves from fighting the same fight over and over. They decided to divorce two weeks before lockdown. And since then it is gotten so much worse. What is hurting me living with someone who has so much contempt for me and feels that I am trying to control you by asking you to isolate with your family which is what the governor is asking us to do. And I am sorry that that does not work with your social plans but this is a time that people are suffering. I am not arguing that. I cannot argue with you anymore. No but you are. I am saying I am not happy about it. But you are. You were arguing-- I do not just feel like I have a choice. You were arguing as of yesterday. It is interesting. You lecture them in that episode a few times with a tone I feel like we do not usually hear from you. Yes. I am basically saying you have a task to accomplish. You are in lockdown together. And this is your mission right now. That is your project. What you feel about each other is rather irrelevant. You are two parents. You chose to be here in this house together. What are you going to do piss on each other the whole time just to remind the other that you resent having to be here? Or are you just simply going to try to be as civil as you can be and make this tolerable for everyone? For so many couples the stress of lockdown makes things worse. There are already reports from China as it comes out of lockdown that divorce may be on the rise there. So who are the couples who are doing better? Who does better is the people who think what can I learn here? What is this telling me about what actually matters in my life or what I really want to do and becoming more aware of things? Because A we have never slowed down like this. Never on a global level have we slowed down like this. It is a long time that we have only been accelerating accelerating accelerating. And for the first time-- and I do not think we have begun even to understand what this is going to do to you to have had to really experience what that kind of a slowdown will do. Who we will all be when this is done who knows seriously? Trying to guess the ultimate effect of this national shutdown on couples on our kids' education on the economy on ourselves it is like the virus has thrown the future into this black box. We can make our guesses or we can just accept we will know when we know. And for those of us who like more certainty in our lives well tough luck. Today on our program we have people trying in various situations to live with a lack of information not happy about that fact at all but doing their best. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One A Phone Flickers in the Dark. There is one part of the world where there is a kind of information vacuum. At least for those of us who are not there it is a kind of black box. It is Xinjiang China. If you picture China it is in the northwest corner far from China's big cities the size of Mexico nestled up against Kazakhstan and a few other Stans. And ethnically it is been more like them than 90 of China. For instance it is home to the Uyghurs who speak their own language that is close to Turkish not Mandarin Chinese. Most Uyghurs are Muslim. And for a long time the Uyghurs faced discrimination and arbitrary detention in China. If you follow the news you probably know that this escalated beginning in 2014 when the government started accusing hundreds of thousands of Uyghurs of supporting terrorism and wanting to separate from China and sent them to so-called re-education centers. They are better described as internment camps. Former detainees report being beaten. Women have testified that they were forcibly sterilized. The State Department has estimated that up to two million people were held in these camps. But information about what is really going on in Xinjiang is hard to come by. And for Uyghurs outside of Xinjiang who want to check in on their families back home well some families are effectively blocked from all communication. Others the government monitors phone calls and you do not want to say anything that will lead to officials banging on your family's door. So Uyghurs in the diaspora have turned to TikTok. Yes older listeners you think of TikTok as the app where the kids are making dance videos and jokes that you do not understand. But the app started in China. The Chinese version of TikTok is called Douyin. It is insanely popular over 400 million users a day. And because it is so visual the government is not so great at censoring it. As a result it is a place where uncensored content gets out of Xinjiang. There are videos posted by Uyghurs but also by government officials who have been sent there to manage Uyghurs. Here is a TikTok video that seems to have been posted by an official who is been assigned to live with a Uyghur family in their house as a kind of minder. It seems like maybe he posted this to show everything's fine. We are getting along. Everything's great.  In the video the minder is eating breakfast with the two kids from the family in the garden. He smiles at the camera turns it to the little boy eating next to him. And then in Uyghur the boy says to his mom--  --When my dad comes home this guy will leave.  Mom is he coming on Monday? The official does not seem to understand a word of that. Now here is a video posted presumably by somebody who is Uyghur. It is a woman with long dark hair sitting in her car while the song Faded by Alan Walker plays in the background.  There is something off about this. It is not a normal TikTok video of somebody dancing. She is beating her chest with her fist to the beat. And then you realize there are dozens of these same kind of video using the same song everybody beating their chest. It is like a virtual protest. Still like I say there are lots of Uyghurs trying to figure out what is going on in Xinjiang and what is happening to their own families there. Durrie Bouscaren is a reporter living in Turkey where a lot of Uyghurs have settled many of them in the last five years. She is been talking with one man for months who is been obsessed with these TikTok videos with anything else he can find that'ill give him a look inside Xinjiang's black box because what he values the most in this world his wife and son and the rest of his family are stuck inside. Here's Durrie. Abdurahman Tohti fled China seven years ago after getting arrested and tortured for learning Arabic. He wanted to read the Quran. Today he still does not have much feeling in his feet. But let me tell you how he met his wife because it is a sweet story. When Abdurahman got to Istanbul he wanted to settle down and start a family of his own. So he turned to his dad back in Xinjiang the person he trusts most in the world and asked him to help him find someone back home for him to marry. His dad went around talked to other parents. And he found Peride a biology student with brown eyes and a kind face. Abdurahman and Peride talked on WeChat. That is the main social media platform in China. They could not say much because they knew the government monitored calls to foreign numbers. The conversation was stilted but they got a sense for each other. And they decided to get married. So she packed her bags and boarded a plane to Turkey. Abdurahman was so excited.   So the plane arrived at 2 oclock in the night. So I went to the airport to pick her up. I bought a big rose flower and I put a Quran in the middle. And I put a ring on the top of the Quran for picking her up from airport. He brought a photo of her to make sure he could figure out who she was. He was in the terminal with a group of friends waiting. People were streaming out of the customs area and he sees her.  I go to her and I ask is this you on the picture? She asked who is the girl in the picture for you? So I said it is my wife. So she said are you crazy? You do not recognize your wife? Then she left. It was not her. It is not Peride. And Abdurahman's starting to worry like maybe she is not coming. Then he sees someone else who looks like her goes up to her shows the picture. She is like no that is not me. But as he is turning to leave she calls him back. It was her.  She took her phone out and show me my picture and asks me are you this guy in the phone in the picture? And I say yes. And that is why we met first time. She was messing with him.  I put a ring on her hand. And the girl has a flower. And the Turks around us asking what is happening? Are you getting married? Where are you from? Suddenly it became a kind of party. People are giving us gifts all kinds of chocolate candies and saying congratulations. And it was a really happy moment for us. A police officer working at the airport says hey I am Uyghur too. He gives them a police escort back home lights flashing. It is like a movie. Not too long after Abdurahman and Peride had a son. They named him Abduleziz after his grandfather. And Abduleziz becomes his dad's mini me. Everything Abdurahman did Abduleziz would follow from the way he stood to his table manners.   He likes the car. Even when I am driving my car he wants to sit in front of me and drive with me. This was in a parking lot. Abdurahman was teaching Peride how to drive and 18-month-old Abduleziz would sit on his dad's lap and grab the stick shift. He would throw a fuss if he could not.  He was really cute. He used to try to copy everything I do. But Abdurahman's relationship with Peride's family was rocky right from the start. Abdurahman is religious but her family is secular and pretty wealthy. But the heart of the problem was that Peride's parents felt like she was wasting her education in Turkey. She had a degree but she was not using it. She wanted to stay home with their son. When Abduleziz was born Peride's parents started asking her to come back to Xinjiang for a long visit maybe even to leave Abduleziz with them for a while. In Uyghur families it is really common for grandparents to take care of their grandkids for their first five years of life while the parents work. The pressure from back home got really intense but Abdurahman and Peride were hesitant to leave Turkey. For starters Abdurahman could not go with her to Xinjiang because he was sure he would be arrested if he returned to China. And by this point it was 2015. They would been hearing whispers about added surveillance about Uyghurs being detained in Xinjiang. They do not know exactly what is happening but they know it is not good.  I asked my wife what do you say? If you want to with them we can try it but I do not feel good about it. And I am afraid you will not be able to come back again because of the situation down there. She said no are you crazy? I really do not want to travel. Peride's parents kept insisting that it was safe at least for them. They were loyal to the party and they had high level government contacts. They are not religious. If Abduleziz was with them they said it would be OK. They were pushing but Abdurahman and Peride kept saying no. A few months later Abdurahman was walking by a pretzel shop in his neighborhood when the police stopped him and asked for his residency papers. His permit had lapsed. He would applied for a new one but it had not arrived yet. So they arrested him took him to a detention center. This happens to a fair number of Uyghurs in Turkey. They will be detained for a paperwork issue and they will get stuck for a while. In Abdurahman's case he was locked up for three months allowed just one phone call home every week. Peride meanwhile was home alone with their toddler and pregnant close to her due date. When Abdurahman finally got out his whole world had changed. His wife had given birth to their second child a girl. And his son Abduleziz was gone. He was in China. Peride's mother had come for a visit and arranged for the trip back. Abdurahman felt tricked. He did not even get to say goodbye. It is like his in-laws waited until he could not interfere and then sent his kid away. He says he never would have let Abduleziz go to China. Did you-- when you had that first conversation did you and your wife fight about it? Were you upset? Were you angry? What was your physical reaction?  I was sad of course but I did not argue or fight with her because she was also on the pressure. On one side she got me and another side her family pressuring her. So I also want to make it easy for her. Peride said she wanted to go back with the baby just for a short trip make her parents happy. Then she would come back with Abduleziz. Abdurahman was not crazy about the idea but he agreed drove them to the airport. It was hard feeling but I feel I could not do anything else. And so they flew away to go to a place where only fragments of information ever make it out. The plan was that Peride would contact Abdurahman on WeChat once they would arrived and felt like it was safe but he did not hear from them. He called her parents again and again. They never picked up. He started to panic but this is not entirely abnormal because of how difficult it is for Uyghurs to communicate with their families in Xinjiang. He was hoping that that was all it was. After two months of this he says a distant relative who was visiting Istanbul on business contacted him and said let us have lunch. They met. He had news. It was not good. Police arrested Peride as soon as she and the baby arrived in China. She was interrogated and beaten the cousin said. She was in prison serving a 10-year sentence. He thought it was because she lived in Turkey. Human rights observers say they have seen several cases where Uyghurs in Xinjiang have been punished for communicating with people in Turkey or other predominantly Muslim countries. It is not illegal per se but it can get you in trouble with the government.  It is like you burn inside something that is eating you from inside. It is eating you from the inside? Yeah because you have a lot of pain but you cannot do anything. Their children are with their grandparents his in-laws so at least they are safe. But he cannot get his wife out of prison. He cannot even call home or try to get more information without endangering his family. Because he is living in Turkey anyone in Xinjiang who gets a call from him could immediately get flagged by the government. They could be interrogated or even sent to a re-education camp. And his family knows this. By this point most of them have deleted him from their contacts. So he waits. There is nothing he can do. He starts putting on weight. He sleeps late. He is stuck. For everything he is gone through Abdurahman's still pretty young. He is 30. I have known him for about six months now and he does things all the time that remind me that he is a dad who never got to be a dad. He always brings food when we meet and shares his snacks like steamed buns with lamb dipped in a spicy vinegar sauce. Once after an interview we ran into his friend with her kid at a Uyghur-run cafe. I will never forget the look on his face while he tossed the toddler up and down in front of the deli cases this pure uncomplicated joy. But when I ask him how he feels about all this he is told me men do not have feelings which obviously is not true. Back in December of 2018 when Abdurahman was living in Istanbul hearing nothing from his family things in Xinjiang were getting worse. More and more Uyghurs were sent to re-education centers and later required to do low wage factory work. Human rights observers say this campaign imprisoned about 10 of Uyghur adults in Xinjiang. But Abdurahman had no idea what was happening to his family. That is when TikTok came into his life. A friend showed it to him. He was like you have got to see this.  He said I just found a relative a man I know from my hometown. I ask how do you find people? How does it work? He tells me you can write the name of your town. Abdurahman cannot write in Mandarin so his friend types out the name of his hometown for him. It is called Axu. It is an agricultural center in the west hugging the mountains that form the border between China Kyrgyzstan and Kazakhstan. Suddenly hundreds of users are popping up on his screen. He goes through video after video. He sees all of these places that he recognizes-- the woods and the rivers and the families hanging out in front of their houses. And he can tell things have definitely changed. The cotton fields look the same. The houses are familiar. But to Abdurahman Axu looks like a city under occupation.  A lot of video is Chinese occupier put on that. And the interviews it looks like a happy moment to them but what the video has shown is for example a Chinese guy in a Uyghur house. There are only women in the house and a elder lady my mom's age. The Chinese man first tried to dance with her like almost forcing her to dance and tried to hug her. And the Chinese guys look happy and they thought they are doing something good but in our tradition is attack. Like I can see the lady. She cannot do anything against it but she do not want to dance with the guy. In another video something else seems off. It is a group of people clearing ice off of an irrigation ditch with picks and shovels. It is winter. You can tell by the trees and the coats they are wearing.  Abdurahman knows this ditch. It is just a few minutes from his family's house. And to him it is clear they are being forced to work. We never clear ice from the ditch until springtime he tells me. There is no need. It just freezes over again. This watching does not seem to be good for Abdurahman but he cannot stop. TikTok is like this tiny flashlight into the big black box that Xinjiang has become. For a week he stayed in his apartment just searching. What he was really hoping for was to see someone he recognized any traces of his kids his wife's parents his parents. He had not been able to speak to them for several years at this point. He watched at the kitchen table watched on the couch. At night he would lie awake scrolling. On January 4 2019 he was in bed and like usual scrolling through TikTok. It is around 200 AM and Abdurahman sees this video. It is a little boy with big cheeks expressive eyes. He is in a school answering questions in Mandarin Chinese from a teacher off camera. Behind him kids are milling about in winter coats.   They have a leather jacket winter jacket.   The teacher asks the kid a bunch of questions. What is the name of the fatherland? The People's Republic of China. What is on the fatherland's flag? Five stars on a red flag. Where is your water bottle? Water bottle is here. Where do we put the food we cannot finish? In the trash. Abdurahman does not speak Mandarin but there is one word that stands out to him Abduleziz. What is your name the teacher asks? I am called Abduleziz he says. How old are you? I am four. That is how old Abdurahman's son should be now. The video is just 15 seconds long one of a hundred that he is watched that day and he cannot be sure it is his son Abduleziz. But Abdurahman simultaneously gets this rush of love believing that it is his son and this intense fear that it is really him. Because his kids are supposed to be living with their grandparents while he figures out a way to get them home. And it looks like they are not.  As soon as I see it I can feel it is a camp for children. It looks like Abduleziz is in a boarding school one of the ones set up by the Chinese government to take care of about 500000 kids many of whose parents have been detained in re-education camps. Except for short visits home the kids are generally kept away from their family taught Mandarin not Uyghur.  Yeah I feel that my son is becoming more Chinese every day. After I understood the video I became worried about his future how the regime will teach him and make him an enemy of Uyghurs in the future especially make him an enemy of people like me. That seems to be exactly the point of these schools. They place these kids in a setting where they are removed from their families their language their religion their Uyghurness. As one internal government document claims the goal of this crackdown is to quote break their lineage break their roots break their connections and break their origins. The government is their family now. From this moment when Abdurahman saw his son in this video all he wanted was to get him back. He was consumed by it. I should say there are lots of parents around the world in the same situation. In the past year or so I have personally spoken to nine of them in three different countries. Only one was able to get her son out of China thanks to an influential family member and a Turkish passport. Still Abdurahman was convinced that he a guy who does not speak Mandarin does not have political connections cannot even call home he was going to get his son back. Reporter Durrie Bouscaren. Coming up Abdurahman uses everything he has to get his family back. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program Black Box stories of people who do not have the information they need and want trying to figure out what is going on and what they should do next. We now continue with Act One of our show. Right before the break maybe you heard Abdurahman Tohti thought that he spotted his four-year-old son on a TikTok video and decided to set out on a mission to retrieve him and the rest of his family. Reporter Durrie Bouscaren picks up with Abdurahman's story. The first thing he did was he went to the press made it public. This was risky because his family was still in China. His interviews were published all over the world in Turkish English Portuguese. He was on the BBC and in The New York Times.   The media attention was so intense in the beginning. That makes me have more hope and trust. I think OK something maybe will happen. But then I find out it will not happen. With each of these interviews it felt like he was screaming into the void trying to get China and the world to look at him. And the response silence. He was no closer to getting his family back than he was when they left. He tried more official routes. He went to the Chinese embassy nothing asked the Turkish government for help wrote to the United Nations. He once told me about this plan to move to Canada as a refugee because he thought the government there would have more leverage. Mind you that would take years to come to fruition