This is Hannah. Oh hi Hannah. This is Sarah from This American Life. Hi how are you? I am good thank you. How are you? Good. Before we go any further from WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Sarah Koenig sitting in for Ira Glass. And you are about to hear this story the same way I did-- blind. All I know is that it is going to have a coincidence in it. I have no idea what you are about to tell me so lay it on me. So the story is I was a freshman in high school at Bozeman High School-- Oh in Montana. Yes. And I was in the orchestra. And it was early in my freshman year and I had made friends in high school but did not really have orchestra friends yet. And we were taking an orchestra trip. So that was a little nerve-wracking. When you are a freshman this qualifies as a demi-crisis. A long bus ride to Seattle sharing a hotel room with someone you do not know. But there is this one girl Lindsay. She and Hannah have friends in common so they decide to pair up-- to room together to ride the bus together to be orchestra friends. So we go to Seattle and we are like it is awkward because we are new friends trying to get to know each other. Right. And on one of our free days they send us to the Space Needle and I do not know if you have ever been to the Space Needle-- I have. But there is that carnival area all around it. And we are playing the little games all around there and we won Poopatroopers. Do you know what those are? No. OK. They are the little plastic soldiers that have a plastic parachute. You are supposed to drop them from somewhere and the plastic parachute expands and-- Oh what did you call them? Poopatroopers? Really? I did not quite believe Hannah about this but she looked it up. It is true. Poopatroopers. I just did a Google image search for Poopatroopers and I am seeing images of the little guys. But wait. Is it a generic name or is it the brand name? I think it is a brand name. I think from what I am seeing here Imperial Poopatroopers maybe?  His Highness? Four star general Poopatrooper? Yes. Exactly. Back to the plot here. Hannah and her new friend Lindsay go to the top of the Seattle Space Needle to try out their prizes. So we got in the little elevator and ran to the top and ran to the edge and threw the Poopatroopers over the edge. Because there is nothing to stop you really. And we were just in peals of laughter and it was-- we thought it was so hilarious. And it sort of broke the ice in our friendship. Lindsay and Hannah become best friends all through high school. Cut to senior year-- four years later-- another orchestra trip. This time to Reno Nevada. Hannah and Lindsay are in their hotel room studying. And so Lindsay and I were both sitting at the desk in this hotel room in Reno Nevada and a Poopatrooper comes flying out of the sky and lands on the windowsill of our hotel room where we are-- and we both-- we could not believe it. We opened the window and we grabbed the Poopatrooper. And we ran into the hall to try to find other people in our orchestra. We thought someone had been playing a trick on us. But no one knew what we were talking about. No one even remembered the thing in Seattle. And so I still to this day do not know why that happened. Every once in a while we get pitches like this at the radio show-- coincidence stories. Since they do not really fit into our usual every week we bring you a theme format we have been setting them aside wondering what to do with them. They mean so much to people. I do not know. It felt like it was about our friendship. It felt-- I am not someone that believes in God really but it felt a little bit like an act of God or something just cosmic and larger than us. Finally it hit us. If we got enough of them we could put them on the radio as their own thing. So we put out a call to listeners-- send us your coincidence stories. And you did. Hundreds and hundreds of you did. We read at least 1300 coincidence stories interviewed dozens of people. Here are just a few things we have learned. You are most prone to coincidences when you are young-- teens or 20s. Lots of coincidences involve your grandmother. You are likely to experience a coincidence if you are in or near the Netherlands. Coincidences also happen to you in or near airplanes or on Craigslist. For many of you coincidences were the answer to your prayers or helped you find your missing bike. Also there are coincidences hidden in your name your keys your clothes your address. Like when Flora and Ragaciano Pena first started dating. When we met he said that he was born in . And I said well I was too. And then when we were going to get married and we needed our birth certificates we compared them and it was the same building. We heard stories about a lost roll of film discovered coincidentally in the stomach of a decomposing hyena. About the man who got his favorite t-shirt back from a stranger's knapsack in Slovakia. About the woman who was dating not one but two Mark Steven Andersons at the same time. About the student whose car broke down in rush hour on a busy highway and the one person who just happens to stop who comes to her rescue-- it is her dad who lives four hours away. And one of my favorites from a woman named Jill Peterson who felt nauseated on the subway in New York City. As they pull into the Second Avenue stop there is a garbage can perfectly positioned to help her out. So the train doors open and I am beelining it for this can. And as I get there out of the corner of my eye I see another person heading my direction-- going for the can too. And it is all coming up and I am throwing up. And as I am throwing up in this can this person who is coming towards me starts throwing up in the can too. And we are both simultaneously barfing into this can in the subway station. And we look at each other like whoa. I do not know. How are you feeling? She is like oh I am feeling a little bit better now. I am like me too. What is the only way to survive throwing up in front of a subway car full of strangers? Have a nice girl your age do it with you. And numbers-- so many coincidences with numbers. One woman told us how she was at Thanksgiving with her extended family and they suddenly realized that six of them had the exact same number of letters in their names-- 23 letters. Michael Arthur van de Putte Mary Elizabeth van de Putte William Arthur van de Putte-- There was the guy at the mall doing surveys who had to ask people their phone number. It is obvious the guy he is surveying starts to make up a number. He says 933- 45-- 6-- When he read out that last number he said 8? And I stepped back for a second but I was cool. And I said no sir. I am sorry. That is not your phone number. And he said why is not that my phone number? And I said because that is my phone number. That is my phone number. The phone number that you just made up is actually my phone number. These stories reminded me of an old Chinese saying I once heard. Actually I learned it a couple of weeks ago and I have no idea how old it is. But it goes like this.  That is my friend Yuen Yuen Di.  And what does it mean? If there is no coincidence there will not be stories. No coincidence no story. To imply that of course lives are all-- I do not know-- developed in ways that we cannot predict. So is it like if you heard a story with a coincidence afterwards you might be like no coincidence no story-- like that? That is right. Yes. Just an expression you use that you quote. Is it a corny thing to say? Mostly I think no. It will not be a corny thing to say. Do you ever use it? When I am corny yes. At the risk of being corny I am going to say it. Today's show-- no coincidence no story. While the big man's away we are going to sneak these coincidence stories onto the air. All the stories you will hear today first aired on our show in 2013. And they are all verified true stories that my colleagues hid from me until the actual interviews so it would not spoil the surprise which is also why there is so much unprofessional giggling this hour. And full disclosure I came into this topic a coincidence skeptic believing that a coincidence is just a coincidence-- nothing more. I judged I confronted weakness I countered wide-eyed faith with statistical probability. And by the end well stay with us.  Act One Grandmas. Blake Oliver is living in Nicaragua right now. We talked on Skype. About four months ago he was on the phone to his friend Camille who goes by Cami. He mentioned to her that the screen saver on his iPhone had been the same picture for a long time-- that he wanted to change it. So I asked her to just send me a picture of something. And it was really funny. She ended up sending me this picture of her as a little kid as a joke. And I was like oh yeah. That is kind of funny. It was not what I was expecting but that is funny. And then I glanced back at the picture and I saw my grandma walking through behind her. What? Yeah. How crazy is that right? Very crazy. The picture was taken about 18 years ago. But you recognized her right away. Oh absolutely. There was no question that was Grandma Joyce. It was without question Grandma Joyce. Coincidences like this one usually have a dense nest of details to bolster the craziness. Here goes. Blake is from Michigan. That is where he met Camille. But Camille's family is not from Michigan at all. They are originally from Utah-- Salt Lake City Utah. That is where she grew up. Yeah. That is where she grew up. Was this photo from Utah? No. And that is-- the funny thing is my grandma lives in Melbourne Florida. And I am thinking oh she must have been in Utah and walked past it. Cami's like no no. That picture was taken in Parksville Vancouver Island in Canada. What? Yeah right? Blake figured out that at the same time that Cami and her family were on vacation in Vancouver Grandma Joyce had gone there to visit some of her husband's relatives. What are the chances to think that not only did I meet Cami but she sends me this picture of her in the background-- of my grandma? I do not know what the chances are. Minuscule. Right? Yes! And not only-- I do not know if you have seen the picture. But not only just in the picture but perfectly behind her. At that moment a fellow producer emailed me the photo. And there it was-- cute four-year-old Cami in the foreground facing the camera. And not far behind her a blonde woman walking past wearing blue shorts and a matching top. Yeah. And she has no idea that she is in the picture even. Yeah right. It is not like-- yeah. She does not seem aware. But I have to say it is a little-- it is not a very crisp photo. I am surprised you would recognize her right away. Well yeah. There is not a lot of-- it is my grandma. I do not know. It is like--   20 years ago for my first reporting job I interviewed a woman who'd just turned 100 years old. I asked her admittedly a rookie question-- what is the most amazing thing that is happened in your life? She thought for a while and then she said the most interesting thing that happened to me was that on my first day at Patrog School the principal said to me what is your name? I said Esther Tuttle. And he said I have a friend in Shelter Island by that name. I was 12 she said. And that to me was remarkable. This woman had seen the advent of cars and movies and computers and space travel and this was her answer. At the time I thought it was lame-- that maybe Esther was losing it a little. But since I started hearing all these coincidence stories the last couple of weeks I have reconsidered. Coincidences feels so rare and that sticks with you even when the coincidence is barely a coincidence at all. An academic study of people's reactions to coincidence stories from the early 1980s found that we have an egocentric bias toward our own coincidences. That people find stories that happened to them far more surprising than the same stories happening to other people. Case in point. My name is Juliana Bontrager and I am 16 years old. Juliana-- she is got a problem with her grandmother. My grandma has been obsessed with coincidences. And she finds them in her life all the time and she always wants to tell everyone about them. And we get annoyed with her sometimes because she thinks they are so incredible and how they happen to her all the time. And every time we see her-- oh my gosh. You would not believe what happened to me. And I always-- I was at the hospital with-- she lives with her cousin so she takes her cousin to the doctor's office quite a bit for appointments and stuff. And she will be sitting in the waiting room. And then they will drive to go get lunch after that and they will see the people they were waiting in the waiting room with at the restaurant. And I always thought that was funny. Because it is like yeah that is coincidence. But maybe they are just going to get lunch too. It is not that big of a deal. Yeah. So then a while ago I was doing a project in my English class. We were reading The Scarlet Letter book. And I was-- once we finished the book our end project was we had to come up with what our sin was or what sin we struggled with the most. And I chose envy. So we had to create our own letter out of paper and then we had to safety pin it to our shirt and wear it around school the entire day. So as I was coloring in my letter and cutting it out my mom was listening to the show Monk in the background. As we were watching it I was literally cutting out my last line on the letter E for envy. And it said on the show I have studied the seven sins and the most prominent one is envy as I was cutting out my letter. And so I immediately called my grandma and was telling her about it. And she was like oh uh-huh. That is a good one. Yeah. And then I did not really hear back from her after that. And I thought well maybe she is just envious of my great coincidence.  And I was sitting there like are you kidding? Mine was so much better. You just happened to run into a person twice in one day. I do that all the time. What are the odds of as I am cutting out this letter E they would talk about that on a show? And I was so confused about it. OK. So Juliana's coincidence is a common one. We have all had those moments when you are reading a certain word and then someone says it on the radio or on TV. But remember Juliana's 16 so maybe this is the first time it is happening to her. Still I am on her side here. I think it is more remarkable than her grandmother's example of the people in the waiting room being at the restaurant. Do you have a phone where you can dial up your grandma right now? I can try. Try it. OK. One second. So Juliana conferenced her grandmother in so we could settle this. I am here. Elaine Olson. Elaine Olson. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you dear. I laid out my argument for Elaine about the purity-- and therefore superiority-- of Juliana's example. But Elaine argued right back. There were several hours between the two sitings plus the restaurant was about four miles from the hospital. And in that four mile radius you might say I could have gone to any number of restaurants. The fact that I ran into her at that restaurant I think is a coincidence. I think-- She could have gone any place too. That is true. It is true. I am not saying it is not a coincidence I am just saying it is not maybe as pure as-- you can break down the probabilities of a certain kind of person in a certain kind of neighborhood going-- I do not think so. You do not think so. I do not think so. I think that is-- Do you think you are somehow prone to coincidences-- like coincidences find you more than they find other people? I do not know. That is why-- in my own family-- I have asked them does this happen to you? And do not get much of a response. But-- You are impossible to argue with. So when you ask for coincidences we have nothing to give to you because you have-- you are so set in your ways. I am 81. OK. Yeah. OK. So what would Juliana have to experience in terms of a coincidence that would impress you do you think? What would it need to be? Well it is hard to tell. Just a couple of weeks ago I had my cousin up at another doctor's. I am sitting in the reception area. Gentlemen across from me was Asian and-- This time it was about an Asian man in the waiting room whom she later saw buying a melon at Trader Joe's which Elaine admitted was not as good as the other one. Act Two In God We Trust. It is probably no surprise that we got a huge number of coincidence pitches about love-- romantic love. A few years ago after Stephen Lee proposed to his girlfriend Helen they brought their families together for the first time to celebrate the engagement. My mom and my stepdad came to New York to meet with Helen's parents. And basically over the course of dinner and coffee afterwards we discovered that basically my father had dated my wife's mother back in Korea back in the 1960s and he had proposed to her-- I am going to slow this down a sec just to let it sink in. Helen's mother had almost married Stephen's father-- his late father actually. He died when Stephen was 17. And how this all came out was that after they had dinner they went back to Stephen's apartment and they were looking at Stephen's family photographs. So my future mother-in-law's flipping through the album and she sees my dad. And so she asks oh oh what was his name? And my mom tells the name. And my future mother-in-law just nods and moves on and keeps on flipping through the book-- does not even say anything. Imagine what she must have been feeling with seeing that photo suddenly-- just flooded. Yeah. Crazy. She has a-- she just must-- I think she would be really good at poker. LAUGHING Right. So Helen's mother says nothing goes home. But later that night she tells her daughter this was the one. This was the man who might have been. She explained that the reason they had not married was because her father-- Helen's grandfather-- had chosen a different husband for her-- the man who became Helen's father. All of them ended up living in the US but they quickly lost touch. And Stephen did not find out about any of this until a couple of days later. That is when Helen calls me up and says I have something to tell you. And she tells me and I was floored by it. And together we called my mom. And she put a good face on it but she was pretty shocked. Did she know that there had been this other woman that your father had been in love with? That is the thing. My dad told her years and years ago there was this other woman that I was in love with at one point long before I met you. But Mom was like look you have a past. I have a past. We all have a past. Who cares? Of course never thinking that she was going to share grandchildren with that woman. She later admitted to me that if she had known this from the very beginning she would have not supported Helen and me. Really? It would have just been like look being with the daughter of the other woman your dad loved-- it would-- cannot you find someone else? How did you take this coincidence? Did it come to mean anything to you or to Helen? Yeah. There is something about it-- the fact that I did not have the time with my dad that I wished I had had. Yeah. And then suddenly to have him be an active part of my life again. To think that I can talk to my mother-in-law and hear what he was like in his 20s-- something that my mom does not even know. And my-- actually Helen's father is a strong believer in the idea that somehow my dad-- somehow is behind all this. That somehow he is helped make all this happen. At the time this next love story takes place a guy named Paul Grachan was working in a Chicago suburb called Arlington Heights. He had just started dating a woman named Esther. They would been out maybe eight times. And I thought maybe it was time to get exclusive or become boyfriendgirlfriend or whatever it was. And I was about to go out to lunch and I was thinking about asking her on a Friday date that I had set up. And I went out to lunch. I stopped at the store prior to hitting the deli that I normally hit. And I got some change went to the deli ordered my sandwich. It was 6 or something like that. I pulled out a 5 from my wallet and I pulled out the couple bucks' change that I had gotten from the store handed the clerk one of the ones. And then I looked at it and I pulled it back. Written on the dollar in pencil was Esther. And I thought oh that is weird. I am thinking about asking her to go steady and I get this dollar that says Esther on it. That is bizarre. So I stuck it in my pocket chuckled. I went to the store. I got one of those floating frames and a little piece of gold lame and I stuck the dollar in the frame. So it was floating in the middle on this piece of gold as if you are going to go in a church in Italy and they had a fragment from the robe of some saint or something like that. And I called it the Immaculate Dollar of Arlington Heights. So on Friday I asked her out and she was all excited and we were all giddy. And then I said hey I have one more thing for you. And I gave her this frame with this dollar in it. I start unwrapping it and he is like it is a dollar with your name on it. And he is all beside himself. And I just looked at him like I am freaked out. She furrowed her brow a little bit and look concerned. And I said is there some sort of problem? I was speechless for the first time ever. But I said you know remind me to tell you something later. So OK I let it go and we had our relationship. We got engaged. We got married. A couple of years later we were unpacking at a new apartment that we had. And I had the-- I found the frame with the dollar in it. And I stuck it up on the dresser and she came in the room. I said hey you never told me about this dollar. What is the deal with that? She said well-- When I was 19 I was a cashier working in a copy shop in downtown Chicago. And I was dating someone and I just was not happy with him. And I just thought how do people know who the right person that they are meant to be with-- how do they know who that is? I said you know what? I am not going to worry about that. I am just going to put my name on this dollar bill. And the guy that gets this dollar bill is going to be the guy that asks me to marry him. And I am like well you cannot just write your name on one. Actually I think it was more like maybe 10 or 12. And so this dollar bill that you gave me I believe is the same dollar bill that I wrote my name on. And I knew that we were going to be married the day that you gave me this dollar bill. It was pretty crazy. And then he made me tell him the story again. He asked me five or six times. And I said the details do not change. It is the same story. He could not-- I think he was a little bit beside himself that that actually happened and that I did not tell him. I do not know how I found the will to not say anything to him but I just remember do I do not I do I do not I? What do I do? I did not want to freak this guy out and be like what this girl's already talking about marriage? Wait what? Forget it. I do not read too much into almost anything. I just kind of move forward. And then after she told me I think I went through all the normal stages of whatever and I just thought what does this mean for us? Are we going to invent a time machine or our kids going to bring world peace? What is the-- is there some sort of bigger thing that we are not seeing here? Now it just sits in that very same frame up on our dresser and I look at it every day that I wake up. Sometimes I remind her that we have it when she is upset at me or angry. It is never been a question in my mind like you know what? I am going to kick this guy to the curb. But I do believe it is because of this dollar that I feel tied to him. Obviously I love him but I think that if it ever did cross my mind I would be like but wait this is my soulmate. I cannot just walk out on him. We do not even wear wedding bands. I am like why? I know I am stuck with you. You got this dollar bill. I guess he could also put it back out into the register and then be like look I am cashing this in. I think it is got to go to somebody else. He could do that. Paul and Esther Grachan. They have been married for 18 years.   Act Three Brother Can You Spare a Dime? This story comes from Ryan Rozar in Los Angeles. It happened when I was in college. I was actually pledging a fraternity. And I ran into some of the seniors on campus and they were laughing about something. And so one of them tells me this story that had happened to him that day supposedly where he gets in the shower and about 5 10 minutes into his shower he hears a ting. And he looks down and sitting on the floor of the shower between his feet is a nickel. And has no idea where this nickel came from or why it is there. Obviously everyone was making jokes that he had change falling out of his butt and we were like were you eating dollar bills? But anyway we have our laughs and I go home and I do not think much about it. The next day I get in the shower and like 5 10 minutes into my shower I hear a ting. And I look down and right between my feet is a quarter. So my first thought was how did they do it? My thought was I totally assumed that this must not have really happened to him. That was a set up and somehow they set this up to happen to me. But I could not figure out how. I was just like it had to be a prank basically. Oh that is so smart of you to figure out the whole con. That is what I assumed. Right. But then I go and I talk to him I tell him what happened to me. And I am watching his face for that-- the laugh or the glint in his eye of mischief or whatever. Right. And he just looks sincerely mystified by the fact that this happened to me right after it happened to him. Then a week later I get in the shower and like 5 10 minutes in I hear ting ting. And I look down and there is about 0.35 between my feet. Right?  So there is that moment of no way before I look down and there is more change. So at this point obviously my mind's going to some weird places because I-- you do not want to be the butt change fairy guy. There is somehow-- there is just-- there is nothing-- no way that this story gets good for me. And then no explanation comes but it does not happen for a while-- for I want to say probably a month. Until one day I am about to get in the shower and I reach behind me to scratch my back and I feel something cold and metal on my back. And I turn around to show my-- to turn my back to the mirror-- Right. And there is a whole pocketful of change stuck to my back? What do you mean stuck to it? In what way? Stuck to it. Well this is what I figured out. It was not-- there was no adhesive or anything. It was just impressed into my back. So I figured out what was going on is that I have a bad habit of falling asleep with my pants on because it was college I would nap a lot. And I would also sleep with my shirt off because my apartment was really hot. So what was happening was change was falling out of my pockets onto my bed and I was laying on it and all that sweat and pressure was just sticking the coins to my back. They are just literally impressed into my back. And it was taking about five minutes of water running on it to dislodge them at which point they were dropping at my feet. Clearly I love this story but I did not see the coincidence in it. Ryan said there was absolutely a coincidence. It happened to that one kid-- the senior-- and then it happened to him the very next day. I disagree. I think this is probably a common quirk of college boy life-- lounging around shirtless and groggy on unclean sofas and beds. Probably half the boys at his college had change stuck to them. I told Ryan so. I do not think there is any coincidence involved at all. I do because I will tell you-- I have known lots of guys who have lived in pretty squalor conditions and other than me and that other guy I have never heard someone having the change falling from them. It is just because they are not admitting it. It is just because they are not admitting it. I swear to God. Start asking. Start asking.  Hello? Hi. Hey how is it going? Good. Can I come in for a second? Yeah sure. I knew Ryan would not actually start asking so I started asking. Because while Ryan's life is sure to contain many special and unique experiences I am positive that this is not one of them. So off I went to prove him wrong because finding others would be so easy. I happen to live in a college town-- State College Pennsylvania home of Penn State. So I drop by a frat house. Has this ever happened to you? No no. Absolutely not. Never in my life. Never? Never in my life no. Never? Never? Never. But wait have you never heard of that happening to anybody? Not even close. Never heard of it. What about you? Never ever. Never? I think it would be a nice icebreaker with women. Why? Because in a conversation you could be like oh this weird thing happened to me. Yeah. I always got change stuck to my back or my butt for weeks. Anyway lots and lots of nos. I asked whole classes. Has this happened to anyone? No. And then we thought Pennsylvania it is too cold. Ryan went to college in Southern California. We have got to go south. So we sent reporters to the University of Virginia. All right. Have you heard of this happening? No. I have never heard that before. No none of us have had this happen. No. No. No you are the first. To frats at University of North Carolina. Never heard of that problem no. All the way to Miami. We asked at two different universities there. You never had it fall off in the shower? No. No. I cannot say that it has. No. No. No it is never happened. That is never happened to me. Never. I have never heard of that happening to anybody till now I guess. Maybe it is a California thing? So we went to UCLA to match the climatological conditions at Ryan's school. Has it ever happened to you? No. That does not happen I do not think. Does not happen? That is not a thing. That is not a thing. So does that mean Ryan was right-- it really was a coincidence? Maybe. I asked at one more class in Pennsylvania. Has this ever happened to any of you? Oh it has. Oh my god. Oh my god. Ladies and gentlemen Penn State senior Casey Phillips. It is actually an ongoing joke in our apartment because there is just change in our shower all the time. And it is just from you or others in your apartment too? Just me. Actually there is change in my shower right now. Wait what? There is a-- my roommate texted me today why is there change in the shower? Because I forgot to take it out because that happens to me all the time. Like he said I take naps all the time. I pretty much just sleep in naps-- in two-hour spurts. And I just sleep in my jeans and I have change in my jeans and it comes out and it gets in my bed. I figured it out the same way he did. That story was eerily similar. I am so pleased to meet you.  I am too. Coming up do not lift the manhole cover. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life I am Sarah Koenig sitting in for Ira Glass. We have borrowed today's show from a Chinese saying-- no coincidence no story. We first aired the show four years ago after asking you to send us your coincidence stories. And you flooded us with more than 1300 pitches. We found trends we found gems we found stories impossible to classify.  My name's Jeff Dunn. Jeff Dunn OK. Jeff grew up in Sioux City Iowa. When he was 16 he was hanging out with two of his friends at someone's house. The parents were not home-- they were goofing around smoking pot. They were in the living room that had a huge window on one wall. And we are sitting there and we are sitting along this glass wall. And there is a dirt road outside of his house. And up this dirt road barrels this van. And the thing that happens next is what you think is going to happen when you see a white van like that at night. These two guys get out-- they are all bundled up and they pretty quickly just run to the back of the van open it up and pull out this big black bag. So they get out. They take the bag out. And they quickly run up this small hill that is behind his house. And it is all wooded. There is no houses back there. So they run up this hill with this bag. And less than two minutes later they come running back down. And they get in the van and they take off. So Jeff and his friends do precisely what you do not want them to do. If this were an after school special this is the point where you are yelling at the TV saying do not do it! Stay inside! But they decide they have to