From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. It was like taking kids out to the jungles of Vietnam and dropping them off knowing they were going to be shot at. It was as if winning was a foreign thing to them. It is as if it had been bred into them that they could never ever win. What we are talking about here is football-- high school football. After two seasons this fall Leo Paur stepped down as head coach of the team at Carbon High School a couple hours outside Salt Lake City. They have the longest losing streak in the state of Utah. 25 games nearly three full years of losses. This year they scored only three touchdowns. Last year half the team quit during the season. The team's so bad they are mocked in the hallways of their own school. Yeah. We are definitely-- we got a joke every day every day in class. Yeah. We are not like looked upon. We are more like-- Laughed about. Running back Andrew Salazar linebacker Damien Olson and defensive guard Max Meisner have all played on the team three years. That is they have all been there on the worst team in the state though this entire losing streak. There is a lot of kids out there that think it is funny to make fun of the team instead of support us. Yeah they tease us. They tease you what do they say? Just joking around against our rivals and saying like how many points are you going to beat us by and stuff. Why do you guys even try because you are going to lose no matter what you do. Makes you kind of feel like an outcast. I do not know. Just because you get picked on. Just so I have a sense of what they were like to watch on the field tell me about some of their worst moments. Tell me about a particularly bad player bad moment that you remember. Last year against  School. Much smaller than Carbon. We would punt the ball. The wind took it naturally. it landed behind my punter. I mean we lost yardage on a punt. Against Juan Diego last year we had played ten minutes. And Juan Diego who were the state champions that year had not scored against us. That was a great time. And my brother who was helping me coach at the time came up and said this would be the first time we have gone an entire quarter without being scored on. And I said well there is two minutes left. They went and they scored four touchdowns in two minutes. It was very disheartening. Four? Four. Yep. Two offensive and two intersections. Ran back. So I told my brother not to open his mouth again when that happens. The real question when you are down this far is how to keep getting up and going out there game after game? What do you say to yourself? How do you keep going? How do you keep a team going? For Coach Paur the answer could not be more straightforward. I always always had to make them believe the they could win. It was hard. Especially after two years of losing every game. But yeah. I had to make them believe that miracles do happen. That the movies you watch where the young man or the young woman overcomes all of the odds that that is possible. Even though it is a long shot. Would not it be better I asked the coach in a game where the team is totally outmatched to set a goal that they could actually make? Like let us just get one touchdown on the board in the first half. Something like that. That made no sense to him at all. You have to believe you will win he said. And teams do come from behind. Impossible miracle victories happen. Like remember last year's Kentucky Derby? The horse that won was such a long shot that the Sports Illustrated writer assigned to the race never even bothered to find out about him before the race. He would lost 31 of his previous 32 races. At 50 to 1 odd he was the longest long shot ever to win the Derby in over a century. Newsday published a preview of the race where it told this horse to just stay in the barn. As the field turns for home top of the stretch it is still Join In The Dance with a tenuous lead-- If you watch this race on YouTube-- and you should it is incredible-- the horse that is going to win is called Mine That Bird. And he is so far behind that halfway through the race you see all the other horses-- they are in a pack-- and then this huge empty space and then way behind that space is Mine That Bird. Then he picks up speed he catches up to the pack and it is not until the final stretch that he passes every other horse and gets out in front. It all happens so fast that the announcer does not even have time to say his name until it is nearly over. Mine That Bird now comes out to take the lead as they come down to the finish. And it is spectacular! Spectacular upset! Mine That Bird has won the Kentucky Derby that impossible result here! That is how he did it. The jockey Calvin Borel said I road him like a good horse. Coach Paur believes in that too. Well that is very applicable. You have to make the kids believe that they can win. So when you do that and you tell the team that they can win and then they lose is the disappointment worse because they had--? Absolutely not. I mean what should I tell them? Look go out and do a good job losing? Go on out lose and then you will feel happier when the game's over? Absolutely not. I would never do that. I would be a fool to do it. It works so well Couch Paur even convinces himself. At the start of his second season he told a reporter quote This is going to be an outrageous thing for me to say and I am really cautious because we lost every game by an average of 37 points last year and the year before that we only won two games and the year before that I do not even know that they won any games. But I think I can contend for the region championship. I really do. Yep. I said that. I believed it at the time. Would you go into each game thinking like OK this could be the one where we would turn it around? Yeah. Yeah I have always thought that. Yeah. And did you guys have in your head this fantasy of like here's what it would be like if you would win a game and here's what would happen? Every day every day. I actually had one about ALA when we went into the half. Going into halftime against ALA Carbon was having their best game of the season. They were just one touchdown behind. You know I pictured it you know we are going to come out fired up and we are just going to kick the ball and we will go down there and stop them probably cause a fumble down there at our like 20 and I am running it in you know? And then kicking it off again and stopping them forcing a punt. Throwing a nice long ball to somebody down in the end zone and give a 30 yard pass for a touchdown and then we would be up so then we would go for two and we would get it and then we would just keep increasing the points like that. I have always pictured like the students walking in the halls you know patting you on the back being like hey you know nice win. Yeah good game. Saying good job you know or whatever. Today on our show stories of long shots. We have two stories where somebody is up against very bad odds. And each of these stories raises the question are you really better off believing that you are the miracle team who is going to come out from behind that you are going to defy all predictions that you are Mind That Bird? Act one is about somebody battling the biggest state in the country and its governor. Act two is about somebody battling a house and his own father which in a certain way is a lot harder. Stay with us. Act One. Hasta La Vista Maybe. Most places if you are serving a life sentence with the possibility for parole you go before a parole board. And if they find you suitable for release that is it. You get out. But there are three states California Maryland and Oklahoma where there is one more step. The governor in those three states gets a chance to look at the parole board's decision and if he or she wants overturn it. In all three states over the years this has evolved to the point where very few prisoners actually get released. No governor wants some ex-con that he is let out commit another crime that is going to get blamed on him. As a result in California's prisons the lifer population has jumped from 4800 back in the 1980s when governors started viewing these cases to 31000 this year. Nancy Mullane has been following a dozen California prisoners to see what happens when the governor reviews their cases. She has this story of one of those man who finds out that he is eligible for parole and then even though he knows the odds are against him he kind of has to believe that he has a shot. He finds it hard not to get excited for something that will probably never happen. Here's Nancy. I met Don Cronk inside San Quentin State Prison. He was serving 25 years to life with the possibility of parole for first degree murder. By the time I met him Don had been in prison for 27 years and had already gone before the parole board six times. Each time the board turned him down and declared that he was unsuitable for parole because of the seriousness of his crime. The commissioners even commended him for his accomplishments and his perfect record in prison but they denied him parole. That was until his seventh parole hearing. OK Commissioner Eng we are back on record. This is tape from Don's parole board hearing. On November 18 2007 the commissioners found Don suitable for parole. --is suitable for parole and was not-- I did not know that she had said it. Don Cronk was stunned. That is right where they usually say not suitable. And when she said it so quickly I did not hear that she said suitable. And she is reading on and on and no indication in it. So I looked at my attorney to see if-- you know I expected to look at him and he would have thumbs up and smiling and he was flabbergasted. And so I could not get any indication from him what she said. And so she went on to read for several minutes. And then when she got done with that part she went on to speak about my suitability and what was going to happen next. And that is when it hit me and I just broke down. I just sobbed. The officers got me a box of Kleenex. You know for almost 27 years I have been waiting for this. And it is kind of unbelievable. So I was in shock essentially. I did not really hear anything else she said. And then it was over and I was leaving. I was walking out the door. Almost a free man. The operative word here being almost. In California after the parole board recommends for release there is a 120 day period. During that time the parole board staff in the state capital verifies everything in the inmate's record their behavior while they have been in prison and where they would work and life if they get out on parole. On the 121st day their file goes to the governor's desk. The governor then has 30 days to either approve or overturn the board's recommendation. For Don that meant he would learn his fate on April 11 2008. It was hard to get a read on Don's chances. On the one hand he would been the very definition of a model prisoner. He would taken college classes and earned an associate's degree. He was enrolled in a program to become a certified drug and alcohol abuse counselor. He worked in the chapel and did not have any writeups from violence or bad behavior and he had a positive psychiatric report. Even one writeup for smoking a cigarette just one time in three decades can keep you from getting parole in California. On the other hand the statistics we are not on Don's side and he knew it Of the 6000 lifers that go before the parole board each year Don was one of only 3 about 200 prisoners found suitable for parole. Of those 200 Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger would reverse 75 of the parole board decisions. So in the end only 50 prisoners a year would actually be released. Schwarzenegger's predecessor Governor Gray Davis was even more severe. He overturned 99 of all paroles recommended by the board. Don had seen other lifers who had been found suitable by the parole board guys whose records were as clean as his get their hopes up only to have their parole denied on the last day by the governor. I recorded this next conversation inside San Quentin in early January two months after the parole board found him suitable to be released. Don's a white guy in his earl 50s neatly kept with a close-cropped beard receding hairline and wire-rimmed glasses. I am fully aware that the governor you know this does not mean I am going in April. And I am aware of that. And so you again it is kind of like going to the hearings. You keep that hope you keep that prayer but you temper it with reality. You look at the statistics and they are not good. They are not good. And so you are trying to balance all that and then carry on your normal routine your normal life. The first maybe even two weeks it had not even sunk in. But I would be in my cell now and I would be watching television and I would not be having a thought about it really. And then I would see something and it would trigger that and it was almost like I was given a shock. And I was like oh. I could be doing that. I could be doing that soon. Does it make it any more difficult to be incarcerated once you know somebody's found you suitable? What I have noticed the biggest thing I have noticed is and it was almost like turning on a light-- I have become intolerant now. For some reason the meals I have been eating for all these years and the noise and the smell and the lines and all that-- suddenly I have just become aware that this is crap. This is no way to-- how in the hell have I been doing this all these years? Some of the things that happen in prison is just mean or ridiculous does not make sense. Terrible. It is terrible. I do not know how I have lived like this. And it is not over yet. I understand that if the governor denies me it is not personal. He does not know me. He himself is not saying well that Don Cronk I am not letting him go. It is not. I am just a number and a statistics on a piece of paper. And whatever the political wind is that day I am either denying him or I am letting him go. That is really it. And even if it is a denial he does not know. It is I am a life inmate. I committed a murder. We are either releasing him today or we are not. The governor assesses each of these cases individually. This is Justice Peter Siggins. He was Governor Schwarzenegger's legal affairs secretary from 2003 three to 2005 and he counseled the governor on hundreds of these parole decisions. I ran past him Don's theory that these decisions have nothing to do with the merits of the cases that they are political decisions. When I was legal affairs secretary and people used to say to me well the governor is responding politically and you are being political about a decision to keep a prisoner in prison-- part of a governor's job is to be responsive to the constituents who elected him. The fact that the governor thinks a lot of people would be upset if this person got out of prison-- it is a governor paying attention to the preference of a large constituency of California. And that is what governors do. We generally did parole consideration matters every couple of weeks. I would meet with him once every couple of weeks for that purpose. And a typical calendar would be anywhere between 12 and 20 cases at each sitting. And he and I would sit down and discuss every case yes. I can say that I do not think Governor Schwarzenegger and certainly I did not I do not think we entered upon the responsibility with a predetermined inclination to go one way or the other with these decisions. The governor was given the power to overturn parole board decisions in 1988 by California voters. It was the same year as the Willy Horton controversy where the governor of Massachusetts Michael Dukakis was blamed for a convicted murderer getting out of prison on a furlough program and committing assault armed robbery and rape. California's law was intended to hold the governor accountable in this kind of high profile case. It later became a constitutional amendment though no one knew how often the governor would reverse a parole order. I do not know that anybody gave that much thought seriously. I do not remember a huge concern over the passage of the law at the time. Jeanne Woodford worked at San Quentin when the law went into effect and became warden of the prison in 1999. In 2004 Governor Schwarzenegger made her the head of the California prison system which she did for two years. You know I do not know that inmates believed or even practitioners believed that the governor would reject as many cases as they did when it initially passed. I remember some concern but still people believing that there would be a fair process. It just did not turn out that way. It ended up where governors were turning down just every case. Woodford agrees with the prisoners on this issue. She thinks the governor should listen to his parole board. It costs the state over 100 million a year for the parole board to thoroughly review each case and it finds very few lifers suitable for release. So should we be afraid of Don Cronk? How bad was his crime? In 1980 Don was 25 years old and a pretty normal guy. He was living in Sacramento and working as a service manager in a furniture store. What I did-- I was a young man and I was introduced to cocaine. And I liked it a lot. I liked it a real lot. Now I say that because I had tried almost every other kind of drug. I am allergic to marijuana. I do not like alcohol. I will drink it a few beers but I do not like that drunk feeling. Crank is too intense. Heroin makes you sick. LSD is a recreational thing once in a while when you were a kid going to concerts with Mickey Mouse ears. Other than that I did not really have any fascination with addiction so I thought I was fine. When I was introduced to cocaine I instantly fell in love with it. And because at that time cocaine was very expensive and guess who was doing it the most? Wealthy people. So I associated it with the Porsches and the people like my boss millionaires doctors. That is who was doing it. And so I thought this is great. Then I was told it was not addicting. Then I started dealing it and getting deeper away from the beautiful people into the ugly people. And I met some associates like-minded. Two of them were ex-felons. I was not an ex-felon. But they were charismatic. They were just not bad guys really. Long story short we ended up using more than we were selling. Now we owe the connections and the dealers. And that is not good. And so my new found friends had done armed robberies in the past and so hey we could do some robberies. So we did a couple robberies. And no one was hurt. We got some money and all that. And then the night of the crime that I am here for it was to be a robbery. And we had some inside information there would be a lot of money and jewels. And long story short is we were going to this man's home. Wait for him. He would come in. We would tie him up take his briefcase and the money and leave. We had the masks we had the tape we had the whole nine yards. Well we were going to have the element of surprise and surprised him as he came in. But it did not work that way. He got in and when I walked out of the kitchen and saw Mr. Allen standing in the open door my mind was going how the hell did he get in here? Because we had a warning system that was supposed to give us the alert so we could hide and get in position. He is standing there and while my mind is like-- I am shot. It was that he emptied the gun that quickly. And next thing I know I am on the floor. I am in the corner. And I reached in my pocket and shot right through my coat. He died instantly. Unbelievable. I could not do that again. I could not re-enact that. Seconds. it all took place in a few seconds. And you cannot undo it. It is just horrible addicted thinking immature thinking selfish thinking greedy thinking. Nobody else mattered but us. But was the intent or in my mind to murder somebody? No. Even in that state I would not have willfully or deliberately gone that far. And so it is just a horribly unfortunate turn of events that I am responsible for. I caused it. I would love to have the governor's ear for 20 minutes. I really think if he sat down across from me and we could just talk and he could question me and he could see the change-- you know they look at us on paper black and white. Well it is just like reading the newspaper. You wake up this morning you look at the news and there was a crime committed. Oh a shooting in Oakland someone died. And it may tell about it and you think oh that is horrible. That is terrible. They ought to catch that guy and put him away. Well that is what my newspaper read 27 years ago but today they are reading it and it is just like it just happened. Oh this guy did that thing. Oh he should not be released. But it was 27 years ago. I have paid. I have done all I can. I cannot change those facts. As the 150 days of review pass and Don gets closer to his April 11 date his anxiety grows. He tells me he has hallucination-like dreams where he wakes in the middle of the night to the sound of a phone ringing imagining it is the phone call telling him he is been approved for release. He sees it as just another sign from the universe that he is getting out. He tries relaxation and breathing techniques to fight the constant tension. Throughout all of this Don's main support is his girlfriend Kathleen. We started out as friends and it evolved into a deeper deeper deeper relationship. Kathleen met Don 18 years ago while visiting a friend in San Quentin. Since then her continuous presence in Don's life actually strengthens Don's case as a candidate for parole. The review process takes into account stable relationships and Kathleen has even written a letter to Governor Schwarzenegger on Don's behalf to show he has a place to live and emotional support if paroled Like everyone in Don's life' Kathleen knows the odds are against the governor letting him out. But she cannot stop herself from imagining what his first week on the outside would be like. I am going to have a bunch of food. I am going to ask him many questions. I am saying dinner's ready whatever. You know? Did you have a particular thing you want to eat fine? Otherwise-- in other words I think he is going to be so overwhelmed that I am not really giving-- I am not asking him what do you want to eat or what do you want to do. I am just telling him. That way it is one less thing that he has to do. He is going to be overwhelmed enough. I am going to say-- you know it is like somebody's on rote. I am going to say OK no. You sit here. Come on. We are having this. And then as he calms down and gets used to everything then he can say you know I really want some barbecued chicken. Great! On Don's 149th day of waiting the day before the governor issues his decision about Don's parole I visit Don in the chapel. He is visibly excited and nervous. 27 plus years of prison could be just over with the signing of a pen. Just like that. So you go from here and they just-- now you are there. That quick. You know there was like a 12 year period when no one was going. No one was going. Did not matter who you were what you were. But now this last I would say 18 months almost every guy I know is gone. I do not know. I am spiritual. I believe God's hand has been on all this. And this is I do not know. This is I think it is going to happen. I just think it is going to happen. It is just this sense that I am going to go. And we will find out tomorrow. The next day Friday April 11 2008 I drive to San Quentin. An assistant to the warden Lieutenant Sam Robinson is the one who gets the faxes from the governor's office and he is the one who delivers the news to the prisoners good or bad. He is waiting for me in the warden's office and I notice some papers turned face-down on his desk. How you doing? You want to know or you want to be surprised? Oh my God. You got it. Did it just come? Mmhm. About an hour ago we received the notification from the warden in regards to Mr. Cronk's board parole hearing in which the board granted him parole. The governor has reversed the board's decision and at this time we will be going inside and delivering the news to Mr. Cronk. God. I do not know. My face is not a good face. I do not lie well. I know. That is why I was saying. Do you want me to let you know or? Well first just your voice sounded a little optimistic and I thought maybe maybe. that there was something in the tone of your voice. Think they are all listening and waiting? Yeah. The guys were calling me earlier today saying hey you heard any word on Cronk? You know with the hope that one of their brethren is going home. We are walking down to 371 North which is Mr. Cronk's cell. Hello? Mr. Cronk? Yes? How are you? Well I do not know. I have been sick to my stomach all day. Well here's the word. I can tell because it is too thick. I can tell because it is too thick he says. If he were to be released Lieutenant Robinson would just be holding one sheet of paper not a half dozen like he is. Yeah. What can you do you know? But I thank you for coming by. Nancy how are you? I am all right. How are you? I am disappointed. Very disappointed. But what are you going to do. You know? It is just been-- if I would have found out early this morning it would have been-- but we have just been all but throwing up all day. You know? And the later it got the worse they knew the news was so. But it is been I am exhausted. I am drained. And I just got to shut down for a minute. I just want to be left alone you know? Yeah. Yeah I really just want to be left alone. A week later I ask to go back inside San Quentin to see how Don is doing. He no longer looks like a man about to be free. He looks like a man in prison. He is gray deflated. He tells me he cannot believe how high he let his hopes get in the last few weeks against his better judgment. I was feeling almost giddy. Like hey this may really happen. This could really-- it should happen. You know? There is no reason why it should not happen. You know. Then you add the governor. It is his last go-around. The state's in budget crisis. You know overcrowding the Feds are knocking on the door. I mean you look at all these elements and you think you would be a fool not to let a guy go that the board's saying go! You know save them 40 grand a year or whatever. But so I talked myself into it that I was going home. I knew better. But I set myself probably the last three weeks. I wanted to believe it that I felt that I was going to go. And then Kathleen. You know I just-- my main concern was her. And so even though like she wanted to go buy things and get things prepared and ready I would always say well you know maybe we should not do that yet. Let us wait and see. You know the odds are way against me. So she did not go too far out there. But in her heart of course she was already seeing the next day you know in our future. But when we were able to get together and see each other-- I called the visiting room and I told the visiting room officer what had happened. I had said you know listen by the way I was denied parole by the governor. And I said look. If Kathleen comes if she breaks down or if I break down if we are crying or if she is a little clingy for a few minutes there is nothing wrong. It is just this news. And sure enough when Kathleen came as soon as she got in as soon as I took her in my arms she just I had to hold her up. She just broke. She just sobbed. But I really thought that was a kind act. They could have said well we do not care. The rules are the rules and you get two seconds and that is it. Don says that back in 1984 when he first got to San Quentin he could barely hold it together. San Quentin he says was like Vietnam back then. It was violent with stabbings and shotguns going off all the time and he did not see how he would last. But emotionally he says this year was harder. it was not easy for him to get and keep a perfect disciplinary record never to have one fight or even one incident in 27 years. He followed the rules. He did everything they said he should. Why put him through the charade of doing that he asked? Why put him in front of a parole board over and over having them examine his record if this is where it leads? Why have the board? Why have those experts trained in law enforcement and all different sectors put their best effort forward? They do not grant parole often. So for them to do so this must be an exceptional case. And then the governor takes it and denies it. So what is the point? You know? Well then what was all that about? Why do not we just go to the governor? Normally for lifers like Don the next step is simply to wait go before the parole board again and hope for a better outcome the next time. But Don got amazingly lucky. In August 2008 the California Supreme Court ruled in favor of another lifer Sandra Lawrence saying that the governor could not deny parole to someone simply because his or her original crime was so terrible. Life with the possibility of parole the court said means exactly that. There has to be a real possibility for parole if a prisoner can show he or she has been rehabilitated. Don's case was like Sandra Lawrence's. The governor had written that he was reversing Don's parole because of the seriousness of his crime. In January of 2009 Don was brought to a courthouse in Sacramento the county of his original crime where a superior court judge said his case was exactly like the Lawrence case. She read the law and said This man fits this perfectly. And then the attorney general just said the woman Heather Heckler's her name and she just started to make a case and she just said We do not have anything. The attorney general admitted had to admit to her we do not have anything. The governor had nothing and we do not have anything either. And the judge said well why are we here then? Because we just disagree with Lawrence. And she goes so you are here because you disagree with current law. And she said yes. The judge said well I would like to close this hearing. It was over! It was over. And we won. Three months later April 13 2009 a year and two days after the governor reversed the parole board decision Don was released from San Quentin. In January 2010 Don's been out for eight months. He and Kathleen are living together and seem happy. He was doing construction work at a mausoleum near San Quentin and his commute every day took him over the Richmond-San Rafael bridge. At a certain point at the top of the arched bridge he could see the prison where he lived more than half of his life. It was always emotional. My family in there he told me one day when we took the drive together. They are still in there. Nancy Mullane. She is writing a book called Life After Murder and putting together a two-hour radio documentary on other lifers in Don's situation. Her reporting was funded by the Soros Justice Media Fellowship. She and we repeatedly contacted Governor Schwarzenegger's office inviting his comments for this story but did not get a response. Coming up-- a story where no one is going to mention the Vietnam War in some random passing reference. I know we are two for two stories so far. We have got one more shot in today's show. We can do it! We can do a Vietnam reference-free story I swear. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our show we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show Long Shots. People facing such long odds it is hard to know if they are doing the right thing when they hope against hope that they are going to come out on top. We have arrived at act two of our show. Act Two. House Dutiful. The way that anything happens in this world is that somebody gets a vision in their head for how they want something to go or how they are going to make something and then they run at it with all their might and people tell them that it is hopeless and the person does not care it is just in them right? Which is either really smart or really dumb. Wells Tower went through this with a house. A house he decided against everybody's advice to fix up. Several years ago while I was walking through my father's kitchen I noticed a beetle dying on the countertop. Hey I said to my father who was sitting a few feet away at the kitchen table doing something on his computer there is a beetle dying here. Mmhm he said without taking his eyes off the screen. I walked by again later and noticed that ants were strea