In November 1979 at the Nuclear Defense Command Headquarters inside Cheyenne Mountain in Colorado computer screens suddenly showed that Soviets had launched nuclear missiles hundreds of them a full-scale attack on the United States. The military response was fast and dramatic. Crews responsible for launching our missiles were put on highest alert. Fighter jets took off. Before the president was asked to decide whether to retaliate one person a watch commander thought something was not right and threw on the brakes. It was later discovered that a technician had accidentally put a training exercise into the computer simulating a full-scale attack. This kind of mistake the technician who put the training exercise into the computer is squarely in the category of human error. And human error mistakes are especially terrifying because you never can fully do away with them. We are just prone to error. Fortunately most of us work jobs where the mistakes we make do not result in millions of people dead or anybody dead. But if you work for the US military even when we are not at war you can be surrounded at your job by gear whose whole purpose is to kill people. And so you can make mistakes on a scale the rest of us cannot. Today on our program we have two stories like that. In both of these stories the slip-ups that people make are so small. They are mistakes that at most jobs would mean nothing mistakes maybe you have made yourself. One involves missiles. One involves ships. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. And we begin with act one. Act One The Wrong Tool For The Job. It is really easy for America's nuclear weapons to seem very abstract right? We know they are out there. But it is like-- I do not know. In our minds I think we picture like they are sitting somewhere. The power's turned off. They are parked in some missile silos or airplane hangars or something. And they are there dark until some terrible situation. And then somebody enters secret codes. And then the power goes on and they rise from the Earth like something out of a Michael Bay movie. But of course reality is not like that at all. In real life the country's nuclear weapons are thousands of high-tech very complicated machines. And the lights are not out. Things are happening. They need to be cleaned and taken care of and monitored by tons of people day and night all the time. And things can go wrong. Joe Richman has this example. Back in September 1980 September 18 Jeff Plumb climbed into his pickup and headed toward the nuclear missile silo near a tiny town in Arkansas called Damascus. He was a 19-year-old missile technician a new trainee riding with another guy David Powell who was showing Plumb the ropes. David Powell was certified. He had done it over and over and over. For me it was fairly new. It was the first time I was in training with David. Plumb was a city kid from near Detroit. He remembers sitting in the truck that day watching the farms and fields fly by until eventually the truck slowed pulled into a gravel road in the middle of nowhere passed through some woods and came to a fence. There was not much to see a concrete slab with a handful of radio antennas sticking up out of the ground. Under that concrete slab though was a 146-foot silo like an inverted 14-story building. To get in was a sequence of gates phones secret codes several super secure metal and concrete doors. And then at the bottom of the stairs you could go two directions. Down one hall was the complex's three-story underground command center with all the communications equipment and computers and staff. A second hallway led to the missile silo. I was in awe when I would walk into the silo. When you open up the silo door and you walk in there and look at this-- and sometimes the lighting in there was just right to where it just loomed in the dark like it was a bullet in a chamber ready to go you know. And it had this dark black warhead on top pure destruction at the fingertips of a couple of men. The missile in the silo that day the one Jeff Plumb was describing was called the Titan II. At the time the Titan II was the most powerful nuclear weapon in the American arsenal. One of them just one could unleash the same power as all the bombs dropped in World War II including the atomic bombs times three-- all the bombs in World War II times three. But besides being America's most powerful nuclear missiles the Titan IIs were also some of the oldest. One especially dangerous and aging part of the Titan II missile was its fuel system. By 1980 most nuclear weapons had switched to solid fuel. But when the Titan II was developed in the 1960s nuclear weapons used liquid fuel. Liquid fuel meant that we took a nuclear warhead and we put it on top of two gigantic tanks and filled those tanks with incredibly volatile liquids. One tank was rocket fuel. The other was something called oxidizer. Greg Devlin also worked on the Titan II missiles. And if they ever meet-- typically they were meant to meet inside the motor and then it propels it where it is going. But if they ever meet anywhere before that you will instantly have an explosion and a fire. So yes it is a bomb sitting on a bomb. But even if you did not mix these fuels they were extremely dangerous. The oxidizer on its own was a Class A poison the most toxic category for any chemical. It could ignite spontaneously if it touched leather paper cloth wood. The fuel could ignite if it touched rust or even if it did not touch anything. If there were enough fumes and you waved your hand too fast it could explode. So between burns explosions fire between inhalation-- if you got it on your skin it would turn to acid. We actually had a greater fear of the fuels on board than the warhead itself. The teams that handled this hazardous stuff were called propellant transfer systems teams or PTS teams. Surprisingly young guys-- 18 19 20 years old-- they were known for partying hard speeding driving motorcycles. Sometimes they would do this thing where they would put missile fuel in a bucket. Then they would take a ping pong ball fill it with oxidizer and toss it in the bucket and watch it blow up like Mad Max beer pong. These were the teams that David Powell was training Jeff Plumb to be a part of. Here's Plumb. We could do anything. That was our mindset. We were invincible and nothing was going to stop us. You know at 19 it just-- I did not have any fear of things at that point in my life. So we are in the silo. Jeff Plumb and his trainer David Powell are ready to get to work on a job that was routine maintenance. One of the missile's fuel tanks was low on pressure. So the job was just to take off something called the dust cap kind of like a gas cap but on a nuclear missile. Then they would have to pump in more liquid and voila. That was it. Except before they could start-- They had a problem with not being able to get the hydraulic platform to come down. The hydraulic platform went up and down the side of the missile like a platform for window washers on a highrise. And it was broken. It is worth knowing these fuel tech jobs PTS jobs had actually gotten to be more and more of a grind around this time because the missiles were aging. Materials were outdated dilapidated deformed. Valves leaked. Pumps failed. There was a lot of things wrong with the missile silo. So there was more work to do without more people to do it which meant PTS guys like Powell and Plumb were increasingly overworked and burned out hustling from one missile to another to patch them up regularly pulling 12- and 14-hour days. And now Plumb and Powell had to wait to do this routine maintenance job in the afternoon of a long day. We were very anxious to get this job completed. It was a Friday night. We were young wanting to get back to hang out with our friends and drink beer you know. So I remember laying around up in the control center just hanging out with these guys for hours. Finally they got word the hydraulic platform was up and running. So boom green light. Plumb and Powell suited up in protective gear. Picture the guys who kidnapped E.T. And they head down the hall towards the missile silo ready for action. And as we were going down the long cable way we realized we did not have the torque wrench. After hours of waiting Plumb and Powell had left this crucial tool the torque wrench in their truck all the way up on the surface. It was kind of like forgetting your cell phone in your house if your house had a bunch of enormous concrete and metal doors and required a secret code to get in. It was a pain in the ass on a long irritating day. Jeff Plumb says personally he did not know what to do. He was just learning. And the procedures they were so meticulously laid out. You had to follow these detailed checklists. You needed the right tools. The checklist was the Bible you might want to say. And Air Force regulations required us to go through that checklist and follow everything step by step. So Plumb's like what do we do? And he looked at David Powell. And Powell said do not worry. For what they were about to do there was actually another tool not the official one. But he would used it before so forget the torque wrench. It will be fine. So we grabbed this ratchet-- like you would pull out of your toolbox but quite larger. If you can picture it it was a monstrous thing because it was about three feet long. It had about a three-foot long handle. And the socket weighed anywheres from five to eight pounds. It was a big socket. So it was a large piece of steel. Plumb looked at this wrench like a three-foot Willy Wonka type wrench. And he was not so sure about it. And this giant socket wrench besides being kind of the wrong tool a huge cumbersome wrong tool it was not in the best shape. The two pieces of the wrench were supposed to click together but they did not. So we had a problem at that point. And so we improvised. Here's what they did. One guy held the socket over this thing they had to remove the dust cap. The second guy held the huge handle of the ratchet and turned. Sure enough the cap screwed right off. It worked no problem. Great. So Plumb hands the socket off to Powell. And I remember saying to him you have got this right? You got-- you are OK? You got this? And he said yeah I got it. Let go of it. And so I remember releasing it. And I remember seeing it kind of just fall. And it hit the platform the socket did. And it bounced and it went between the platform and the missile. Just to make sure you are picturing this Plumb and Powell were working way up in the silo like window washers on the side of a nuclear missile on a platform. Attached to the platform was this rubber bumper that was supposed to fit right up against the missile so there was no gap for things to fall through. But as the Titan II facilities had aged the rubber bumper did not fit quite right. And so there was a small gap a socket-sized gap. It was like it bounced and it landed perfectly in the gap you know. It was almost like-- it was like somebody playing Tiddlywinks or something. You know how you would-- or one of those old drinking games where you bounce something and land it into the hole perfect. You know it was just it bounced and it was gone. I literally watched it fall. We had dropped tools numerous times. It was not the first time that we ever dropped a tool and watched it fall. It was common. It just happened that when this socket fell it went down 70 feet 80 feet whatever it was there and it bounced off the thrust ring that the missile sat on just this big giant round ring. And when it fell it picked up maximum speed and hit the top of that thrust ring and just ricocheted into the side of the missile. I heard it hit-- boom. And the next thing you know I just seen fuel spraying out. I just looked at it down there. I just looked in awe. I just-- I could not believe what just happened. The only thing I remember saying to David was this is not good. This is not good. There is a hierarchy of not good. And this kind of not good might be at the top. This kind of not good was deadly skin-melting highly explosive rocket fuel spraying out of a 100-foot tall intercontinental ballistic missile. On top of that missile sat the most powerful nuclear warhead in the United States of America. You know we did not know how to respond. We looked at it for-- I do not know-- at least a minute trying to figure out what we were going to do about it. And then he contacted the team chief and told him that we had a cloud of vapor emitting from the missile. On the other end of the radio was the missile complex's command center a three-story underground bunker filled with monitoring equipment control panels and a team staffing all of it. On that team was a guy named Allan Childers. Unlike the PTS teams Childers was an officer. And he did not just know a few specifics or mechanics of the Titan II. Allan Childers knew the missile inside and out. He would spent six months studying it reading a manual called the Dash-1 which laid out every piece of how the massive weapon worked. He and his crew spent most of their time using detailed checklists going over all the missile systems one by one. Childers was standing behind a control panel when the call from Powell and Plumb came in. So the first thing we heard was that there was smoke in the launch duct. And of course the commander's going what do you mean? What is going on? And then I heard him say what do you mean smoke in the launch-- and he was going to say duct. But I do not think he ever got the word duct out. As soon as that happened the lights started coming on. And it is a klaxon alarm. And it is just waaa real loud. And all of the lights came on. So you are trained to punch the alarm off once it gets your attention which it did you turn the alarm off. Well the alarm would turn off. But it would immediately come back on again as another light came on and another light came on. And so these indicator lights were oxidizer in the launch duct fuel vapors in the launch duct fire in the launch duct. Horns and klaxons were going off sirens. Pretty much every light on the instrument panel they were lit up. Just moments later Plumb and Powell had made their way from the silo back to the command center. When they got there they found a huge scramble everyone besides them trying to figure out what the problem was. They were trying to figure out how to deal with all these problems. They were resetting klaxons. And they did not know what was going on. It was chaos. Because they did not know. To be clear faced with the fuel gushing out of the missile and now the command center firing questions at them Dave Powell made a choice. It was the kind of choice you make when you are afraid of getting in trouble. He played dumb. He told them there was smoke in the silo but nothing about the hole they had punched in the missile. Jeff Plumb made his own version of that decision which was to keep quiet and follow Powell's lead. That created a crucial knowledge gap in the room. On the other side of that gap Allan Childers and the rest of the command staff were left to scramble desperately frantic to figure out what was wrong. All of that mattered because if all the fuel leaked out it is not like the missile would just sit there empty. The Titan II's fuel tanks were pressurized like a tire. And if enough fuel leaked out it would go flat. Or in the missile's case it would collapse under its own weight. Enough oxidizer and fuel to carry a 330000-pound missile across the ocean would smash together underneath a nuclear warhead. I just-- in my own mind I pictured poking a hole in a pop can. And so all this pressure now is turning to a negative PSI-- which internally in my mind I thought it is going to collapse. This tank is going to collapse in on itself. It is sucking itself in. I was scared. I was really concerned that this thing could blow up any moment. So my concern was to get out of there. I did not know the safety of that warhead. There were so many questions. How fast was the fuel leaking? When could the missile collapse? Could the silo contain the explosion? Could an explosion set off the nuclear warhead? Minute by minute by minute Plumb stood silent unsure what to do. So I just-- I kind of kept my mouth shut. You know I did not answer. David was the one answering the questions. So they never told us what had happened. With Plumb and Powell holding out Allan Childers and the team in the command center was slowly running out of options. We ran all of what we called our red tab checklist our hazard checklist. And it did not stop anything from happening. All the indicator lights stayed on. That is when the commander turned back to the team and said what do you think it is? These indicators do not make any sense. And this was a half-hour into it. They said we do not know. We do not know what is going on out there. All we saw was the smoke in the launch duct. Eventually a guy from the command center team Rodney Holder turned to Plumb and Powell. And Rodney asked them again what happened? What do you guys know that we do not know? And Airman Powell started crying. And that is when the commander went-- he said you need to tell us what is going on out there. We cannot figure it out. And that is when as he was crying he basically said I dropped a socket off the end of the wrench. And it punched a hole in the side of the missile. And the commander just-- I could still picture his face. It just turned white. And he said you need to tell the command post what you did because they are going to have questions. And I do not want to be relaying it. So he handed him the phone. He brought him over to the console. He said I am going to put Airman Powell on. We have a serious emergency. We just found out what is going on and I want him to talk to you. And he put him on and he told him. I do not know how he got it out because he was crying so much you know. I just remember everybody standing there watching just dumbfounded. We are talking about a socket that was bigger than your fist punching a hole in the side of a missile. You could not patch it if you wanted to. And by then so much had drained out you could not even open up the door and lean inside without it eating up your suit. So you could not do anything about it by then. And then the commander got back on the phone. And we were basically told to stand by. And we stood by. As news of what had happened traveled up the Air Force chain of command everyone at the missile site was instructed to wait. To wait of course mind you inside a nuclear missile complex teetering on the brink of a massive explosion. Just sit tight. Quite a bit of time went by like that couple of hours actually. One of the main questions was whether to keep the missile teams underground try to somehow somehow fix the leak. Or is it bound to blow up and you should get everyone out run like hell and hope the nuclear warhead does not go off? Or maybe a surprising question is the command center actually the safest place for them? The launch control center the control room was supposed to survive a nuclear explosion. Eventually it was a colonel named John Moser back at the Air Force base in Little Rock who made the decision. He knew the command center was designed to survive a nuclear attack like a direct hit from a Russian nuclear missile. But how could he be sure? Nothing like this had ever happened before. They were off the map. For you giving the order was it a clear call? Or was it-- were you conflicted? Were you unsure? I was not unsure. I was a straight up clear order to evacuate because I did not want people to be injured. We had no idea what was going to happen. We have never had an explosion or a potential explosion like this. It is never happened before. And I gave the order to evacuate. And I tried to talk him out of that. Allan Childers back in the underground command center disagreed with Moser's decision. He argued. I did not think it would blow up. And if it did blow up I thought that the door and the complex would contain the explosion. It was underground. It had this cap on it. I had two blast doors protecting me that were the size of bank vault doors. And I was sitting in a facility that was designed to survive a detonation from a Russian nuclear weapon. So I thought we are safer down here than if we go up above. I guess I would think most people would be happy to get an order to say get out of there. I felt devastated. Yeah I was devastated that I had to leave. Even to this day it bothers me that I had to leave. Never in the history of an active missile complex had you left the missile with a warhead on it walked away from the site with the site still running. On principle I did not like it. The logic of it made no sense to me. I could not believe that we were leaving that complex. As in desperate shape as that site was to leave that and not be able to tell people what was occurring out there in that launch duct-- even if we could not do anything I felt like there was probably somebody was going to come up with something that we could do. And we would not be there to do it. Allan Childers made this case. He knew the Titan II missile inside and out. He knew the dangers what could happen. He was staring at the United States on the brink of maybe setting off its most powerful nuclear missile right in the heart of the country. He clung to any hope to do something anything to claw the situation back. But Childers was not in charge. And eventually orders came down and Allan Childers and everyone else in the Damascus missile complex evacuated. With the benefit of hindsight we can say that from this point forward at every point in this story when the Air Force made a decision it arguably made the wrong decision. Here the Air Force ordered them to abandon post. The order was to evacuate through the complex's escape hatch which had never been used before. It was a narrow tunnel that led to a ladder which took them several stories back up to the surface. Greg Devlin was above ground with a bunch of backup teams from the Little Rock Air Force Base. It was really-- it was just really eerie that night. You know you saw smoke coming out of the vents over here. You could get whiffs of fuel hydrazine which has like a fish type of an odor to it. So you could smell that. So it was a very hazy eerie-looking scenario. And then with everyone on the surface it seems the Air Force realized what Allan Childers had been arguing all along. That the best shot at diffusing this crisis the only way to know what was up in the silo was to have people inside. So you guessed it. They ordered two people to go back in. Again here the Air Force zigged when it should have zagged. The order was not to go in the open escape hatch which everyone had just come out of. Instead they told the folks on-site they should break in through the front doors of the missile complex. With precious time ticking away do not go through the back door which is sitting wide open. No break through the front door of one of the US military's most secure facilities. Or front doors is more like it-- huge concrete and secure metal doors-- using only these tools-- a crowbar a hammer a long screwdriver a bolt cutter and a hydraulic hand pump. It is worth also mentioning had Allan Childers stayed in the command center like he wanted to he could have opened all those doors with a push of a button. People on the site were frustrated and confused. But they followed orders and started burrowing back into the missile complex. The first two guys to go in were myself and Rex Hukle. We suited up. Devlin and his partner strapped on oxygen tanks to wade through clouds of lethal rocket fuel. They broke through several doors. And then after 30 minutes a second two-person team went in to relieve them-- and not just any team. One of this duo was David Livingston. Livingston was a member of the PTS team. He was also David Powell's roommate Powell who dropped the socket that started the whole thing. Livingston was actually Powell's best friend. They made it all the way to the blast lock door where there was a meter a meter that took readings of fuel present in the air in the silo. And at 18000 parts per million it is explosion ready. It is ready to explode. That is redlined. That is pegged out. So when he called back and said this thing's about to blow. And the command center said come back now. So him and Dave Livingston traversed back up the flights of steps. They got just above ground. And within 30 seconds an explosion happened. It was about 3 oclock in the morning. And I was standing up listening to a conversation. And all of a sudden I lost communications. This is Colonel John Moser again who was 50 miles away at the Little Rock Air Force Base calling the shots. The moment of the explosion he was talking to people on the site and the line went dead. All you have ever read is when you have a nuclear explosion you lose communications for some time. And we lost the communications. And I just had no idea if the blast wave was going to eventually hit Little Rock Air Force Base. I had no idea. I had no idea what was going to happen. But I thought we lost the whole works out there everybody. And you know I am not a really religious guy. But I had to-- I almost dropped on my knees to say a quick prayer. While John Moser was at the Little Rock Air Force Base waiting for everything around him to be swept off the Earth by a nuclear explosion Allan Childers was back at the Damascus missile site. It is so hard to describe an explosion like that. The only thing you see is this huge-- I mean nighttime turned into day. It was unbelievable. Because it was so bright all of a sudden. And I literally turned to one of the guys. And I was feeling my chest. And I said it could not be a nuclear explosion because we are still here. And that is what dawned on me. We were still there. Man. Oh my gosh. I was standing at the fence. And I was facing the silo when it exploded. Again Greg Devlin one of the guys on the first team to go back in and who was watching as the second team worked. It was just a bang the loud sound and the concussion of wind. It was just-- it was like bang. It was like being in front of a-- picture yourself as nothing's there but you just got hit by a Mack truck. And all of a sudden rocks started falling. It was like rain falling. And it was all this gravel from the complex. And metal started falling out of the sky. And everybody started to run. The chunks of concrete that were landing everywhere were as-- I mean everywhere-- were as big as coffee tables. The real big ones were as big as pickup trucks and school buses and stuff like that. Those were everywhere. You could hear them hitting the ground around me. Man it was like boom boom boom. I got up immediately. I took off running. I got five steps away and a chunk of concrete hit the ground behind me as big as a-- bigger than a school bus. The trees were on fire. The grass was on fire. The only light we had was fires. And you could see the shadows of just about everything because there was so much fire around there. It was like being in this forest fire without a forest being around you. And then for just a second or two it was this one point in time where there was no sound at all. It was like a total calm peace kind of like the end of the world for 10 seconds. And then you heard all the screaming and crying and guys yelling oh my god I am hurt. This is the CBS Evening News with Walter Cronkite. Good evening. Modern age terror swept an area of rural Arkansas today when fuel exploded around a nuclear warhead in a missile silo. The incident began when officials say a workman dropped a wrench. The morning after everyone was trying to sort out what had happened-- the press Air Force local law enforcement the public. Simply put the fuel exploded. The nuke did not go off. The Air Force was keeping tight-lipped refusing to confirm whether there had even been a nuclear warhead on site. For the survivors the injuries were extensive. Greg Devlin had burns on his face neck and back. His skin was burned off his left hand. Others had extensive burns and broken bones. One airman David Livingston was dead. Remember Livingston was David Powell's roommate and best friend. Livingston was on the second team to go back in. And he was standing just outside the silo when it blew. All that meant Powell had kind of dropped the socket into some huge Rube Goldberg machine of bad luck and indirectly killed his best friend. At the missile site the damage was staggering a monument to just how dangerous the situation had been. The missile silo's door a 1.5 million-pound slab of concrete and steel had blown off spun like a Frisbee and landed more than 500 feet away. And then there was the biggest question. Where was the nuclear warhead? The warhead ended up about a quarter mile away intact in a ditch. To me that is amazing. As for the question of whether the nuclear warhead could have gone off the military would later say no impossible. There were too many safety measures in place. But lots of people who were familiar with nuclear weapons who know them well who worked on the Titan II they say it absolutely could have. If the warhead had gone off it is estimated the fallout could have reached more than 400 miles and killed people in Arkansas Missouri Kentucky Illinois and Indiana. After Damascus the Air Force officially blamed the incident on human error-- so Jeff Plumb and David Powell who dropped the socket. That never sat well with many of the people who were there who worked at Damascus including Jeff Plumb. It was not uncommon for that to happen. Every guy that worked in those silos I know dropped a wrench or a tool at some point in his career-- every guy. And if they tell you they did not they are lying. Because there was no way to get around that. It just happened that one went the wrong way. Plumb says the Air Force knew that. They knew then and they know now. That even when the stakes are nuclear weapons human error is a factor. After Damascus workers were required to tie tools to their bodies. One solution to the problem of human error the lanyard. We should say we asked David Powell to talk about all this but he did not want to talk about it. We did learn that he only recently told his wife and family. He would kept it secret for years and years. Jeff Plumb says he thinks Powell really struggled with it just like he did too. After the incident Jeff Plumb had an episode where he snapped lost it and started throwing beer bottles against the wall in a room at the Air Force base. It was bad. The Air Force demoted him and things went downhill from there. He was eventually discharged from the Air Force. Even now years later he finds the accident hard to talk about. I will tell the story. And I will begin to tell the story to someone and then you just get caught up in it. You tell that story over-- I have told it I do not know how many times you know and relived it a few times. And I think I really have-- I think I have had enough you know. Yeah just thinking back on it it just was not a very good time in my life at that point. So I think I really do not want to tell the story anymore. So yeah this will be the last time. Yeah. This will be the last time. One of the remarkable things about Damascus is actually how unremarkable it was how many accidents there have been like this one. When it comes to nuclear weapons it is so easy to assume that everything is all taken care of oversight is airtight precautions and protocols are in place. The stakes are so serious. But the 70-year history of our nuclear weapons is littered with accidents like what happened in Arkansas. An accident like Damascus could never happen again because our missiles no longer use liquid fuels. So that risk is gone. But there are other risks. There are new ones-- enemies hacking into missile systems over the internet low morale and other personnel issues among the people who maintain and operate our nuclear arsenal and aging facilities and technology. I talked to half a dozen experts who are familiar with our nuclear weapons from places like Yale Berkeley Harvard and former military officials. They worry about mishaps and accidents that most of us never consider with weapons most of us never think about. All of them pointed out the accident at Damascus no one saw that coming. There were supposed to be safeguards to prevent that from ever happening. One military expert said the kind of accident we should worry about is the kind that seems impossible