Sharon Snyder was a clerk for a circuit court judge in Missouri. And she remembers when she first heard of a man named Robert Nelson. He was in prison and his brother and sister came in looking for a document that he needed. And this happened all the time-- she had been working there as a clerk for over 30 years. So I talked to them at length and they kind of told me the story. You know that he was not guilty. And everybody who comes to see you tells you they were not guilty right?  That is right. That was not a novel thing at all. No no. But Sharon believed him in this case for a simple reason-- Robert Wilson was imprisoned for rape and he had decided to file a motion asking for a DNA test. His trial was so long ago-- he was convicted in 1984-- no DNA test had ever been done. To file one of those you have to know that it is going to come back you know that you are not guilty. Why would anybody file it if they know they are not innocent because it is just going to come back that they are not innocent? Yeah. Yeah so he won you over right there. He won me over right there yeah. Yeah. Robert Nelson did not have a lawyer. He was writing up his legal paperwork himself from prison and his motion asking for a DNA test was turned down. Apparently he did not do it the right way. Sharon said his sister asked her for advice and she suggested that he resubmit which he did and was turned down again. Now she was just beside herself. She did not know where to go from there. And I did not know what to tell her either or offer any suggestions. Then Sharon remembered another case that was being tried where somebody filed a motion for DNA testing and it was granted. And I thought well I have the file right here in my file cabinet. And I thought I will just go ahead and maybe if I just give her a copy of that motion she would send it to her brother. Oh I see. You thought that Robert Nelson could just imitate whatever this guy did. Right. Exactly exactly. And of course I am not an attorney. I have no idea what the difference was that made the judge grant it. Evidently there was something in there. This is a public document that anybody could have requested and gotten a copy of. If Robert Nelson or his sister had known enough to research it or ask for it they could have gotten it themselves. And it worked. The judge granted the motion the DNA test proved Robert Nelson's innocence and four years after his first request for a DNA test he was set free. Justice had been delayed but a mistake was corrected an innocent man was out of prison. And then five days after his release-- it was the end of the work day 430 Sharon says-- the court administrator and Judge David Byrn who she worked for called her in. --and gave me a letter stating that I was going to be suspended without pay for my involvement and that there would be an investigation. And I was blown away. Blown away totally caught off guard. Two weeks later she was fired. She was 70 years old had worked there for 34 years. She was nine months away from retirement. She was told she violated Canon 7 of the county code of ethics for court employees which says that they cannot give legal advice or give their opinions when people ask them questions like how should I fight this case? Though as a lawyer named Joe Patrice pointed out in a column on the legal news website Above The Law this week after Sharon's firing became a news story quote Handing out a public document as a model is not really legal advice especially when the inmate has already demonstrated what legal action he means to take. You can see how Sharon could be confused about where to draw the line in this case. I mean do you think it was even wrong what you did? Not really. Not really. I did maybe at first. I was willing to chastise myself and say you have been a very bad girl. But in thinking it over being it is a fact that it is a public record she could have obtained that then I made it just a little easier on her. So can I ask you-- and I hope you feel you can be honest about this-- do you feel mad? Well no. I feel hurt which has always been a problem of mine. I never get mad but I certainly get hurt. A spokesman for the Jackson County Circuit Court where Sharon worked declined to be interviewed saying only quote Because of legal and ethical considerations we cannot comment on a personnel matter. Sharon still gets her pension but she got a much smaller severance payment than they would have paid her if she had not been fired. And I asked her if anything good had come out of this. And I do not know I suppose I was thinking that maybe she would say she is enjoying her slightly-early retirement seeing her grandkids more doing interviews on TV and radio. And I guess her answer should not have surprised me but it was nice to hear. The only positive thing is that Robert Nelson is free and I am so happy for him. And I am glad I did it. I believe that this was a worthy cause. And even though I lost my job and financially it put me in a bind I think it was worth it. So I would do it again. Well today on our radio program people who were just trying to help doing the best they can think of. But as in Sharon's case it is not always so clear what the best way is to help somebody without unintended consequences either for the people being helped or the people doing the helping. We have two stories today including a sheriff who is trying to do right by marijuana growers. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us.  Act One Money for Nothing and Your Cows for Free. So there are charities that try to help poor people around the world in just about every way that you can possibly imagine. They give computers they dig wells they will build schools they send teachers or solar lamps. But a few years ago four young guys-- they were grad students at the time-- decided they were going to try something simpler. They wanted to try just giving money to poor people. After all they figured that is their problem-- they do not have money. That is what makes them poor. That is the definition of poor they do not have money. Why not just give them money? No strings attached they do not have to pay it back. Let people do whatever they want with it. The idea being like everybody else they will know what they need better than anybody else could. Give them money and they can buy what they need. Michael Faye one of the guys who had this idea decided he was going to test it out himself. During a break from school he flew to Kenya and tried giving away some of his own money and it did not go exactly as planned. Some people said no to the money. And I will be honest that first trip we had one village that said thanks but no thanks. We do not believe you. We think you are going to ask for something in return or need me to spend the money in a certain way. And I do not want the money. Faye did his best to convince them. Really he said I do not need the money back. I tried. They were pretty adamant that they did not want it. They said I just do not believe it. I think you will come back in six months or a year and ask me for something. And I do not know what that is but I do not trust you. Which sounds totally reasonable to me. If somebody walked up to me on the street and just said I want to give you money I would be suspicious. But on that trip Faye did manage to find people who were willing to accept free money and Faye and his buddies went on to start a charity. It is called GiveDirectly and it just gives money to poor people. Faye and his friends have big plans. They think that in the future this could be one of the major ways that we help poor people. Jacob Goldstein and Dave Kestenbaum of Planet Money recently went to Kenya to see how this was working. There are lots of reasons charities do not usually just hand out cash. Chris Blattman tells this one story. Blattman is a professor at Columbia who spends a lot of time in the international aid world. He was working with this charity that was trying to help former soldiers some of them child soldiers become farmers. They gave them land they gave them training they gave them almost everything they could need. But they would not give cash. They said that they were very worried about what people are going to do with this money. They thought it was going to be spent on sex workers. They thought it was going to be spent on drugs or alcohol. The last thing they thought it was going to be spent on was agriculture. This of course is one of the risks. If you give someone money and tell them they can spend it on whatever they want they can spend it on whatever they want. Cigarettes alcohol weapons-- This is Carol Bellamy. She is a former director of UNICEF. --just gambling it away. All the kinds of things that you do not want to have happen with money that just you find in your pocket. Is it fair to say you think most of your colleagues in the charity world would be skeptical of this idea? I think they are. It seems to be true. When we got to Kenya we checked in with people at local charities people who have grown up in Kenya who have spent their lives doing aid work and most of them shook their heads. They had a whole list of reasons why giving money would not work. Sam Owoko with a local group called KMET told us giving money is a handout. Handouts do not work. What we have learned is that giving people money creates a sense of dependency. People would not go out of their way to improve to even look for other sources of money. They know they are going to get it so they sit there and wait and do not care about anything else in the long run. People told us if you give money to some people but not to others you could create real tensions between neighbors or even within families. And inevitably someone brought up the give a man a fish thing. I would rather teach them how to fish than to fish for them. This is Alfred Okeyo Adongo with a group called SANA. He will be able to eat well for one year but beyond that what else? Adongo did see something appealing about the idea of giving money though. You could see him wrestling with it. And he said this thing you rarely hear anyone say. He said maybe I am wrong. I am curious. I would want to see how it is working. And if it proves to work we would be very very grateful. There is one other big reason no one had set up a charity to give money to poor people. Until a few years ago it was really hard to do. Poor people often do not have bank accounts so if you wanted to give someone money you would have to physically hand it to them which could mean bringing lots of cash into very remote villages. You would need security so you did not get robbed. You would need some sort of ID system to make sure the people lining up are who they say they are. All that would be expensive. But today in Kenya if you want to give away money you do not need bags of cash. You do not need an armored car. You just need a cell phone any crappy cell phone. Kenya has this amazing system where you can send money instantly from one phone to another. It is called M-Pesa. There are M-Pesa stores everywhere in Kenya. They have these bright green signs. The one we went to store is not really the right word for it. It was in an old van. It is an old VW bus. Sure sure VW. My mom had one of these. Ah. We used to go camping in it. Ah. It is like a snack shop. It is like we are under a little awning here. Except it is a bank. Inside the vanbank is a woman with a ledger book a cell phone and a box of cash. I would give her 100 Kenyan shillings-- about 1-- and right away I get a text message saying the money is now in my M-Pesa account. And then I would press a few buttons and send money to the only person in Kenya who I have in my phone our interpreter Allan. And it works. Sum received. Kenya shillings 90 from Jacob Goldstein. M-Pesa makes it really easy for GiveDirectly to give away a lot of money. In Kenya we met Piali Mukhopadhyay who works for GiveDirectly. With just an old laptop and a spreadsheet with people's names and numbers she can send money to hundreds of people. Violet Adeline Celine Benta Rose Risper. Have you met any of these people? I do not know any of these people but I know them in the sense that I send them money each month.  This year GiveDirectly is giving away 5 million. We wanted to meet some of the people who were getting the money. So we got in a car with Piali and we went to find them.  And it turns out while sending thousands of dollars to people in rural Kenya has recently gotten a lot easier going to visit them-- still really hard.   To get to this one village you drive on the main road past the sign that says Equator-- because that is where the Equator is-- and then you turn off onto these increasingly rough dirt roads. And of course there are not any street signs because really there are not any streets. No one has an address. You have to stop and ask for directions. Eventually you have to get out of the car and walk down a path.  It is very green. There are trees and birds little farm plots where people are growing corn. And then finally by the side of the path you find the guy who got the money on his phone.   Nokia. This is Bernard Ohmondi. He is 25 years old and he is got two kids. He lives in a small house with mud walls a dirt floor and an old couch. There is no sink because there is no plumbing. There is no running water. There is no electricity. The way it all happened he says is that one day the village elder came by with some people he would never met. They explained that they wanted to give him 1000 which to him seemed like a very strange idea.  I had to be suspicious because in African setup we believe somebody cannot give you such kind of huge money without working for it. Even our own president cannot give you so I had to be suspicious. But Ohmondi said fine. I am a poor man-- you want to give me money I am not going to say no. The visitors gave him a cheap cell phone and then a while later he got the text message.  It was sent very early in the morning.  LAUGHING I was still in my bed. I jumped up.  My wife asked me Bernard what is it? Then I told her the guys of GiveDirectly have sent us the money. It is here. He still has the message on his phone. Confirmed you have received 41000.  All over the village that morning people were getting their first payment from GiveDirectly and having that jump-out-of-bed experience.  This is one of Bernard's neighbors Daniel Otieno Ombock. I got the message when I was in bed.  And I told my wife hey you also read this message.  Immediately she saw it and read she burst into laughter. She laughed and told me now my husband what do we do? It is worth pointing out just how much money 1000 is in this village. 1000 is about what one of these families spends in an entire year so you could think of it as someone coming up and offering to double your salary. But really it is a much bigger deal than that. Most of the people in this village have no savings at all so 1000 is just this unimaginable sum. Daniel had never had this much money at once nothing close to it. So what do you do when more money than you have ever had in your life suddenly drops onto your cell phone? If you are Bernard Ohmondi you buy one of these.  This motorcycle is called Bajaj Boxer.  It consumes low fuel. The motorcycle cost him about 600 and this is not the kind of motorcycle you ride around so everyone will think you are cool. Around here where most people live on dirt paths too narrow for cars motorcycles are basically used as taxis and Bernard bought his so he could become a taxi driver. It beat his old job. He used to work as a laborer. Often he would spend all day carrying heavy stones from one place to another. That is when he could find work. A lot of days there was no work at all. Now that he has his motorcycle he says his work is much steadier. His kids used to go hungry and they do not anymore. People bought all kinds of things with the money. One family bought a little mill to grind corn for people in the village another started selling soap and cooking oil. Daniel Otieno Ombock the other guy who jumped out of bed when he got the message bought something he would always wanted.  Mattress high-density beds. Mattress high-density bed it turns out is basically just a mattress. He used to sleep on a mat on the ground.  Now I look like a human being. I am now human being. What were you before? LAUGHING     Before I was an image of a human being but in real sense I was not a human being.  The thing that really changed his life he says was the new roof. Daniel bought a metal roof to replace his old one which was made of grass. He showed it to us. And if buying a new roof sounds like something that is nice to have but is not really going to help Daniel in the long run you have probably never owned a grass roof. Just about everyone we talked to had replaced their grass roofs with metal ones. I was yes very happy. I was very happy about the money. This is Caroline Odhiambo who also bought a metal roof and who explained why everyone was doing it. First of all grass roofs are terrible roofs. They leak failing to perform what is arguably the single most important job of any roof. When it rains everything you own gets wet it is hard to sleep you have to keep moving around to find a dry spot. But also grass roofs need to be constantly maintained. You have to keep replacing the grass and apparently you cannot just cut any grass from the field. You need a special kind of grass and often you have to pay for it. The grass is very expensive. Because you have to buy grass every year even three times a year and it costs a lot. A metal roof costs more up front-- 200 or 300-- but it can last for more than 10 years and in the long run it is way cheaper than a grass roof. So buying that metal roof means that every year Caroline and the others will not have to spend money buying new grass. It is like they just boosted their income for the next decade. They will have more money in their pockets-- money to pay for school fees or food or to buy a cow. And buying a cow that was also really common. Oh there. That is your cow.  I named her Apala.  It is a female cow. A very good one because it produces milk.  A lot of milk.  Daniel told us his cow cost about 400. He says it produces 2 liters of milk a day. His family drinks 1 liter and sells 1 liter for about 0.50. Caroline also bought a cow but she says do not think of it as a cow. Think of hers as a bank. The cows are just like bank. When we put there it is just as if we have saved it in the cow. And why buy a cow instead of putting the money in the bank? In the bank? You know money in the bank sometimes you can just go and take it small small small small until it got finished. A cow on the other hand you cannot fritter away a few shillings at a time. If you want to get your money out of a cow you have to take your cow to market and sell it. All these things people spent money on-- cows roofs a motorcycle-- they seem like reasonable choices. In fact they seemed so reasonable we started to worry that people were just telling us the good news stories. So we asked a different question-- not what did you do with the money but what did your neighbors do? And then we started to hear different stories. Bernard told us sure I spent the money well but not everybody did.  There is so many guys who are very careless and I know as you are going to walk around in some homes you are going to see guys who misuse their money. You will get that some of them did not even put up a house.  They did not even buy a motorcycle.  Some of them are still staying in their grass thatched houses.  You will just see there is nothing there is no change in his life and they misused the money. What did they do with the money?  So some of them are drunkards so they probably used it to buy alcohol. Others just spent the whole amount on food. They just ate and became fat and there is nothing to see nothing has remained of it. Bernard did not name anyone in particular but another guy in the village a guy named Julius said my neighbor right over here. Look he still has a thatch roof on his house. He wasted his money. He was so embarrassed he did not even want to talk to you. He saw your vehicle and he knew that you were around. He decided to run away. They are not here now. So we went to the neighbor's house and just like Julius said he was not home. There were two little kids there who told us that their parents had gone into town. It seemed like Julius might be right so we asked GiveDirectly about the neighbor and a woman named Lydia Tala who works for GiveDirectly and is from the region managed to reach him on the phone the next day. He told her he was not hiding and he was not embarrassed. He said his first wife had died. He wanted to get remarried but in this part of Kenya the groom traditionally has to pay the bride's family. So that is what he spent the money on. He spent it on a dowry so he could get remarried and that is why he still had a thatched roof. There was one problem we did see in the village-- the money sometimes created tensions between people who got it and people who did not. Bernard told us he lost some friends over it. They would come by and say hey I heard you got a bunch of free money. Share the wealth. He told them sorry I cannot. Daniel told us he started staying late on his farm plot to avoid people. And if you think it is tough getting free money when your neighbors do not try being the guy who does not get money.  I was feeling pretty bad. This is a man named Charles Odhiambo. We ran into him one afternoon while we were walking along a dirt path. He was herding cattle. He said his neighbors got 1000 he got nothing.  Those who benefit from the project are laughing at us saying that us who are-- we are sort of becoming a bother to them.  It is been bothering me all the time because I always ask myself why did myself not benefit from the project? The issue came up again when we were talking to a village elder. We were asking him lots of questions and as we were leaving he said can I ask a question? We said sure. It was a question for Piali from GiveDirectly who was traveling with us that day and it was about the people who did not get the money. He is saying those who are not enrolled in the program are there plans that they could be enrolled in the future? So unfortunately at this time the enrollment is closed for this area. So we typically come to a village enroll as many people as we can who are eligible and then we move on. So we wish we could help everyone here but we are moving on to other places at this point. Here's how GiveDirectly decides who gets money. They pick a poor village and then they go to the village and find everyone with a grass roof because people with grass roofs tend to be the very poorest. Those people get money. Piali says GiveDirectly is aware that handing money to some people in the village and not others is an issue that it is creating tensions between the super poor and the slightly less poor. In fact GiveDirectly is now testing out a new approach where they just pick a poor village and give money to everyone no matter what kind of roof they have.  We wanted to compare what GiveDirectly is doing with what other more traditional charities are doing so we went to another village nearby. It looked a lot like the GiveDirectly villages except for one thing-- the cows. The cows we saw in this village were much much bigger. The cows were given to the people in this village by a charity called Heifer International working with another charity called Send a Cow. And let us just say right off these were some very impressive cows. They looked strong and healthy. They looked like they could eat the other cows we saw in Kenya. In fact there was a minute where I thought one of them was going to eat me.    Maybe it is not a good idea. Yeah maybe it is not a good idea. We should just step out of the corral and ask her to tell us. Why do not we step back? The people got these cows told us not only did they get an impressive cow they also got a lot of really useful training. They were taught how to make sure the cow is getting the right nutrition. They were taught how to keep detailed logs to track milk production. They got visits from someone from Heifer to make sure everything was going well. And people told us all that made a huge difference. One woman Grace Ochang told us her cow produces an enormous amount of milk. Mine is 14 15 liters per day. It used to be--? One. The local cows. 1 liter compared to 14 or 15? So it is 14 or 15 times better?  Yes. This cow makes her a lot of money. She sells most of the milk and there is this other nice thing about cows-- they have babies and a calf you can sell for hundreds of dollars. As part of the Heifer Send a Cow program Grace is supposed to give away the first female calf to another family. That family will also get training and then pass on their firstborn calf to another family and so on. Which is a nice idea. If you are a donor you give one cow and you imagine it turning into lots of cows helping lots of people. And all that training-- you could argue this is one of the most valuable things the developed world has to share. All that knowledge about how to get the most milk out of a cow and keep it healthy. If you just give people money you are not passing on that knowledge. So if you want to help poor people in Western Kenya what is better? Should you give them training and a giant impressive somewhat-frightening cow or should you just give them the money instead? The guys who started GiveDirectly think that question can be answered. They are great believers in data. In fact Michael Faye one of the founders told us that is part of the reason they started GiveDirectly. We literally just wanted to give away our own money. We do not have a very exotic story of founding the organization. We were in graduate school we were studying development economics we had a little bit extra money to give and we wanted to know the best place to give it. Surprisingly we had no idea. Faye and his friends were in grad school and they wanted to give away a little money to help people in the developing world. And despite the fact that they were all studying the economics of the developing world Michael Faye says they could not figure out which charity to give money to. There are two questions that we wanted to answer about charities that we found hard. One is where does my dollar go exactly? If I want to trace it where does it go? And two is what is the evidence of impact? Not the anecdote not the story but real scientific evidence that would convince a bunch of geeks at Harvard. As geeks there was one thing that did stand out to them one place where there was lots of data-- giving money. In the past decade or so dozens of governments have started giving money directly to millions of their poorest citizens and the results are pretty remarkable. In Mexico families' incomes went up for years after they got the money. In Malawi HIV rates dropped. In South Africa one study found children ate better and actually grew taller. Giving money made kids taller. Faye and his grad student friends read the evidence on giving money and thought wow. This is incredible. Cash is one of the most researched interventions in development and there is no one doing it. There is no charity doing it. There is no charity doing this exclusively. And then you started to get this idea that wow this could be something quite big. Michael Faye says the whole idea just made sense to him. Poor people know what they need so give them money and let them decide how to spend it. Now in a lot of the programs with those impressive results people did not just get money with no strings attached. Parents had to do things like take their kids to school or get them vaccinated and the money usually kept coming for as long as families qualified. But the GiveDirectly guys thought let us keep our charity as simple as possible. Just give cash to poor families for about a year no strings attached. To figure out whether giving money with no strings attached is working GiveDirectly is doing something that is very rare in the charity world-- they are doing an actual experiment. The fancy term for it is a randomized controlled trial. Basically you take a bunch of people who are all similar-- in this case they are all really poor they all live in thatch roof huts in villages in Western Kenya-- and you randomly put them into one of two groups. Group one gets money group two does not. Then you follow everybody and you see what happens. You compare the two groups so you can tell what difference getting money makes. The experiment is being done by independent researchers who go out to the villages. And they do this incredibly detailed survey with people. It takes about six hours per family. Michael Faye says there are hundreds of questions. Have health outcomes improved? Has your income improved? Have you been able to feed yourself and have basic nutrition? How have family dynamics evolved? Do you feel like you have more respect in the family? School attendance all these sorts of things. You do those in both cases and you compare. They also measure kids' height and weight to see how they are doing. The results from the study are due out later this year and will be made public. This study is not just about figuring out how well giving money works. It is also a challenge to other charities. Michael Faye's co-founder Paul Niehaus was pretty blunt about it. Providing training flying in experts paying staff-- all that costs money. If you think what you are doing is better than just giving that money to people prove it. We would like to see organizations make the case that they think they can do more good for the poor with a dollar than the poor could do for themselves. That would be fantastic. And I think some may be able to make a convincing case. But if you go to the websites today I do not think you are going to see that argument being made. Nobody even bothers. So for example if you are trying to figure out which is better giving cows or cash you could do an experiment. Take one village give the people cows and training and the next village over take the money you would have spent on cows and training and just give it to the people. Paul not surprisingly loves this idea. It would be great would not it? It would be fantastic. That is exactly what the sector needs. We called up Heifer International to see what they thought of the idea. We talked to Elizabeth Bintliff vice president of Heifer's Africa programs. How would you feel about a head-to-head trial where one village gets cash the other village gets the same amount of money spent on cows and training and we see which does better?  Well let me say this-- I mean as an African woman that sounds to me like a terrible idea.  I mean it sounds like an experiment and we are not about experiments. These are lives of real people and we have to do what we believe is correct. We cannot make experiments with people's lives. They are just-- they are people. It is too important. I think the GiveDirectly response to that would be we have to do experiments because that is how we can figure out the very best way to help people. It is just not that linear. It is not an equation. It is an ecosystem-- that is the only way I can describe it. Is part of what you are saying that you feel like there is a limit to data? Well data has its value but it cannot capture everything. There is a limit to it. If you are someone who got into the aid world to help people the idea of dividing them off into two groups and tossing a coin to see who gets this and who gets that could just feel cold especially if you have done this work for years and you have seen that you are helping people. I was in Zambia in September of last year and I was with a woman whose name is Flora who I will forever remember. And she had received a couple of draft animals from Heifer. And within two years-- and she had really good records-- within two years she had more than tripled what she was getting out of that farm. And for her it was not just about the money. I talked to her about what the real value is and she said I am a proud woman and I can stand up and I can talk and people listen to me and I have a voice. And you cannot measure that stuff. Sorry I am getting emotional. You just cannot measure that stuff. Elizabeth Bintliff told us Heifer does try to measure certain things about their programs. She said Heifer's worke