Hey there everybody. Ira Glass here. It is This American Life from WBEZ Chicago. I am just here for a minute to say we have a special show for you today. One of our producers Chana Joffe-Walt has been reporting a lot on education and schools. And three years ago she did this story that is about a part of education that everybody knows about but I think we do not talk about much at all not in a way that feels like anything. And this is one of my favorite shows we have ever done and full of surprise turns and twists. And I do not want to waste any more time here setting this up so I am just going to hand over the show to Chana so we can get to it. Here she is. Lisa and Angela are both teachers both in the Bronx in New York City both relentlessly energetic women who make generous use of their arms while talking. They met years ago. They liked each other. In 2005 Lisa and Angela were part of a program that brought their two schools together sort of a classroom exchange. Kids from Lisa's school would see Angela's school and vice versa. They thought their students would get a lot out of meeting each other and learning about one another's schools because their students spend their school days in two very different places. Lisa Greenbaum's school University Heights High School is a public school. It is 97 black and Hispanic. It is located in the poorest congressional district in the country the South Bronx. Angela Vassos' school Fieldston is also in the Bronx. But it is one of New York City's elite private schools. It is 70 white. It is known as a progressive school. One in five kids gets financial aid which is helpful because last year tuition was 43000. These two schools were three miles from each other but the students basically needed a foreign exchange program to meet each other. The teachers started by having their students write letters to each other. They were pen pals for a while which was going well. And then Lisa and Angela planned a time to get them together. Lisa the public school teacher says the moment her kids got off the bus at Fieldston the private school they had a dramatic reaction to what they saw. They could not believe the campus. They felt like everyone was looking at them. And one of the students started screaming and crying. Like this is unfair. This is-- I do not want to be here. I am leaving. I am leaving right now. I am going home. We were like Melanie it is OK. You should stay with the group. Let us talk you know? Some context University Heights the public school these kids were coming from it is small and friendly. There are no metal detectors. But it is a public school in a poor neighborhood. The kids share a building and a gym with another school. The private school Fieldston has an 18-acre campus on a hill. Stone buildings are connected by landscaped paths. Every few windows is the size of a garage door. There is a dance studio an art gallery a pool. So on that first day the public school kids almost all of them Puerto Rican and Dominican kids from the South Bronx walk onto the campus look around at the quad the trees see the school's mission etched into the stone arches. Angela the private school teacher from Fieldston came to greet them and immediately noticed that one of the girls seemed upset. And I went over to talk to her as did Lisa. And she jumped up and she said we have got to get out of here. We have got to get out of here. We have got to get out of here. And I thought it was a joke at the beginning. I did not realize you know? And it really was-- I mean she went white like completely white you know? Blood drained from her face. And her friend was holding her and saying calm down Melanie. Calm down Melanie. So it was just an awful situation. None of us had anticipated such a strong reaction. There are hundreds of programs right now that are trying to do some version of this exchange program to help people connect across a growing divide. For a lot of students American public schools are more segregated than they were a generation ago not less. The gap between rich and poor is wider than it is been since the Great Depression. Basically whatever gap you hear about-- income gap achievement gap racial divide-- these two groups of kids from University Heights and Fieldston exist on opposite sides. And just seeing across that divide something so many of us never do can be incredibly powerful. In this case from the very first few minutes it was definitely dramatic. This incident when the kids visited Fieldston happened 10 years ago. And I heard this story from so many different people-- the teachers kids from both schools. Allison Roland was a junior at the private school Fieldston at the time. She remembers the girl who freaked out. People were like what happened? That was weird. But nobody really-- it was very behind the scenes. Even more she remembers the feeling she had seeing the girl freak out feeling helpless. It is uncomfortable when you cannot help someone not be uncomfortable. No one wants to feel like they are on the hill school on the top of the hill and there are people-- it is uncomfortable. But at the same time I totally understood where she was coming from in terms of it is messed up. It is crazy. Our educations have been so drastically different and that is completely unfair. But what do you do in the moment when you are still a high school student and you do not have the power-- like I do not have a degree. I could not become a politician in that moment and change-- I do not know. Making change just takes a long time. A lot of Fieldston students do go on to be politicians and run Walt Disney and the New York Times and host evening news programs and design major American cities. And part of the point of programs like these that try to bridge the divide is-- seeing as the private school kids will likely go on to be important influential people maybe write education policy or finance new businesses-- it is good for them to know not everybody's life looks like theirs. But of course then there is the question what do the public school kids get out of it? Right now there is a popular idea in education-- it pops up all over the place-- about exposure that exposure is particularly important for poor kids-- not just important that it can change destinies. You know you take a group of kids to tour a college campus they will be more likely to go to college. Or if you just know someone who went to college that'ill help. The idea is if you want a kid to move from one social class to another that kid has to see what it looks like over there on the other side. Exposure is a tool for social change and economic mobility. Or it just sucks. You see how much you did not get and it is shocking or painful. And you freak out like that one girl Melanie. The people who run programs like these hope that even if it is upsetting in the moment ultimately this kind of experience helps more than it hurts. But nobody really knows because this is the kind of thing that plays out over time. It occurred to me that the group of kids who were part of that first year exchange between Fieldston and University Heights could answer this question. Does it hurt or help the public school kids? It is been 10 years. They are in their mid-20s now so they have gone to college gotten apartments and jobs. And it turns out this one experience really has shaped some of the public school kids in profound ways ways I did not see coming. Today's show what happens when you see the other side and it looks a lot better? Let us begin with Melanie the girl who freaked out. I wondered about Melanie because she had such a strong immediate reaction that everyone remembered but also because listen to what happened after that. So apparently Melanie started crying the moment she got to Fieldston wanted to leave. But the teachers managed to calm her down. And for a while it seemed like the moment had passed and they were fine. They partnered all the students up so the University Heights kids could go with the Fieldston kids to some of their classes. Marlena Edelstein a Fieldston student told me the girl who shadowed her she does not remember her name. But other people told me it was Melanie. Marlena has never forgotten her. I remember we were studying the Enlightenment. And we were looking at it through paintings. And I remember her making connections between the painting and Enlightenment era philosophers and quoting John Locke and just schooling all of us-- you know making connections that I would have been completely incapable of making and just clearly the smartest person in the room. Then after wowing everyone in this class with her intellect Melanie left ran away. She found the experience of being at Fieldston so upsetting she ultimately could not stand to be there. And Lisa Greenbaum her teacher told me Melanie did not just run away from Fieldston that day. She also seemed to run away from high school. She does not remember seeing her much after that. I would love to know-- I would love to know how she feels about who she is and if that moment in her life in any way shaped the way she thinks today. Lisa told me she had no idea where Melanie was. But she said you know who you should call? Ashleigh Wallace. That was Melanie's best friend. She will know what happened. So me and Melanie were pissed off. What happened? We were definitely pissed off. I mean have you ever seen Edward Scissorhands? Seen what? Edward Scissorhands. Yeah yeah. And you know how his house is at the top of the hill and it is all dark and gloomy? And then you have the rest of the town where all the houses are colorful and it is sunny all day and bright or whatever the case is? It was just like that. Like we were leaving the Bronx and going into some complete totally different Utopian existence. You know Lisa kept telling us while we were pen palling these kids that oh they go to a private school but they are just like us. And just like us is you live in a bad neighborhood like we do. You go to a bullshit shitty ass school like we do where we have no cafeteria because it is been converted into a classroom. We have a daycare for the mothers who have children. There is-- what? One two three floors in our school? She is like oh they are just like us. They are nothing like us nothing at all. I asked Ashleigh so where is Melanie now? She actually graduated a little earlier. And I have been looking for her since then because you know me and her used to be very very close. For a while it seemed like maybe they just lost touch. That happens after high school. Ashleigh's mom moved to Atlanta. Eventually Ashleigh did too and had a baby. But after a while it stopped feeling to Ashleigh like the two of them had just drifted apart and started to feel more like Melanie did not want to be found. Her phone number changed. She is nowhere online. Ashleigh has checked Facebook so many times. My mom always asks about her and stuff but I could not find her. Do you know if she went to college? No I really do not. But Ashleigh says she must have. How else does someone disappear like that unless they make it out of the Bronx and never look back? There is a New York City number listed under Melanie's name but of course-- --does not accept calls at this time. We are sorry for any inconvenience this may cause. There is a woman with the same name who manages a real estate firm in Corpus Christi. There is a dental lab technician in Harrisburg an executive office professional in Las Vegas a woman on Twitter who I think lives in Mexico and has devoted her account to retweeting Justin Bieber's Twitter account. They all seem to be about the right age all not her. A background check on Melanie's name lists a current and former address. I went to the current one. She does not live there. Sent letters to both-- no luck. Ashleigh her friend from high school gave me a couple of names of people she thought might have kept up with Melanie. And top of the list was Pablo Muriel their high school history teacher. He is Puerto Rican like Melanie from the neighborhood. Ashleigh says we all loved Pablo but especially Melanie. Yes hello? Hi. It is Chana Joffe-Walt the reporter. Oh yes hi. How are you? You caught me at the perfect time. These people calling me into meetings. I was like oh thank god. How are you? Pablo said Melanie is one of those kids you remember because she was very very very smart-- three verys-- and full of potential. She stood out to him for other reasons too. She was a bit out there like her personality was out there. However her intellect surpassed most of her peers at the time. Interesting enough I think she passed by the school to visit maybe four years ago. And I remember her coming back with me to say hello to me. And I was with another teacher sitting down-- I will not forget this day because it was just so odd. She came and spoke to me. And I told her hold on. I will talk to you in a minute. I think she took it as me brushing her off and she just kind of stormed out. And I never saw her again. You were just busy and like happy to see you just hang on a second? Yeah. Yeah because it was she caught me between classes. Hi Pablo. I am like oh hey Melanie. Hold on. I will talk to you in a minute. And then she just said OK whatever. And she just left. And I never saw her again. I began contacting former classmates. And I became sort of obsessed because it was weird how invisible she was. Everyone else was super easy to find. These are 25-year-olds and we have the internet. And the classmates' memories of Melanie were all similarly mythic. She spoke her mind. She was brilliant. She was fierce. She was going to make it. And no one had heard from her. Weirdly the one person I contacted who had a real idea of what happened to Melanie was the teacher from Fieldston the private school Angela Vassos. Someone told me Angela had taken a special interest in Melanie after she got so upset at Fieldston. And a decade later when I met Angela and first asked about Melanie she started crying. I am sorry. It is just Melanie's-- No problem.  you know? There is a part of me I guess-- Angela got a box of tissues then sat down. I had a real soft spot for that kid. I still have a soft spot for that kid. She was smart really smart. I do not know if she realized. She knew she was powerful but I do not know if she knew she was smart. After that first encounter at Fieldston Angela tried hard to gain Melanie's trust. I think she felt partially responsible. And she really wanted to help Melanie even though she was not Melanie's teacher. The program kept going throughout the year. Angela would bring her private school students over to the public school. And sometimes she would visit on her own. And every time she would make a special point to check in on Melanie. The last time Angela ever saw Melanie was in the public school. Angela was over there visiting and Lillian the college advisor comes in. She walked in. And Melanie was really on a tear about white bitches and they do not know anything about the world. And Lillian walks in and she waves a piece of paper. And she says Melanie come here. Melanie goes up. There are like 50 people in the room. She says Middlebury accepted you full scholarship. And Melanie started crying. I started crying. We all did. We were so excited. And Lillian she says we made it. We made it. We made it. You know? Incredible news. And Middlebury we are talking about a serious serious school-- full scholarship. And Melanie buried her face in Lillian's shoulder here. And they hugged for such a long time not one of these hugs. It must have been a two-minute hug. And Lillian was swinging her around. And Melanie had her arms around her. And I thought that is so great. And you knew at that moment-- it was moving because you knew at that moment Melanie felt safe. And that is when Melanie disappeared. Because she did not finish the last month of the year. She disappeared. To this day they do not know where she is. She probably just got scared. You know? Wait. She got into Middlebury but she did not go? She did not finish the last month of school either. She left. Oh wow. Yeah. Literally disappeared. No one could find her. I called Middlebury to see if maybe Melanie did attend. They said no. Did she get in? They said we have no record showing that she received an offer of admission. I did not know if that meant she was not admitted or they just had no record either way but that is all they would say. And this was strange because Angela had such a vivid memory of Melanie getting in. And Angela herself went to Middlebury so she probably did not mix up the name of the college. Plus the college advisor at Melanie's school seemed to remember it. So at this point I went back to Melanie's high school friend Ashleigh and just asked if it sounded like Melanie to psych herself out like that. And she said no way. I only made it to my GED but Melanie was singularly focused on college. She would curse me out when I cut class. When it came down to me and her I was what she was trying to avoid. Melanie was not going to fail at high school. She would go to college with no babies and live far far from New York City period. You can say things like when is my recycling picked up? Or report a noisy neighbor. Go ahead. Death record. All right. I can help you learn how to request a certificate for a death reported in the city. I did not think Melanie was dead but a friend asked. And once that seed was planted I could not get the idea out of my head. The same day I went in person to the city's office for vital records I also went to an old address listed on a background check one I would sent letters to. I do not think she lives here anymore. The buzzer did not have Melanie's name on it and I pressed it anyway. No answer. Stood by the door to the building. Hey. Hey. Do you know somebody named Melanie? Yes that is my girlfriend actually. Oh really? Yes. Oh. You have been searching for her I see. I have. She got your letters. She is actually at work. That is his girlfriend. She is at work. She is just-- she is been busy for school and work. Yeah. She has not really got a chance to reach out to you. And she did get my letters. Yeah. She got your letters. Oh great. Mm-hm. Mm-hm. I am so glad I asked you. What is your name?  to ask. Jonathan. I am Chana. Nice to meet you. He told me she would call when she got off work. He did not want to tell me anything more. But he did tell me Melanie worked at a supermarket on Sixth Avenue. It happens to be around the corner from my office. It took three days for Melanie to call me. And when she did she carefully said I have given this a lot of thought and I am ready to talk. I cannot believe you are here.  I cannot believe I am here. Yeah? Are you nervous? I mean I looked on the website. I mean it is probably something that people are going to hear people are going to listen to. If they could see me they would know I am different. You know I am different. I am sitting here with like blue-green hair.  She is also wearing pink sweatpants and a hoodie. Her hair is actually under a hat so all I can see are some green bangs peeking out. The they she is talking about that is you listening right now. Melanie has considered you a lot-- who you are how you will hear her. I asked Melanie about the visit to Fieldston pretty early on in our conversation but her answer began with her first day of high school. She says she was just one of those kids who always loved school. She got good grades and she would been anticipating high school years before she got there. She had a clear image in her mind of how exciting it would be. She would become a better writer read read and read and go to games maybe join the dance team. And her first day of freshman year-- Well I remember going in. And I was just like what is this? You know? Like this has got to be a joke. Wait. The school felt like a joke? Yeah completely. I was sitting in the classroom with seniors when I was a freshman. They did not even have a math B course. What is math B? I do not know what that is. It is like the second level to math A I would say prior to taking trigonometry or even statistics or something like that. They do not offer any AP classes. Another thing that was really tormenting to me was that we did not have a library. And I love books. This is like wow we are really in a poor part of the Bronx where we are not being considered. Then in 10th grade Melanie's English teacher said they were going to start a pen pal program with a school called Fieldston. Melanie was open to it. She wrote a sincere letter describing herself and her dreams and climbed onto the bus with the rest of her classmates to go to Fieldston. So what happened when you went there? When we went there we looked like a bunch of hooligans. I would say we looked like the goonies walking in a Wall Street building. I felt like you knew we were not from there. Like who are these ghetto kids walking in? We just-- we knew we did not fit in. We did not look like the rest of the students. It was a very organized school. Wait. What did you look like? What do you mean when you . Well when I went there I had bright red hair cherry red like Charli Baltimore which was a female rapper at that time. I had my nails super long out here really colorful like 20 colors on them. All of us wore Jordans. Everybody in the hood oh Jordans is the big thing. You could tell. You knew off the back these students are not from this school. What did you feel like that day? I felt like a ratchet ass girl from the hood. I felt like I did not belong there. I just felt like I have no business in this building. I do not remember them. They were just like a sea of white blond blue-green eyes. I could not possibly bring myself into my body to actually engage with these kids. I did not want to engage with them. For so many University Heights kids I talked to seeing Fieldston was shocking because of the stark difference. It was a surprise. They could not have imagined a place like Fieldston. For Melanie it was not that. Melanie had imagined it. This was what I envisioned as high school what these kids are experiencing. This is what I wanted to see myself going to as a high school experience. Oh that is what you expected high school to be. Yeah definitely. So you did not-- what felt surprising to you was just like this is the first time that I am seeing the thing in real life that I thought was what I was going to walk into in ninth grade? Yep. And it was just like OK this is private. So this is-- everything kind of is a fucking lie that you see your whole life growing up on TV shows or movies. It is like OK this is not free. This is not available for kids of color. This is something that only privileged or the elite can have. I know I looked at it and I said well I know that we are only being taught to flip burgers in Burger King or McDonald's or to hold doors for students like them that will probably live in those buildings on Madison Avenue. And we will be wearing the uniform servicing these people. You thought that when you were at Fieldston? Definitely. Whoa. That is wild. So it was like when the shit hits the fan. So you imagined this is-- The future yeah. Yeah. Seeing what we would all be like as adults. So that is what she found so upsetting. It seemed that the people around her must believe that this was the natural order of things. Melanie knew there was no innate difference between her and a kid born into wealth. She could see that this division we are all so inured to was not a reflection of her inferior worth or ability. She just did not know what to do with the idea that she might be alone in seeing that. But Melanie had her own plan after Fieldston as soon as she could get out of high school. And her plan did not involve holding doors. She had enough credits to graduate high school early as a junior. So I just want to hurry up and get my high school diploma to say here I am educated. I got it. I want to get into a four-year school. I already sold myself with a master's degree which means 16 to 24 eight years. Yep. Check. Melanie's vision was so clear. And the adults around her could see it too. Pablo Muriel the teacher and all the teachers at her school knew their job was to fill in the gaps make up for the fact that Melanie did not get to be a Fieldston kid and get her to college anyway. So a few months before graduation the high school guidance counselor nominated Melanie for something called a Posse scholarship. The Posse Foundation sends kids from 10 cities to private elite colleges full scholarship-- schools like Cornell Dartmouth and Middlebury. Melanie had her eyes set on Middlebury just like Angela Vassos remembered. And the thing that could get her there was the Posse scholarship. It is really competitive. There is hundreds of kids all over New York City in this one floor of a building that you go to. Do you remember what you wore? I think the first day I wore high heels and a skirt. Maybe I wore a tie with a shirt a dress-up shirt. I always went very professional when I went there like what is considered office apparel. Posse sends groups of kids to college together a posse. And they are trying to choose kids who would otherwise be missed because their test scores are not great or because they go to bad schools. After the first round half the students get called back the next round half the remaining students. Then that group gets cut again. Trying to figure out how to get into college is stressful for everyone. But for most people it does not look like reality TV. I kept getting put to the next stage. And each time you go back they just send you a letter in the mail letting you know OK you made it through the next round. We expect you here at this day this time. The final time is when you meet the college. Middlebury. Do you remember what they asked you in the interview? No I do not. Were you nervous? I was nervous very nervous. This year I sat in on the Posse finalist interviews. And I can tell you that by this point in the process the only kids left in the room could do your job with a week of training. We were sitting in this room with 25 amazing kids. 15 of them were about to get voted off the island. They get a letter like Melanie did saying no. Unfortunately you did not get picked. I believe I still have that letter hiding somewhere. Melanie did not get in. She made it to the very last round. But in the end she did not get it. I do not know why Angela Vassos remembers Melanie getting into Middlebury except that what she and the school college counselor must be remembering is the moment Melanie was selected as a finalist because that would have been an exciting moment. And it would make sense that they did not know the very last step-- that in the end Melanie did not make it-- because they never saw her again. They could not have known seeing Fieldston was not what made Melanie want to run away it was this. You go through something to just get turned down. It is a waste too. It is like would you have been better off not going through this experience? Is that how you feel? I mean maybe I would have been better off not going through that experience. Once that happened I just wrote it off out of my life. Because it is too painful? I think because it is just a moment of disappointment. Yeah I can see that. Mm-hm. EMOTIONAL It is like a really beautiful thing if you do get it. At least that is the way it looked. But what you put children through to get there is hard to then be turned down and say why did not I get it? What was wrong with me? Melanie could see an elite college was a long shot especially for a kid from a poor public school. But she was going to make it because she was exceptional. Her teachers saw it. She knew it. That was the ground she stood on-- until this moment. You know maybe you were just somebody exceptional because of the environment you were in not necessarily because you are exceptional. People'd be like oh you are so smart. You are going to be this. You are going to be that. You are going to be somebody. You are going to change the world. You are going to-- and it is like be realistic. You know Pablo wanted me to apply for Harvard. I was like be fucking realistic. I am never going to get accepted to Harvard. This is a school that does not even have fucking statistics offered you know like AP classes. Versus a kid like Fieldston-- you walk out in four years you are prepared to go to a school like that. This is not happening for me. I do not think anything is going to change that. After that I definitely knew that I wanted to run out of that high school as fast as possible. And I ended up graduating spring semester of that year and I was gone. So-- Really gone. Yeah really gone. Gone. Like off the map gone. Yep. This has to be her. ON PHONE Hi Melanie. This is Lisa. I taught you English-- I was walking with Melanie one day recently when she played a voicemail for me she got from Lisa Greenbaum her old high school teacher. I had not given Lisa Melanie's number. I had not even told her yet about being in touch. It turned out just a few days before Melanie had called the front desk of the high school to get a copy of her diploma and people from the school started getting back in touch. ON PHONE I would love to hear what is going on with you. Call me when you can. Melanie is shaking her head listening. ON PHONE Loking forward to talking to you. Bye bye. Are you going to call her back? Uh probably by the end of the week. No you are not. Are you going to? No I will probably call. I just want to go about my business do what I got to do for myself. In other words yeah absolutely not. Melanie never called Lisa. I am surprised that my number even got passed to these people. They are just calling because I happened to call the school. It is not like anybody's really reaching out to me. This of course makes no sense. Somebody calling your mobile device and saying I would love to hear what is going on with you that is the definition of someone reaching out. But this is where Melanie is right now. For the last decade of her life she is been working at the supermarket taking local college courses part-time stopping every few semesters when she needs money or sleep and thinking about where she went wrong. She did not apply to any other private colleges after Middlebury turned her down. She did not reach out to Lisa or Pablo or Ashleigh or Angela. She graduated early and checked out of high school. And she is furious at herself for doing that. I accepted it basically. And I guess I just grew very angry with myself for making that choice of saying well I am going to accept this instead of fighting against it or maybe bringing change into that situation. But I did not I accepted it. That is always in the back of my head. Like I know I fucked that up because I could have probably gotten something out of that extra year of school. What would you have gotten? I do not know. What if I would have reached out? What if-- what if they would have sent me to CUNY for free college courses? There could have been another opportunity. I just did not-- I got so frustrated to the point that I did not want to look for that opportunity. It was just like I want this shit over and done with because I felt like it was not going to change. So now a high school teacher who remembers Melanie as having so much promise is calling and wanting to catch up. Of course Melanie does not want to return that call. So for you to have people tell you you are exceptional or for me to say people remember you as being very smart it is just sort of like salt on a wound or something? It just-- I do not-- yeah. How do I measure that intelligence? It is very hard to deal with. Had you gone to Middlebury do you think you would believe that you are smart? Um yeah. Why not? Just like she felt when she visited Fieldston that first time Melanie can sense a better alternate reality sitting right there next to her today-- an alternate reality where she went to college and her life is totally different. Chana Joffe-Walt. Coming up we meet that alternate reality Melanie if she went to college. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program Three Miles. Chana Joffe-Walt is looking at a group of students who shared one small experience. They are students from a public school in the Bronx who took field trips three miles up the road to visit one of New York's fanciest private schools. In the first half of our program we heard from Melanie who thinks that if she