 One thing about living under a dictator there is stuff you have to ignore or suffer the consequences. A decade ago in Egypt you could get thrown in prison for suggesting publicly that the president was laying the groundwork for his own son to replace him someday which by the way he was. When a member of the Egyptian parliament implied on television that the military might have been extensively involved in the assassination of former president Anwar Sadat-- He had his parliamentary immunity stripped the next day a very fast military trial and he went from being a member of parliament to being behind bars within about a week. Michelle Dunne was a Mideast specialist at the State Department and the White House. She lived in Egypt. She speaks Arabic. She is now at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. She edits the Arab Reform Bulletin. She says that back when Hosni Mubarak was running Egypt the way he used the intelligence services and security forces everyone was forced to report on everyone else to the authorities. She knew whenever she would be with anybody in Egypt the would get a phone call afterwards asking what the conversation was about. And this happened to me. One time I was having dinner with a friend. And this was a person who was very active and very kind of pro-democracy and so forth. But that friend got a telephone call during the dinner. And it was clearly a telephone call that he could not put off-- that he had to take. And I heard him give a dump on a meeting that had taken place that afternoon-- not a meeting I had been at but a meeting other people I knew had been at-- who was there what did they say. And then afterwards my friend said to me kind of apologetically oh well this is so and so. And I know he is from security but he is really not a bad guy. He has good intentions. He is trying to help us out. So yeah I do answer his questions when he calls. That is changing now she says. She was there last week and says Egyptians are starting to feel like they do not have to rat people out anymore. As the Arab Spring has reminded everybody and made abundantly clear we Americans have been and still are allies with some terrible leaders not just in Egypt but across the Mideast. It is This American Life by the way from WBEZ Chicago distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. We were putting together this week's program. And the theme of our program this week is See No Evil-- stories of people basically burying their heads in the sand in the face of wrongs being committed of various sorts. And we wondered about all those years that we were allies with Mubarak and all those other guys-- how much what we really pushing them to hold fair elections and respect human rights? And how much was our policy see no evil? Do not deal with it. Do not push. And so we called Michele Dunne because she had insider's knowledge. From 2000 to 2002 she was the US government official dealing with human rights questions in Egypt. She was the Human Rights Officer at the US Embassy in Cairo. Well I think the United States was bringing stuff up. But I would differentiate between raising human rights issues and really pursuing them seriously. So she says usually there was no strategy to tie human rights changes that we wanted to see to things that the Egyptians wanted from us. Instead she would gather examples of people being jailed and treated unfairly. And she and the head of the Political Section at the US Embassy would then go in to discuss-- it was kind of a routine thing-- go in to discuss these with Egyptian officials. And I remember some meetings at the foreign ministry. There was a specific director for human rights in the foreign ministry. And that person was there to receive the complaints of foreigners about human rights. But the reply we would often get is these are internal affairs. They are none of your business. We do not even know why you are bringing them up with us. And how was that said? OK. So I am picturing like you and the political officer. And I am picturing some big office. And there is like-- are their snacks? Do they offer you water? Is there a little thing of dates? There is always tea or coffee. Yes. I do not remember snacks but tea or coffee. And are you sitting on couches in some office or are you-- Yes. Yeah. And then is it the sort of thing like in a movie where you go over like a list of things. And the foreign minister is silent silent silent. And then he says well these are internal affairs. He is gives you like a one sentence answer. Is it a friendly kind of thing? Is it a pro forma thing? It really depends on the meeting. And the kind of meeting that I am discussing-- kind of a working level meeting with the person whose job it is to know about these things-- it would probably be a little bit friendlier. And they might say basically these are not your affair. These are internal issues. But I would also like to let you know that these people are going to be treated fairly. So they would tell you first of all that you have no right to discuss those issues but then they might proceed to actually discuss those issues with you. President Bush she says did have a period of really pushing the Egyptian government on human rights. In 2002 President Bush withheld 133 million in aid because Mubarak's government had jailed a democracy advocate Saad Ibrahim. And he wrote to Mubarak and told him specifically because you are sending to prison people who are peaceful opponents of your government I am not going to give you this aid. That caused a great deal of unhappiness in Cairo. President Mubarak was furious about it. But it worked. Ibraham finally was freed. President Bush pushed for freer elections and those happened in 2005. But after the election results put members of the Muslim Brotherhood into 20 of parliament seats Mubarak cracked down and the Bush administration stopped pushing them so hard. Then when President Obama came in he actually cut back-- he cut the funding by half for the remaining pro-democracy initiatives that the US still had going. So in the years where you were in Cairo and part of the government-- and now enough time has gone by and circumstances have changed enough I hope that you can talk honestly about this-- did you feel like we were pushing the Egyptian government as much as could be pushed? In other words as a human rights officer did you feel like OK we are saying everything that can be said productively and that is it? Or did you feel at the time we could be doing a lot more for human rights? We could be pushing this regime more. We should be squeezing them more. I felt the latter. I felt we could be doing more. And there was a lot of discussion about what we should say publicly what senior officials should say-- whether it is the Secretary of State or the President in some cases or the US ambassador-- to put some pressure on. And the thing that I felt frustrated about is we were so careful about doing that-- there was always a lot of concern about rustling the government's feathers and so forth-- but I often felt concerned that we were just not making clear where the United States stood on these issues. That does not mean that once we say it we have to make it happen and we have to sacrifice everything in the relationship to making it happen. But it frustrated me that we often were not I thought signaling to the Egyptian people where the United States stood on these issues. And we have paid the price for that she says. Because it just contributed to the feeling that the Egyptian people now have that we were not on their side. Today on our show we have three stories of people turning their backs turning their heads not dealing with wrongdoing sometimes for very good reasons sometimes for not such good reasons. Stay with us. Act One Blood Brothers. Let us start with a family story. In a family it can be hard getting everyone to admit and agree when something has gone wrong. Lisa Pollak has a very extreme example of that. When Josh Martin was a kid his mother asked him to promise something. If anything ever happens to me she said you need to look out for your brother Ben. The unusual thing about that request is that Ben was Josh's older brother 10 years older. And Josh had thought it was Ben's job to look out for him. Since Josh's father was out of the picture he relied on Ben as a substitute dad. But Ben had his problems. And as he got older Josh saw those too. Ben had a learning disability and struggled in school. He would spent time living in homeless shelters and went in and out of low wage jobs. Be sure to study Josh remembers his mother Nancy saying. You do not want to end up like Ben. Josh thought his mom was too hard on Ben. But Nancy wanted Ben to do better. One day after a fight with Ben her frustration boiled over. She walked outside crying and confided in a neighbor that she worried what would become of her oldest son. The eerie thing about that conversation with her neighbor is that it turned out to be one of the last conversations Nancy Martin ever had. After that Ben did need his brother's help just like his mother thought he would. And for Josh keeping his promise to his mother turned out to be more complicated than he would ever imagined. Nancy Martin was a college fund raiser. And five years ago she went on a business trip and did not come home. Her rental car was missing. She did not answer her cell phone. After two weeks with no sign of her her sons knew the situation was about as bad as it could possibly be. Only then it got worse. The local news reported that police had a suspect. Investigators here in Pittman New Jersey have spent hours interrogating the last known person to have seen Nancy Martin alive. It is her oldest son. Her oldest son Ben. A week earlier he would reported his mother missing. Now he was suspected of causing her death. Not only was he the last person to see her but their last conversation did not end so well. Ben Martin tells me he and his mother argued here two weeks ago over the condition of the house that she owns. The single mother of three allegedly said she was leaving for a hotel. They have not even found our mother and there is a prosecutor assigned already. I mean it is scary. That is Josh Ben's brother. Josh thought this was all a mistake. He knew his brother was innocent. And he worried that Ben-- who wanted to be so helpful to police that he would given two taped statements without an attorney-- could end up in jail for a crime he did not commit. Here's Ben. Can you imagine that? Being told your mom might be dead and then being accused of doing something to her. You had nothing with your mom's disappearance? No no. It probably could change from hour to hour what I thought or what my theory was of what had happened to my mom. Again Josh. I thought she could have gotten drunk and thought she was OK to drive and went to the liquor store and did not make it back. Or she had gotten into a car wreck out in the Pine Barrens or she had done some silly online date and it went bad. Anything but Ben. That was the last thing made any sense to me. Ben was such a good guy. He was such a nice guy. There was just no way that he could do something that terrible. That is Stephanie Perot. She was Josh's girlfriend then. They are actually engaged now. They are a cute couple. He is super tall and boyish looking. She is pretty and petite. Back then Stephanie and Josh lived near enough to Ben to see him most weekends and Stephanie and Ben had gotten close. Josh and Ben had a third brother Matthew Leschan who lived in Illinois but was traveling to New Jersey so all three brothers could be together. But for now when it came to helping Ben Josh and Stephanie were on their own. We thought maybe he was being abused by the police that they were trying to get a confession out of him that was not true that they were just pressuring him. And we just took Ben under our wing wanted him to stay with us wanted him to just be away from the cops. We just wanted to help him out because we really did not think that he was guilty. And we really loved him home a lot. It is true that Ben was the last person to see their mom. And it is true that their last meeting ended in a big fight. But that did not seem suspicious to Josh and Stephanie at all. On the first day of her business trip to New Jersey Nancy had surprised Ben with an unannounced visit. The house in Pitman where Ben lived was actually Nancy's house. Ben was living there because she asked him to move and act as a caretaker for the place when she moved Illinois the year before. But basic life skills like cleaning were not Ben's strong suit. And on the day of Nancy's visit-- a surprise visit-- the house was a complete wreck-- bags worth of garbage all over the house unwashed dishes that were growing mold litter boxes that had gone so long without being cleaned that the cats-- there were six in the house-- were not using them anymore. When their mother walked and saw all this Ben told his brothers she let him have it. Here's Josh. She had came in burst open the door and woke him up and started just yelling about the house's condition. And just yelling and yelling. And then he said you know she had drank some beer and continued to yell. And then she tried to go to sleep for awhile and got up and said that the bed was disgusting and smelled like BO packed her bags and left. And that she left storming out not saying where she was going not taking her phone apparently. She just left. And that did not sound so out of the norm to us to me or Matt. That sounded really plausible. That is something she would do-- storm out. And we believed him. Josh and Matt told me they were used to their mother's outbursts. Her mood swings were unpredictable they said. And if something set her off her tirades could get nasty especially Josh says if she would been drinking. It was not something most people in their lives knew about. In fact a few outsiders had told them they do not believe it. And it is still painful for them to discuss. Their childhood memories include happy moments interspersed with harrowing ones like the time Nancy ordered Ben to tie Matthew up to a chair with an electrical cord. Josh told me she would kick them out of the house as punishment forcing them to find their own places to stay. He remembers coming home and seeing Ben sleeping in the bushes and having to sneak food out to him knowing he would get in trouble if he let him in. Of the three sons Ben always got it the worst. Ben reported his mother missing on March 19 2006. A couple days later two detectives went to the house in Pitman-- Robert Hemphill and his colleague Greg Owens. The very first time him and I went and talked to Ben we were hoping she is going to be found and he had nothing to do with it. It was not until after we walked out the door like with the neighbor and stuff is when it started leading back to him. The neighbors across the street corroborated part of Ben's story-- that Nancy had come to visit. One of them had even talked to her outside and heard about the messy house and how upset Nancy was. But something worried the neighbors. They thought Nancy said she would be in town all week. But they had not seen her even though they would seen her grey rental car in the driveway-- the same grey rental car that Ben said she would left in. When detective Owens heard that he knew there was a problem. The neighbor had seen the rental car two or three days after Ben's version that they got in an argument she jumped in it and left. And he remembered it very clearly because I believe it had Virginia tags. You can probably see where this is going. That night after cops had talked with the neighbors the grey rental car with Virginia plates was found in a strip mall parking lot about five miles from Pitman. There was no sign in the car of Nancy Martin her luggage or computer. But there were traces of blood on the bumper and trunk. While police searched his house for evidence Ben went to the library and emailed his brother Josh. Police believe mom is dead Ben wrote. They also think I did something to her. By now Ben was staying at Josh and Stephanie's apartment. Josh and Ben's brother Matthew was there now too along with his wife. Her name's also Stephanie. Josh and his brother Matt were in a weird situation. They were the sons of the victim so they desperately wanted police to solve the case. But they were the brothers of the suspect so they wanted police to back off. The day after Josh and Ben were on that TV news story saying that police were wrong investigators asked all of them except Ben to come in and talk. When they arrived the mood was tense. Here's detective Hemphill. They were upset. They were hurt. They were in disbelief. They were upset at us because they thought hey why are not you guys-- you were talking here today on Sunday-- why are not you out looking for my mother? And that was said to us. Why has the focus only been on our brother? They kept going on and on. The detective and his assistant just kept telling us no he did this. We know he did this. What is it going to take for you to believe that he did this? And we told them they were being lazy and that all they wanted to do was just close the case and not have to worry about searching for her. Matt was angry too. The question that was posed to me was that what would it take for you to believe that Ben had something to do with your mom's disappearance? And I want evidence. I want evidence you are going to use in court to try to convict him. I want to see evidence. That afternoon they saw the evidence. Detectives took out pictures of the crime scene showing blood in the house and in the garage as if a body had been dragged there. Ben himself had said no one had been in the house but him. And there was other evidence including a surveillance tape showing Ben after he would abandoned the rental car wearing a shirt that had been found in the house with blood on it. At this point the only thing the homicide case did not have was a body. They were still searching the detective said. But they were confident that Ben knew where his mother was. Ben did not come to the meeting but he would driven there with his brothers. When it ended he was still in the car where he would been waiting the whole time. Again Josh. We got in the car and did not say much to Ben. Did not say a word. Just were still digesting what just happened. And he said something along the lines of You guys OK? What is the matter? You guys upset? What did they say to you? What did they say to you? And we just-- Ben not right now. And every time Ben asked we were like just-- nothing. And we were kind of mean about it. We were like just stop. Like shush. We will talk about it later. The detectives say they did not want the family to interrogate Ben-- did not tell them to do anything really other than if Ben said something they needed to call. But Ben did not say anything. Stephanie told Josh that they needed to confront Ben. But Josh refused. They argued about it. Josh was not saying that Ben was innocent anymore. He was saying things like if we talk to Ben and he says he did it it is over Steph. You understand that? Over gone. He told me he felt like a little kid putting his hands over his ears to block everything out. And for a few days it worked though these are days that Josh barely remembers now. They drank a lot he knows that. And though none of them really talked about it Josh feels like he Matt and Ben were using the time to say goodbye. On what ended up being their last night together the brothers and the two Stephanies drove to Philadelphia and spent hours just hanging out together. They went to Chinatown and drank and took a long walk to the city's waterfront. They smoked and looked out at the lights until it was too cold to stay outside anymore. That night at Josh and Stephanie's apartment Ben shook and cried in his sleep. The next day three days after they would seen the evidence Stephanie tell Josh it was over. She did not give him a choice. We are going to sit Ben down and talk to him she said. I do not think I was ever mad at Josh. I just wanted him to wake up. And I think I was just hurting for him but I wanted it to be over. And the only way it is over is if he says what happened. Come on. Let us get this over with. Talk to Ben. Ben sat on the couch and Stephanie kneeled in front of him. She put her hands on his knees. She was only 20 then. She did not have any training for this. I just told him What happened? Just tell us what happened. We are not going to be mad at you. We just need to know. That is all that we could say to him. And he kept saying I do not remember. I do not remember. So I told him to close his eyes. And then almost as if she were talking to a child she walked Ben through the story of the fight. Nancy comes in the house she said. What happens? And he has his eyes closed. And he goes She gets very upset. She is getting very mad. The house is a mess. And I say When she gets mad how are you feeling? And he says I start to feel overwhelmed. She is spitting in my face. Which she did. When she got very mad she got close to your face and literally you could feel the spit coming into his face is what he said. Josh and Matt and his wife Stephanie were sitting there just listening. What did Nancy say to you next Stephanie asked? And he says she tells me that I am worthless that I should never have been born that I am a terrible son that I cannot keep anything clean that this house is a  mess. He just went on about how upset she was and how she was screaming at him. And I say OK well what did she do next? And what did you do? Where were you standing? And he says We are standing in the living room by the door at this point. And she starts to push me. And I say What do you do when she pushes you? And he says I start pushing her back. It was the first time that Ben ever admitted the fight got physical. I am like And then what happens? He is like She started getting me into a headlock. And I said What happened when she got you into a headlock? And he says I had to push her down onto the ground. And I said What happened after she was on the ground? And he says I had to hold her down. But he says I had to put my hands on her neck and I did not let go until she stopped moving. Stephanie went outside and called the police. Later after Ben's arrest after he directed a caravan of police cars to the vacant farmhouse where he would dumped Nancy's body after he would cried and said he was sorry and was taken to jail Detective Hemphill told Stephanie-- and he meant it as a compliment-- that they could not have done it without her. And when he said that I felt horrible. Because I said-- I was thinking well that sucks because I got him in jail. And he said You ever think about a law enforcement job? I think you really should consider going into that field. You are really good at it. And I just kept remember thinking I hated hearing that because I got him in trouble. And I did not want to get him in trouble. He was just a good guy. And I know it sounds really really weird to hear that but he was a really-- Ben was a good guy. I do not know what happened or why he would do something that bad. Well did you guys have a chance to ask him that? All he said that is just that he snapped. That he could not take it anymore because she kept telling him that he was worthless and a terrible son. And saying very nasty things that he could not take anymore he would heard his whole life. But 30 years later she was still saying the same thing that she wishes he was never born. When you heard that did you feel angry at her at all? Very. Oh yeah we were. Very mad at her. And we knew he was not lying. Because these were things he had heard his whole life. Yeah she really-- she could get very very nasty. And we felt like she pushed him to do this. And that how dare she say these things and expect nothing to happen after that? It probably took like a good year before we actually started being mad at him and not her. After Ben's arrest the one thing that did not change was his brothers wanting to help him. Their goal now was to keep Ben from spending the rest of his life in prison. Using their mother's life insurance money they hired a defense attorney and told the court about how their mother had treated Ben. When Ben pleaded guilty to a reduced charge of aggravated manslaughter the state asked for the maximum sentence 30 years. At the sentencing hearing the prosecutor described the gruesome details of Ben's crime including the fact that he would kept Nancy's dead body in the house for days before dumping it. In the end saying he was giving slight to moderate weight to the reports of abuse the judge sentenced Benjamin Martin to 15 years in prison. About a year after Nancy's death like Stephanie mentioned earlier something shifted for her and Josh. Their anger at Nancy began to fade. And their memories of her-- the good ones-- flooded back. Josh started having this recurring dream where his mom came home and everything was fine. He would be so happy and he would wake up crying. It does not even need to be a dream. It can be something silly. Like we are watching TV and-- or I watch Say Yes to the Dress because we are trying to get married and I like to look at the dresses and stuff. And it is little things like that. His mom she would be here and she would help me go shopping for a wedding dress. And that is little things that'ill make Josh melt down randomly. Just complete meltdowns as in crying sobbing I miss my mom I hate Ben. And then the next day it is OK. And hi we will talk to Ben on the phone. And not tell him-- we never tell him about how sad he makes us. And we do not tell him that because we feel like he is already sad enough himself. And he already has enough guilt on his shoulders that we really do not need to add on to it. But every once in awhile they cannot help it. Like this one day when Ben called from prison and Josh was in a bad mood. And I do not know why he picked up but he did. And it-- It was something Ben said to-- Because Ben kept going on-- --tick me off. --in his letters about how-- just normal little things. And I need a TV. And maybe you guys can send me money for this and maybe you guys can send me money for that. And we are like are you kidding? Are you really serious? He wants us to send him money? And that was when Josh was like does he realize what he did to us? He is in there asking us for a radio? And I think that is-- he lost it. He was just like Ben you do realize you are in jail for good reason right? You are not just in jail because you accidentally got put there. I mean you killed my mom. So after you said that did you feel better having yelled at him a little? No. I think I felt good doing it at the time. But maybe a few minutes later I felt a little guilty. It is a weird feeling to not want to hurt the feelings of the person that killed your mom and wanting to kind of lay it on him at the same time. And I think he might be getting some confusing messages between me being mad at him and me supporting him. It seems like in some ways you have to willfully put it out your mind what he did in order to have him in your life. I think you are really right. Just when we talk to him we cannot think about all the details of what happened. We have to just somehow block that out. Because there is no way to talk to somebody when you think oh and you left her there for four days. To me that is one of the most disturbing parts is just to have a dead body in your house for four days. That seems just it is disturbing. It is disgusting. It is horrible. It is all the evil words you can think of. What he did was wrong. But we want to talk to him. The more we talk to you the more we realize we are really confused. And we did not realize how five years down the line we are still completely messed up in our heads of how we feel. And that makes me sad. Because I thought we had it figured out. And I am not mad at you for talking to us. I just I cannot believe that we still do not understand whether we hate Ben we like Ben we hate Nancy we like Nancy. We cannot figure that out. And it is been so long. We really should be able to pin that down. We cannot. We have seen shrinks. We have done all sorts of helpful things. And we still are sitting here like I do not know-- why we can be angry at her and love her. It is just so confusing. And it hurts. Hello. Go ahead we are all here. In a small way I recently got a sense of how confusing this all is. A few months ago Matt's daughter Hannah turned six. And on her birthday she got a call from her uncle Ben. Hi Ben.  Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday dear Hannah. Happy birthday to you. Thank you. Oh you are very welcome. You having a good one so far? Josh and Stephanie have a daughter too. Their baby's name is Isabel and she will be one in June. So now there are two little girls who one day will have to learn that the Uncle Ben who calls and sings on their birthday is the same Uncle Ben who is in prison for killing their grandmother. And two sets of parents who know that one day they will have to explain all of this. They just hope that when the time comes to do it they will have figured out how. I love you Ben. I love you too Hannah. You take care now. Lisa Pollak is one of the producers of our show. Coming up pretending that everything is fine just fine. Nothing unusual going on here-- while the opera plays in the big room next door. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our show we choose a theme of course bringing you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show See No Evil stories of people choosing to bury their heads in the sand choosing to look at the other way. We have arrived at Act Two of our show. Act Two Denying The Invisible. At this point lots of people have said that immediately after the Fukushima reactor was hit by an earthquake and tsunami the Japanese power company TEPCO and the Japanese government were not so forthcoming with the truth. As you may heard just a few days after the nuclear accident the head of the American Nuclear Regulatory Commission said that things were a lot worse than the Japanese power company and the government were admitting and suggested that a larger evacuation would be appropriate. The International Atomic Energy Agency later said the same thing. But as time has gone on things have improved. The government is posting radiation counts for every Japanese city every hour. And this week Greenpeace announced that they went out and measured radiation and the government's numbers are accurate. And the examples that you hear of Japan not providing timely information are nothing-- really nothing-- compared to the wholesale whitewashing-- the total denial of reality-- at the biggest nuclear accident before Fukushima which of course was Chernobyl in 1986. Now Chernobyl was a much much bigger nuclear disaster than Fukushima and much more radiation released. There is a great book published in Russian a decade after the disaster and later translated into English called Voices From Chernobyl. A reporter named Svetlana Alexievich interviewed hundreds of people who were there. And the stories people tell are just stunning and really take you there in a way that few interviews ever do. Reading the book you realize that not acknowledging just how dangerous the plant was and just how dangerous the situation was you realize that that was just part of the Soviet system. It took three days for Moscow to even acknowledge that the accident at Chernobyl reactor number four had happened. The population was not evacuated immediately was not given potassium iodide to protect themselves was not warned about consuming milk produced in the region that had been contaminated. One of the men interviewed in the book somebody who was brought in to bury radioactive plants and trees during the clean-up says the Russian newspaper headlines in the immediate aftermath were all about triumph. The Reactor Has Been Defeated! Life Goes On. Chernobyl-- A Place of Achievement. And this man goes on to say quote Just four days after the catastrophe the red flag was already flying over the fourth reactor. It blazed forth. In a month the radiation had devoured it. So they put up another flag. And in another month they put up another one. I try to imagine how the soldiers felt going up on the roof to replace that flag. Thes