I have no idea what gave me the confidence to start performing magic shows for money when I was 12. I was not especially good. I had not been doing it for long. I am not sure I would ever been to a magic show. I was a beginner. I was a real beginner. I would been given one of those magic kits like you give a little kid that they sell at toy stores. And then I went to the Baltimore County Public Library on Liberty Road and found some books on magic in the library. And it blew my mind these books. These incredible secrets were just like sitting there right there in the shelves in the open. Anybody could look at them. I could not understand why anybody was in any of the other aisles. I just felt like oh they do not know. They do not know these are here. Before long I was advertising in the Baltimore Jewish Times. I was booking shows that paid 5. I believe the price was in the ad. These were kids' birthday parties. My dad would drive me. The kids' parents would drive me home. After a few months of this I got a call from a real magician-- like an adult who actually knew what he was doing-- who had noticed somebody undercutting his prices. Who are you he asked. It was not hostile. The magic world in Baltimore was small and everybody knew everybody. So to have somebody new show up like he was just curious. And generous. He let me know that there was a magic store downtown on Charles Street where guys got together. Yogi Magic Mart. On Saturdays the place would be crowded with any magicians who did not have gigs that day. And they would smoke and show each other moves. An old guy named Dantini with a huge white beard used to go there. He would give you one of his special coins that was stamped with the words Dantini. He knew Houdini. When you bought a trick they took you to this special table in the back room and sat you down. And taught it to you one on one. As I remember it this was done with kindness with helpful tips-- how to tilt your hand how to turn your body when to pause for effect. It was exciting to be taken seriously by these men. Sharing these secrets. I did my act from 7th grade through my sophomore year of high school and so many times it got kind of carved into me. I could have probably performed it word for word and move for move up through my 30s. But now I would have a hard time. I still regularly have dreams that I am supposed to do the act. I had one two weeks ago. We decided to do this week's radio show about magic when I learned that David Kestenbaum one of my coworkers here was also a kid magician. And also played birthday parties for years starting when he was in fourth grade. And the moment we sat down in the studio to talk about this like it only took about a minute to be comparing card moves with the four aces. Yeah one of them is face up right? But you can still go one two three four. All I know is that you are doing a double lift on that first ace. Triple lift. A triple lift? Then you got to do an Elmsley count though. And very quickly we just started comparing gear. Appearing cane. Also disappearing cane. Oh I had the disappearing cane. You did not have the appearing cane? The appearing cane seemed sort of dangerous. Does not it sort of s-- have a mechanis-- Do not say it do not say it! I will not. But does not it have a thing where you can get hurt? Yes it can be dangerous. The metal one can be dangerous. I had the plastic one. It was cheaper. So when I was 12 years old I had business cards. I was a 12-year-old with business cards. And mine said on it my name and Magical Mystifier. Well my business card and said Master Magician. Which is like it seems like it is some level like a black belt level or something. You know like a certified master magician or something. But-- Yeah. No. Yeah but it is pretty funny. Like imagine a 12-year-old kid walks up to you and hands you a business card that says Master Magician. It would be more amazing if they walked up to you and handed you a card that said Certified Plumber.  So David and I were talking about this stuff. And he said this thing that honestly had never crossed my mind ever in my life until he brought it up. We were talking about whether we were any good. I always thought I was fine. And then it occurred to me that maybe the reason I got hired was not that I was any good. It was that I was 10 years old. And it was probably adorable to have this little magician come over in his three-piece suit and do tricks for your kid's birthday. I feel like this is obviously true. And I am finding it so upsetting. Because what I realized is I thought I was the one who was in charge of the situation during the magic show. And I was controlling everybody's minds with my mind and my magickry. And what you are saying is actually that the joke was on me. Like I was the entertainment but not in a way that I understood. It is got to be true right? Like that is clearly to me as an adult-- if you are like hey there is this little kid who will come over and do magic for your party I am like done. Fact is when I usually think about my years doing magic shows the biggest feeling I have about it is I feel embarrassment. There is like a cloud of embarrassment that keeps me from staring at it too closely. Like I know I was doing these store-bought tricks and beginners-level sleight of hand in a tuxedo and bow tie and a cape with a bright red lining. And what I remember of the act some of it is pretty corny. But at the same time I can say for sure like audiences were engaged. They were engaged from beginning to end. Like people were not restless. And I know I got laughs. And I thought I was good. Like it seemed like I was good. So was I?  After talking to David I realized I do not have a clear picture of this at all. And you know there are things about our past that we will never fully get into proper perspective. But this? This is a completely answerable question. So I called Judy Meltzer who was a good friend of my mom's when my mom was alive who lived around the corner from us. And who booked me not once but twice for her daughter Amy's birthdays. First of all I mean you did it for quite a time. Because one time-- I mean I wanted to get your magic tricks for your bar mitzvah. Which you almost did not have as I recall. That is right. Anyway and I went to the magic store-- your mother gave me the name of it-- downtown the one you frequented. And you were very good at it. Well this is the thing I was trying to get a fix on is was I bad? No are you kidding me? You think I would have-- of course not! You were great. You did a terrific job. You liked it a lot. You think you are doing something different now?  Yes I am doing something different now. No you are not. No you are not. Oh no. I am sorry. I do not buy that. OK. You think what you want I will think what I want. Wait wait wait. You are saying when you hear me on the radio it reminds you of my magic act? It reminds me of who you have always been as far as I am concerned. You were good. And not only that you had a spiel of course that went with it. Was not that you just kind of did a trick and stuck it out there. Yeah. Like that is it and you-- no. You had a nice flowing reper-- what do you call it? A patter. Patter? OK thank you. Yeah. You did that. But I know you were very professional with the outfit and everything. Yeah. I wore a cape. Yes! By the way you did not just wear the cape. You used it.  What do you mean? What did I do with the cape? What are you talking about? You know like you would flip the side back. And it was a very professional way of wearing the cape. Yeah I loved that cape.  Yes. OK. Reassuring. But after David and I realized our common conjuring careers as Magical Mystifier and Master Magician we were talking and we realized that so much of our pleasure in magic was just knowing how the tricks were done. The equipment itself was kind of mesmerizing with its false chambers and flaps and secrets that the audience did not know. Every trick had a principle behind it. And it was cool to think about the principles. The magician Ricky Jay once said this thing in an interview. He said that there are many effects in magic where what is going on behind the scenes is actually much more interesting than what the audience sees. And as a magician you sort of want to say if only you could know what is really happening here. In putting today's show together David and I dove into a bunch of stories with actual master magicians. And I have to say the most exciting moments in all those stories are about that. About how intricate and psychological and ingenious what they do is. And even as we have been writing and editing the stories over and over I have gotten that feeling of excitement about it that I used to get handling the props or practicing the cups and balls. And that is today's show. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act one-- the oldest trick in the book. It can take years to come up with a magic trick. Several magicians told me this. Which made me wonder what are they doing all that time? What takes years to make something that is just a couple of minutes long? And this is the part of magic I really knew nothing about from my time as a kid magician. I never invented a trick. Did not even occur to me. So I wanted to see it. You know how on MTV Cribs when they would do the house tours and get to the bedrooms guys would always say this is where the magic happens. And OK very different context. But the act of inventing a magic trick that is actually where the magic happens. And I wanted to finally witness the dark beating heart of where magic comes from. I wanted a magician to explain step by step what takes years. And the one magician who seemed not just interested but actually kind of eager to come forward and do that was Teller of Penn and Teller. Teller is the smaller one the one who never speaks in the act. But of course in real life he talks. And he liked the idea of explaining how a trick is made. He once said in a lecture because-- If you understand a good magic trick-- and I mean really understand it right down to the mechanics at the core of its psychology-- the magic trick gets better not worse. The trick he agreed to explain here on the radio is one that he loves to perform. He performs a lot. And he started working on it years ago looking to invent something new for Penn and Teller's live stage show. There was this old effect that he was intrigued by. It seemed like there might be something in it that he could adapt for himself. It is not unusual for a magician like Teller to take some secret from a very old trick and repurpose it into something original. This particular one came from a magic book written in the 1920s and '30s by a guy in Nebraska named David P Abbott an amateur magician who made his living as a loanshark. He was famous among magicians back then. He would invent these incredible effects and perform them but only in his living room. He thought that was the best place for magic. Houdini Thurston Keller-- all the big names of magic would come to this guy's little house in Omaha Nebraska to see these great shows. And towards the end of his life when people would come to his house he would show you the book that he had that was all of his magic explained in detail. He died. The book was not published. His wife said she would publish it. She died two years later. The house was sold. The book had vanished. It was a legend in a certain corner of the magic world this lost book with these incredible secrets. One publisher went on a decades long quest to locate the book. Found pieces of it and then finally a full manuscript in four legal-size loose-leaf binders 40 years later in 1974 and put it into print for the first time. And the trick that attracted Teller was this golden ball six inches across like a small cannonball that Abbott could float around his living room. That was supposed to be one of the most beautiful routines in magic. That is exactly Teller's taste. Teller loves doing silent beautiful tricks alone on stage. And solo bits like this are in every Penn and Teller stage show. His most famous trick is a pantomime with a rose its shadow and a carving knife. I like stripping things down to the absolute simplicity. And it seems like a ball and a hoop and a person is about as simple as you can get. So he got to work. And I started by taking the original David P Abbott book this long lost book and I set this book on a music stand in my library at home. And I learned this. Let me just pause on this page. So this is a page which has seven photographs. And is that Abbott? That is David P Abbott yes. He looks a bit like a white-haired fireplug. And he is in a black suit. And he is moving a hoop over a ball. And there is little arrows indicating which way you turn it this way and that. Yes. The level of detail that he provided was astounding. So I mean I feel like he is speaking directly to me. He tells you how to make the papier-mache that you make the ball out of! You know strips of newspaper x wide. And let me let me show you some of the beautiful beautiful floating moves that he created. OK we are standing up and walking across the stage. Maybe I should have mentioned this earlier-- Teller and my coworker David Kestenbaum and I are doing this interview on the stage where Penn and Teller do their magic show five nights a week in Las Vegas in a big theater at the Rio Hotel. And we are going to have to go quite a distance to get this to work. Teller picks up the ball and the thread. He asked us not to say anything here on the radio about the details of where the thread goes or how exactly it interacts with the ball. But there is still a lot I can say. So picture a guy and a hoop and a ball and a very long thread on a stage. The early days of this I am learning moves to make the ball float. And now I will say the ball is floating up the string toward you and then from your left hand to your right hand. You are actually catching the sound of it which is not normally audible to an audience member. Actually can I just record-- can you just do it--  Teller gestures at the ball like he is summoning it with his hand. And it glides along the thread to him. That is the sound you are hearing. And what is mind-bending is that David and I can actually see that he is tilting the thread downwards and that is why it slides towards him. Like we can see the ball is on a thread. We can see how it is done. We hear it sliding along. God that is pretty. And at the same time it totally looks like he is this sorcerer who enchanted this inanimate object into obeying him. Dude that is so beautiful actually when you see the thread. Yes it is. I mean here's one of David P Abbott's moves that he invented. The ball is floating from hand to hand without really any movement on the part of either of the hands just by an intricate way that the thread is interlaced in the fingers. He then takes the hoop and spins it around the ball in various ways which makes it look like there cannot possibly be a thread there. But of course we can see the thread. Can I say that is crazy? That is so convincing. Your brain really cannot sort that out. Your brain cannot sort this out. It is visual double-talk. It is amazing. And I am sitting here and I am doing it and it is still fooling my brain. Which I totally remember from being a kid magician and practicing the thumb palm and the French drop and all the other sleight of hand in front of a mirror. If you do it right it fools you. It feels amazing to you. And that is how you know the trick is working. So this was Teller's first step toward inventing his own version of the trick. He spent months mastering David P Abbott's moves from 100 years ago. And started to figure out what else he could make the ball do on his own. He would practice everyday. He took the ball and thread on vacation with him and videotaped himself to see how the moves looked. Oh no-- well I will show you this one. Here I am in a cabin in Utah in my pajamas.  I was just obsessed with it. He took a trip to Toronto where a magician friend taught him the version of the floating ball routine that he did. And then when Teller was there he tried this thing just kind of messing around. He put the ball on a bench and lifted one end of the bench. And then made the ball roll up the bench. And then later he had this thought-- that the floating ball was actually more interesting to watch when it is not floating. When it is just this ball that is somehow alive and rolling around. It is weirder and it is more mysterious. It is less clear what is propelling it. It began to cross my mind that no one had ever done a floating ball that did not float. And I was jubilant. I thought oh boy I finally got an idea! I finally got an original idea to go with this method. The next step was to put something together into a routine-- like an actual trick as it might be performed. This involved a tremendous amount of invention making up all kinds of new moves on his own for the floating ball that does not float. Here's a move where I kick it across the stage and it lands softly. Let me just describe what you are doing. So you are kicking the ball and it is going maybe 12 feet out there. And then suddenly coming to a stop. And just sitting on the floor. What you would think in real life if you kick a ball the ball does not stop until it runs out of momentum. So this is suddenly that ball stops stops dead. Unbelievably difficult. It is me using leverage and slack and all sorts of things like that. He spent months inventing these moves at night alone in the theater after they finished their shows. And all this was preparation to show his partner Penn who at this point had not seen anything. It was a lot of preparation. All sorts of things. Like he would been practicing with a silver ball like David P Abbott's mysterious floating gold orb. But now he replaced it with a kid's ball that bounced the size of a kickball. Because magic is more magical if you do it with real stuff that people know. And he built a set. It was chain-link fence because he thought where do you see a kid's ball? At a playground. But he says when he put the chain-link fence up on stage it suddenly felt like the set of Godspell. And he ditched it. David and I asked Teller why did not you just show Penn something rough? Just something with the moves you would been inventing. And he said no. no no. That is the thing about magic. You cannot look at a half-finished piece of magic and know whether it is good or not. It has to be perfect before you can evaluate whether it is good. I mean magic is a fantastically meticulous form. You forgive other forms. A musician misses a note moves on fine. He will come to the conclusion of the piece. Magic is an onoff switch. Either it looks like a miracle or it is stupid. So I spent up-- I would guess it was probably 11 months or so putting together a routine of moves that I invented with the non-floating floating ball. And I showed it to Penn. Describe the act that he saw. Like what was it? I believe that what he saw was very very artsy. It was very lonely. It was very sweetly melancholy. I was trying to recreate that sense of solitude in a theater late at night. And he sat way back in the theater way towards the back so that he could get a wide stage view of it. I finished it. And he quietly got up and left the theater. And I thought hmm that is probably not a good sign. So I went back to his dressing room and we talked for a while. I remember being in the dressing room and being really really really wicked uncomfortable. This of course is Teller's stage partner Penn Jillette. There was nothing about it that grabbed me. I thought it was technically good as a juggling bit I thought it was OK. Juggling he means the mechanics of moving the ball around. It was the first time we really had something that outside of the overlap. To get into the Penn and Teller Show it has to be an idea that appeals to both Penn and me. And he said-- and to his credit he said that he thought it was way too Cirque Du Soleil. It was way too sort of artsy pretentious. I remember Teller getting a little bit mad at me. Because I said what is the idea behind this? And he was very offended. He was like well the idea is the trick. You know? And I think it had not clicked with him because it lacked an essential dramatic idea. Of course to me I was all wrapped up in the idea that it was a floating ball that was not floating which is not a very good idea. I mean that is not an idea that communicates to an audience. The next day at Starbucks they talked about what idea might work with the trick. Penn suggested presenting it as a kind of history piece. An old classic with period music. That kind of thing they would do in a magic history conference. Teller got excited about that. Emailed him later adding to the idea. Like they would tell the audience he was using a method from a hundred years ago without electronic technology and no help from offstage. Imagining that version of the trick Penn wrote him back quote From reading this I have lost a little faith in the idea. I guess we can try this. But it does not seem to bring another level in. Maybe we should just do it the way you wanted and not look for more here. I am sure people will like it fine. I do not know. This seems to make a lot of what I did not like maybe worse. I do not know. I do not have to like every bit in the show that is for sure Teller did not like that. Seemed wrong for Penn to settle. He got back to work to solve the problem. And here's where making this trick turn from just the mechanics of moving a ball around on a thread to actually thinking through what tells a story what is engaging what is fun to watch what is satisfying. And Teller realized one of the things that was missing from the trick. He says any magic trick is better if there is a reason the magic happens. So for instance-- If you put let us say a coin into your hand close your hand snap your fingers open it and the coin is gone there is not much of an impact to that. And the reason for that is that the action seems arbitrary. That there does not seem to be a cause that makes that event happen. Oh like why would a coin disappear. Yes. If you put the same coin in your hand close your hand and even do just this-- even just say take out a match. Light the match pass it around your hand and act with a sudden jolt as though something has happened inside your head where the coin melted away and you have been burnt. And you open your hand and there is no coin now. That level of acting that level of causality that suggests that somehow the fire of a match could make a coin melt away suddenly adds a dimension to it that I think is pretty crucial. Also it gives it a story. It gives it a little bit of a story. It gives it emotion. And I realized that I was doing all of this stuff with nothing causing it. There was no cause. Why is the ball moving around? The ball is just moving around. It was just arbitrary movement. One of Teller's collaborators a veteran magician named Johnny Thompson gave him a suggestion that changed everything though. He said you have got to treat the book like a trained dog. That would give a reason for its movement. A logic a cause. So Teller tried it. I thought well you know what does typically a trained dog do? It jumps through a hoop. So a trained dog is not always going to do what you want it to do. So I would hold up the hoop and the dog would not respond. I would call the dog and instead of jumping through the hoop it would come over and land on the rim of the hoop. I sit down and ignore it. What does a dog do when you ignore it? Well it very often comes to you. And here's what is happening. What is happening is I am realizing that the plot of this is the dog trainer is getting the dog to jump through a hoop. That becomes the plot. That becomes a little bit of a story. Now he had a plot and a story. Teller did something else at this stage that is so essential and basic to the kind of drama that particularly happens in a magic show. One of the things that you do as a magician is you try to put yourself in the position of the audience at every moment. And you say what would I be thinking at this moment? And you try to manipulate that. And one of the ways you do that is by giving the audience a little chance to figure something out and then take it away from them. And so he does that with this routine. Re-imagines it. The ball starts on the bench always in contact with the bench. So the audience will think the ball is controlled by the bench. And then he lifts the ball off the bench. It sticks to his finger and floats in the air. So they might conclude that it is his finger that controls the ball. And then it drops to the floor away from his finger. So each time you think of something I give you the chance to think of that and then I take it away from you one thing after the other. It takes a lot of work. He finishes the new routine shows it to his partner Penn who hates it. Truly truly hates it. Yes he makes it further away from what my taste would be.  At least when it was an abstract moving thing it is closer to my taste. Once it becomes something like a dog it is moved very far out of my taste. Because you hate an animated object. I do! I do! I hate anthropomorphism. I do not like relationships with animals or inanimate objects at all. Which is basically what this is. Yeah. But see the thing is where is my argument? Where is his argument? Like what is he supposed to say? This is a delicate conversation right? Here are these two men who respect each other but do not socialize or hang out together. Who have been arguing they say constantly and fiercely but productively for over 40 years. And Penn knows how much work Teller has put into this trick. And how much he would enjoy performing it every night. He is not saying this outright but it is implicit-- this is beautiful. This is mystifying. This is entertaining. People will love it. It is really important to me. All those five things are true. So it is very very uncomfortable. Uncomfortable because Penn agrees. It is a great trick. Totally works. He just does not like it. It does not feel like their show to him this red ball that is also a disobedient puppy. That is like the kind of idea you might see in a cartoon. And they try to build the show around the principle that there should be nothing in the show that feels even vaguely familiar to the audience. Nothing you can imagine seeing in anybody else's work. So Penn does not say yes. But he does not say no either. He says to Teller to be in the show it still needs one more idea to really make it ours. And out of respect for each other they try to come up with that idea. And I do not know which one of us brought it up. I think I am the one who said what if we actually said-- I said you know when Mike Close and Johnny Thompson came and watched me do this trick-- These are two other magicians they admire. --they knew there was a thread there. And because they knew there was a thread there they were more baffled than an audience that could imagine that this was being done with a little gyroscope inside the ball. So I said what if we say right out at the top here's a trick that is done with a piece of thread and a special backdrop. And Penn said I think all you need is now here's a trick that is done with a piece of thread. That gives them so much. It brings them over onto our side. And suddenly this now had an idea. And the idea was bigger than the little plot with the little ball. It was bigger than all the little magic tricks. It was that you can state the actual method of a magic trick clearly at the beginning of it and it can still fool the hell out of people. That by knowing this extra piece of information the trick becomes better. In other words give the audience in the theater the same feeling that David and I had standing on stage seeing the thread and still feeling amazed. Not that the audience can see the thread but they know it is there somewhere. Penn did lobby a little for sudden change in lighting that boom would reveal the thread to the audience fully visible. But in the end this solution just telling them about the thread was enough for him. And 18 months after Teller picked up David P Abbott's book to practice for the first time he and Penn added the ball to their show. It is not the longest they have ever worked on a trick. Not even close. They told me about one that took them six years. And making anything good takes time. There is a quote that your partner of 40 years Penn Jillette said about you. It is kind of mean. There is no better partner than Teller. He is not the smartest or most creative person I have ever been around but he is the hardest working. He will not give up. You can put him on a single task and in the middle of it hit him with a baseball bat square in the face and he goes right back to the task.  Well I am sure he is talking directly about this bit.  And that is true. It is true. I have a certain dog with a slipper quality about me.  Especially-- I do trust my gut. This trick that we do in the show is not the trick that I thought we were going to do. But it is the trick that was calling out to me. You know? Teller teared up as he said this. I told his partner Penn. Yeah. He does. He does get choked up about it. There is stuff I get choked up about too. That is not it. They are very different people Penn and Teller. Even the way they tell this story in Teller's telling the story has a happy ending. They added the extra idea compromise was reached. The partnership worked. When Penn tells the story the compromise is a little deeper. I think that Teller does a beautiful job and the audience loves it. And I kind of zone out. It does not feel like the whole bit just snaps into what it should be. You know it does not feel like-- You mean now? Even now? Oh yeah now. Yeah. Even now you are not into that trick. No. Maybe Teller may not know that. But I mean Teller may have noticed that every show order we come up with at some point I suggest we have a show without the red ball. He might notice that. I do not often note it. It is a pattern that shows up. But can I say again really good trick. He does a beautiful job. He worked really hard. And the audience loves it. Teller told me of course he knew that Penn still had his doubts. You do not work together so long he said without knowing something like that. Interestingly after five years of performing this trick they changed the ending to add more of what Penn wanted which is to underline the fact that it is done with the thread a little more. You can see this version of the trick online. There is a video from Penn  Teller's TV show Fool Us. We have a link at our website. Here's what they added to finally finish the trick for good over six years after Teller first started practicing with Abbott's book. At the end of the routine Penn walks out onstage grabs the thread from Teller and then dangles the ball from the thread. Penn takes an oversized scissors cuts the thread. The ball drops to the ground and Penn kicks the ball across the stage. He looks mad. He is just acting of course. But he lays into that ball with gusto. Coming up making a very very big object-- an object too big to fit in a building-- making it disappear. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life I am Ira Glass. Today's program The Magic Show. My coworker David Kestenbaum and I both of us former kid magicians return to magic as adults and it all looks very different. Today's show was first broadcast a year ago. This is a trick I loved when I was a kid. I would kind of forgotten about it. And then one night I was home recently watching the TV show The Americans. The show is about this family living in the US in the 1980s. The parents are undercover Russian spies. Because it is set in the 1980s these big historic moments pop up. President Reagan getting shot Iran-Contra. But then this one episode it opens with this-- Mom this is the Statue of Liberty. David Copperfield's making the Statue of Liberty disappear on TV. Every single person I know is going to be watching this. Mom dad come on! He is about to do it! I remember this exact moment happening in my house. I was 13 years old about the same age as those kids. And as a kid magician I think I would circled the time and channel in the TV Guide. That was our family system for reserving the television. When I have tried to relive this amazing moment in American hi