It is This American Life from WBEZ Chicago distributed by Public Radio international. And today's show begins with a question that somehow independently popped up in the heads of five different people all around the same time. The people were Caitlin Kenney Dave Kestenbaum Alex Blumberg Jacob Goldstein and Adam Davidson. All of them cover economics for our show and for NPR news as part of the Planet Money project. It was in November of 2008. Yeah it was in December of 2008. It was in the heart of the financial crisis. Lehman brothers went bust. You were hearing on the news every day all these like crazy numbers. X trillion dollars lost when the housing bubble popped. A trillion dollars disappeared from the stock market this week. My family members my wife my friends people were just asking me where did that money go? Who got it? You know was there a black hole it went into? Was their a big fire somewhere which burned up a lot of dollar bills. Where did the money go? I spent a long time thinking about that. All these reporters but Adam were pretty new to reporting on money and finance at the time. And that last reporter you heard Kestenbaum went online and bought some play money so we could run little scenarios pretending that person A took out a loan from person B to buy a house from person C to try to understand where all the money went when all the housing prices collapsed. Jacob meanwhile went to dinner with an aunt of his. My aunt is an MBA and was a very successful businesswoman and made a lot of money. And I actually asked her because this idea that trillions of dollars could disappear from the stock market was confusing to me. And so I said where did all that money go? And she said money is fiction. What does that mean? Well I guess it was the fact-- like it would have been one thing if a yoga teacher or something said that to me. But this is like my businesswoman aunt. Money is fiction. So the answer to the question where did the money go when the housing market collapsed turns out to be that the money never existed in the first place. All those houses used to be worth a certain amount and now they were worth a lower amount. Simply because that is what everyone now agreed. No money changed hands no many vanished. Same with retirement funds and stock portfolios. Alex says that this is when he realized that no where was safe. That there were inflation even sitting in the bank. All his money value could just slowly vaporize. Money is not solid. Its value could disappear. And all these reporters says that after that they would be working on what seemed like perfectly ordinary stories asking straightforward questions and they would bump up against this weird fictional quality that money has. For example Kestenbaum says he was doing a story and he came upon this. One question is how much money is out there in dollars? You would think we track that among all things right? And yet it is a really complicated question to answer. Why is that so complicated? You could imagine trying to answer it by asking everybody like how much money do they have. So you open your wallet there is cash in there. And then you would also probably add your checking account and your savings account. But the money in your checking account and your savings account the bank is a bank. What it does is it takes that money in-- your money-- and then it loans it out t some guy who wants to open a shoe shining store down the street. So he is holding your cash. Oh right. So the question is how do you count that money without double counting it? Are you counting me having it or are you counting him having it? How do you handle that? And it gets really complicated because think of that guy who is opening that store who borrowed the money. He is going to pay someone to make a sign for him. That person's going to deposit some of that money in the bank. The bank's going to then loan that out to somebody else. In fact if you look in the textbooks there is a little footnote saying sorry we had to do a little math here. And they tell you how to sum an infinite series. Jacob says that he just figured our money works this way because we are a complicated industrial society with banks and stock markets and financial instruments of all kinds. And then he read something that made him realize that no no no. The fictional quality of money is inherent in the very idea of money. In any system of currency no matter how simple this aha moment came to him when he was reading this book from 1910 about an island called Yap in the South Pacific. At the time on this island for currency this pre-industrial people used something completely impractical and counter-intuitive these massive stone sculptures in the shape of coins. And I mean massive. They are huge. The biggest ones are taller than a man. You know they weigh more than a car. And they use them for big things right? They would not use them for little everyday purchases. You would use it for a dowry or like this anthropologist told me if somebody from your village got killed in another village and you wanted to get his body back like a warrior you might use one of these stones to pay the other village to get your warrior's body back. So there is this obvious problem. There is no machinery. These things weigh thousands of pounds. They have essentially an innovation. It is really a financial innovation which is you do not have to actually have the stone to own the stone. The stone like you know it is sitting on a path or something and everybody just knows that I own it one day. And then you you Ira you kill the warrior from my village and I am like OK. I want to pay you with this stone and you give me back my warrior. I get the warrior back the stone does not have to move. It just sits there on that path but now everybody knows that is Ira's stone. I do not own it any more. But Jacob says it gets even more interesting. To understand this next point you have to know first that the limestone that they use to make these giant sculpture coins it was not actually found on Yap. They had to go to another island 250 miles away to make them. And these guys are going out in these little bamboo boats to some other island where they are carving these giant limestone disks. At one point a crew had gone and cut one of these giant stones on this island and they were bringing it back across the sea. And just before they got back to Yap there was some kind of storm and so they had to cut the store loss or the stone went overboard or something. In any case the stone ended up on the bottom of the sea. The crew themselves survived. They made it back to the island and they told everybody what had happened. And the people of Yap said that is fine. That is no problem. We believe you and this stone money this giant stone on the bottom of the sea it exists. It is still good money. Somebody owns that stone even though it is sitting on the bottom of the ocean. What? But it makes sense right? One reaction is like oh my God these people are crazy. But it is like a logical extension of what they are already doing. In fact Jacob says it is not logically different from what we do. For money after all long ago we used to use gold. And if you wanted to buy something you would have to carry around these heavy shiny pieces of metal. And then we decided no let us just leave the gold in a bank. Instead of the gold what we are going to carry around are these pieces of paper. And the paper on them says yes there is gold. You can take this paper money to a bank. You can swap it for gold. Maybe you have seen old dollars that say on them promise to pay the bearer so many dollars in gold. You could swap it. Then we decided it was the year 1933. We decided you cannot trade in dollar bills from gold anymore in this country. Dollar bills are just going to represent the idea of money. That is it. Not gold. They are just money. And when I talked about this with Jacob he said it gets even more abstract. Because now if you think of most of the money that you have or most of the money that I have it is never currency. I get paid. That is just a direct deposit from NPR from my employer to my checking account. It is not like they give me a bunch of hundred dollar bills every week. And then I pay my bills online. So currency even now is like old-fashioned. You do not have to touch money. You do not have to see it. It is just information. Until this conversation it never occurred to me that money does not change hands when we pay our bills online or anything. Like I do not know why I never even stopped to think right at no point does the bank go and deliver like 100 to the phone company on my behalf. It really is just numbers going back and forth in the computer. Yeah. Nothing happens in the physical world. I mean I guess except electrical pulses I guess it would be flying back and forth between computers. The money does not really exist. Not only is there no gold. There are not even bills for most of the money that exists. Most of the money that exists is just the idea. It is just the bank saying yes there is this much money in your account. Well today on our program the most stoner question we have ever posed on our show what is money? That is right. What is money? That is the question we are asking. I know how it sounds. The fact that the money that we use every day is about as real as those stones at the bottom of the sea that makes our lives easier in all kinds of ways but it is also incredibly dangerous that that is the nature of money as you will hear today in two action-filled acts. When you understand the money is created out of nothing you understand all kinds of things. Stay with us. Act 1 The lie that saved Brazil. Well let us begin with a trip to a country where the fiction that is money. That fiction that set of shared beliefs that is a fiction completely fell apart. Everyone stopped believing in their currency and of course that had disastrous results. The same country in a truly incredible piece of policy making you almost never hear of any government anywhere solving a problem so thoroughly and so well. The government tricked a hundred fifty million people into believing again that their money was worth something when there was absolutely no evidence to support that claim. And it worked. Here's Chana Joffe-Walt. When you know the story I am about to tell you it really makes every single mundane commercial experience in Brazil seem like a complete miracle. Car commercials miracle. The mall is a miracle. The guy in a bright red t-shirt in the mall who shoves paperwork into my hands and offers me a credit card miracle. The credit card is a brand new concept in Brazil. And actually everything that happens in this mall is new. The way everyone spends money in the mall is new. You can walk away with new shoes or a new backpack today and pay for it later.  So a soccer ball in two installments.  Any shoes the average is six installments.  So a backpack six installments.  All products. Everything? Yeah. As I said that-- everything-- I was holding up a pair of sunglasses off of his display. Yes he told me six payments. Take them home today. Pay in six monthly installments later. In the past you never would have had this because Brazil had incredibly high inflation. In 1990 inflation in Brazil was 80 a month. Not a year a month. So think about those sunglasses. Say they are selling for 10. One month later with 80 inflation the price is 18. Six months later the sunglasses are 340. And by the end of the year that price tag reads more than 10000. Brazilians lived with high inflation like this for decades. They could not figure out how to fix it. And they might still be living with it if it were not for some unlikely heroes. Actually the most unlikely group of national heroes you can imagine. Four former drinking buddies from grad school with a crazy plan who were suddenly put in charge of the country's biggest economic crisis ever. But before we meet them and hear their story let us talk about the way it used to be. So remember prices were going up every day. Think about what that actually means in the supermarket. They had to change the prices every day. Ketano Ferare this flirtatious 75-year-old in Sao Paulo remembers that that was someone's job. To walk the aisles and change the prices. There was a guy who changed the sticker. Plop plop plop plop plop. You passed the guy. And you buy things. Wait you would walk by the guy? You would like get in front of him? You run. In front of him? In front of the guy and buy things like that. So that you could get to the goods before he changed the price? Yes like that. And the whole day this machine is doing this. This is Maria Leopoldina Biarenbeck. Someone with a very Brazilian long name who spent a lot of time in supermarkets during this period. Maria was a housewife with four kids. She was not the running type. She would politely ask the sticker man to stop and wait. And if he did not she had another trick. She would pull off his new sticker walk up to the register and pay the old price. But then they discovered the maquinilla the small machine. And that you could not do anything because it printed the price. That was not easy to take off. Brazil's problem with inflation started all the way back in the 1950s. The president wanted to build a massive city in the middle of the jungle a new capital Brasilia. It would cost a lot of money and the government did not have the money to do it so it did what governments often do when they have a dream they cannot afford. They essentially printed the money created it. Now the problem with doing this of course is inflation. If there is say a hundred dollars in the economy you create a hundred more now every dollar is worth half as much. That is inflation. And in Brazil inflation continued for the next five decades. Year after year Brazilian money was worth less and less. And this causes all sorts of problems not just with the sticker man. Say you get a 1000 bonus at work. You put that money in a drawer. A year later it is worth a fraction of what it was. The minute you get paid the clock is ticking on your money. I talked to one man who used to have nightmares about money sitting on top of his dresser. Sitting still just losing value. A beer manufacturer told me he just stopped making beer because making beer just takes too long. You would buy all the wheat and the hops and by the time it was brewed everything was worth so much less. By the late '80s inflation was the number one political issue. And so began the plan to fix it. Now it turns out one of the best people to talk to about this is Maria Leopoldina Biarenbeck the housewife who peeled off the stickers. Maria can take you through a detailed history of each president's failed plan to stop inflation. But you have to ask Maria every question twice because the first time she always answers like this. I do not know because I never had to do anything. I was just a plain housewife and mother. And then proceeds to be the most knowledgeable person you will speak to on the topic. OK so first up she says President Sarney in 1985. His solution? Simple. Businesses are raising prices make that illegal. There was a price freeze. The problem with that was no one wanted to sell anything at the frozen price. All the merchants were just waiting for the day when prices would eventually go up again. And you know what happened. People hid the merchandise. And you could not buy anything because they wanted the prices to grow up because the situation was a fantasy. It was not real. You could not find meat at the butcher's. They just were not buying meat to sell? They hid the cattle. So they hid the cattle waiting for the price freeze to go away? Yes. Really? Yes. You can do that here it is a very large country. So that failed. And then came President Collor in 1990. He had a plan to solve inflation but there was one catch. You are not going to be able to take your money out of the bank for a while. Now Maria is telling me this and my translator Flavio Ferreira who is sitting in on our conversation could no longer keep quiet. He remembers that moment when the minister of finance made the announcement. And I remember the day when she was on TV explaining that they were going to confiscate everybody's money. So next day's banks would not work. I remember the face of that woman. She had studied in the best schools and she had been a professor at . And she was explaining to the nation as an economist why we need this. To end inflation we need the country to be together with us. But I remember I am looking at her and said God a government cannot do that. I mean when a government does that you lose people's respect. Oh it was terrible. It was terrible. So many people committed suicide. When you mess with people's money it does not go well. The economy went off a cliff. President Collor was impeached. And there was a new president and a new finance minister and inflation kept rising. The Brazilian economy was at a low point. It looked like there was nothing to be done to fix it. Enter our heroes those four economists we talked about at the beginning who basically enter the picture now because the new finance minister knew nothing about economics. Which is why on March 27 of 1993 he called one of our heroes Edmar Bacha. I was in my office at that university here at the Catholic university. And I got the call soon after I had finished teaching a class. And he said well I have just been named the finance minister. You know that I do not know economics. So please come to meet me in Brazil tomorrow. We need you. Well I was terrified. Basha had been waiting for three decades for this call. Ever since he ad his three friends taught graduate school together at the prestigious Catholic university in Rio. Four friends who had been studying Brazilian inflation for a decade. Four buddies at the campus bar complaining to each other about how this government did not know what it was doing and that government did not know what it was doing. Four buddies who were now being asked by the government to come and fix thing their way the plan they would spent years on. And so of course their first answer no. We do not want to. Here's another one of the four Andre Lara. This is a process. It is something that requires many years. It is not something that we can do. It is not magic. It is not a trick that we do overnight. When I asked Lara was not it exciting though? He looked confused for a moment. And then scornful. People he told me should be interested in ideas not feelings. They thought we had a trick. There is no trick. There is only long hard complex multi-step macroeconomic plans designed specifically for the Brazilian context. Basha is the more casual of this pair. Yeah he tells me we had a trick. But I was busy and I did not want to move to Brasilia. The government did not give up. Lara and Basha were taken to dinner with members of parliament who told them how much the country needed them. They got calls at home senators told them you will have free reign. Whatever you think is best. Basha was invited to meet the president. And then I ask an autograph for my kids and then he wrote a note a note addressed to my two kids in saying Please tell your father to work fast for the benefit of the country. That is what he wrote in the autograph? Yes. I still have that note. So there was a lot of pressure? Oh yes. Yes. It is one thing to do it at your office. It is another thing to put the thing together. It had never never been put in practice anywhere this way. Eventually the four signed on and presented their plan. And basically what they said was you have to hit the underlying causes of inflation. You have to stop the printing presses stop creating money so quickly. But you also have to stabilize people faith in money. And this is where their plan was different. They did not want to just change the underlying causes of inflation. They wanted to change people themselves. People where the problem. People had to be tricked into thinking money had value when all signs told them that was absolutely not true. So Basha says they wrote a plan for a new currency one that was stable dependable trustworthy. The only catch was this currency would not be real. It would not be printed. There would never be coins. It was fake. They called it a virtual currency. We called the unit of real value URV. Yeah it was a virtue that did not exist in fact. People would still have cruzeiros the local currency in their pockets. But when they got paid their wages would be listed in URVs. Taxes were in URVs and all prices were listed in URVs. And URVs were stable. And so for example when you went to the store and bought some milk. How much does it cost? Say well know we have it cost X. Let us say one URV. Well how much is that because I cannot pay with URV. Well I have this little table here and today's value of URV in cruzeiros is seven cruzeiros per URV. So it cost one URV seven cruzeiros. You go next week well it is still one URV. But then you say how many cruzeiros? You look well 14. Every night the central bank would put out a memo with the official conversion rate. And a table would get printed in the newspaper. The store clerk could look at the table in the newspaper and see Monday one URV is equal to seven cruzeiros. Tuesday 12 cruzeiros. Wednesday 14. Milk or whatever it was you were buying would stay the same price. There was no need for the sticker man. And the idea was you would start thinking in URVs. Because just last week you got paid a thousand URVs. Milk costs one URV. Next month you would get a thousand URVs again and milk would still be one URV. The exchange into cruzeiros what you actually handed the clerk would change. But the price in URVs would not. So that was the plan and Basha presented it to the senator from Sao Paulo. And then when I explained to him the plan after a while he said well-- with some anguish in his voice said well Basha if this is the only way that you tell me that it can be done then we will follow you to the precipice. And so the four economists went about explaining to the country that everyone should now talk in a virtual currency. We did not understand it what it was. We asked how much is that? Oh it is so may URVs. I used to say it was a fantasy because it was not real. Still people used it without being forced to. One store would be selling milk for one URV and eventually all the stores would be. People would know that is an appropriate price for milk. Which I can tell because I get paid a thousand URVs. Inflation began to go down. 80 a month to 50. It even got close to 40. And then when we are satisfied that prices are relatively in good synchrony we declare well from this day the virtual currency becomes a real currency. The cruzeiro real is going to disappear and everyone is going to receive from now on its wages and pay for all the prices in the new currency which is the real. Which is equal to one URV. And also equals to 1. And that is the trick. It was not the only trick. While they put the URVs in place the group of four also made the government balance its budget and slow down on the money creation. And then one day July 1 1994 the central bank deployed truckloads of new cash in this new currency the real to banks in the cities to the provinces and waited on the ready for the four economists to say go. And I remember the day that we launched and the real I have this journalist who had become a friend of mine. And then she came to me and said Professor do you swear that inflation's going to end tomorrow. I said yes I swear that is going to end tomorrow. Everybody was very happy. Everyone in Brazil collectively as a country tricked themselves into believing that this fake currency was real. More real than the actual physical bill they were holding in their hands. And that made all the difference. That made it real. For money it is crazy but that is all you need. People to believe in it. Our four heroes literally turned Brazil's economy in the opposite direction with their plan. Brazil went from being an irrelevant economic basket-case to one of the most important economies out there. The eighth largest in the world. Cardoso the finance minister who hired our four heroes after admitting he knew nothing about economics was elected president. Twice. And the four economists despite the fact that most people do not know them by name really are seen as heroes. These guys made money worth something. Almost everyone I talk to about what happened in 1994 when they got the real described it as magic. Which you would think the four would like but Lara does not appreciate decades of research being referred to as magic. There is nothing magical in URV. It is very technical and very-- But basically it was just we established the idea of a unit of account that gives you the sense of value relative value. Basha on the other hand does not mind it so much. It is very funny because people today you go around and people think that this is so natural to live in a country without inflation. It is so natural that now when you walk into a store in Brazil instead of a sticker man raising the prices you can walk out of that sort with your sunglasses in hand and not finish paying for them until six months later. In just 20 years Brazilians have gone from an absolute faith that their currency has no value to an absolute faith that its value will never change. Chana Joffe-Walt. Coming up we go to a place where no journalist has been this room inside the Federal Reserve that is like financial a black hole where the normal rules of money do not apply. That is in a minute. Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our show of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show The Invention of Money. We have stories today about the fictional quality of money. How it gets made out of nothing and what is great about that and all the trouble that can get us into. We have arrived at Act 2 of our show. Act 2 Weekend at Bernanke's. When the United States was on a real gold standard it was clear what money was and how much money there was. Each dollar corresponded to a dollar of gold that in a vault somewhere. But when we went off the gold standard somebody had to decide how much money there would be. Some entity had to be entrusted with that power. In our country and just about every modern country today we give that power to something called a central bank. Our central bank is named the Federal Reserve. You have heard that name probably. And like all central banks it has one magical power. The Federal Reserve can create money any time it wants. It is the one institution in America that can decide OK the economy would run better interest rates would drop whatever if there was more money out there. Or it can decide there should be less money. It controls the amount of money in our economy including in a very literal way. If you have any cash in your pocket right now pull it out you see the name right at the top of the bills Federal Reserve note. They are the ones who call up the Bureau of Engraving and Printing and say print some more of the stuff. And here's where things get tricky. Though the Federal Reserve does that and though the Federal Reserve's chairman is appointed by the president. And though the Federal Reserve is subject to congressional oversight and though the Federal Reserve's name includes the word federal it is not actually part the federal government. It is an independent institution. And you may remember presidents like Nixon wanting the Fed to do this or that and the Fed chairman basically telling them to go take a hike. They are supposed to do what they think is best for the economy not what is best for the president's political future. With me so far? Since 2008 when the current financial crisis took hold the Fed has done all kinds of things that central banks just do not do. Stuff the Fed has never done. Stuff that would have been unthinkable in the past. It is all happening on a scale that is bigger than anything the Fed has ever tried in its history. Basically the Fed has gone to central bank crazytown. And the danger if the Fed screws up is that the fiction that we call the US dollar loses value. The people stop believing in it. Alex Blumberg and David Kestenbaum are to explain to us now two things what the Fed usually does and what it is done since 2008 that seems so extreme. Up until recently when the Federal Reserve did this dangerous and magical thing of creating money out of nothing conjuring money out of the void it happened in a kind of solemn ritual. The ritual goes like this every six weeks in an ornate conference room inside the Federal Reserve building in Washington DC there is a meeting. The meeting is closed to the press members of Congress even the president is not allowed. The meeting is run by the chairman of the Fed currently Ben Bernanke. You have heard his name in the news a lot. It is a meeting of the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee. Even though major things major policy issues are being decided it is not an exciting experience. This is Gerald O'Driscoll Jr. who attended a couple of these meetings back in the 1990s when he was vice president of the Dallas Regional Federal Reserve. So at these meetings all these Federal Reserve officials get up and make presentations about the economy. What are the bright spots? what are the weak spots? Are things getting better worse staying about the same? And then they take a vote to decide the big question. Should there be more or less money in the US economy? Now this question has huge ramifications. More money generally means it is easier for businesses and everyday people to get loans which means it is easier for businesses to expand or new businesses to start up. Which ultimately translates into more jobs and a better economy. But more money can also mean inflation. Which if it gets out of control can really cripple the economy. Just ask the people of Brazil. So it is a balancing act with the fate of the US economy hinging on the Fed's decision. Not that anyone there acts that way. Again Gerald O'Driscoll. It is almost ceremonial. There is an order in which the staff reports take place. The questioning is kind of orchestrated. They are only like we are pulling the levers of the largest economy in the history of mankind. Yeah. You almost forget that that is what is happening until they start to read the policy directive which is exactly what they are going to do. Then you remind yourself what all this has been about. I sort of think of it like a joystick. You move it too far in one direction you get out of control inflation. You move it too far in the other direction and then you can really sort of put the brakes on the economy. Is that too simplistic a way of thinking about it or is that? I mean it is OK to think about it that way. I winced a little when you said that because the joystick presumes a very precise control which is exactly what they do not have. Right. It is more like you are moving a super tanker and you start moving the wheel and there is no effect that you can see for quite a while. OK so once they have decided to move the super tanker how exactly do they create money out of nothing? Well the answer the mechanics of how this works are so weird and bizarre that when I first learned about it I thought wait that is what this all comes down to? They cannot just create a whole bunch of money and then walk out to the street corner and start handing it out to people. That would be awkward for one and it also would take too long. They need to get large amounts of money into the economy fast. And so they need someone who can handle a few billion dollars in one quick transaction which means the banking system. Banks. And how do they get money into the banks hands? They buy something from them. The most boring safest surest thing any bank owns bonds issued by the US government. Treasury bonds. Big banks typically have billions of dollars in treasury bonds just sitting around on their books. And to buy these bonds the Fed does not show up at the door with an armored car full of cash. Do not picture that. You need to picture a computer screen at the Fed that shows the amount of money in a bank's account. Richard Dzina is a Senior Vice President of the New York Fed and he says someone at the Fed just changes that number. Adds a few billion clicks a mouse-- And voila money is created. Basica