Seriously America? Is this one so hard? This seems like an easy layup-- a 4-inch putt a slow pitch across the plate a thing that is so easy that even somebody like me who does not care about sports finds himself making sports metaphors. I am talking about the DREAMers the DACA kids who were brought to the US as small children. The majority of Americans have wanted to give them a path to citizenship since 2010. Republican Senator Lindsey Graham quoted a Fox News poll on the floor of the Senate this week that shows 79 of the public supports that including 63 of Trump voters. Leaders of both parties in the House and Senate say they want it. The president says he wants it. In other words it is super popular. Politicians support it. And yet we have been trying 2001-- 2001! And we still do not have a permanent fix to this. There is this thing that President Trump said about his job on his 98th day in office. He said I thought it would be easier which OK he was roundly mocked for that. But weeks like this one I think that too. Like really with so many things I really thought our democracy could do these things. Like why is it not easier? Well from WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today on our program in this week of government dysfunction we have two stories of lawmakers not able to accomplish tasks that seem from the outside very straightforward. Act One of our show is about Republicans. Act Two is about Democrats. Specifically with the Democrats what are they doing? A year into the Trump presidency what exactly is their plan? Why does it seem to be you know nothing? Stay with us. Act One Send in the Gowns. President Trump has not got a chance yet to build his wall. One of the first things he did in office was to issue an executive order of what to do when people are caught crossing the US border. Even under President Obama most of those people got kicked out right away through a process called expedited removal. But there were lots of people who got locked up processed and released after a few weeks into the United States while they waited for their day in court which could take years. And then often they did not even show up in court. It was kind of a mess. Border agents called it catch and release. You probably heard that phrase. The Trump administration wanted to get rid of catch and release. And so rather than do that they decided they were going to take this group of people detain them and then get them in front of a judge fast and then quickly deport anybody who should not be here. That of course required judges more than they had at the border at the time. So they started flying immigration judges from around the country from their regular courtrooms to courts near the border. They would be there for two weeks at a time. And so this is an example of politicians seeing something they wanted to fix. They came up with a straightforward plan to do it. And we wanted to know how is that working? Well to answer that we collaborated with The Marshall Project and their reporter Julia Preston who is visited immigration courts for over a decade in her old job as the immigration correspondent for The New York Times. She is broken many stories of this subject. She went with one of our producers Jonathan Menjivar to one of these courts. This one was inside a detention center in Laredo Texas. Here are Jonathan and Julia. The first thing that happened when we got to this immigration court in Laredo was that we could not even get inside. Immigration courts are supposed to be open to the public but this court it is inside the detention center which is run by a private prison company. So to get in you have to get past an employee who is sitting behind a thick glass window. It was October when we visited and the window was covered in Charlie Brown Halloween stickers-- Lucy in a wizard costume Snoopy napping on a jack-o'-lantern. We would made arrangements in advance with ICE the Federal immigration enforcement agency to let them know we were coming. But it did not help. Eventually we are cleared to enter. You are not allowed to record in court so you are not going to hear any audio but I will just tell you. When we get into the courtroom I realize I have met the judge before. His name is Barry Pettinato and I met him when I was reporting a story last summer back in his home courtroom in Charlotte North Carolina. In Charlotte Judge Pettinato was fully in command and he was running a fast-paced no-nonsense courtroom. He has a record as a tough judge. It is not easy to win an asylum claim with Judge Pettinato. In Laredo he told us he was in the second week of a two-week stint. He kind of jokingly asked me if I was following him around. Pettinato's courtroom in Laredo was hastily arranged last March to accommodate a judge. It is a cramped space with no windows with the judge and the immigrants up very close to each other. But there is one of those raised wooden podiums for the judge so it looks enough like a court. Judge Pettinato takes the bench and right away it is clear that things are not going as smoothly as they did in his home court in Charlotte. Pettinato has this big stack of blue files and initially it is not clear which case he is supposed to hear. An immigrant is called who has the identity number 991 but the government does not seem to have the file for that person. In fact it seems that person may already have been deported. But they do have a file for immigrant 919. Maybe they are supposed to hear that case instead? Was that just bad data input? Judge Pettinato asks. It is not even 9 oclock in the morning and he already seems exasperated. We soon find out he is not the only one. During a break between cases the government attorney-- he is the immigration court equivalent of the prosecutor and someone who generally would not talk to the press-- he walks up to us and seems eager to share his frustration. He tells us the whole Laredo court is quote just a bad setup. He explains how it works or rather how it does not really work. The judges come and go every two weeks. The clerks also come and go every two weeks. But the clerks do not necessarily come with the judges so the judges may be working with clerks from some other part of the country they have never met before. There are two attorneys for the government. They come and go every four weeks. The Spanish language interpreters who have to be in the court much of the time are also coming and going. Everyone is coming and going. And there is no overlap between one rotation of judges or prosecutors and the next rotation. The government attorney tells us the result is just plain chaotic. A few minutes later Judge Pettinato spends some time trying to get one lawyer on the phone but it keeps disconnecting. Next up there is an Albanian who agrees to participate in his hearing in Spanish even though he does not really speak Spanish. Me hablo mucho Italiano. Entiendo un poquito Espaol he tells the interpreter. I speak a lot of Italian. I understand a little Spanish. The more time we sat in the courtroom the more I realized we were noticing things I had never seen in years of observing immigration courts. There was no posted hearing schedule. Case files often went missing. Judge Pettinato was trying to move things along but instead of efficiency there were time-consuming mishaps and delays. And as a result immigrants who were detained and anxious and who expected to have an orderly process and a fair hearing were not really getting that. Nor were they getting the speedy treatment the Trump administration intended or anything close. A lot of the fumbling happens because of a simple dumb reason. All of the files are still kept on paper. All immigration courts around the country work this way but it is an especially big problem in Laredo. During one hearing there is a lawyer this guy who is driven up three hours from Weslaco Texas. He is there to ask for a bond so his client can be released. But here's the hiccup. The files for this court in Laredo they are not actually in Laredo at least initially. They are filed in another immigration court 150 miles away in San Antonio. And every case file it has to be physically sent here. And sometimes they do not make it like with this lawyer. You may have submitted it but we do not have it Judge Pettinato says to the lawyer. I filed it in San Antonio the lawyer says. Well that could explain it. Judge Pettinato's eyes roll as he says this. It is a strange thing to see in a courtroom a judge openly mocking the flaws of the court he is running. Even stranger are the knowing nods in the room. Everyone here-- the lawyer the clerk the government prosecutor even the interpreter-- they know this hearing cannot go forward because of the haphazard way this courtroom has been set up. Judge Pettinato sets the bond hearing for a week out-- a time remember when some other judge will have replaced him. The guard then escorts the woman from Honduras that this whole hearing was about out of the courtroom. She is stuck in detention for another week having no idea what will happen with her case. When you start asking around in Laredo for someone who really knows what is going on in this court there is one lawyer whose name keeps popping up-- Paola Tostado. She is a real Texas highway rider lawyer from Brownsville three hours to the south. She makes the drive to Laredo sometimes three times a week keeping an eye out for a Texas breed of antelope called a nilgai. It is the size of a horse and it can appear on the highway at 500 in the morning when she is driving to court. While most lawyers were wearing muted black in that dingy detention center Paola announced her presence with a scarlet dress and 4-inch spike heels. And in a court filled with all these rotating judges Paola this young lawyer who graduated from law school in 2015 she seemed to have become a resident expert. We saw Judge Pettinato defer to her judgment a couple of times when she was in court. She is very persistent and confident. Paola told us she had this case that was emblematic of the messed up situations lawyers and immigrants find themselves in when a court is not running properly. The case involved a guy from El Salvador who wanted to appeal after he did not pass his first asylum interview. Paola drove up to San Antonio to speak with the court clerk and see her client's file. And the court clerk informed me that the case was closed that the judge had closed the proceedings. Meaning his case was over. Done. And I said well that is impossible because my client is still in detention. And she is like well if you can give me some sort of proof that he is still in detention which is ridiculous. Ridiculous because the proof that he was in detention was that he was still in detention. But the clerk had no record of that. The problem was that if the case was formally closed to get any order from the court to have the man released Paola would need to get the case reopened. She tried ICE the court in Laredo the clerk's office in San Antonio but nobody could figure out why a judge-- a judge who was no longer there-- had closed the case. Everyone was baffled but everyone was also passing the buck. The man sat in detention in Laredo month after month. For any court this is about as bad as it gets. The government was detaining this man but legally the court had no basis to hold him. And still there was no way to get him out because the case was closed. Finally the immigrant solved the problem himself. ICE brought him a deportation order and he signed it. He just gave up. He just gave up. Exactly. He said no they just brought me the documents. I signed them. I want out of here. I want to go. I cannot do this anymore. Welcome to the automated case information hotline. This was not an isolated incident. On the day we were there Paola had another case just like it a client who was in detention. She worried that he would despair and self-deport as well. Paola called the hotline you can dial in to check the status of any case. She pressed a few buttons and we got an update on her current client. The immigration judge closed proceedings on your case at Laredo SPC 4702 East Saunders Laredo Texas 78041 on August 23 2017. The hotline says his case was closed on August 23 2017. That was months ago but he was still in detention still in need of a hearing to get his case moving-- a hearing he cannot get because his case is closed. The system does not contain any information regarding a future hearing date on your case. Paola's client he is in total limbo. He just sounds defeated. He just says I just do not want to be sitting here waiting for nothing. If I am waiting for something if you tell me I have a court in two months then I will wait for that court in two months. But there is no court for me. So the question of the day here is if we would be in another court would this still be happening? Or is it just because we are here in Laredo and we are in an immigration court which is-- it is not organized? Or who is there to blame here if there is someone to blame? Did you just put air quotes around immigration court?  Yes. It is crazy. You would not think this would be happening. Your question of would this be happening in another court what do you think? I highly doubt this would be happening in another court. A day after we recorded this interview this second client of Paola's was suddenly released and he did not even have to post bond. ICE gave no explanation why they let him go. Back at the courtroom at one point Judge Pettinato looks at the stack of blue files in front of him and whispers to his clerk the problem is I cannot do all of these. In fact the immigration court system is drowning in cases. There is a huge backlog-- at last count 650000 cases waiting to be resolved. That number doubled in the last five years under President Obama. 650000 cases works out to be about 2000 for every judge so immigrants often wait several years to have their cases heard. The Trump administration's plan to rush judges to the border was supposed to help with the backlog. If they could quickly turn away illegal border crossers they could keep new cases from building up in the system. But sending a judge down to a border court for two weeks means that all the cases that were ready to go on their home docket have to be postponed and rescheduled. On Judge Pettinato's Charlotte docket for example because of how behind they are there the cases he had scheduled for the two weeks he was in Laredo had to be reset to late 2018 about a year away. In practice the backlog in Charlotte just got bigger. The thing is not all the courts with these temporary judges look like Laredo. Some of the border courts have the opposite problem. They have more judges than they need so judges have ended up sitting around in empty courtrooms with nothing to do. We talked to a judge named Lawrence Burman who normally sits in a court in Arlington Virginia. His first border detail was to a court in Jena Louisiana. The problem was that we had four judges there and there was really only enough work for two judges. So I had a lot of free time which is pretty useless in Jena Louisiana. I could not really do anything except review the other files for Jena. And once I reviewed all of them read the newspaper OR read my email. Out of 10 court days in Jena there were two days where Judge Burman had no cases at all. Meanwhile back home he could have been moving forward with as many as 50 cases a day. Instead dozens of those cases were rescheduled to the next date he had available on his calendar which because of the enormous backlog in Arlington is three years away in 2020. A sitting federal judge is not allowed to do an interview. That is why you are not hearing from Judge Pettinato. But Judge Burman is also a high-ranking official with the National Association of Immigration Judges-- it is kind of like their union-- so he can talk to reporters in that capacity. And before we move on Judge Burman wanted to make it clear. What he is saying here these are his views and things he is heard from other judges across the country. They are not the views of the Justice Department or the court system. Judge Burman never went to Laredo but he is talked to other judges who have been there and he confirmed all the problems we saw. He said Laredo was especially notable because there was never a crisis there in the first place. Prior to President Trump's order all their cases were being heard by judges in San Antonio via a video system. The system was not great but it was working. All the emergency shuffling did was replace judges in San Antonio hearing cases by video with a live judge in Laredo which for a while left some of the judges in San Antonio with empty dockets. So basically a judge who was already on the border-- San Antonio's not exactly on the border but it is not too far-- had nothing to do. Another judge was pulled away from his docket and sent down there presumably just so that they could say that they rushed more judges to the border. The they in this case is the Justice Department which is run by Attorney General Jeff Sessions. They are actually the ones who oversee the courts. A peculiarity of the American immigration court system is that it is part of the executive branch which is why the President can rapidly change the priorities of the court like this. The Department of Justice does not really understand what we do and probably do not care very much in the final analysis. It just wants to present to the attorney general the fact that they are doing everything that they can. So I assume that they just sent as many judges to the border as they had courtrooms to put them in without much regard to how many cases there actually were there. It is almost as if the Department of Justice and  management are trying to see how they can make the system less and less efficient. In the name of efficiency? Well I do not know what they think they are doing but what they are doing is not efficient. Just my opinion and opinion of practically every judge that I know. Like we said President Trump's plan for these courts was to process people and deport them quickly. And during our week in Laredo we did see some bad hombres come through the court-- immigrants who'd gotten involved in drug trafficking. There was one Mexican who worked with a human smuggling ring harboring other undocumented immigrants for 100 a pop. But in general these emergency border courts were designed to handle a crisis at the border that is not happening. In 2017 Customs and Border Protection recorded the lowest level of illegal migration in 45 years. President Trump made it clear that he was going to be tough on immigrants. And after he won the election the numbers declined sharply. Many immigrants who are coming now are people who we cannot deport quickly-- asylum seekers who have a right to have their case heard before an immigration judge. We spent a little time at the border in Laredo. And within just an hour we saw eight people who had presented themselves to authorities requesting asylum. The numbers that are really way up over the last year are not at the border. They are the rest of immigrants inside the country in towns and cities that are losing judges for weeks at a time to these border courts. The Trump administration has said they are pleased with the results of this surge of immigration judges that it is been a success. The director of the Justice Department agency that oversees the immigration courts said and I quote mobilized immigration judges had completed approximately 2700 more cases than expected if they had not been detailed. Essentially he argued that judges who were sent to the border about 100 of them in all they completed 2700 more cases than they would have if they would stayed in their home courts. But that does not take into account that sending judges to the border meant that at least 22000 cases around the country had to be rescheduled in the first three months alone-- perhaps for a year as in Judge Pettinato's Charlotte cases or perhaps three years like in Judge Burman's courtroom. We reached out to the Justice Department for comment. They did not respond to our request for an interview but they did answer some questions over email. An official stressed that the backlog in immigration court is getting better. To be clear they have not actually reduced the backlog. It is still increasing. But they point out that it is increasing at a slower rate. It was growing at over 3 per month when President Trump took office and it is less than 0.5 now. But it is unclear if this change was because the Justice Department sent judges to the border or because of other efforts they have made to reduce the backlog like hiring dozens of immigration judges. There was one other fact they would not explain. Unceremoniously at the end of last year the Justice Department decided to stop sending judges to Laredo. They went back to the old video system. We asked them why that decision was made and got no response. Our last morning in Laredo we saw a case that told us a lot about many of the immigrants who were being deported by this court. It was a hearing for an undocumented Mexican man named Fernando. He was not a recent border crosser. He had no criminal record so he was not a priority for deportation even for the Trump administration which says it is focusing on getting rid of criminals. We met his girlfriend Irma in the waiting room. She said together they were raising four children all American citizens born here. Fernando had been picked up by local police after getting into a loud argument outside a Laredo bar. He was not charged or convicted of anything but the cops turned him over to ICE. But when Fernando started laying out all the details of his story-- this was just a few minutes into his case-- Judge Pettinato interrupted him. Sir I have got a whole bunch of cases going on today. I get the gist. The judge was ready to issue his decision. Fernando would have to leave the country. He and his girlfriend looked stunned. Fernando choked up. He kept putting his head in his hands and staring at the wall. It was pretty clear he and Irma had not expected a decision. They thought this was just going to be a procedural hearing and they would have time to get a lawyer. In fact in a regular immigration court that is exactly what would have happened. I have seen it many times. But now Fernando would not get a chance to fully tell his story to a judge. These border courts are designed for speed. That is their whole point. And this is what that looks like. Judge Pettinato took a moment to explain to Fernando that even though it was commendable that he wanted to stay in the US to help his family legally there was no way he could allow it. That same afternoon Fernando was put on the bridge to Nuevo Laredo Mexico. Julia Preston and our producer Jonathan Menjivar. That story was produced in collaboration with The Marshall Project where Julia's a contributing writer. The Marshall Project does in-depth reporting on the criminal justice system. You can read the print version of Julia's story at themarshallproject.org. Coming up. OK we and our staff truly did not understand what is happening with the Democratic Party and we spent a few months trying to figure it out. What we learned in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program I Thought It Would Be Easier stories about how difficult it seems to be lately for politicians to get things done even things that seem pretty straightforward. We have arrived at Act Two of our program. Act Two Fighting Amongst Demselves. So one of the most basic things a political party is supposed to do is stand for something and articulate it. And a few months into Donald Trump's presidency the questions what does the Democratic Party stand for? What are they doing? What is the strategy? They have grown so large that it had the power to render grown people speechless. The Democratic Party um is-- is-- Arguably the national headquarters for impatience with the Democrats is the studios of MSNBC. Here's one of their anchors Joe Scarborough. I am talking about the national party is clueless. Where is the Democratic Party? Mika where are the Democrats? I am praying. No no I am dead serious. No I am serious too. What has happened to this party? The Democrats have lost over 1000 state legislative seats over the past eight years. They have lost the White House to a guy who nobody would even hire as their CEO. They have lost over a dozen Senate seats. They have lost over 60 House seats over the past eight years. And the Democrats still do not know who they are. What is wrong with this party? One of our producers Ben Calhoun traveled around interviewing Democratic strategists and politicians this summer and fall trying to understand why there did not seem to be a coherent strategy or message. Here's Ben. It is one thing for Joe Scarborough who exists in a state of suspended exasperation to be rolling his eyes at the Democrats. It is a completely different thing for someone like Ken Martin to feel fed up. Ken Martin's one of the country's top Democrats. He runs the Minnesota Democratic Party and he leads the association of all the state Democratic Parties across the country. And he is the vice chair of the DNC. Our brand is . Our brand is toxic. People do not know what the heck it is. If you got 100 Democrats in this room right now and asked them what the Democratic Party stands for you would get 100 different answers. There is no consistency. No one knows what the Democratic Party is. If you got 100 Republicans in here by and large you would get at least some consistency on what their party stands for. People need to have some clarity as to who the Democratic Party is why we do what we do why we care and what we are fighting for. How anxious are you feeling about this moment? Well I feel very anxious. I feel for the Democratic Party this is an existential moment. But what exactly might people have been expecting from Democrats in the first year of the Trump era? To that question I would offer what the Republicans did when Barack Obama was elected. They were at their lowest point in decades. They would lost both houses of Congress and the Presidency. There is a story about that moment that is been documented by a bunch of places best by reporter Robert Draper. On the night of Obama's inauguration a bunch of Republicans go out for dinner at a fancy steakhouse a place called The Caucus Room. It is a powerful bunch. You have got Paul Ryan Kevin McCarthy Eric Cantor Bob Corker Frank Luntz Newt Gingrich more than a dozen people. And as Obama is visiting inaugural balls this group sets a strategy. They would oppose and attack every idea Obama had. If he was for it we had to be against it is how one senator put it. One key to this whole thing was that they all had to commit to the same plan. Paul Ryan then a young congressman from Wisconsin told the group the only way we succeed is if we are united. I think that story is amazing because it is exactly what they did. It is like staring at the source code for eight years of Republican politics. And you can trace the path of that strategy from that steakhouse through their opposition to the stimulus and Obamacare and everything else through Republicans retaking Congress and the White House. If Democrats had a meeting like this in a steakhouse or anywhere they did not walk out with a strategy that everyone is now following right? A year into the Trump presidency sure the Democrats were united against the president's tax cuts and his attempts to repeal Obamacare but beyond that they do not have a clear message or strategy. And one of the big reasons-- they just do not agree. They do not agree about who they are or what the party should be or what they should be saying. And no one has the power to say here's where we are going. In fact when Democratic leadership sends out talking points congressional staffers have told me they are taken more as suggestions and regularly ignored. Several Democrats told me they felt a little jealous of the discipline of the Republican messaging operation. And the Democrats are not even in agreement about what went wrong in 2016. In the early months of the Trump presidency Democrats were still picking that apart trying to figure out what went so badly and searching for anything-- anything-- that had gone well. One place it felt like they might find hope was with a small list of congressional districts which a few staffers had started calling the Trump 12. The Trump 12 were 12 congressional districts where Democratic congressional reps had won even though Donald Trump had also won there. Most of them were in the Midwest and Pennsylvania states that were pivotal for Trump. In hindsight it seemed like Democrats who had held Trump back in those areas might have answers on how to reach white working-class voters rural white working-class voters who'd abandoned the Democrats which that is what led me to Cheri Bustos. Cheri Bustos is one of the Trump 12. She represents a district that covers the northwest corner of Illinois. It is mostly rural heavily white home of John Deere. Caterpillar Manufacturing started there. Last fall Trump won in Bustos' district. But Bustos also won reelection by a 20-point landslide. In May Politico wrote a profile with the headline The Secret Weapon Democrats Do not Know How to Use. The article's question-- Cheri Bustos has lessons about how to win in Trump territory but are Democrats listening? They were. She was chosen to co-chair the policy and communications committee in the House three members who lead strategy and messaging for congressional Democrats. The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee created a new position for her-- Chairwoman of Heartland Engagement which as someone from Wisconsin can I just say nobody in the Midwest walks around talking about the Heartland. Also like Democrats need to send an ambassador to part of their own country? Whatever. In late June I went to see Bustos in Illinois to ask her about the party and what she thinks it should be doing. Gosh what a great turnout. I caught up with Bustos at a union hall one of these events she is been having called Build the Bench where she tries to recruit and train people to run as Democrats to create a farm team something Democrats acknowledge they have not done a good job with lately. You are not going to say will you please give me 20. If somebody's got a decent job you are going to say can you make 1000 contribution? It is interesting to watch regular people encountering the less glamorous realities of running for office for the first time. It is kind of like they are seeing the back door to a restaurant. At one point Bustos was talking to a woman who was thinking about running. The woman had shared a bio with Bustos. It explained she would graduated top 10 in her college class. So a couple things. You have got a very good personal story. And it is great that you were 10th in your class but people do not want to know that you are smart. And most people in our region are not college educated. When I ran for city council I had what my bio was and I had where I went to college. And I literally had somebody say what? Do you think you are better than we are? I am like what do you mean? He is like well so you went to college. You think that is a big deal? So find a way to connect with people and that is going to be your dad was a factory worker. You are the granddaughter of a farmer. Talk about how you can meet people where they are. Meet voters where they are. This is Bustos' core philosophy her vision for what the party should be doing. In person Bustos looks like a former college athlete which she is talks like a former health care executive which she is and compulsively parents like a mother of three which she is. She is the only person who is asked me as an adult if I need to go to the bathroom before getting in a car. After a while Bustos and I sat down away from everybody else. I do not think we as Democrats will fail if number one we start talking about jobs and the economy nonstop. That is in my opinion as a Democrat is what we need to do. The divisive issues that are out there-- I do not know why we would walk into a room and start with a divisive issue. I do not go into a room and start my conversation by talking about the fact that I am pro-choice talking about guns one way or another because those are issues that tend to divide. But I do go in