OK. Take a second right now and just think about this. When it comes to the big hot button issues-- I mean climate change and gun control and abortion rights and school vouchers and affirmative action and Obamacare-- OK. Do you know anybody who has changed their minds? Who firmly was on one side of the issue and then they read a story in The New York Times or they heard something on Rush Limbaugh and now they are firmly on the other side? I am just going to guess. Probably not right? In fact the opposite happens. There is this thing called the backfire effect. It is been documented in all kinds of studies. It shows that when we are confronted with evidence disapproving what we believe generally we just dig in and we believe it more. And the rare times that people do change it is slow. You do not just have an argument with your uncle over the invasion of Iraq over dinner and then at the end of dinner one of you goes OK I no longer believe what I did you are right. People just do not flip like that which is why this video is so incredible. Hello. Hello sir. OK. So there are two men standing in a driveway. There is a canvasser with a clipboard. And he is talking to a California voter about gay marriage and it is 2013. And the voter leans against his truck for a lot of the conversation. He tells the canvasser that on a scale of zero to 10 where 10 is definitely vote for gay marriage and zero is definitely vote against he is a five. You know-- you know what bothers me is gays that are flaming. Flaming are the ones that are just so damn goofy and all that. He sort of flips his wrist as he says this. I worked with one for probably like five or 10 years. He was my father's wife's brother. And I did not even know he was gay. But he was just really-- he had five sisters. And I just thought he was feminine. And finally he came out and he said he was gay. When they act like that-- to me I do not care if they do it to other people-- but do not do it to me. Because I do not-- you know. At the same time this guy says he thinks it is only fair that gay people get the benefits of marriage and they can get on their partner's insurance. And he knows other people who are gay that are perfectly nice even that flaming guy. Perfectly nice. They are just regular people he says. They talk for 18 minutes. And the guy with the clipboard-- he is not a pollster. He is been sent out specifically to change people's minds on this issue. To try to flip them into voting for gay marriage. And so part of the conversation is just about the issue itself like the pros and cons of gay marriage. Does the voter think it will have a bad effect on children? What are his concerns about it? The voter explains. The religious thing would hold me back a little bit. Just because. OK. I believe in God strongly. And I believe in his ways. But a lot of the conversation is just them talking in this totally honest way about themselves and their attitudes about homosexuality and the voter's experiences with homosexuals. The canvasser-- his name is Richard Joludow-- is gay himself. Not flamboyant gay by the way. Silver hair goatee a contractor in the construction business. And here's just how real and free-floating this conversation is. At one point the voter feels comfortable enough to ask him-- At what point did you realize you were gay? How does a child realize they are gay? You know that is a hard-- I could think back to third grade. And I had a crush on a boy in the class. And it was not sexual. I did not know what that was. But I can still remember kind of what he looks like. I am pretty sure I remember his name still. And I remember being heartbroken when he left early in the first part of the semester there. And some people think that being gay is a choice. I was talking with a voter and was telling me he thought it was a choice. And I said my choice was to accept being gay. And of course I tried to be straight. And that just was not working. Well yeah. If it does not work it does not work.  And then at that point the canvasser Richard very skillfully brings them back to the topic at hand. So your vote has a lot of influence on how my life goes. I am with somebody now that I am hoping to get engaged or go and have a full-out marriage. So your vote would be very important to-- it would affect my life. Your life and a lot of other people too. That is correct that is correct. That is a lot to think about too. Cause after meeting you you are a hell of a nice guy. Thanks. Then Richard asked the voter for a second time OK on a scale of zero to 10 what is the chance that he would vote for gay marriage? His answer the first time was five. Now it is eight. Barely 14 minutes have passed. You make a really good presentation. Thank you sir. And even more amazing than the fact that this actually worked is that it lasted. Richard was part of an army of hundreds of volunteers around Los Angeles who were sent out to change people's minds. And a study by researchers at UCLA and Columbia University found that a year later not only did these voters stay convinced they also convinced others in their own households to switch. Apparently neither of those things ever happens. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today on our radio program in this world where it is incredibly rare for anyone to change their minds we have three stories about the very infrequent instances where that does happen where people change their minds over fundamental things that they believe. Why does it happen in these particular unusual circumstances? We explain. Stay with us.  And let us just keep going with this story. This story is Act One which we are calling Do Ask Do Tell. Where that video you just heard came from was a very unusual campaign to change voters' minds in California. And the campaign came about because of desperation. It was created in the wake of the 2008 election. And you may remember one of things on the ballot in that election was California's Proposition 8 Prop 8. At the time gay marriage was officially legal in California-- had been legal for half a year. Then opponents of gay marriage gathered signatures put the issue on the ballot. Not the gay organizers were worried-- in fact anything but. Polls had them solidly ahead. Hey liberal progressive California. This is a no-brainer. And we lost. Steve Deline is a field organizer with the Leadership LAB at the Los Angeles LGBT Center which is a very large multimillion-dollar nonprofit the biggest LGBT organization in the world. We lost by a decent margin. And it was devastating. Because everyone in California and beyond expected us to win that election. People were shocked and angry and despairing. That is Dave Fleischer. He is a political operative that the Los Angeles LGBT Center flew in to figure out what in the world they were going to do after this defeat. It was his idea to go out and do something that apparently is just never done. Let us go to the neighborhoods where we got crushed and talk to the people who voted against us and ask them why they did that. And when I suggested the idea Ira to be totally honest I did not know if those voters would talk with us. I would never done anything like this. Not only had he never done anything like this he would never heard of anybody else doing it either. And he would been in politics for over 40 years-- the campaign manager for candidates in New York City organizing minority voters in Ohio organizing for the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force. I have been doing political work my whole adult life. I have been doing organizing since I was a boy. And conventional wisdom among political practitioners is you do not talk to the people who are against you. OK note what he is saying here. It is not just that you do not try to swing them over to your side. You do not talk to them at all. You spend your time and energy talking first to people who completely agree with you to make sure they vote. And then you go to this tiny tiny tiny-- and I mean tiny-- universe of people who you have detected as quote-unquote undecided which itself is a very misleading term. And that is it. Until he said this to me it had never occurred to me that all the billions of dollars spent on politics in this country is mostly making messages that say you already love this or you already fear that. So here's how you should vote. There is not much effort to change anybody's underlying political beliefs to get your opponents to agree with you. So now Dave was going to send dozens of volunteers into Los Angeles neighborhoods that had overwhelmingly voted against them to talk. And because nobody ever does this field organizer Steve Deline says the first question was-- First-- I mean I will be honest. At first it was just seeing if we could even have a conversation with someone who did not agree with us. If they would even talk to us. That was literally the first part of the experiment. The organizers had assumed that these voters were against gay marriage because they did not know any gay people. And the first surprise was most of them did. But they would never sat down and had a real conversation about homosexuality in their lives. And figuring out what to say to these voters to change their minds about gay marriage? It took them a really long time to figure that out. It was not obvious at all how to do it. And they tried lots of stuff that just fizzled. And the missteps are actually kind of interesting because they point to what does not work and what does work to get any of us to change our minds. Like for instance the first thing that they tried was an appeal to idealism to principles. Stuff we all agree with. Like this is about equality. It is about the golden rule and treating each other the way we want to be treated. The problem with that they found is that it kept the conversation at this very rational reasonable intellectual level. And that is not where people make their decisions about issues like this. People make their decisions about how they are going to vote on this at a gut level. And at a visceral level. And at an emotional level. If anything talking to people about ideals like equality and what marriage means actually made canvassers miss opportunities to talk about stuff that would be way more effective. Like with this voter who voted against gay marriage for religious reasons. I have two very good male friends that want to get married. What are their names?  and . We are beeping their names to protect their privacy. And do  and  know how you feel about this issue? No. They do not. How do you think they would feel if they were aware of--  is a very good friend of mine. Extremely good friend of mine. And I think he would be disappointed. But he is never asked me how I felt about it. Sure. And so it sounds like you are very fair. You want people to have the same rights. A plane's coming in so it is hard to hear. But the canvasser's saying It sounds like you want people to have the same rights as other Americans. And right there Steve says by doing that the canvasser has made a mistake. Because she is moving the conversation away from the personal and the emotional towards these abstract ideas of equality and equal rights. It is kind of retreating from the thing that is probably on the canvasser's mind but she is maybe a little nervous to ask which is why do not you want  to get married if he means this much to you? Basically we do not know anything about . We do not know. When did she find out that he was gay? What did she feel like when she first found out that he was gay? Did it scare her? Was it no big deal? Have they been able to talk about it? Does she know his partner? All these things that would help us understand OK you know someone who is gay but you are still worried what might happen if he got married. So what is that all about you know? This is what they learned-- to stop telling people things. That they should have no road map for the conversation. Instead the canvassers could talk personally about their own experiences. That seemed to help and connect with voters. But that by itself was not enough. The most important thing they could do was they had to listen. And when the voter gave a clue about something that seemed real and emotional and important to them find out more. See where it leads. And I think the big revelation was that our job was actually to go and give them the chance to talk about their own life. And realize that maybe that led them to conclusions that were a little different than they would thought. The very first conversation that captured this new approach on video was this voter that they all came to call Mustang Man because the interview happened in the guy's driveway with this beautiful vintage Mustang that he was very proud of that had been his wife's. Some people say When my wife died it broke my heart. Well no. It did not break my heart. It put a hole in it. And it will not heal. My wife's been gone 11 years now. It feels more like 11 days. I have never gotten over my wife. The canvasser here is actually Dave Fleischer the guy whose idea it was to originally go out and talk to voters. And he does not say anything at all to this guy about ideals. He does not pitch him any reasons to vote for gay marriage. Instead he asks about the gay people in this guy's life. And mostly he just stands there as the voter just sort of connect the dots in his own life that he had never bothered to connect before. And then marriage I can even tell just the way you talk about her-- I would want these gay people to be happy too. I have got a gay couple across the street there. She is a lesbian. And I get along just great with them. In fact she parks her car in my yard because we got so many cars here people have no place to park in the street. So I let her park here. And they are wonderful people. They do not bother anybody. You do not see them trying to hit on other women or whatever. They are happy. Just like I was with my wife. You know this issue is going to come up for a vote again in the future. I would vote for it this time. Vote in favor of allowing gay and lesbian couples to marry? Why does that feel right to you? Let us see.  How would I say that? I would hope that they would find the happiness that I had with mine. If you could have that kind of relationship with your partner or the other sex I would say you are a very lucky person. Because I know I had it. But yeah that is what I would wish on them. That they would be as happy as I was with mine. Irrelevant by getting with the other sex.  It did occur to the organizers that as sincere as these conversations seemed maybe the voters were just being polite at the end. And when they said they would vote for gay marriage they were just saying what they thought the canvassers wanted to hear-- had not really changed their minds. Which is why they invited in two political scientists-- one from UCLA named Michael LaCour another from Columbia University named Donald Green-- who designed a case controlled study that was eventually published in the journal Science. Green told me that he expected the results would show-- Short-term effects. I thought that those effects would subside in a few days' time. He thought that because pretty much that is what always happens. It is rare for people to change your opinions. And it is temporary. Because very often in public opinion research which you tend to see in the wake of political events is a short-term bump followed by a kind of re-equilibration to a pre-existing baseline. In other words people go back to believing what they used to. And the big surprise was six months nine months a year after the canvassers visited the voters stayed changed. The researchers were so skeptical that this could be real that they did the entire study a second time-- a huge cost by the way. Hundreds of thousands of dollars. And again the same result. Professor Green says he and his colleagues have read 900 papers. And they have not seen anything like this result-- anyone who is changed people's views and it lasted like this. But there is an important details in their findings. The voters who talked to straight canvassers-- they changed their opinions. But it lasted just for a couple weeks. Then they went back to their original opinions. It was only the voters who talked to gay canvassers whose opinions changed and stayed changed a year later. For those voters the numbers are impressive. Before talking to the canvassers 47 of these voters supported gay marriage. Immediately after the canvas it jumped six points higher. And then a year later it was even higher than that. It was 62. A total growth of 15 which Steve Deline points out is-- More than enough added support to go from losing an election to winning one. By the way the control group-- voters who were not canvassed about gay marriage at all-- they also increased support for gay marriage that year. Because we live in a country where attitudes are changing on this issue everywhere. But the control group only rose by three percentage points much less than 15.  It seemed like they would invented something new a new tool to use to change people's opinions. But they wondered if it only applied to this one issue. And maybe they picked an easy target after all-- trying to flip people on an issue that the whole country was changing on anyway. So they decided to try the new technique with an issue where public opinion has been deadlocked for years. Abortion. These canvassers no surprise were pro-choice. And they teamed up with Planned Parenthood to do the canvassing. Hi. We are talking to registered voters in your neighborhood today about their views on abortion. A canvasser with a clipboard talks to a California voter through a screen door. The canvasser's young with tattoos and a halter top. The voter's older and heavy-set with wire-rimmed glasses. She is a nurse. And when asked where she is on a scale of zero to 10 where zero means women should have no access to abortion and 10 means they should have full access she says zero. She is Catholic from Mexico. And then they start this conversation. And here's how the canvasser tries to kick things off in a way that is going to get the voter talking about her real experiences and her real feelings on this very delicate issue. So abortion is not something that a lot of people talk about which is why we are out here today talking to people about abortion. Have you ever had a conversation with someone about your thoughts on abortion? My daughters. Your daughters? Yes. She says it was when they were teenagers when each first got her period. How did that feel for you to talk to your daughters? It is not easy. Especially because in my country they have taboos. A lot of taboos. My mother is one of the person never talking about sexual relations or conceptions. That is why I try to be very open with my daughters. My mother's from the Philippines. And my mother went through the same feeling. It is not something that you talk about. No. It is not. And my family is the same. My mother never talked to me about abortion. In fact it was a really scary thing to talk about. When I got my period I was 12 years old. What follows is just an intensely real conversation about their lives. The voter says that when she was six her mother miscarried a baby. But nobody explained what was going on to her. When she was 11 and got her period nobody explained what was happening and how scary that was. And so she tried to be different with her daughters. That is why she became a nurse to help women. Now and then the canvasser points out things and underlines things in the voter's life story nudging her to kind of connect the dots. Like when the voter talks about her daughters the canvasser says-- It sounds like you are very supportive of their choices even if you may not agree with them. I try to do. But mostly they just swap stories. And 15 minutes into this 22-minute conversation the canvasser reveals this. I had an abortion in November this past year. I am so sorry. It was not the wrong choice for me because that is what felt right for me. But I was alone. And it was scary. It was because I do not know how to talk about it with people. Like my family my mother loves me. And so does my papa and my sister. I know. But it is hard. And you carry it for the rest of your life. It is your decision. But you carry it for the rest of your life. One of the things that I struggled with in telling my family is this idea that my family is going to love me less. No. Never. Would you ever love your daughters less? No. Never. It is a moment that is simultaneously intimate and manipulative and honest. All at once. And it works. After this the canvasser asked the voter again to rate on a scale of zero to 10 where she stands on access to abortion. Remember she was a zero before. We have that same zero to 10 scale where zero means no access and 10 means full access. 10. A 10? Mm-hm. Researcher Michael LaCour is running a study about the abortion canvassing. This one has not been published yet. He is only been tracking the voters for 200 days so far. But preliminary data indicates that the canvassers did change people's minds. The number of voters who favored abortion to be legal in all cases grows five percentage points after talking to the canvassers. And the 5 stayed that way. They have not changed back 200 days later. But-- and this is the important but-- that change only happens when the canvassers are women who have had abortions who reveal that fact to voters. Other canvassers do not get the long-term change. So in a sense it is very similar to what happens with gay canvassers talking about gay marriage. When the people most affected by an issue show up at your door and talk to you that is the thing that can change your mind. Of course it was liberals doing this canvassing. So they pushed a liberal agenda. But researcher Donald Green says conservatives could probably use this technique just as productively. Probably so. I think it is a matter of again changing the face that people associate with a given issue. So you can imagine for example a conservative group doing this on something like school choice. So in other words parents or maybe even high school kids who had been in a certain kind of school would go out and go door to door and just talk in a heartfelt way about their experiences in school. That is right. Do you think it could work for abortion for the other side? Women who regretted having an abortion would go door to door and just talk about that in a real way. It could be. I think what is kind of interesting about this is that when I talk to professionals about this technique this does not inspire a lot of interest on their part. Because of course it cannot be done on a large scale at low cost. And they do not want to invest the kinds of resources and training and supervision necessary to generate an army of canvassers that can actually change minds. It is expensive. The Los Angeles LGBT Center spent nearly 2.5 million over four years and reached just 12000 voters. That is not many voters when you consider they last Prop 8 by 600000 votes. In a state like California with 17 million voters they would have to spend a real fortune to have an impact on any election. Cheaper by far to make a scare ad and run it on local TV around the state-- you know the way politics usually works.  Coming up getting criminals to change by giving them exactly what they want-- or one of the things they want anyway. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today on our program the incredible rarity of anyone changing their minds. We have stories today about why it happens in the rare instances that it does happen. We have arrived at Act Two of our program. Act Two Crime Pays. So Richmond California is right across the bay from San Francisco. And it has been a pretty violent place. Quick illustration of that. The city's police chief Chris Magnus-- at a press conference he holds up a cellphone to play a recording made at 1100 at night there.  He starts to put the cell phone down then realizes it is not over.  Back in 2006 Richmond was named the ninth most dangerous city in the country with 42 murders for a population of about 100000. Then they brought in a new police chief and started doing all kinds of things differently. And it worked. Homicides are now a third of what they were. Crime has dropped in a way that is dramatic and impressive. And police say that one of the things that helped is a program called the Office of Neighborhood Safety or ONS. Bland name for what is actually a very unusual program with one particular tactic that you do not hear about people trying very often. Joe Richman explains. The big aha moment for the head of ONS DeVone Boggan came when he was in a meeting with police officers. They told him a number-- that Richmond police believed that 70 of the shootings in the city involved just 17 guys. 17 people. And I will tell you I almost flipped out of my chair. Cause I was like 17 people? That is nothing. Boggan realized that if they could reach just those 17 guys and get them to change they could really make a dent in the problem. He asked the police for a list of those 17 names. He did his own research and added more names. To get on that list Boggan said you basically had to have shot someone. Next he put together a team of street outreach workers. All of them were from Richmond. Most had served time in prison themselves. And he sent them out to get to know the guys on the list and deliver this message-- come to a meeting and we will provide you with a lifestyle alternative that could change your life for the good. Boggan had no idea if any of them would come. The meeting was scheduled three months later. By that time a couple of guys on the list were dead. One was in jail. Four others were not interested. But the rest of the guys agreed. 21 guys. Boggan has a sense of theater. And rather than hold the meeting in one of the neighborhood community centers he had the men come to City Hall. The meeting took place in a fancy conference room with views of San Francisco across the bay. It is a square table. Great wood. It is a good room. They come in and they have name placards-- their full names not their street names. Information packets. Things to sign. We wanted them to walk into the room and go what the heck is this? But it was what Boggan did at the end of that meeting that really got everyone's attention both inside and outside of that room. I go into my pocket. And I pull out envelopes. And I handed each of the young men envelopes. And I told them to open the envelope. And they did. And they each had 1000 check. And they did not believe that it was real. 21000 in 1000 checks were given out that day. The message was that changing their lives should be treated like a job. But the money was also a type of marketing strategy because Boggan wanted the news to spread through the neighborhoods of Richmond. And it did.  That first meeting was five years ago. And since then they have done it every 18 months with a new group. Everybody do me a favor. If you have not signed the sign-in sign the sign-in after you have signed your paperwork. Date your paperwork. All of the guys in the meeting are African American. They are spread out evenly around the conference table behind name plates with Mr. in front of their names. But these guys look really young. Some of them are just 15 or 16. They definitely do not look like a city's worst criminals. It is different from the meeting five years ago because they have had so much success with the older guys. Now they say they are fishing upstream. Taking younger guys who have gotten in less trouble. This is the youngest group they have ever had. Today's meeting is led by Sam Vaughn one of the program's outreach workers. Everyone who shows up knows what is coming that they are going to get paid. Sam Vaughn tells them straight up. The problem is folk do not believe. They do not feel like you deserve it. Folk do not feel like-- that is a waste of money. Might as well save that money for the jail cell. We do not believe that that is the case. We are doing this because this community and this city cannot be safe without partnering with you. And you deserve it. So what would these guys actually do to deserve their money? They will put together a life map with specific benchmarks. And they will get checks as rewards-- for getting a GED a driver's license parenting and finance classes job training a job. For now the first step is to agree in writing to an 18-month process of change. And no gunfire. So if you all do not got a problem with that you all can sign the first sheet.  law school. So you can sign this again. So you sign both of them. As the guys sign their contracts Sam Vaughn passes out their first reward. It is not 1000 checks anymore. Just 100 Visa gift card. But they find it works just as well. That is 100 Visa gift card. All right? Pay your phone bill. Buy some kicks. Whatever it is you are trying to do. Thank you. You are more than welcome. Thank you. Thank you for making us a priority today. We appreciate you.   A few days later Sam Vaughn is driving around the neighborhoods of Richmond which is how he spends most of his work day. Across the railroad tracks into north Richmond. And we will ride around. We will see folks we know. We will hop out. And we will talk with them. Sometimes we are looking for folks. I am sorry hold on. ON THE PHONE Bro. I am all right. Sam Vaughn is an agent of change in the city of Richmond. That is his actual job title. Neighborhood change agent. And this is what changing someone's life often looks like. Tiny fixes. Being there to remove obstacles however small to keep the person on track. ON THE PHONE You just go up there and let them know you are trying to start a payment plan on a citation that you have got. You have got to give them 10 down and then you can pay monthly. So if you as not got the whole 400-- Sam's on the phone with a guy named Cardell who just joined the program. Cardell was stopped in Sacramento a while back and given a ticket for driving without a license. He never paid the fine. And today is his court date. Sam convinced Cardell to deal with it. So Cardell drove without a license to the courthouse in Sacramento to start paying his ticket for driving without a license. ON THE PHONE You have to make the minimum payment. All right bro. All right. Sorry. That happens a lot. Because most young people out here they never get their license because they have gotten tickets before they have gotten their license. And then they never pay their tickets because the cost of those tickets are insane especially after you failed to go to court. So now the seat belt ticket that was 92 now you owe 2200 a year later because you have not done anything. And you do not live at the address that they sent the ticket to. It is just chaos. And now I am ready to go to work. But I do not have a license. I have gotten to a place in my life where I want to do right. But there is so much holding me back. You kind of give up. So you just stuck in this life trying to find any kind of way to make a buck. And it definitely deflates them. It gets them to a place where why am I trying? And I am sorry this young man is at the desk calling me. ON THE PHONE Hey bro. Cardell calls back. ON THE PHONE Hold on. Hold on one second. He does not have his state ID number. I am so glad I brought this bag. But Sam does. Sam pulls the car over at a 7-Eleven digs out a manila folder and reads the number into the phone. ON THE PHONE Hello? It is F as in Frank. Driving around with Sam it feels as close to being with change expert as I can imagine. He is thought a lot about how people change. So I kept peppering him with questions with the word change in them. 24 questions. I listened back later and counted. I was looking for some theory about what it takes for people to transform themselves. And he tried to play along. So yes I know you are trying to get that little plug and that little one-liner. I just do not know how you are going to make it work.  I just do not. But changing your mind is the easiest part in the world. Saying This is something that I want to do. I believe that I can do this. I believe I can be a different man. I believe I can be successful. I believe I can be a good father. I believe I can stop using drugs. I believe I can get a job. And believing all these things is fantastic. But if I do not have the tools and the mechanisms t