A quick warning there are curse words that are unbeeped in today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version you can find that at our website thisamericanlife.org. There was this article that a comedy website put out last year. Did you see this one? This was when cities first started going into lockdown. The headline said Nation's dogs effing loving whatever is going on right now. Apparently that was not every dog. Lauren's dog Raffi 50-pound boxer mix was a kind of vigilant super protective dog even before the pandemic. And then once lockdown started-- The problem was everyone was ordering stuff online and there were a million delivery people coming. There was FedEx UPS USPS Amazon all day long. Or my neighbors would be coming and going. And the minute-- I could not even hear a delivery truck coming up the street and already the dog jumped on a chair that was near my window was peering out just fully at attention ears pricked up. That is when I started to see his anxiety amped up right? He could not get any rest. He could not calm down. In the house he was always barking and growling and could not settle down. The fact that Lauren was now home all day with him-- which for lots of dogs would have been the greatest thing that ever happened to them-- for Raffi just made things a lot worse. Dogs like him they need a break right? They need a break from the vigilance to say I do not need to guard this person anymore. This person's out of the house. I am chill. They need to not be on the job all the time. And I think that he was on the job all the time. And that was the problem. She took him to a behavioral veterinarian who told her that lots of dogs were going through this since the pandemic. They put Raffi on meds-- meat-flavored Prozac. It did not fix the problem. He got worse and worse. On walks he was suspicious of people which he had never been before. He ran across the room and burst through the door to chase and bite a FedEx delivery man. He lunged at someone on the stairs of the building. Lauren set up an appointment with a trainer who specialized in aggressive dogs. And finally Raffi attacked a little girl maybe eight or nine years old. Just burst through a latched gate at a community garden where dogs run off leash. Lauren was guarding the door to make sure nobody entered while Raffi was in there but he rushed past her to get to the girl breaking through the gate. And the girl fell down and the dog just got on top of her. Oh my God. So terrifying. I mean the dog probably weighed almost as much as the girl did. And I mean I was just devastated for the girl. The girl was upset and crying and walked away limping. Lauren's an experienced dog person. She worked with three different trainers when she first got Raffi to deal with his aggressiveness towards other dogs. But the fact that these attacks since the pandemic were completely unprovoked and on people the fact that the meds were not working that Raffi seemed perpetually agitated and just changed she thought about putting him down. She felt like she had no choice. And I wrestled with those things. I mean it is an excruciating decision to make. I have had dogs before that I have had to euthanize because they are old or they are sick. And you are putting them out of their misery. And this was a totally different experience because you are taking a perfectly healthy being that loves you more than anything that would do anything for you-- Well yeah. And in fact is trying to protect you. Right right and trusts you. But a completely unprovoked attack like that? There is nothing you can say about it. There is no way you can reason yourself out of what has to happen next. If you go after a kid you are done you know? She decided to put Raffi down. It is truly the most heartbreaking decision I have ever had to make in my life. It is the anniversary of the first COVID case in the United States. When you first heard of COVID could you have imagined that it would have touched you in this particular way that you would end up not having your dog? There is no world in which I would think that this would be the logical outcome of COVID that I would have to put my dog down that COVID would ever have any impact on my dog. I mean of all of the possible probable outcomes of a global pandemic my dog dying is not one that I could have ever imagined. There are certain consequences of the pandemic that we all know-- over 400000 Americans dead millions of people out of work kids everywhere having these terrible school years with distant learning. But there are all these other ways the virus has altered and shaped our lives. I was talking to this woman Cindy in Lincoln Nebraska about this thing that happened a few days after her dad died of COVID. She was bringing her minivan into the garage and realized oh right. My dad is not going to teach my son to drive. I think it was-- I was just parking. I think I was parking my own car and putting my hands on the keys and just thinking oh wait. That is another thing that we are going to miss now. Her son Harrison and her dad were really close. And she felt good knowing that her dad was going to teach him to drive. She says Harrison's really smart and funny but not everybody gets him. And he and my dad really got each other. And they could just hang out make funny jokes ask questions quiz each other. As a matter of fact I was just looking. I have a-- there is a toy plastic soldier sitting on my desk. When her dad had open heart surgery Harrison brought a few of these little plastic green soldiers to his hospital room. And said these will protect you while you are in the hospital Grandpa. And so my dad started staging battle scenes from his hospital bed. And there was candy and Kleenex. And then he would text them-- photos-- to my son and say hey Harrison look. Here's-- you know. Anyway those were the kind of things that they would just do with each other. Anyway driving-- not a huge thing just a small specific loss. Harrison's 16th birthday the birthday that you can get a driver's license was just a few weeks after her dad died. So who is going to teach him now? I do not know if we will have to-- I suppose we will take turns my husband and I. Yeah we have not talked about it anymore though. I think we all kind of know it is hanging there. And in some ways not moving on with it maybe is a way of still kind of that magical thinking of oh maybe we do not have to think about it another way even though we all know that is the reality. Cindy said this one thing to me that really caught me by surprise. We were talking about how since her dad died she is connected to this whole community of people online who have lost family members to COVID. And I asked her what people have said that is been helpful expecting her to say it is been comforting to talk to people who have been through what you have been through that kind of thing. But the most important thing she is gotten from it? I think some validation in the anger when you are surrounded by still some denial. People who say that the disease is not that serious. Yeah or that masks do not really work. After her father got sick Cindy says the car dealership where he worked told him that one of his co-workers had tested positive eight days before. So you are angry at his employers. Oh absolutely. And then you are angry at the government in general the way it was handled. The fact that we still have a functioning television in our house is probably a miracle because the number of times that I was ready to throw something when the occupant of the White House would talk about how this is no big deal it is going to go away. Because we clearly knew that that was not true. And after my dad got sick and then died I was just so angry. It is like we knew what we needed to do. We could have done something in this country. Have you heard Joe Biden talk about the empty chair? Yeah it was actually the final debate. My dad's date of death is October 20th. And the last debate was October 22nd. And I had heard that line. I have heard him use it before. And I know that is a part of-- kind of like one of the things maybe from the stump speech sort of thing. Right it is one of those things he said a million times. Right he said it a million times. And then I am sitting on the couch. And he looks at the camera and he talks about it again after my dad died. And it truly felt like oh right this is me now. This is my Thanksgiving. This is my Christmas. This is my son's 16th birthday. And somehow even though I knew he had said that line hundreds of times before I felt like he was looking through the television straight at me. I felt like he was looking at our whole family. And I felt like he was looking at all of us all of the other-- at the time it was only like 200000 families. Just three months later of course the numbers doubled. It is such a simple thing to acknowledge the loss that is all around us. Today on our program with the new president in office one year after the first coronavirus case was found in the United States-- it was in Seattle January 21st of last year-- here are stories about some of the things that have been lost this past year things we do not usually think about as part of that empty chair. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One Cops and Robbers. So what do you say exactly about what was lost two weeks ago on January 6th when rioters stormed the Capitol building? When reporter Emmanuel Felton watched that day out of all the footage he saw one video stood out to him. You might have seen this one. It is of a single Black officer. We would all later find his name Eugene Goodman. And in the video he is backing up a staircase holding off a mob of rioters with a tiny telescoping baton.   That gave Emmanuel the idea. He wanted to hear what the day was like for Black Capitol police officers who faced off with this mostly white mob a mob that showed up to the Capitol with Confederate flags and other symbols of white supremacy. What did they think about what happened? Eventually he got a few of these officers on the phone and they shared an insider account that is really unlike anything we have heard from the Capitol so far. Some of their experience of course was the same as white officers. But as you will hear some of it was very different. Emmanuel put together this next story from an interview with one of those Black officers. The Capitol Police officers their job is to protect the Capitol grounds and members of Congress. Because they are not allowed to talk to the press we needed to disguise this officer's identity. And so we had an actor copy his voice as closely as possible. A quick warning also-- this story contains a racial slur. Here's Emmanuel. The officer who I am calling Officer Jones was the person almost everyone told me I just had to talk to. Jones is warm and outgoing as hell. At one point he told me his love language is words of affirmation. He has a lot of feelings about his job. I talked to him on Friday just two days after the attack. He was a little stunned still processing everything that had happened and nursing some injuries. Just scrapes cuts bruises bloody knuckles. I got me some work in I tell you that.  But I did see two dead bodies. Three if you include my co-worker. But he was not dead at the time. I have never been in a war. I am not a veteran but I can imagine that is what the fuck war looks like. Yeah. I can imagine that so. The day had not started that way at all. That morning he was posted on the east side of the Capitol building. A friend of mine screenshotted me an Instagram story saying we are breaching the Capitol today guys. I hope you are all ready. Officer Jones thinks it was from the Proud Boys. And I am like wait what? I laughed at it and I was like please. They as not coming in here. Everybody say that.  Of course we know by now that is exactly what happened. Not long after 100 he says people were coming from everywhere. And then over the radio they called out that they breached the first fence line or security. It was like wait a minute. All right guys. This is going to get real. He raced over to the west side of the Capitol the side that faces the mall where the stage was set up for inauguration and joined the police line as they tried to beat back the crowd with their fists and batons pepper spraying them and yelling Get back! Get back! Have you ever been in a fight like that? No not like that. No way. These people were deranged and they were determined. I have played video games before. Well you know zombie games-- Resident Evil Call of Duty. And the zombies are just coming after you and you are just out there. I guess that is what I could relate it to-- Call of Duty zombies. And the further you go the more and more zombies just coming. You are just running running running. And they would not stop. You are seeing they are getting their heads cracked with these batons and we are spraying them and they do not care! It was insane. Once the rioters broke into the Capitol around 200 Officer Jones rushed inside to try and help out. He was not following any instructions because there were not any. He realized that as he listened into his radio. The Department was attempting to come up with a plan-- attempting to come up with a plan because that was said on the radio We need to come up with a plan. Whoa.  I was thinking to myself wait why do not we have one already? So the officers came up with their own strategy. They linked up in teams of two and ran around the building responding to distress calls coming in over the radio. Priority calls which meant everyone stopped and listened. They were pouring in. So when you are used to hearing priority maybe once every two or three days and you are hearing it once every 30 seconds-- priority we have an officer down. Priority we have an officer trapped surrounded by protesters. Priority we have a person having a medical emergency. We need DC Fire to this location. Priority they just breached the windows. Priority they are breaking the glass. Priority they are headed up to the House chamber. Priority shots fired. And you are thinking what in the hell is happening? While responding to these distress calls Officer Jones got into some really surprising and intense conversations with the rioters like when he and his partner were responding to a call for help from a fellow officer and ran into a crowd of 30 or 40 rioters headed straight for an area full of injured cops. I sent the guy I was with-- I told him to go ahead and respond to the other call and I will stand here and I will hold this hallway. And I took them all by myself. I made an impassioned plea to them. I said Listen. You have the nerve to be holding a Blue Lives Matter flag and you are out there fucking us up. Please go the fuck home. You do not care about us. How can you care about us and you are doing this to us? We got dozens of cops incapacitated and hurt now. And when I said that a lot of them stopped and paused and was like wait you all got cops down? How many cops are down? And they looked like they had a moment of like holy fuck. And then they snapped back out of it. And it was like hey guys. Man we are doing this for you. And then one of the guys it was a group of like seven people walked by. And two of them in the back say Hey listen man. I know what you are going through and he pulled out his badge. A police badge. And the other guy had his badge. I was like wait you got to be kidding. And I wanted to go up and snatch it. I wanted to find out who the fuck they were. And me I am the only Black dude standing in front of them. Yeah. So what did they do? They looked at me. They yelled at me. They were yelling at me. And I would not let them go past. They all want to go past me? I am going to beat all your asses. One by one I am going to deck all of you all. Come on. And that is when one of the guys that was a cop said Hey man we are going to stand here with you. I was like No get the fuck out of my building. He was like This is our building. And I was like This is my goddamn building. I am in charge here. Get the fuck out. And that is when I started losing my temper even more. I mean I got tears streaming down my face. Later that day when he was even more drained he had another confrontation this one about politics. It happened near the rotunda when Officer Jones was trying to protect a critical hallway. There was something like 70 of them this time. The attackers he was facing off with started justifying what they were doing. Listen they told him. We cannot let them overtake our democracy. We are stopping this deal man. Then I started-- actually I got baited into a conversation. I did not get baited because I wanted to fucking engage him. And the guy was telling me. I was like Yeah I voted for Joe Biden. So the fuck what? I was like What? Do I not matter? Am I a liar? I voted for Joe Biden. So the fuck what? So tell me I do not fucking matter. I was like What? Oh I gotta agree with you? I gotta agree with you? If I do not what? You are going to kill me? I think that so much of Trump and his supporters' anger and inability to accept their loss in the 2020 election boils down to the idea that Black votes just should not count. The president has continuously attacked Black voters. He has claimed that there was widespread fraud in a number of cities with large Black populations cities like Atlanta Detroit Philadelphia and he has demanded that thousands of votes be thrown out because of it. But this crowd was a lot more mm direct. They were lighting into me. Oh this nigga voted for Joe Biden. And he yelled it to his crowd the crowd and they booed. Eventually reinforcements from other police departments arrived to help clear out the building. It was a little before 500 when things finally calmed down enough that officers were told to take a few seconds to send an I am OK text to loved ones. When Jones looked down at his phone he had something like 70 text messages and over 30 missed calls. Not long after that he finally got a chance to sit down catch his breath and take it all in. I did not even think about race until we got everybody out. And I sat down with one of my buddies and tears just started streaming down my face. Now obviously all the commotion has ended so it is just law enforcement in there and FBI suits and all these suits walking around. Everybody-- you know the important people show up once all the fucking mess is done. Right. And I am just sitting there covered in fucking tear gas and OC spray. And I am looking at my buddy. He put his arm around me another Black guy. And I was like-- I was like you got-- look at him look at him. They are just sitting there smiling sitting there hand shaking each other. He means the FBI guys and other law enforcement. What the fuck are you smiling about? What the fuck are you smiling about? And I am furious. And that is when I said I am so sick and tired of this shit. These were racist-ass terrorists! And I am screaming. I am in the rotunda and it echoes. So it was loud as shit. Everybody stopped and they turned around and looked at me. And I was like What the fuck are you all looking at? Nobody should be OK. We just fought for five fucking hours with some fucking racist terrorists. I said I got called a nigger 15 times man. Yeah. Fuck yeah. I am trying to imagine as a Black man what it was like having the N-word hurled at you seeing that kind of ugly racism. It broke my heart. Like I said that is why I had my breakdown in the rotunda. And I just sat there and I cried. I cried. I cried for about 15 minutes and I just let it out. I was done. I was mentally exhausted. I was physically exhausted. And I did not have anything left to give. And it just hurts so much. And then I looked at my buddy. And I remember I said Is this fucking America yo? What are we doing? I was like what is happening? I have been thinking a lot about what January 6th says about America. When I think about that day I remember the photos I saw early that morning of Black poll workers in Georgia bravely counting the runoff ballots in the middle of a pandemic and under threat from Trump supporters how that afternoon I saw video of a Black officer Eugene Goodman protecting Mike Pence and lawmakers from the insurrectionists and later that night watching a video of Black Capitol staff cleaning up the mess the rioters left. Through all the attacks everywhere I looked it was Black people doing the job of making our democracy work. It was a job Officer Jones continued to do the day after the attack. He went straight back to work. With continuing threats the Capitol Police have had to work around the clock. 16-hour days have become the norm. He is had just one day off in the two weeks between January 6th and Inauguration. I talked to him a few days before. So you are back at work now. What does it feel like to be at the Capitol today? You look around and you see all these soldiers here. You look around and you see unscalable razor wire fences around here. And as an officer who got his ass whooped a couple of days ago you feel good. Hell yeah. Come back try it again. We got help now. Try it again. So as an officer I am like yeah. But as just a person American citizen Black man you feel like what the hell? Is this normal now? Is this what we got to do to prevent this from happening? It is-- man. It is-- ugh. There is a long list somewhere of things we thought could never happen. And so many of them have been lost struck off the list disappeared in the last year. This was just the latest one. In my conversations with the officers it felt like we were saying sure there are a lot of racists in America. But this? That they could storm the Capitol that they could shut down our government that left us in awe. That was new. Emmanuel Felton-- he writes about race and inequality for BuzzFeed News. He checked in with Officer Jones on Inauguration Day this week. Officer Jones said he was glad they were going to inaugurate the president that the rioters did not want to see inaugurated in public in their faces he said. But when the actual day came he did not get to enjoy it himself. He did not see any of the speeches or the performances. He was working on the east side of the building far from the action. The actor whose voice you heard saying Officer Jones's words is Gbenga Akinagbe. You can see him in the upcoming FX Hulu series The Old Man with Jeff Bridges and John Lithgow. Coming up we share something with you that you need that is missing from your life that you may not even have noticed how much you need this. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program The Empty Chair. We have stories about things that have been lost this past year things that seemed worth noting as we head into whatever new chapter is going to unfold this year. We have arrived at Act Two of our program. Act Two 50 Shades of Shade. So here is something else that we have all lost since the pandemic. It almost feels too small to mention but really I think is pretty significant. Rachel Connolly noticed this. She is a writer in London. Our producer Lilly Sullivan talked to her. To understand why this thing Rachel's missing matters so much let us start with a little story about two brothers. OK fab. So we just call them Frank and Stephen. They are slightly different ages. Frank is the older brother and he is kind of shorter less handsome. Stephen's kind of the handsome brother. But Frank is kind of more gregarious and charming and this kind of really funny guy. So they both are kind of attractive in different ways. This happened at the beginning of the pandemic. The brothers had moved back to their hometown for lockdown in a kind of surreal second adolescence back with their parents social distance hanging with people they would kind of known in high school. Frank and Stephen-- not their real names-- are in their early 20s. They would spent the day drinking outside with someone they would grown up with. And she is called Beth. And Frank the less handsome but funny one he is always had a thing for Beth. And he is kind of like you know what? I have been meaning to do this for years. This night is going to be our night. And he said this to Stephen. Like I think this is going to be the night it finally happens. And so they were drinking all day. And Frank just got drunker and drunker and drunker because people do do that when they want to do something but do not want to kind of be responsible for doing it. They were kind of-- Absolutely. Yep. So he got by the end of the day totally plastered slurring his words just telling the same story over and over again. And Stephen was like I am just going to do the nice thing here and just bring you back Frank. You are too drunk and it does not look good. Stephen tells Beth I am going to be a good brother here. He takes Frank home and puts him to bed. Which is all very charitable-seeming. But once he had done this he then went back to Beth's house-- cycled back as well not even walked. And guess what happens next? Sex. Sex is what happened next between Beth and Stephen the younger brother the more handsome but less funny brother who had not liked Beth since childhood. This is what we used to call gossip. It is the way conversation used to be before the pandemic took it away from us. I found Rachel because she wrote an essay about how she suddenly noticed its absence. She put her finger on this thing that I have been feeling too. She wrote This was the year when everything happened and nothing happened. And I quickly got bored of talking about the news-- almost always bad-- or asking people what they would been up to-- almost always nothing. Just Zoom calls with the same people to have essentially the same conversation which was like what have you done today? How is lockdown? Everyone safe? And then it would be like so what is going on? And everyone would be like nothing actually really. Not really much on. Oh that is so true though that moment when people are like So what is new? And you are like Nothing. Yeah. The thing about this story Rachel does not even know these people. Yep no. Not at all. No. She thinks she maybe met one of the brothers at a party once. She just heard this story from a friend of hers. He is the one who knows Frank and Stephen. The best kind of gossip of course is about people you know. But she did not have that. And she was so hungry for it. It turns out in a pinch-- or in a pandemic-- strangers will do. You cannot sleep with the person your brother likes. You just like-- Do you think it is so bad? I am not sure. I kind of think it is one of those drunk things where it is like if it is someone's liked them from a teenager I am like do they even like them or is it just like-- is this-- is it just someone who is here and has always been here? Oh my god. Yeah. Rachel and I are both living without kids or extended family. We have not lost our jobs. Neither we nor our loved ones got very sick. I recognize how dumb our concerns are compared to what so many people's lives have been but we both noticed a thing that over the course of the pandemic had kind of drifted away while we were not paying attention-- the ability to socialize like a normal person. Talking it turns out is like a muscle. And when you do not use it much for months on end it can atrophy. Rachel remembers the first time she went out to meet up with more than one person. I was literally like-- the next day I felt like I had run a marathon or had done this extraordinary feat of endurance when it was just having a conversation with more than one person for a couple of hours. It was like a job. You have to really focus on what you are saying. You have to focus on your body language. I felt this also. Friends would get in touch and want to go for a walk. I am like mm it sounds awkward. I will see you after the pandemic. It is not that I do not want to see people. There is just no fuel for conversation. Stuff from before the pandemic is too old to talk about now. So what are you supposed to talk about when there are no situations? So Rachel started doing this thing that I thought was pretty brilliant. She started asking people got any gossip about anyone? And it kind of worked. Conversation was easier when you were talking about the tailor who lied about her husband's death to avoid an uncomfortable conversation about a missing shirt or the guy who'd hooked up with his roommate and it did not work out and should he move now? I could talk your ear off about a friend of mine whose fianc broke up with her during couple's therapy-- remote couple's therapy over Zoom. How my friend watched her fianc dump her from their laptop screen even though they were sitting side by side on their bed. This kind of talk it was not exactly normal like before but it was good enough like pretty decent fake meat. It is like that story about the two brothers. It delivers the thrill of being scandalized and that demented little bond you feel when you huddle up with someone and judge people together. Clearly the younger brother Stephen was wrong the handsome snake. But also Beth they are brothers. Did you really have to do that? But actually hold that thought. There is more. Here's the rest of the story. Frank the funny one he did not know his brother had slept with Beth. And about a week later he also sleeps with Beth the crush he would put dibs on back in like eighth grade. He was really excited about it. And he was sitting with a group of friends a few days after kind of boasting they were going to have a lockdown thing and that this has finally happened. And then one of these friends was like oh wait but do you know about Stephen? I am presuming you do. And Frank was like what? And then yeah it was broken to him by this and also broken in front of a kind of group of people. And then he kind of had to row back and be like I was not serious about this. I did not mean we were going to have a lockdown thing which is obviously always-- it is always mortifying when you have been talking earnestly about something and then it is revealed that you did not have a piece of information that other people has. Completely yeah. Frank called Beth and told her the whole lockdown thing was off. He and his brother had a big falling out. And Beth was really sad because it turns out she actually liked Frank back the same way he liked her. The thing with Stephen was just a drunk hookup. Frank was the real thing. Oh really? She was like we could have had a lockdown thing. Yeah she was like the lockdown thing is off the cards but it should not have been. That should not have been the way it went and I should have told him. She was confiding all this in a friend who we will call Sarah who then goes off and sleeps with Frank even though Beth had just told Sarah how much she liked him. I like that everyone behaved as a human does which is like everyone is self-interested. People do do things out of a vengeance and spite. But that is just normal behavior. It is part of life. And I think when we were discussing different chapters of the story one person would be totally appalled by the fact that someone would do something. And another person would be like yeah no I would do that. I would kind of been dreading this interview just like I dread talking to anyone these days. My social skills are rusty. I worried that we would run out of things to talk about. I had actually postponed our call for a week because of that. But it is really fun to talk with you about this and I am like oh my God I am totally paying attention. I am following everything she is saying. I am relating. I am operating successfully as a human. As a human yeah. That was a joke. I understood that it is a joke. A lot of the times I do not. My joke receptor was-- It was very funny and I enjoyed it. I did enjoy it. I realized it is one of the most fun conversations I have had in months. It is not about shit talking people. It is about the shit talking itself and the fact that we are doing it together. I have not even told you the last part of the story. Beth's mad at her friend Sarah for sleeping with the guy she liked. So she tells this other friend Sarah's a slut. And then that other friend turns around and tells Sarah Beth called you a slut. This peripheral friend is like well I have now become part of this. She completely inserted herself into the thing. Actually to me this is the worst is like inserting yourself in just with no other-- Yeah she did not eve