From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. OK. So we are going through the gate here into the park? Yeah we are going-- this is our morning-- this is the morning walk into the park. See everybody will split up into their different sections and get the park open. And we will start putting out prizes and-- We are at an amusement park in Kansas City Missouri called Worlds of Fun. We are going to be spending the entire hour today at amusement parks. It is five minutes before opening and I am walking with Cole Lindbergh who is 25 with permanently-mussed hair and the cheerful vibe of the Bosom Buddies-era Tom Hanks. He is been coming to this park since he was a little kid started working here as a summer job at 14 and then basically just never left. It became his real job. 11 years later he is a full-time year-round employee. I love amusement parks. Any time my family would go on vacation we would schedule it around an amusement park because I love roller coasters. I loved amusement parks. I mean I have walked-- this pathway that we are taking right now-- I have walked it thousands and thousands and thousands of times. When he was little his family had season passes here and they would come a lot. He would travel to any new roller coaster to try it out daydreamed about a job where he would design parks and build roller coasters. And when his dad drove him here at the age of 14 for a job interview-- he wore a suit to that interview-- just sitting inside the park's offices which are utilitarian-- picture the principal's office at a public high school-- even that was exciting. I remember being like oh wow. This is the inner sanctum. This is the inner workings. This is where all the cool stuff happens. And then the first time actually getting in the uniform actually working at the park-- I remember to me it was like wow. This is surreal. I am actually working in an amusement park now. And to me that was kind of like awesome. That was awesome. I am so excited about this. You might think that enthusiasm would diminish over time. But what is incredible about Cole is that even after a decade here even after becoming an adult and working 60- 70-hour weeks every week all summer even with the pressure in his current job of running a whole department and hitting financial targets and buying all the supplies and hiring and supervising over 100 young people he is still pretty psyched about working at an amusement park. And it is not a glamour job. The department Cole runs is the games department at Worlds of Fun. This is 32 games the kind that you would see at any carnival or midway where you get three softballs to try to throw them into a milk can or you throw beanbags at targets or you shoot darts to knock over a stack of cups. Nobody comes to an amusement park for the games. Cole himself never went to an amusement park for the games. But he is an extrovert and he has filled the department with extroverts like Mallory. The park is barely open-- hardly any customers here at all-- when Cole stops by her game on his morning rounds. Yeah Mallory loves talking on the mic. Mallory does a good job on the mic. WHISPERING Thank you! I appreciate it. Let us hear it. Go for it. Try to get people to play. All righty. We are over here at three-point challenge today looking for out first winner! You come on over here. You have 40 seconds on the clock 12 shots up and you could be walking away with some awesome prizes! We have-- This is exactly how Cole trains the kids to talk on the mic. Do not stop. Get a flow. Have fun. If you have fun that is what is going to sell the game. Watching Cole run the games department at Worlds of Fun is watching somebody who was raised here and who completely thoroughly mastered everything. It is rare to witness somebody so happily great at any job. All right. Let us gather around guys. Is there still people in cash patrol? Anybody know? It is the first shift meeting of the day. About 30 teenagers and college kids mill around a big tree before their shifts start. All right guys. Listen up. Gather round. Let us do this. Here we go. Shh. Quiet please. Real quick. Real quick. Here we go. Today is Saturday. Oh yeah! Today is a busy day. Today is the day that we have a very good day because there are going to be a lot of people playing games. And today of course is one of my favorite days of the season. It is the second round of the Sweet 16 Tournament. Let us take a look. Sam do you want to hold this up a little higher? OK. We have got-- One of the guys Sam holds up a poster board with tournament brackets on it like for any sports tournament. The Sweet 16 Tournament pits the kids in all 32 games in the park against each other in pairs in a four-week competition to make the most money. Last week half the games were eliminated. Cole is here letting the remaining games know who they are competing with today. We have Pigs of Fury Bullpen versus Goblet Toss Lion's Den. Now-- can you hold that for me real quick? Now-- wait hold on! Before we go any further could this possibly be a precursor for today? Yesterday the number-one game in the park was Scale Africa.  OK. Scale Africa is a scale-- a game where they guess your weight or age. And it is in the Africa part of the park hence Scale Africa. And it is no surprise that it is number one. It always makes tons of money. All the games in the park are grouped together into four different teams which they call Games I Games II Games III and Games IV. And these four teams-- Games I through IV-- compete against each other all summer long like teams at summer camp in a three-month-long color war. Most other amusement parks do not go this far to make things interesting for the workers. This park Worlds of Fun is owned by a company called Cedar Fair that owns 11 amusement parks and six water parks. And Cole knows the guys who run the games departments at the other parks. And some of them do competitions like this between the employees. But I do not think they do it to the extent of what we do. Yeah we-- every year I talk about-- we had the Death Match Tournament. We have the Sweet 16 Tournament. A couple years ago we did a thing called Toss the Boss. And basically what happened was is that every single day I would pull a game out of the hat. And if that game was the number-one game in the park for that day then that section would get to throw me in the pond. The pond is not a good-looking pond. It is gross and it smells. And the deal was is that if you are the number-one game in the park you get to throw me in the pond. So finally one day the game that he picked from the hat that day tried their hardest and actually became the number-one game in the park for the day. And-- Ready? 1 2 3!   D'oh! Of course they made a video about this because it is present-day America. And Cole went and told his peers his colleagues-- the guys who run the games departments at the other parks-- all about what happened. I go and I tell the other parks about this. And I showed a picture. Like oh there is me all soaking wet. And I got laughed at. Like why would you ever do that? And to me in my mind I was just like why would you not do that? Why would you not want to get people excited about working in the game that they are in? At least they may try. They may do a little bit more. And if I can get a little bit more out of them we are good even if the game only makes a little bit more money. Also it is more fun for the kids. Exactly. It is all about more fun. All right. So there is a lot of people in the park today. Now I have composed a song about today which I now want to sing for you. Everybody close-- And you can all sing along.  OK. SINGING Saturday. It is Saturday Saturday Saturday Saturday. So wait what day is it? I forgot. It is Saturday. Oh OK. SINGING Today I do not feel like riding any rides. Whistle whistle. SINGING I just want to play all the games. And I really like playing Mamba Ball-- win a giant top frog or a big basketball. Yes today I do not feel like riding any rides just playing games. SINGING Whoo-hoo! Whoo! Whoo-hoo hoo hoo hoo hoo hoo! All right. Let us have a good day guys. Everybody in all right?  All right. Games on three! 1 2 3! Games! All right. Let us have a good day. Well today on our radio show we go to amusement parks all over the country. We see stuff backstage that we had no idea was going on like that song. We hear Jonathan Goldstein's story about moving to the Jersey Shore for a summer when he was 16 and we hear your stories. We asked you to call in with your amusement park stories and you told some great ones. Today's show was recorded and first broadcast a few years ago when you could attend amusement parks without wearing a face mask or taking precautions to avoid a deadly and deeply-contagious coronavirus. Let us return to those happy days shall we? It is summer. It is hot. Let us spend an hour at a really fun place at a safe social distance-- in fact the safest imaginable-- that is over the radio. Let us ride the rides. Let us gorge out on terrible great food together for an hour. Cue the roller coaster sound now!  Stay with us. Act One. Gameboy Grows Up. Following Cole Lindbergh around on his early-morning tour of Words of Fun park I learned a couple things. First of all people play the games because they want to win the prizes. And so an important part of his job is actually guessing what prizes are going to excite people. We kind of just go it is what it is. Oh I have got to show you the lemur. Do you want to see what a lemur is? Yeah. People love these. This is a lemur. People play for this all the time. This is one of our number-one prizes. Really? Yeah. Who'd have thought? It is a fluorescent-colored monkey the size of a teddy bear with huge eyes and a super-long tail. When they put it into the dart game the dart game became one of the most popular games in the park-- doubled its business. I also learned that Cole invents games. You like Angry Birds right? We round a corner and I see why he asked. What we are looking at right now is a giant slingshot with a launcher that you launch basically beanbags at pigs. And we built this. So you got permission from the Angry Birds people-- Well-- This turns out to be an awkward question. Cole points out that this slingshot game is not actually called Angry Birds. It is called Pigs of Fury-- Pigs of Fury. So now this is one of our number-one games. People love shooting a giant slingshot. Before I flew out to Kansas City to meet Cole I watched his YouTube videos online. Yes he has YouTube videos and I heartily recommend them. They are shot directed and starring Cole. They are low-tech. They are low-budget. In this one he wears a Viking helmet and a fake mustache and wire-rimmed glasses. And he is walking through a video arcade. Those are his echoey footsteps that you are hearing. Next he is inside what looks like-- you know those old arcade machines with the mechanical claw that picks up prizes? This one is big enough for a person to stand inside and Cole is inside it surrounded by huge stuffed animals. And he raps. RAPPING I give out prizes when you come play my games. If you see me with a mic I guess it is your birthday. I am a really cool guy because I make winners every day. Win a bear a dog and a giant mon-kay. OK I am going to stop the video right there. When he says a bear a dog and a giant mon-kay then we have three quick shots of stuffed animal prizes-- a bear a dog and a giant mon-kay. RAPPING Sometimes people just do not play games. I am asking how they are doing and they say No way! As the video continues the teenagers on his staff join him. And they are all dancing around and they are hitting whack-a-mole moles on the beat. And everything that they do in this video is so deeply uncool that you know that they must really like and trust each other. And their total commitment to what they are doing actually flips the dorkiness and makes it cool. RAPPING Get it in the can. Get this ball right in that can. You can do it man. Just get this ball right in that can because all I want to do is--   RAPPING And--   SINGING Come play my games.  RAPPING All I wanna do is--  --and--   RAPPING Come play my games.  RAPPING All I wanna-- There are over a dozen videos all set in the amusement park with the stuffed animal prizes always playing surprisingly central roles like the sci-fi special effects movie they made where a mysterious ray from outer space hits and the stuffed animal prizes all come to life seeking vengeance. Key line? The prizes attacked me. I was in my game. The earth shook. And next thing I knew I was being pummelled by bears! The only semi-normal video of the bunch is a training video. This one opens on Cole. He is in a suit and tie in front of a bookcase reading a book.  He looks up startled as if the camera surprised him. Hello. How are you? I was just reading. Welcome to the World of Fun Games Training Video. My name is Cole. I will be taking you on this wonderful journey. Here. When he says wonderful journey he mugs at the camera with this gesture that communicates the idea I know this is completely ridiculous. In fact the entire video seems to be making fun of the idea of training videos while at the same time it is a training video explaining how to sign in how to use the till card how to stock prizes. I saw these videos and all I could think of was these people really love their jobs. And I thought about Michael Scott the fictional boss on The Office. I would say that there is a lot of Michael Scott in this job. I would say there is a lot of Michael Scott in me probably. I do silly things that everybody looks at me later and go why did he do that? Why was it deemed necessary for Cole to dress up wearing a big beard and a raincoat and tell everyone he lived downtown under the bridge and he was there to motivational speaker them today? GRAVELLY VOICE Hi everybody. I am Phil Bridges-- and go out and talk to people. What went through his thought process? And I have run out with a squirt gun all the time. I got my big Super Soaker. And on busy days I will take the Super Soaker and I will fill it up with ice water and I will sneak around the corner and just-- they are all standing there and I will just go light them up! and just spray across the whole group. That is what makes it fun! They are going to remember Phil Bridges more than anything else throughout the day. And so if they are talking about Did you guys see what Cole did at the shift meeting? even if they say that was stupid or that was not funny they are still going to be talking about it. And that is still going to get them happy about this job. So does that work in practice? After all if you think about it amusement park jobs are not on their face very fun you know? Taking tickets strapping people into rides convincing passersby to throw three balls into a can. Well the Saturday that I visited turned out to be one of the busiest hottest days of the summer. There was a concert at the park which brought in thousands of extra people. And of course this was Sweet 16 round two which did seem to matter to the kids. Before the shift Haley and a couple of the other kids from Games III pulled Cole aside and crowded close so kids from other teams could not see. So this is-- you have a secret weapon that is going-- A secret weapon. They are going-- Secret weapon. --to show you the secret weapon and what-- It is a-- And do not let anybody see it. --guaranteed victory. Guaranteed victory. It is a banana costume.  So-- A banana. --is that-- You made the costume? I made the costume yeah. Because she is awesome. Because we have a game with bananas that is in Sweet 16. That is right. So we are going to have somebody running around in this costume to try to sell it. It is kind of big and it is kind of rough because I did not-- OK I see. --use a pattern. Wait David's coming. Put it away. Put it away. Did you just go buy fabric? No I have had this fabric. So this is the head hole the arms hole. And it is going to look like the bananas in Lion's Den. I like it. We are pumped. Is that exciting? I like it. That is more than exciting. People are going to be stopping taking pictures. Oh maybe I will win one too. Meanwhile the guys in Games IV were doing great in Sweet 16. All their games had survived the first round. Games I was eliminated completely in the first round of Sweet 16. As for Games II Max and Okson are pulling a double shift hoping to break the record for how much has ever been made-- ever-- in their two games. Their not-so-secret strategy? All right. So strobe light strobe light. You want two blacklights out there. Max and his team leader Dominic are setting up at a game called Roll-A-Ball which is one of the older games in the park. Basically it is just skee ball. But as you get points it moves a little wooden pig which is in a race with all the other riders. This does not make any sense. It actually does not matter. Here's what you need to know. Games II is hoping to turn this creaky 16-year-old game Roll-A-Ball which never does well into a crazy dance party they call Techno Ball. Max and Dominic have brought in a disco ball. They brought in lighting gear. And Dominic is explaining to Max how he wants to set it all up. You are going to put a light on that toy chest. You are going to put a light on that box. They are shining at the disco ball. The disco ball is going to be moving. If it is all dark in here people will want to walk on it. They will be like Whoa what am I stepping on? Whoa lights!  I know. Maybe it will be too much for people to handle. Half an hour before the park opened Haley and Claire had gotten to work early and were down in Games III by Scale Africa. We wanted to set out the most prizes that we could make the piles extravagant do a lot of flash. And that takes a lot of time. So we came out here early. So just describe what we are looking at. There is a pyramid here of-- Turtles. And there is pandas lions. There is going to be one of tigers. There is going to be one-- Each pyramid has over 100 stuffed animals in it which is bigger than I think you are probably imagining it. It is nearly waist high. And so there are four big pastel-colored piles of plush toys right in the middle of the walkway looking so so easy to win. Basically-- Every prize we have got. Every prize we have got yeah. We are throwing it out here. We are going big or go home. We really want to win. We brought in streamers balloons energy drinks. We got a whole bunch of energy drinks. We got a whole bunch of Gatorade. We brought in food for everyone. --everyone stays energized get pumped up for the whole day. We really want to win. We lost Death Match in a very painful battle. Years ago I was the lead of Games III. This was my section. Cole gets just as excited as the kids do when you get him talking about all the fun things that he did back when he was Haley and Claire's age working here running Games III. His team would dress as pirates for the guessing game. And they would be out at the scale and they would do guessing pirates. Gaar your age be-- gaar! Stuff like that. 2004 came around-- we dominated. We beat everyone. It was awesome.  And I-- so I am-- It is still so alive for him. They dominated in 2004 by tricking out one of the games with music and all kinds of commotion and turning it into a party doubling its take for the day. We brought my fog machine in from home because at the time I was in high school and I had a band. And people flocked to it. And we destroyed Games II. We destroyed them that year. It was the happiest I would been because in 2003 we had gotten so close to winning. And I just kept on saying 2004's the year. Games III. We are bringing the Sweet 16 back. 2004. And we did. We won. And I was really happy. What am I going to guess for you? I can guess your age weight or birthday month. Late morning when I checked back at Games III the pyramids of plush toys looked pretty much exactly as big as they had earlier that morning. Things were slow. And to goose the business one of the supervisors Sarah was standing on the roof of this little hut. 88 more guesses-- Beautiful. --until I am coming-- Thank you. --off the roof. She is staying on the roof until-- I am staying here for 100. --she gets 100 guesses. I am here until I get 88 more guesses. And then I am going to allow myself to take a bathroom break. So any of you guys walking by if you guys want to come play my game help me out get me off this roof-- it is only 5 to play. I can guess your age weight or birthday month. This is a technique that I recognize from 1000 Public Radio pledge drives and it was working about as slowly for her as it works for us. Strangers just do not care if some girl on the roof gets to take a bathroom break. I am stuck here until I can get 88 more people to play. Seriously? And all you people do not want to help me out. Thanks. Peace. Thanks for the luck. You should come-- I dare you guys to come feel these turtles. It sounds like a weird thing but we really have the softest turtles in town. You should feel one. They are really soft. After a while Sarah switched technique and finally managed to rustle up a crowd through the simple tactic of making a series of insanely-terrible guesses. First there is a dad who looks like he is 42 and in fact is 42. Sarah guesses 25. Then a grandmother who is standing there with kids and grandkids-- Sarah writes her guess for this woman's age on a whiteboard. This could be really wrong. I get the feeling it is really wrong but that is OK. We will see. You guys like this guess? Maybe? All right. Turn around. How old are you? I am 52! I guessed you are 37. It is sunglasses. Sunglasses really throw me off. But congratulations! You get to pick out any prize you want. Later Sarah privately confirmed for me that she did intentionally take a dive which is fine with Cole because it turns out it does not matter if the kids guess right. The game costs 5 to play. The prizes cost less than 5. Sarah can be wrong with every single guess and they would still make a nice profit. In fact it is good to lose because people carrying prizes around the park are a walking advertisement for all the games. Cole's journey from summertime employee like Sarah to full-time year-round boss happened in a couple of steps. He said as a nerdy kid in high school in a small town it was nice to come to a place where his personality was rewarded. I could not wait until the summer because when it was summertime I get to come to World of Fun and work with people that are just like me and enjoy our whole summer together. So after years of that in his senior year at the University of Kansas at Lawrence he got a phone call offering him the job of games manager. And he dropped out of school to take it. It is probably one of the hardest decisions I have ever had to make. But I said OK this opportunity is probably only going to come along once in a lifetime. As you would imagine it has not been such a popular decision with the family. So I have a full year left. I am one full year of college left. It comes up when you least expect it. It comes up when they-- like Oh I know you are working real hard but when are you getting back to school? Or my grandmother-- Now before I pass on you need to make sure that you have completed college-- my grandma all the time. And I get it a lot from the girlfriend too. When are you going to finish? Because she just graduated college. This girlfriend and Cole are pretty serious. They just moved in together. They met in Games back in 2006 though she moved on from Games. I get that all the time. She is like We are not going to be together forever if you do not finish college. I get it a lot. And how often will it come up?  Once a week-- maybe once every two weeks depending on the week. I do not know. I do not know. Lots of very accomplished people do not have college degrees. I know. Steve Jobs. Yeah. But Steve Jobs-- he changed the world. I am just a lowly little games manager in a small mid-size park in Kansas City.  Who wants to play some games? Whoo! By midday down in Games III that is Dustin who is wearing the full-body banana suit that Haley handmade for him which looks amazing. But it is 94 degrees which is sapping everybody's energy. And business is slow. Oh all right. Well hey you guys have a great day. Though as the day wears on people slowly migrate from the rides to the games. And by nightfall when it cools off the guys in Games II finally get Techno Ball working. Max and Okson are covered from head to toe in glow lights. Cole and I round a corner together and we see them in the distance. And there is a crowd of three dozen people surrounding the game. It is fantastic. Oh my goodness. Oh let us go look at Techno Ball. Look at this!   No it is six of your staff and-- And two-- three other guys all dancing. In a big circle-- four other guys. In a big cir-- yeah four other guys all dancing in a big circle to techno music. And how many people are actually playing? Zero.  Hey Dominic! Hey Dom! That is Dominic the team leader here at Games II. Oh look. Dom's all embarrassed. Hi Dom. What is up? How many people are playing the game Dom? We are attracting a lot of attention. Yeah. But why are not we turning that into game play? Cole suggests maybe they should dance inside the game instead of on the walkway in front of the game so people would be pulled in to play. Dom does not want to do this. And listen to what a good boss Cole is. He is firm but he is very nice about it. You are so close. I know. You are so close. Do you see how much attention I just attracted? It did! But then you did not have anybody out here talking to them saying Hey why are not you playing the game? I know. But I was hoping that they would realize that. No no no. They are not going to realize that. You know that. And better than anyone you should know that. They are not going to just be like Oh. It looks fine. All the lights-- I am not going to deny the awesomeness but I am going to say that-- No more dance parties. I really think the dance parties are not going to help you win. I walked down to check on Games III. It is 1030 at night. Claire has been here for 13 hours since I saw her setting up pyramids of plush before the gates opened to the park. Those pyramids were now raggedy piles maybe half their original size which means that they did great. They got lots of people to play. They have probably given away 500 prizes for wrong guesses. And Claire has had exactly the kind of day that Cole wants for all the kids. Did you have fun today? Yes I had a lot of fun. I had no idea what time it was until about 20 minutes ago when I checked. It just did not occur to me that I needed to check the time. Because it was going by so fast? Yeah. When did you take your first break today? I have not taken a break. Wow. Yeah I guess I am used to it. This is Claire's third year here. She is 18 going to Missouri State in the fall to study nursing. And she tells me what a lot of kids here tell me. She would not keep coming back to work at Worlds of Fun if not for Cole. Definitely not. I do not think any other boss would do the Rally Days the Death Match the Sweet 16 the Toss the Boss-- just all the fun stuff that we do that keeps us going through the season and just keeps this job exciting every day. Sam one of the leaders for Games IV has been here for three summers. And he also says that Cole is the reason that he keeps coming back. Honestly no one else could do a better job. He was made to do this. It is funny watching him do something like sing a goofy song for you guys in the morning. You can imagine high school students and college students rolling their eyes at somebody doing that. But nobody does. No it is weird. It is almost like that is the thing to do. Whatever Cole does is the thing to be doing at that moment. And we just all feel like that was the right move. Do you remember what it was like the first time you saw one of his videos? I do. I remember seeing it and I was like that is my boss. And he just made that video. And it was so cool because I went and even showed some of my friends. They were all like who is this guy? It is like that is my boss. That is so weird because a lot of people would say well it is an amusement park. You are great at working at an amusement park. That does not mean by the way that he is seen by his bosses as some kind of superstar. He gets respect sure. Everybody likes him. His immediate boss Matt thinks that there is nobody better at games in any of the 11 amusement parks owned by their parent company Cedar Fair. But Cole is working at one of the smallest of the 11 parks. So other games managers at bigger parks bring in way more money than Cole does. And games in the grand scheme of things is actually the smallest revenue producer at most amusement parks. The biggest money at an amusement park comes from ticket sales. Then there is food-- everybody buys food-- then merch. And then bringing up the rear is games. What Cole does has less effect on the company's bottom line than lots of people in the company. And as much as Cole loves this job he cannot help but wonder how long can a person do this job? So the one thing that I always say is I am 25 now. I started here when I was 14. And the weird thing is is that I am getting older but everybody else in the department-- staying the same age. All right. I am going to stop the tape right there. Yes I know. Matthew McConaughey Dazed and Confused. Cole has seen the film too. But the thing I am wondering for you is do you feel like somehow accidentally in this job you got stuck in high school you got stuck at 15? Like there is a part of you where you are still back there? I like working out in the park with the kids absolutely. 100. The goofball part. The goofball part. The part where you get to act their age instead of your age. Yes. Does that make me sound bad? I am still a manager. I am still overseeing 100 people that work for me. But at the same time 10 years from now I do not think I could still be a goofball. I think that would just get creepy  you know? You are 35 and you work with a bunch of high schoolers in a-- is that creepy? Maybe. Maybe not. I do not know. Do you worry that you will never be happier in any job than you are in this one? Yes absolutely. That is a weird fate-- to know that you are in the best job you may ever have at 25 especially when it is a job that you know in your heart-- it cannot last. We first broadcast this story in 2011. Cole is now solidly in his 30s. He left his job at Worlds of Fun years ago worked for a while in sales at a toy company traveled a little giving motivational talks about being a boss at an amusement park. Now he works in sales at a tech company. And he is a dad which he loves-- really really loves. Cole's still crazy about amusement parks. He actually helped set up an alumni association for his old staff at the games department worked out a deal with Worlds of Fun to allow old games kids to go back to the park and work a shift in games relive the glory. His latest project is figuring out how he can build a roller coaster in his backyard. Well coming up carnies float in the air scary things happen on rides and bold steps forward for paintball targets everywhere. Our hour of amusement parks continues in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our show of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show-- amusement parks. It is July. It is hot. We wanted to go someplace fun here on the radio someplace that lots of us me included would never visit today because of coronavirus. Today's show is a rerun recorded before all that. We have arrived at Act Two of our program. Act Two-- Great Adventures. Well we asked you our listeners to call in with your amusement park stories. Nearly 300 of you did. And one of our producers Jane Marie listened to all of those voicemail messages. She joins me now. Hey Jane. Hey. So Jane trends patterns? What can you tell me? Carnies. Oh. Yeah. There is creepy carnies and hot carnies and carnies that people married. And a bunch of people called and told stories about carnies making the ride go too fast or keeping them on the ride too long. Demonic carnies. Yeah. OK yeah. These two calls that I am going to play are from Barry Silver and Penny Delaney Cothran. And they had the same exact crazy carnie story only they happened years apart and in different cities. But it is fun to imagine they are talking about the same gu