My wife told me about this thing that-- honestly this is news to me. You know when it is like the height of summer and you go out and a feeling when the sun is just like really hot and hitting your skin and making you all warm? She likes that feeling. She likes the way that feels. And I do not know what this says about me but the notion that anybody would like that had never occurred to me. Totally eye opening because I have never been into that feeling at all. To me the heat of summer is just something you had to get through. It was like rain but less wet. And since she said this this summer I have been trying to practice it. I have been trying to reprogram my own experience of the summer. And so when I am outside I consciously tell myself the sun's hitting me. I am going to enjoy this get into it. And I can kind of get myself there for a little while. And then I lose it. I cannot hold onto it. I just think that some of us really love the summer. And it is not something that you can force. A couple weeks ago here on our radio show we all saw this article about somebody like that. He is a 66-year-old lifeguard who is suing New York State for age discrimination. And I just want to pause on that for a second a 66-year-old lifeguard. All of us here on our staff we had no idea that could even exist. We all thought lifeguarding is something that you do when you are in high school maybe a couple years after into your 20s. Who is still lifeguarding at 66? And then it was even more of a question when we realized the lifeguard in the story he has another job. He is a lawyer. He is a working lawyer. His name is Roy Lester. He is a bankruptcy attorney. He is got his own firm in Long Island. And then he lifeguards every weekend in the summer. And today on our program we have stories of people like him people who love the summer not people like me. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. We prepared today a program to listen to with the sun beating down on you the humidity through the roof a show of people embracing summer and everything about summer. And let us just get right to it with Act One. Act One The Grapes of Wrath. So one of our producers Dana Chivvis she went out to Long Island and met that guy Roy Lester the 66-year-old attorney lifeguard who was suing New York State. Basically the deal is that they tried to make him wear a Speedo. He refused. He lost his job. Here's Dana. If you ask Roy why are you still lifeguarding at 66 he barely understands the question. It is so self-evident to him. It is been his life since he was 16. He and his buddies were kings of the beach. He lived with other lifeguards. His best man at his wedding was a lifeguard. Their kids grew up playing together on the beach while they were on duty. He never wanted to leave this job. Even when he went to law school in California he came back to lifeguard every summer. In law school are not you supposed to have an internship in a law firm or something like that? You are supposed to. Did you not do that? No I did not do that. I never took it quite that seriously. The idea of giving up the summer was something I just could not do. He is not alone. At Jones Beach where he worked for 40 years there are dozens of guys-- teachers firemen police-- who stayed with it into their 60s. Lifeguarding at Jones Beach is such a thing that a former lifeguard made a film about it. It is called Jones Beach Boys. Roy insisted I watch it. I did. It was awesome. Here's my favorite song from it.   We are going for the rescue and getting to the victim. I never really appreciated how thrilling lifeguarding is until Roy talked about rescues. We were sitting in his law office. The exhilaration of a good rescue is unlike anything you have ever had. And you do not get that. I sit here and I shuffle papers. I would not call it exciting. I would not call it rewarding. But this is-- you are actually accomplishing something. You are up there and all of a sudden you are going out in the water and the rest of the world is behind you. There is nothing else except between you getting from your stand to that victim. That is the only thing. And it is great. It is a great feeling. How many people do you think you have rescued in your career? Over 1000. 1000? Yeah. You have to remember. There were times we would have 40 rescues in an hour. What? Why? What? Who? Why? Because you have people that come down to Jones Beach who really do not know about swimming especially when you have a current. And you can get a very strong current at Jones Beach. 1000 rescues-- that is way more rescues than David Hasselhoff did on Baywatch. I figure two rescues per episode 10 years on the air Roy would still beat him by 560 rescues. Which is to say Roy is one of the lifeguardiest lifeguards there is. He had two wins at the national lifeguard competition. He served as an expert lifeguard witness in court cases. And all was well in his happy lifeguarding world until the Speedo mishegoss began in 2007. Here's what happened. If you are a lifeguard at Jones Beach you have to take a physical fitness test every year to prove that you are still able to do the job. It includes a speed test in a pool. You have to swim 100 yards in 120 which is actually pretty fast. A lot of these guys train all year for it. For 15 years Roy took the swim test in his preferred swimsuit a pair of jammers. They look like bike shorts without the butt cushion. If you are watching the Olympics right now all of the male swimmers are wearing them. They are tight and they go down to just above the knee. But when Roy showed up for the test in 2007 he was told no jammers. His bosses at the Office of Parks and Recreation said you can only do the test in one of the official Jones Beach lifeguard swimsuits which means you have three choices-- board shorts trunks or Speedo. Board shorts and trunks are loose so nobody really takes a swim test in them because they create more drag and slow you down. So in effect state officials were saying to Roy you have to take the test in the Speedo. Roy said no way. I will not do it. And he has not been a lifeguard at Jones Beach since. It was one of those feelings like am I making the right decision? I am throwing away a 40-year career over a principle. It was a difficult decision a very difficult decision. How long did it take you to decide? A second. I really need to point out he would only have to wear the Speedo for the test which lasts a minute and 20 seconds. On the job he would wear board shorts. Most of the lifeguards do young and old. Why not just put it on for the test though? Why did not Rosa Parks just go to the back of the bus? There were plenty of seats. So it is just-- it is the principle of it. Yeah. Yes. The principle in his mind was standing up to age discrimination. When I read about all this in The New York Times I really did not understand. What is the connection between a Speedo and age discrimination? I have certainly seen older dudes in Speedos. So I went out and met Roy on a beach not far from his house on Long Island. It was 645 in the morning. He was about to go for a mile swim before work. So Roy can you describe what you are wearing right now? Well it is a wet suit. It is a short-sleeve wet suit. And I have my jammers on underneath. Roy brought one of his official Jones Beach Speedos to the beach to show me. Just describe it for me. It is an exaggerated thong for lack of a better word. But it is full coverage in the back. So it is not quite a thong right? Not quite a thong right. But to Roy and lots of guys it might as well be a thong which is why the Speedo has earned a stable of nicknames-- the weenie bikini the dingaling sling the speed do not the banana hammock the grape smuggler the Miami meat tent the Saint-Tropez truffle duffle the scrote tote. The reason the jammer is preferred by older lifeguards is that you are saying it is more discreet. Modest. More modest? Yes. Than the Speedo. Yes. Because it covers your thighs. I do not want to get graphic but your-- the word begins with B. Basically you are hanging out with the Speedo. I get it now I think. And you do not really-- with the jammers it is not like that. There is like a little bit more of a roof over your house. Yes. Yes. I see. This is the nut of his argument Roy says once he passed 50 he felt self-conscious in the Speedo. And nobody should have to feel self-conscious to get a job. So Roy refuses to put on the grape smuggler to take the swim test. A few weeks later there is another chance to take the test. He shows up. And this time he is wearing the official Speedo. He is just got it on over his jammers. He showed me a video of a conversation he recorded on the pool deck that day. It was a little windy so the sound is not great. But he is standing in front of Sue Giuliani who was the director of Jones Beach State Park at the time. And there he is in his jammers plus Speedo outfit challenging her to turn him away. I have made a compromise. That is not going to be acceptable. You are not going to let me swim like this? No. How come? Because you still have jammers on. So that you cannot wear. All right. And is there any reason why they are not allowed? We are not going-- how many times do you want me to repeat it? What? You know why they are not allowed. No no I do not. I have never been able to-- I have pretty much-- Joe Scalise the director of water safety for the state beaches cuts in. Are you going to comply or not? I am complying. I am wearing my official suit. Are you complying with what we want or not? I am wearing my official suit. So not swimming now? All right. Let us go. Did you just go home then? Basically I-- well I stayed around. And I watched everybody take the test. Were there other people taking the test in jammers? No. No nobody was allowed to take the test in jammers. So everybody else either put on a Speedo or put on the board shorts something like that. Now Roy said he could have worn board shorts or trunks and still pass the test. He says he could have dungarees and passed. The guy's in ridiculous shape. He does triathlons now coaches a swim team. In 2012 he had a hip replaced. And seven weeks later he came in first in his age group in Bermuda's Round the Sound swim race a 1.2-mile open water swim. He was still using a cane to walk. So the easy thing for Roy to do would be just take the test in board shorts or Speedo and keep the job he loved. Let bureaucrats be bureaucrats. Just get on with it. That is not Roy. Roy does not back down from a fight. So he sued. He sued the New York State Office of Parks Recreation and Historic Preservation for 5 million. Now the easy thing for the state would have been to just let Jones Beach lifeguards wear jammers. Presumably if they are good enough for the Olympic swim team they are good enough for New York's lifeguards. But that is not New York State. It decided to fight. The lawsuit has worked its way through the lower court which dismissed it to the appellate court which ruled in May that it should go to trial. This has been going on for seven years-- seven years. Roy sent me a PDF of his exhibits in the case. It was 1300 pages long. And the thing I really want to know-- because I live in New York and pay taxes in New York-- is why is the state using taxpayer dollars to fight the Speedo suit? This could all been resolved very easily years ago if they just changed the rule allowed the jammers. Why are Roy and the state fighting each other when they should unite against the real enemy jellyfish. Officials from the state of New York would not talk to me for this story. The Attorney General's office would not talk. Neither would Parks and Rec. But they did send me the affidavit of a guy named George Gorman. He oversees all the parks in Long Island. And it lays out their side of the story. Around 2006 some of the Jones Beach lifeguards started taking the test in full-body swimsuits. Management became concerned that those guys were only passing because they were wearing the full-body swimsuits. So they decided to change the rules. Starting in 2007 lifeguards could only take the test in one of the three official Jones Beach uniform swimsuits. No more full body suits and also no jammers because jammers are not part of the uniform. In his deposition George Gorman said quote we determined it was best that the lifeguards wear the uniforms that they are assigned to wear while they are on duty. Seems reasonable right? Not if you are Roy. He points out if jammers really are significantly faster would not you want your lifeguards to wear a faster suit? Get them out to drowning victims sooner? And as it happens New York Parks and Rec allows lifeguards to take their qualifying test in jammers in the rest of the state. Upstate. I went upstate to take the test. And I wore my jammers. You took the test upstate? Yes. And I wore my jammers. And people wore the jammers. And I have pictures of that. And it is part of the exhibit of guys taking the test in their jammers. Upstate? Yes. The same employer. New York State Department of Recreation the same employer allows the jammers. So your theory about this is that they are targeting Long Island because why? Because 90 of the older the over-50 lifeguards work on Long Island. It is the biggest group of older lifeguards anywhere. For what it is worth the state told me that the rules are different on Long Island because it is a more strenuous job lifeguarding on the ocean-- upstate it is all lakes and pools. Why do you think it is that they do not want older lifeguards? Well I think they do not like the fact that older lifeguards have influence over the younger guys. And when you are a member of management you do not want anybody having influence over your employees except you. And when you have to deal with the union and you have to deal with the offices of the unions who are all older guys and they know the beach you do not want that. Yep there is a lifeguard union. Roy was the president of the union for years. And at that point in 2007 when he refused to wear the Speedo he was the union's chief negotiator. When Sue Giuliani tells him to follow the rules-- So that you cannot wear. --she knows him. He is the guy the union sends to argue its side. And these guys telling him he cannot wear his jammers? They are management. This is a scantily clad labor dispute. I asked some other older lifeguards about this. And three out of the four of them agreed. This is about the union which actually has a history of fighting age discrimination. In 1966 they went on strike because the state tried to impose an age limit of 35 for Jones Beach lifeguards. So they walked off the beach. A week later the state caved. Knowing this-- that the suits and the swimsuits have a history with each other-- that helped me understand what Roy's fight was really about. Roy told me one reason he took a stand was that management was supposed to tell the union if they wanted to change a rule like this. And this time they did not. Roy's got a weekend job now at a private beach club. But it is not the same. I like where I am working now. I really do. But you get one rescue a year if you are lucky. And then it is what is called a puddle jumper. What is a puddle jumper? A puddle jumper is where you really do not even need to get your head wet. And at Jones Beach in the old days we would have these tremendous rescues just these great rescues. His friends from Jones Beach tease him that he is in exile now. How often do you go visit them? Not that often. I keep in touch with them constantly but I do not go down there that often. To be honest it does hurt. It hurts to go down there. That was my beach. It was my home for so many years. If Roy's theory is true then the state is trying to get rid of the older lifeguards on Long Island by forcing them into Speedos. But if that is true as far as I can tell the only lifeguard they have managed to get rid of is Roy. Dana Chivvis is one of the producers of our show.  Act Two Say Yes to Summer. So I just finished making a movie with Mike Birbiglia who is on our show sometimes. And the movie's about improv comedians. And I thought that it would be fun to invite some here on the show to do stuff about summer. And we got some great ones-- John Lutz Tami Sagher Connor Ratliff Gary Richardson Kate Micucci Shannon O'Neill who is the artistic director of improv theater The Upright Citizens Brigade Theater. Mike Birbiglia came too. And they did this show at The Upright Citizens Brigade theater in New York. And they did it in this style of improv where the way it works is that somebody tells a true story on stage. And then the performers make up scenes based on things in that real story. And then somebody else tells another true story which kicks off more improvised scenes and so on. And so if you just want to picture this the cast and I are on stage. There is an audience. And we started this show with a true story that I told. So when I was 13 my parents had enough money to take us on one of our very first family vacations. And we went to Florida. And one of the things that made this possible was we got a deal on the hotel. My dad was an accountant. I grew up in Baltimore. And we got the deal because my dad was the accountant for the Baltimore branch franchise of the Playboy Club. And I would just say now it is sort of hard to remember if you are under 40 I think there was a point where Playboy was cool. It is sort of unimaginable now. But if you imagine you could not get porn on your phone. And so we were going to go down. Playboy owned hotels. And they had a hotel in Miami called the Playboy Plaza. So we were going to be at this hotel that seemed very glamorous. There were going to be Playboy bunnies at the hotel serving drinks at the bar and at the pool. I was a 13-year-old boy. This was incredible. We were going to fly in an airplane. It was one of the very first times I ever did that-- also incredible. There would be the ocean which being from Baltimore we called IN BALTIMORE ACCENT the ocean. And so this had all the makings of a great vacation. And then when we got to the hotel it was everything we wanted. And in addition The Jackson 5 was staying there. August of 1972 Michael Jackson and I are the same age. We were both 13. And so you would see The Jackson 5 come out of the elevator for dinner dressed all in completely matching gold suede suits with fringe. And you would see them at the pool just like playing in the pool like other kids which was us. And I should say I remember goofing around in the pool with the youngest one who was seven years old-- a girl-- because she seemed like the most approachable. I knew she was not actually famous. Later of course I learned she is Janet Jackson. I played Marco Polo with Janet Jackson. And I have brought with me a photo of me and Michael Jackson from that vacation. I have it here. Now before I show this to you I want to just-- I need to preface with some context which is that while the Jacksons were becoming international superstars I myself was working in the entertainment business. I had gone to the Baltimore County Public Library and taken out some books on how to do magic tricks. And I was doing birthday parties all over Baltimore County for fees as high as 10-- also animal balloonery. And so here is the photo. And the audience here can see that my back is to the camera. What I am doing-- you cannot see my hands. I am doing the disappearing coin trick. And the expression on Michael Jackson's face? He is literally rolling his eyes. So just to explain to the radio audience the cast is sitting on stools with microphones. And so you guys heard the opening story. It is on you. Marco. Polo. Marco. SINGING Polo. Marco. Polo. Polo. SINGING Polo. Marco. You really do not know where we are? I love The Jackson 5. Well what do you say guys? Should we give them a show? We have been workshopping a pool song. Hey you are not going to sing the pool song without Tito. Hey guys. I heard we are singing the new pool song. Uh Michael no one wants you here. Hold on. Let me put on my swimming gloves. Oh no. I lost one. So are we going to sing this pool song or what? Well I have got my bass guitar right here. I am could walk us on in with a--  SINGING Dip that toe in the water. Dip that toe in the water. SINGING I am sliding down the slide. I am sliding down the slide splishy splash. Sliding down the slide. Sliding down the slide. Come on everybody. SINGING Welcome The Jackson 5 to your local hotel pool. Welcome us the five of us. You can take this tale to school. SINGING Sliding down the slide. Sliding down the slide. Again we are workshopping it. End scene. Excuse me. Yes? How can I help you? Yes I am here with my son. Perhaps you recognize him from birthday parties across Bernard County. I am-- OK. I do not recognize him from that but-- Joshy introduce yourself. Hello. My name is Joshy the Magnificent. And we have been waiting in this corner booth for five minutes. And no one has come to wait on us. Oh I am very sorry about that. I can take your order right now if you want. How about some drinks? How can we order when the menus have disappeared? Ta-da! I am going to get you guys some water. And I will be back with some menus. Joshy will have a glass of sour milk please. All right. All right. I will be right back. Joshy. I love you Mommy. I love you so much. So much. So much. So much. So much. End scene. I think what is special about summer when you are a kid is that it does not even feel like the rest of your life. Like you feel like there is life and then there is summer. And then when you get older-- I am embarrassed to admit this-- I am barely aware that it is summer. And I am like OK it is summer. Like I will just-- I will have that thing too when it starts getting hot where it is like ugh it is getting a little hot. I never had that as a kid. You would be excited when it is hot because-- I do not know as a kid so often the family reunions were in hot ass Pensacola Florida like unbelievably hot and populated with 100 old people. So nobody was out-- it was not even like kids were out playing. So I was acutely aware of how hot it was because I would get outside and just stand there. It would be me and my cousins just standing looking around hoping for something to inspire us to play. Like these old people did not have balls or anything to do so we would just walk to get a juice and drink the whole juice on the way back home because we were dying. Ugh Pensacola sucks. I hate-- I hate Pensacola Florida. Jane! Jane come to the window. What? There is a bunch of children just standing. We want your balls. Give us your toys. That one sounded a little bit like John Lennon. What is this? You are right. You are right. Jane you are right. Toys. That was unmistakably a Liverpool accent. I am John Lennon. I am visiting with these children. Jane! What do we do Jane? Do we adopt them? I do not know Carl. We cannot adopt a full-grown Brit. Who says we cannot? So class we have got a new sixth grader who has just moved to town. So John why do not you tell the class a little bit about yourself? I am from Liverpool. All right John. Why do not you have a seat over there by Shelley? And-- Yeah sit next to me. Oh you do not seem to be fitting in that desk. I am a full-grown man. All right. Well Terry you were in the middle of your talk about what you did this summer. Yes this summer I went on a cruise to the Bahamas-- me my mom my dad my younger brother Jason. We got on the cruise. And there was 100 bedrooms. 100 bedrooms. And in the morning you get up and everybody has breakfast together. And sometimes there is different entertainers in the middle of the day. If you do not want to go to the entertainer you can go swim or you can go lay on the deck. And once we port-- that is what they call it when the boat stops in the city-- once you port you and your family get together. Make sure you have your passport. Because if you do not they might not let you back on the boat no matter what. We do all this. Then we uh-- oo one time my brother stepped on a jellyfish. I have a story. I am the biggest pop star in all the world. John just one second please. Terry is telling a very interesting story. I made the biggest hits in all of America and also in Britain. Shh. Oh do you want me to tell you what happens when you get back on the boat? Yeah. OK you get back on the boat. And you go upstairs. And you have dinner. And the dinner can either be pork or it can be chicken or it can be just vegetables because some people do not even like meat stuff. They just want to eat vegetables. Can you believe it? Tell us about the toilets on the boat. Oh OK. This is a rubbish. Scene. I stole once over a summer. I was 10 years old I believe. And I was on a cruise actually in Cancun Mexico. I was playing with some keychain that had a basketball on it because I was a huge basketball guy back then. I am still a big basketball guy. I love the sport. So I am spinning it around on my finger. And we leave the store. And maybe 20 minutes later I realize I have still got it. And I am freaking out because this was a summer that when I was younger I did taekwondo. And one year I went to state and placed at state was supposed to go to regionals-- oh no not regionals. I went to state then regionals. I was supposed to go to the national tournament in Las Vegas Nevada. But I passed to go on this cruise. And I found out that had I gone to Las Vegas I would have been one of four people in my age and weight division. And I would have automatically been going to represent the United States of America in Korea. And I passed on that cruise around the Gulf of Mexico. Wait wait wait. Are you bringing up the theft because you thought it was causal? Like the fact that you did this bad thing led to you not going to Korea? No. I thought that I cannot believe that instead of being in Korea I am here stealing. I was freaking out because I saw two very different paths in my life. And I had chose the wrong one. I had picked the wrong path. Sam you do not want to go on the class trip? No because I have a chance to go on this cruise. And it just sounds like way more fun. So have a good time on-- the trip sounds fun for some other people. I did not want to mention this to the rest of the class Sam-- Yeah-- Then why am I still here? I am leaving. No one ever tells me anything. You do not move. You are in punishment. That is why you are still here. OK. Maybe Cooper instead of asking me why you are still here you should ask yourself why you are still here. Cooper why am I still here? Cause I am cool. Wrong answer Cooper wrong answer. So Sam honey-- Should I go on a trip? I mean I feel like I do not think I will be missing out. Sam OK I did not tell the rest of the class this. Uh-huh. And I know the permission slip says we are just going to Great America to do physics calculations. Yeah. But when we get there there is a physics bowl that is going to happen. That is it? No Cooper that is not it. OK because that was kind of lame. Hey why are you here Cooper? Because you are the best man. Give me five! I cannot because I am me. But I mean I could go to the beach and be on the ocean. That sounds way better. But I mean if you really need-- Cooper likes your idea huh? Do you want to be like a Cooper? Well not really because he picks his nose a lot but-- That is 'ecause it is tasty! Scene. I feel like there is something about summer when you are a kid where I have all these memories as a teenager where we would walk around town late at night when we were probably like 13 14 years old. And we would not have a plan. But we had nowhere to be. So we would walk to one of our friend's houses. Then we would walk to the White Hen Pantry. And we would order sandwiches. And we would just sit there on the corner. And we were like this is pretty cool. Hey listen I know we do not normally plan this out but I went ahead and made an itinerary. Here's yours. OK. Got enough for everybody. So I mean like right now it says we meet up pass out itineraries. Yeah I feel like that that was an unnecessary step because-- Now I can check it off. Oh OK. Kind of takes away the fun right? Is not that what-- Hey Connor I got this. It said I should show up at 752 and just reject you guys? Yeah. Hey Samantha. Hi Samantha. Hey Samantha. Do not do that again.  I mean it is working. Yeah it is working. I mean that was-- It is right on time. I think it did not hurt as much because there was an inevitability to it that-- Scene. I was always really bad at getting or finding summer jobs that were not terrible. And-- You are bad at finding real-life jobs that are not terrible. Thanks Tami. I will have you know I am going be dressed as a pretzel all next week. Is that real? Yeah. Not a joke. Not a joke. In what context? Honestly I have said too much already. You can tell us but you guys just cannot tell anybody. Why will you be dressed like a pretzel next week? Nobody tweet this. National branded snack mix internet only ad content. Standing ovation. Yeah. I do not think anybody could fit that in a tweet. I think my favorite part is that you thought by saying it that we could ruin it. Yeah. We cannot make it worse. All right. So anyway one summer there was this local sandwich shop in my hometown. And the guy who owned the sandwich shop he also owned these fireworks stands that would go up near the highway. And they needed someone to guard the fireworks stand at night. And I heard about this job opportunity. And so I said are you looking for someone? And he said yeah are you willing to do it? And I said what do I need to do? And I was going to make 500 for the night. I would show up at 900 or 1000 at night or something whenever they were closing. And then I would just sit in the tent all night until morning. Wait 500? That is so much money? For one night? Yeah. It was 400 or 500. That is significantly more than you are making to be a pretzel. That is not true actually. Wait. I would not be-- Wait Collin you realize that was for sure guns or drugs. I do not know. All I know is I made up big plans. I had a black-and-white portable television I brought with myself. I will just watch TV all night and read. And so I showed up. And there were a bunch of people already there. And I said hi I am supposed to guard the fireworks stand. And they said no you are not. And I said what? And they were like we are doing it. And I was like I was told I was hired to do this job. And it was supposed to be 500 for the night. And they are like oh there was a mix-up. And I was like oh. And so they said come back next week and you can do next week. So I thought oh OK well that is good. And so the next week I went to the fireworks stand on Saturday night to guard it. And the same bunch of guys were there. And they are like nah it was a mix-up. I think they just lied to me as a trick just to see this teenager show up and just tell him to go away. So what you are going to do is you are going to guard this area right here. OK yeah. This is the beach. Sure. Yeah yeah yeah. Cool. So just get here-- You are just going to guard the beach. If anyone walks down the beach you are just going to give them the business. OK. Yeah I can do that. Be here at sundown? Hang out all night? You get here at sundown. You stay here all night. Cool. Yeah. And if anything goes down-- And you are giving me 12000? That is right. OK. That is right. Cool. Cool. I will cut you a cashier's check in the morning. Awesome. Yeah awesome. 600 AM I will be here with a cashier's check-- Awesome. --for 12000. Great. Great. That sounds awesome. Cut to sunset. Yeah I am here to watch the beach. No you are not. Yes. Yes I am. Oh no man. I am watching the beach tonight baby. OK well I was told that this dude who makes milkshakes at the sandwich shop I go to-- Yeah Milky Joe? Yeah yeah Milky Joe. Yeah a mix-up with Milky Joe. Milky Joe told me I am watching the beach tonight. Gotcha. Milky Joe brought me here this afternoon. Yeah that was later than what happened with me on the other time that it did. So it was all fixed. It was so crazy. It was the other side of the time that you did it. Oh OK. Cool. Cool cool. Cut to the next day. An office. There is a window out to the ocean. And there is a picture right here that says we own the beach. Hey I want you to come look out this window will you? All right. So you see water there? Yeah. You know what I am not seeing? Any beach. Well maybe someone-- I specifically told you to get someone to guard the beach last night-- I hired-- --so that something like this would not happe