When Dave was turning his life around and trying different things and figuring out what to do next one of the places he looked was to the Howard Stern Show. And I think that was a really good choice. I know everybody is not a fan of Howard Stern but I am. And I think that one of the best things about the show is that it is always been a place where people talk with this kind of brutal and funny honesty about themselves. One of Howard's innovations is that he took the strain of crude dark confessional comedy that is always been a big part of stand-up ever since Lenny Bruce-- Howard figured out a way to turn that into radio daily radio. Anyway to get back to this guy Dave he loved that about the show. And in 2015 he was a few months sober in his early 40s working as a waiter at Katz's Deli in New York City. When he was younger he would worked in television hosting an interview show for college kids but ruined that career with heroin addiction. Now sober in recovery he needed a project. And he decided to a podcast about drugs with the feeling of the Howard Stern Show. Like he remembered the years when comedian Artie Lange was on Howard Stern-- definitely my favorite period of Howard Stern. When Artie would come on every day. He would talk about his own drug problems. He would tell crazy stories. He would talk in this very real way about the mistakes he was making in his life at that time that he was not able to stop and Dave wanted to shoot for that. He would co-host the show with his friend Chris who-- he had met Chris years before in rehab. They would spend hours in rehab smoking cigarettes and talking about the crazy things that they would done on drugs. That is what they wanted the podcast to be. People'd come on tell wild drug stories and-- very important to Dave-- no recovery talk which Dave found to be sanctimonious and annoying. This show is not necessarily about recovery. Mm-hmm. It is about drugs. Maybe eventually it will be who knows. If this show is ever about recovery you got to get somebody else in this spot. I am out. OK in case this is not clear. In these recordings Dave is the one with the deeper voice and the loud opinions Chris is the other guy. This show is about drug stories. It is not about recovery. It is not about doing the next right thing. It is about the last wrong thing. But maybe with the evolution of your recovery that is what the show will become. Notice how at the end there Chris is not agreeing with Dave. Chris is 10 years younger than Dave but started drugs and drinking at an earlier age-- he was just 11 or 12-- and has way more extreme stories about it including a year in prison. He is also spent way more time in rehab. And at this point he would been sober for nearly two years versus four months for Dave. And all of that gave him a different feeling about recovery and sobriety. He was game to talk about it but Dave was adamant. Sobriety is not all that entertaining. And first and foremost he wanted the podcast to be entertaining. If this show was about recovery it is going to be lame. So they would tell drug stories. It was not meant to be good for you. It was meant to be fun. They listed it in the comedy section of iTunes not self-help. If you want self-help Dave had said go to a meeting. They were going to call the show War Stories but there was already a podcast called War Stories. It was about actual war with tanks and guns and stuff so they came up with Dopey which really captures the spirit of the show perfectly. As Chris put it two dopes talking about dope. Listen I am so grateful to be sober. And I am so grateful to be able to talk about drugs you know like in a way where I am not feeling bad about it. It is not even euphoric recall. It is just funny. And I think that is why we got along 'ecause we felt safe doing that with each other. You know sometimes you feel a little judged with people when you recount funny stuff that is happened to you. Yeah. In Dopey there is going to be no judgment of drug use past or present. They recorded the first episode on a laptop no microphone or anything near a fish tank in Dave's apartment in Manhattan. Maybe you could hear the hum of the tank in that recording. But between this episode Episode 1 and Episode 143 of Dopey-- just 2 and 12 years later-- their lives are going to change drastically. By Episode 143 Dopey would sound completely different. In the episodes in between they chronicle this story where so much happens to them and some others things lots of drug users face. But because podcasts and radio are so intimate it all gets documented in the most unfiltered way. Dave and Chris wanted their show to be just for fun but it ended up being so much more. Today we are going to have two stories like this. Stories about a kind of DIY radio-- very different kinds of DIY radio-- but in both stories it is amateurs inventing how to talk about what it is that they are going through. And really both stories are dispatches from two very different battlefields. I know that sounds a little grand but really this story-- from the opioid epidemic-- and then the other story is from a small town in Syria in the middle of the war that is going on there. And we hear about life during that war in this way that is much more personal and close up than we usually get. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One Two Dope Kings. So OK you remember the premise? Two guys-- Dave and Chris-- they have this podcast. It is called Dopey. Dana Chivvis from our staff listened to dozens of hours of the podcast spanning 2 and 12 years and tells the story of what happened. Quick warning before we start since this is the podcast internet version of our show we have removed the bleeps that we use when we do the show on the radio. If you prefer a bleeped version of the show it is at our website. Now here's Dana. We have been talking about this podcast for five minutes already. And the whole point of the podcast is to tell crazy drug stories so let us get right to one. This is from the very first episode. Chris tells the story. So I relapsed. I do not even want to say I relapsed. I just started using again after a brief period of abstinence. And I took a lot of Xanax-- about 60 bars-- for those of you that know bars. At once? No over a period of about three or four days. So you took 120 milligrams over four days? Yeah and I blacked out for about a week. And during that blackout I robbed a veterinarian. I went into the veterinary clinic. I told them my cat was having seizures and I needed phenobarbital ASAP. They told me something like you know we do not just hand out medications for the asking. Please fill out some paperwork and can we see your cat? Obviously I had no cat with me. Did you have a cat at home? I did have a cat at home Smegal.  So I fill out the paperwork. And while I was filling out the paperwork I ended up putting it down and storming into the back knocked over the nurse. And the veterinarian came into the medication storage room and tried to stop me. I got out. The police came. I struggled with the police and fought them and got a bunch of assaults on the police officers. There was a helicopter on the scene. It was a big big deal. And just so you know something about Chris-- he is burly. Chris is at least six feet. He is like one of these Massachusetts Protestant white guys. He is very big and broad. And I would be scared if Chris got upset. But I am a gentle person. Very gentle very gentle soul-- like a lamb. If Chris is the lamb in a drug addicts clothing Dave is the border collie constantly circling Chris herding him between drug stories nipping at his ankles. For his Boston accent-- Oh you invite all your Facebook friends to like Dopey. No I invite certain ones. Certain? Certain-- Which certain ones do invite up to your room? Room-- I invite certain friends up to my room. Or for Chris's vaping habit-- What is the flavor? This flavor is the milk inspired by Momofuku. Ugh-- this fucking vaping-- it is the end of the world and it is-- Chris on the other hand comes across as a sweet docile kind of dope who finds subtle ways to subvert Dave's alpha maleness. Like on episode 15 it is as easy as the word toodles. OK toodles. No no no we do not say toodles. Which Dave hates so Chris starts saying it at the end of every show. All right toodles. Please stop staying toodles.  They do very little editing except they do bleep out people's last names. They want the show to be anonymous which is why I am not using last names either by the way. And they use nontraditional bleeps like this one.  Dopey is not the kind of show you bring home to meet your parents. Dave and Chris swear a lot for one thing. And obviously they are talking about heavy drug use. But it is not just that-- they can be insensitive and insulting too. It is not politically correct by design. They use the kind of language you might forgive your grandfather for using but which is harder to stomach coming from a 30 or 40 year old today. And then sometimes there is also language you would not forgive your grandfather for using. I am not going to play you that stuff. On the first few episodes of Dopey they run through most of their favorite drug stories-- how Chris made wine from orange juice at rehab how Dave once stayed up all night doing coke heroin and ecstasy before appearing on Howard Stern. How Chris shot crystal meth while at a brain injury clinic. They are not supposed to be engaging in recovery talk but of course the only reason Dopey can exist is because Dave and Chris are both in recovery. There would be no Dopey without it so recovery keeps slipping into the conversation. Even Dave does it. We are actually in a hurry because I have to go qualify at an Alcoholics Anonymous meeting at 800. Yeah it is a live episode of Dopey basically. Basically but more based on the recovery end of things. I am a little bit nervous about it. Are you? Yeah just let it rip. Do not even think about it that is the best way to do it. Chris actually has a scholarly knowledge of 12 step philosophy. And now and then he quotes by memory from the big book which is sort of the Bible of Alcoholics Anonymous. And then they added the appendix to the book where they quote William James who says that you have a spiritual experience of the educational variety. That is what you are talking about. And it is actually-- In the beginning-- for the first 20 episodes or so-- they get like 500 downloads an episode-- so barely an audience but they start hearing from people right away. They get their first fan email from some guy named Troy three weeks after they upload the first episode. They cannot believe anyone is listening to them. They call their newfound audience The Dopey Nation. Other people start emailing leaving reviews on iTunes. Some listeners leave voicemails with their own war stories. Their downloads grow. By October they average about 1000 downloads an episode. So whoever The Dopey Nation is now stay strong Dopey Nation. There is a Reddit thread about Dopey. A few people even get Dopey tattoos with the show is logo and the word Toodles underneath it. One guy takes Dave and Chris out to a steak dinner. He tells them he did not get sober until he started listening to their show. Dave and Chris try to write back to every email they get. They respond to comments on Facebook and Twitter. People are not turned off by the recovery talk. They like listening to sober guys having fun enjoying life in recovery. It gives them hope. Chris says the listeners come for the debauchery and stay for the recovery. He calls his marketing strategy rope a dope. Dave and Chris know they have a finite number of drug stories between the two of them so they develop a roster of recurring guests friends of theirs who are also sober-- near celebrities like Rob Reiner's son Nick Dave's dad Alan and then there is a guy named Todd one of Dave's best friends from college. They got addicted to heroin together in their 20s. Dave always said if Todd got sober he could be the third host of Dopey and Todd really wants to be on Dopey but Todd is never sober. All right well if you want a good story you know who to call here. Yeah if you give me six months sobriety time and you are on the show. What? Yeah. I am still full of stories. What are you talking about? I am fucking full of 'em. He is doing community service and stuff. He is giving back. Please he is giving back but what-- you know-- just give me some fucking clean time and you can come back to the house. I have got two weeks clean already. That is a lie. That is a lie.  What do you want from me?  more than two weeks. It is been two and a half weeks. Since you have puffed weed? No no since I did dope. I smoked weed three days ag-- no two three days ago. You are such a fucking liar. Todd is one of the few recurring guests still actively using drugs. His life is in shambles. He is 42 and he cannot hold down a job. He spends all his money on drugs lives in his parents' apartment in Manhattan. He often just watches DVDs all day. How you doing Todd? Miserable how you guys doing?  That is Chris talking to Todd on Episode 54. I am doing all right. Miserable-- Not that good. Miserable-- is that related to substance abuse? Um prob-- everything is related to substan-- what is not related to substance abuse these days? Uh less in my life.  On this episode Todd tells a very dopey story about getting so high on heroin he passed out in a subway station and then slept through a meeting at the unemployment office the next day. The call failed. Towards the end of this story the call drops and Dave says-- Dude that is the worst story I ever heard in my-- I thought it was fun for a second and then I realized poor Todd is in big trouble. As a listener to me it seems like Todd has a specific purpose on Dopey. He is a caricature of how not to treat your addiction an example that Dave and Chris can hold up to their listeners and say do not do it like this guy. When Dave and Chris talk about recovery they often talk about abstinence and 12 step programs. That is what worked for them but the science shows that opioid addiction is best treated with medications like suboxone and methadone which are associated with a 68 decrease in death. For a while on Dopey Dave was pretty clear that he thought medications were dangerous that you should learn to live without any substances. Chris was more middle of the road. Dave's opinions have changed by now. He feels like whatever works best for you is what you should do. Less than a year into making Dopey Dave moved out of the apartment with the fish tank and in with his partner Linda and their six-year-old daughter. Chris eventually moved to Boston and started working towards a doctoral degree in psychology. He was dating a med student named Annie. They lived together had a dog. He was also working part-time for his sister's company-- which helps people who are struggling with addiction and other issues find treatment-- and he was working every other weekend at a sober living house. By episode 96 of Dopey they are getting about 3000 listeners a show. They decide to relabel the show. They move it from the comedy section on iTunes to the self-help section mainly because they thought they could compete better against other self-help podcasts rather than comedy podcasts but also because by now they have admitted to themselves they are in fact a self-help show. But anyway back to Todd. On Dopey Todd is the foil to the sober good life to their successes. Where he lacks control Dave and Chris now exercise restraint. Where he is depressed they are content. Where he cannot hold down a job they are raising children getting advanced degrees making a podcast every week. Do something good for yourself tomorrow. Just do something. I will try. Just-- nah just do something. One thing and-- I will. --it all builds on each other right? Right on. Whatever all right bud. I love you. All right guys. You Chris Dave have a great evening. All right thanks for calling Todd. All right you got it boys I will talk to you later. All right bud bye. Bye. Bye peace. That is tough. Sad sad call. Hello? Yo. What is going on? What is up dude? On Episode 126 last March Todd's on the show again. This time though he is sober. He is been to detox and moved into a sober living house. He refused to go to rehab so Dave and Chris arrange for him to move into the sober house where Chris works in Western Massachusetts. You sound terrible. Did you just wake up? No I have been up for hours-- too many hours. Oh turn that frown upside down Todd this is the first really sober call on Dopey. That is Dave. He keeps saying how nice it is to talk to Todd when he is sober. He is happy to have his friend back lucid. Dave tells him he bought some new equipment for Dopey-- a soundboard and three microphones an extra for when Todd is back. Dude I bought a board that was smaller but it could only have two mics. And I was thinking well what do we do when Todd gets home?  So I went out and I bought another board-- the Todd board.  Yeah all right good. Thank you I like that. I like that a lot. Dude do you remember? You remember when you and me were driving home from LA--  Todd lasted a few months at the sober living house but he got bored and one day he left. Moved back in with his parents got a job. And then in June-- For those of you who do not know this week was a terrible week for me. My very very very very very close friend Todd who was on Dopey-- anyway Todd died a week ago yesterday so maybe eight days ago. He died. We do not know what happened but I am going to guess it was an overdose. Yeah. And I am very broken up about it. Todd died in his parents' house. He was 44 years old. Well I told my friends-- I told my friends he died. And they said well he is basically the most likely candidate to die. And I agreed with them but like it is so sad to me that he never gets to be sober and he never gets to be free. He is never free. It is like if you are out there and you think you are going to get away with it you might not. You know what I mean? And like you guys should really fucking know that it could all end. Somehow after 20 years of heavy drug use Dave had never had a close friend die from an overdose. Todd is his first one. It changes things for him. Before he would laugh at the war stories-- all these absurd situations and bad decisions that should kill you but did not. He would had the upper hand but now he did not anymore. Those things had killed one of his best friends. Dave is the one who introduced Chris and Todd. They were not close friends but even still Dave thinks Chris is a little cold about his death. And Dave knows this is unfair but he feels a little resentful towards Chris. Todd was in Chris's sober living facility right before he died. Why did not he look out for him better? Todd's death last summer just happens to coincide with an uptick in downloads on Dopey. In July their downloads double when they land their biggest celebrity interview yet-- Artie Lange the comedian who inspired Dopey. This is the guest. I do not want you to know who I am yet because we will let them guess. It is not Meryl Streep. He is Episode 140 just two episodes after Todd's death. Artie tells a bunch of stories about getting high-- on The Howard Stern Show on an airplane in a Santa suit. So I am Santa Claus-- the next morning if you hit the beard all this cocaine would come out of the beard. He is a little unhinged during the interview possibly high. What do I say? Stay strong Dopey Nation. Stay? Stay strong Dopey Nation. Stay-- the autumn wind is a pirate-- Here we go. --bustling in from the sea. With a rollicking song he tramples along swaggering boisterously. On the next episode of Dopey Episode 141 Dave and Chris are on Skype. They do an Artie recap. Chris whose drug of choice was always cocaine thinks Artie was probably on cocaine. They talk about it for 30 minutes before Dave changes the subject. Two weeks ago I am at work-- Yeah I know where you are going with this. Where he is going is Dave wants to do a little recovery lesson. Two weeks before Chris had made a phone call to his sponsor and it was clear he thought he was talking to Dave so the sponsor got worried and called a friend of Chris's who texted Dave who freaked out. And then I am like holy shit so I start texting you. You texted me so many-- I took a screenshot of it. You texted me like 12 times in ten minutes or something. Chris is one of those people who always texts back even if he is sleeping. So when Dave did not hear from Chris he sent a message to Annie Chris's girlfriend. Chris eventually resurfaced and calmed everyone down but he was ticked that Dave had contacted Annie. He was fine just a little sleepy and out of it. No reason to scare his girlfriend. --everything happened and I got upset. There is just that it had to come back to Annie. And I never would get upset if somebody expressed concern. Well that is not true. You get upset when I am concerned all the time.  --you take concern as a personal attack. How often do you text me are you OK? I am concerned. You do it like every five minutes. This was just two weeks after Todd died so Dave was admittedly on high alert. And by the end of the story he sees it from Chris's perspective. It is one of those irritating things that happens to people in recovery. You act slightly off one day and everyone assumes you are using again. Dave explains. The point of this story-- obviously you are fine. The point of the story is this is something that addicts have to go through who are using who are lying. You know what I mean? Like they are covering up their shit or they just got clean and everybody is sure that they are still getting high. Or in your situation-- you know you are 4 and 12 years clean but like how do you think somebody should deal with that? Because I bet there is a ton of people listening with very little-- The next week they do Episode 142. Normally they record the show on Friday night and Chris puts it online on Saturday morning. But that Friday Chris gets home from a work trip to Texas and he is too exhausted to record the show. They agree to do it Saturday. Saturday comes around and Chris is fighting with Annie. He tells Dave he is too upset to record the show. He needs to go to the gym. Then after the gym he needs another hour. Dave's getting pissed. He knows The Dopey Nation is expecting an episode. They finally start recording late that night around 1100. Chris is lackluster. Dave's doing most of the work providing most of the energy. And Chris keeps screwing up and saying things that they later have to bleep out like where he went on the work trip or his sister's name or Dave's last name. It is amazing that Bob  is driving round and thinks you know who I should talk to? Dave . Why'd you say my last name? Now you have to bleep it. Ah fucking A. Let me put it in my notes. It does not even work because we have changed it so much.  Now it is twice. And what else? What is wrong with you? I do not know. I am stupid. I cannot--   --was. I said it once right? Ah Chris. What? How are we going to get the show out? I will do it tonight. Dave's worried that Chris has lost interest in Dopey that he is too busy with the other things in his life now-- his girlfriend his job his doctorate. He starts wondering if Chris is going to quit. And if he does what will happen to the show? They finally sign off at 100 in the morning. And stay strong my brothers and sisters in and out of recovery. And toodles I am going to stop the call recorder. You can stay online. All right? Hey but you do not have to say toodles. It is unnecessary. Toodles.  So hello and welcome to Dopey the podcast about drugs addiction and dumb shit. And I am Dave. This is the next episode of Dopey Episode 143-- a week later. For those who are not on Dopey social media the worst thing that could have ever happened happened and Chris relapsed and died. And here I am alone at my dad's with one microphone plugged into the mixer. Chris overdosed three days after Episode 142. He would been secretly using drugs again probably for weeks. After that last episode they recorded together Dave and Chris fought. First Chris put the show online without bleeping out Dave's last name. Dave was pissed. He went in and fixed it but inadvertently inserted 10 minutes of silence into the middle of the episode which made Chris mad. So that Monday they are fighting over text message all day. Dave could not make sense of what was going on with Chris. He told Chris it was fine if he did not want to do Dopey anymore. But Chris said no that was not it at all. He loved making Dopey. Dave believed him. But meanwhile Chris was also fighting with Annie. She would left their apartment and went to stay with her parents. Chris was distraught crying. He asked Dave to call and check in on him so Dave called him after midnight and told them he would check in again in the morning went to bed. He woke up at 6 AM to a text from Annie. She would sent it in the middle of the night asking Dave if he would check on Chris. So at 630 Dave sent Chris a text message. A minute later Chris wrote back I am good. As you like to hear I am sleeping but not totally good. Alive nothing to worry about. We can talk later. At 1030 Annie called Dave and told him that Chris was dead.  In the next few days Dave had to decide if he was going to do the show that week or ever again. In the 2 and 12 years of making Dopey together they would never missed a show. Dave thought if he skipped this week he would be letting The Dopey Nation down. It would be like your drug dealer not showing up. And besides drug users should know if somebody dies from a drug overdose. So three days after Chris's death he recorded that episode of Dopey. And he calls Annie. Hello? Hey you are on-- Hey how are you? You are on the show. Oh ha-ha-- hello everybody. How are you feeling? Ah pretty shitty. They start to piece together the mystery of Chris's death. Dave had completely misread his behavior. In retrospect he was probably high on the last episode of Dopey. He was probably high when he made that weird phone call to his sponsor. He was probably even high on the Artie Lange episode. Dave had been operating off the wrong story-- that Chris was not interested in Dopey anymore but Annie had not. She had noticed the strange ways Chris had been acting. He kept taking the dog for walks for instance when the dog did not need to go out. He was staying up all night and sleeping during the day. She got suspicious he was using again so she and Chris's sister arranged for a surprise drug test. On Monday a guy showed up at their apartment and did a saliva test. That night Annie told him she was going to stay with her parents. Chris left before her mom arrived to pick her up. Now she realized it was because he could not wait any longer to get high. Annie slept at her parents' house and went to work the next morning. But soon after she went home to check on Chris. And I do not know if you want me to elaborate on how it was walking into the apartment. Yeah you might as well. Or would you rather I not. No you might as well. I walked in. The first thing I see is his shoes so I figure OK he is here. And the vape is there the keys are there so I look at the couch. He is not on the couch. And I look at the bed and he is not there. And then I  bathroom I go into the bathroom. He is not there. And that is when I start panicking and-- and as I walk into the bedroom on the side of the bed I found him dead. I knew right away he was dead. Everything after that is somewhat foggy. I knew we had Narcan at home because he always kept Narcan everywhere. Narcan is a medication that can reverse an opioid overdose. You spray it up a person's nose. And I got the Narcan but I knew it was too late. I just had to do it because it was like the only thing I could do it at the moment. Chris had cocaine Xanax alcohol and fentanyl in his system. He was 33 years old. Soon after a package arrived for him at their apartment. It was filled with drugs-- Percocet cocaine crack cocaine heroin. Annie scoured the apartment and Chris's car. She found a bunch of drug paraphernalia-- needles some of which were used and clean pee he would ordered online. Also she found a small medicated patch that was not in any packaging. She sent a picture of it to Dave. They could not be sure but Dave thought it was probably fentanyl. Annie has a theory about Chris's relapse. He had recently injured himself doing a high karate kick to try to impress her. Something in his leg popped he was in terrible pain. The doctor he saw was not his regular doctor and she thinks Chris got painkillers fooled himself into thinking he could just take them for the pain and stop there. If Annie's theory is right then Chris started using again two weeks after Todd's death and was dead three weeks later. I mean when the news came I got angry about it. And then the next morning I woke up and-- you know I felt the day between the last time I had spoken to him. You know what I mean? I felt the distance and I was like it just felt like it was becoming real. And then this morning I woke up and I could hear his voice in my head like we were doing the show. I could hear his voice. And then I kind of woke up and it was another day since I had spoken to him. And it just-- it is like liquid becoming solid. You know what I mean? And it is like you move away from this liquid feeling to this cold solid truth that he is never going to come back and it is over. Dave hangs up with Annie. And now he is got to end this episode of Dopey without Chris for the first time. We will just end it the way we always end it. And we will say stay strong Dopey Nation. And I said I would never say this but Chris is dead so I will say toodles for Chris. And we love you. And everybody out there please try to take care of yourself. All right.  Dave still makes Dopey-- by himself now. He is pulling in bigger guests like the comedian Marc Maron and the rapper Killer Mike. He gets about 6000 downloads an episode now but it is not the same show. Dopey as the nation knew it is gone along with Chris. It is not a buddy comedy anymore. It is more of a straight interview show. There are fewer war stories and when there are the tone is different. Dave is different. There is this one moment in Episode 142 the last episode Dave and Chris did together that I keep thinking about. Chris had just played a voicemail from a listener named Mike who tells a story about hiding his pee in the closet of his bedroom. It is not important why. And afterwards they get into a conversation about whether it is OK to laugh at drug stories. In the first episodes of Dopey Dave was a solid yes on that-- that was the whole point of the show-- but now they have flipped sides. Chris says yes it is fine to laugh. And Dave says this-- I think it is funny but the fucked up thing-- and it might be the end of Dopey right? Check this out. Like I just feel like this guy-- he is like everyone's laughing about everything they are doing. And then they can just drop dead. But what is the flipside? Morbid reality the whole time until you die? No dude. I think it is funny. I think the urine is funny. I think that shit is hysterical. But it is like laughing on the train tracks and not seeing the fucking train coming. I do not think morbid reality is better. No of course not. I am just saying it is sad you know? We laugh on the train tracks but we have the right to laugh on the train tracks. It would be much different if someone had never struggled. And the truth is that when we were struggling the person who would tell a story that was terrifying and laugh at it might have a better chance at reaching us and getting us to stop than the person who is morbid reality. I just feel responsible. I think it is obviously because of Todd's death that when we laugh at stuff I just want to throw it out there that at any second Mike could be dead. Because Mike's still using. And there is fentanyl everywhere. And it is killing everybody. That is what I am saying. How is that? Yes no of course. Yeah. Dave told me he always thought Dopey was good for him and Chris for their sobriety. He thought their creation would protect them but it did not. Chris is gone. Dopey it turns out was its own war story playing out week by week. So now on the show Dave's mission has changed. The drug stories are not just in service of a laugh now they are in service of an urgent message. You could die. Todd died. Chris died. You could die. Dana Chi