OK just to put this out there perhaps you are somebody who has not been looking forward to the inevitable deluge of 10th anniversary 911 coverage on basically every media outlet that exists. But think for a second about what it is like for the 911 families and survivors. Like Lynn Simpson. She was on the first show we did after 911 telling the story of working on the 89th floor of World Trade Center One when the planes hit and how she made it down the stairs and out of the building with about a minute to spare. I caught up with her last week. I wish that people would not make such a big deal about the 10th anniversary. And I am very happy when September 12 comes along. You are saying in a way that for you as somebody who escaped from the World Trade Center you would pretty much rather not be looking back so intensely each year. If that is so then who are these commemorations for? Well I do not know. Marian Fontana's husband Dave was a firefighter killed in the south tower. She was also on our show years ago and she told me last week when we checked with her that she and her son are going to spend 911 not at any of the public events but instead they are going to visit the spot at a park where Dave proposed to her years ago and where she later scattered his ashes. And then they are going to have a quiet family dinner together. See I was wondering if when these anniversaries come up if it is comforting or if it is more like OK let us relive the worst day of your life? Yeah it is complicated. I always feel like never forget is such an odd-- you know the kind of phrase of 911 where it is like never forget but to heal you have to forget. Here we are 911. And who exactly wants to watch the footage from that day again think about it all over again? And we thought today on our program rather than look back at that one day in 2001 it would be a lot nicer to spend most of this hour looking at where we have come since. After all 911 happened to us but the decade since we created that ourselves. And this seems like a good time to measure just how far we have come. And to do that we have reached out today to some of the interviewees who have appeared on our show in the last decade whose lives seem to tell some piece of the story of what the world has gone through since September 11. We checked in with them again to see what has happened to them. And I have to say it has been really interesting this week putting this together and hearing what has happened and where they are in their lives now. It is been a decade but as you will hear for most of them it still somehow feels like they are at the beginning of something in their lives something they are still figuring out. We bring you their stories on this 10th anniversary of 911. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. Stay with us. Act One Kabul Kabul Kabul Kabul Kabul Chameleon. Hello hello. OK today is September the 11th 2002. It is actually my last night in Peshawar. I am at a relative's house. A lot of people have been affected by September 11 but our family's literally turned upside-down. Like even me my whole plans and my life has changed. When September 11 2001 happened Hyder Akbar was 16. His dad ran a hip-hop clothing store in the San Francisco area. Hyder thought that maybe he was going to become a mortgage broker like his older brother someday. But his dad and some of his uncles had fought the Soviets in Afghanistan driving the Soviets out back in 1989. His family fled the country when the Taliban came to power until September 11. After Americans drove the Taliban from the capital his father's old friend Hamid Karzai got in touch. Karzai appears in a family photo album in a picture that was taken at Disneyland maybe 30 years ago baby-faced standing next to Goofy. Now Karzai was leading the new interim government in Afghanistan and he convinced Hyder's dad to sell his business and move back to help out. And Hyder who'd never been in Afghanistan but who'd been raised on stories about all the family friends and family members who were heroes in the struggle he wanted to go too. And he recorded himself on those trips for our show. Radio producer Susan Burton took dozens of hours of recordings and turned them into two programs one documenting what happened on Hyder's first trip in 2002 when his father was the spokesman for the new Afghan government and the second program the following year when Hyder's dad was now the governor of a particularly unstable area called the Kunar Province. Over the course of these two hours we hear Hyder grow up. When he first arrives in Kabul he is completely green thrilled in this fanboyish way just to be there. Today was a really interesting day. I went to the palace today and it was this incredible-- It was almost like going through a movie. Like there is all the gates and how they open and the huge locks. Almost looks like you are visiting some place in Disneyland or Universal Studios. But it was the real thing. You have infamous war lords walking this way and famous ministers walking that way. It was pretty exciting. I mean it is like the equivalent I think of a Lollapalooza or something going backstage and getting to meet all these rock stars going back and forth. It was kind of like that. And as nerdy and dorky as that sounds that is pretty much how it was like for me. On these two trips carrying a tape recorder Hyder sees a lot. He works as an interpreter for the US military including translating for a man Abdul Wali who dies while in custody after being interrogated by the Americans. He gets caught in a firefight. He walks through the devastation after a car bomb. He befriends people especially his driver and companion Sartor. And he vows to come back. Hey Hyder? Hello? Hey Hyder can you hear me? It is Ira. Can you hear me? Yeah yeah I can hear you. Can you hear me? Yes yes I can hear you. Where are you right now? I am in Kabul. Are you in an office? Are you in your house? Yeah I am in my house which also doubles up as my office. I reached Hyder last week by phone in Afghanistan. Some quick facts-- he is 26. After creating two amazing radio shows and writing a book with his producer Susan Burton he transferred from the community college that he was at to Yale University where he graduated from. He now lives on the third floor of this house that I reached him at and on the second floor is the NGO the Non-Governmental Organization that he created basically to go out and survey Afghans to understand what they are thinking and what they want for international aid groups and others who are working in the country. Also living in Hyder's house these days Sartor his friend and Yusef who is one of his father's old aides and a close family friend. Hyder's uncle Rauf Mama comes and stays with them sometimes too. Rauf Mama's been driven from his own home near the Pakistan border. So I am just going to launch right in OK? I have like a million questions here. You ready? Sure sure I am ready. Yes I am ready. So when you were last on the radio show in 2003 the final thing you were talking about at the end of that show was about your uncle Rauf Mama who is a war hero from fighting the Soviets and has one eye. And then at the end of that show you talked about this. It is probably about 1 oclock at night right now. I could not sleep tonight. It is because that interview was so emotional. You know when I asked him what was the hardest part ever of everything you have been through he mentioned having to sleep next to this friend just hours after he was killed and the hail pouring down on him and him trembling in that cold. One of the reasons I wanted to interview my uncle before I left was because I knew it was going to really have a lasting impression on me. And just in case I ever get soft and I get like maybe I should just stay in America or maybe you know that image of him having to do that will at least keep me going for another five years. And we have a really close relationship. And he really has high hopes for me. And he tells me all the time that he thinks I am so smart and that I am going to do so much for this country. I am going to be pulled back here. I know it. I just cannot let my uncle down. So you were a teenager when you recorded that. What is it like to hear that now? Disappointing. It is disappointing to hear that because I feel like in those years although there was a lot of problems to deal with it was still about how are we going to turn things around? How is Afghanistan going to have a better future? There was still an excitement in the air about the country moving forward. And now it is more about how to make sure that it does not go completely to  again. It is sobering hearing Hyder talk like this. If there was going to be one optimist left in Kabul it would be Hyder. But he says lots of people there now are wondering which side is going to win in Afghanistan the Americans the Taliban. Who? Kunar Province where his dad was governor is in terrible shape and the Taliban are so strong there that Hyder says that nobody wants to be seen as working with the Americans anymore. You can hear in Hyder's voice how different this is and how different he is compared to when he first got there. I asked him on the phone about what life in Kabul is like these days. Back in 2002 he remarked on how he spent a month and a half barely ever speaking with a woman or a girl. Here I will start counting and I will look for a woman's face. And also I will tell you how long it takes me. Burka burka burka burka burka. Still no woman. And when he returned in 2003. Kabul has changed tremendously. Right now there is three girls in front of me. All they have is a loose chador but I see jeans underneath their cloth. But last year burkas were probably about 95. This year I would say they have dropped to under a quarter one out of four. Hey Hyder what is it like now? It is gotten much more serious than that Ira. I feel like at that time again because there was some hope there there were some things that you could kind of look at things like the burka as an indication of the change. But when we just got a call a couple hours ago Sartor being told that three people in his village were kidnapped. When Sartor's son we had to drag-- Sartor's son is 19 years old 18 years old. And he is in Kunar. And he is exactly of Taliban fighting age and his father is becoming very worried about him. And we have to drag him out and make sure he stays with us here in Kabul because the Taliban are recruiting him and it is a problem in our home now. It is a problem. With Sartor it is a problem. With Yusef's kid-- Yusef's kid is 10 years old. And one night-- in the village sort of everybody's kind of armed-- so suddenly he heard there is some kind of loud bang at night once real quick. And he ran to go grab the Kalashnikov and he asked his wife  have you seen the Kalashnikov? They usually have this place where they hide it. And they looked and the Kalashnikov was missing. So he started investigating it and found out that later on it ended up being his 10-year-old son who had taken it. And when he asked him why he had taken it he said oh because I am going to shoot at the Americans because they are infidels and invaders. And he is 10 years old. And so Yusef got very worried about his son. And he took the Kalashnikov from him. And after that he went-- the funny thing is it kind of gives you a sense of who really has the control there-- he went back to the Taliban themselves and said look my son is 10 years old and because of all the propaganda and all the stuff that you guys are using here he is getting riled up and he wants to steals the Kalashnikov and take potshots at Americans. So can you go and talk to him and say you know that the Taliban cut off the hands of people that do uncoordinated attacks so you cannot do anything without permission? Or something like that so he did not do anything crazy. So that is kind of more an example of how much the situation has changed and I think gives you a better indicator of the momentum and direction of this country than the amount of burkas I have seen.  Sorry that is our doorbell and it is really tacky and loud. Do you need to get that? No I think Sartor's going to check who it is. I told him that I am going to be busy upstairs. So I will be OK. One of the things that is interesting listening to these shows from 2002 and 2003 is how hopeful everybody is about the new Afghan president Hamid Karzai. And you talk back in those shows about how you have fond memories of him visiting with your dad when you were little. We start one of those shows showing Karzai being very charming shortly after coming to power speaking to Afghans living in the United States. Here's a clip of him at Georgetown University reading a question from a card. Specifically how would you suggest that the younger generation of Afghans living in the US and .  OK specifically there are areas in which you have studied. Those of you who have gone through university and have acquired degrees in various fields-- medicine engineering computers management banking business administration all that-- these are the areas-- Statistics by the way we need that very much. Accounting auditing . In addition to that if somebody wants to be the president she or he is also welcome. So all of you are welcome.  And you of course are one of the young people who actually took him up on that call and went back. So since then his government the New York Times-- and this is a news stories not in editorials-- the New York Times refers to his government as one of the most corrupt in the world. President Obama has called Hamid Karzai unreliable and ineffective. Secretary of State Clinton says he runs a narcostate. He faces an internal insurgency. How have your feelings about Karzai changed over the last decade? I see Karzai as a sort of very tragic Shakespearean almost sort of like a King Henry kind of figure. I see him as an individual whose intentions and heart was in the right place. You do not see him as corrupt? Yes I do. I do see him as corrupt. But I see that corruption more as a weakness rather than a greed. I do not think he is hoarding millions and millions of dollars into Swiss bank accounts so that he can live comfortably. I think he is just put in a circumstance in which he does not know how to deal with it and he does not have the backbone to deal with it. So my father in 2005 walked out on him and has not looked back since. He said that I like you as a friend I like you as an individual but you are not fit to lead this country. And I did not spend my whole life struggling for this country so that I can ruin my name and reputation by being associated with this government. Since then his dad has been going back and forth between Afghanistan and California. Hyder meanwhile was briefly engaged to somebody who he met at Yale whose family was from the Middle East. And she was willing to move to Afghanistan with him for a few years but when it became clear to everybody that Hyder intended to stay even after they had children even if the country continued to fall apart at some point he had to decide between her and Afghanistan. And he chose Afghanistan. So that is kind of what happened with that. I feel like I will have to be paying a price for what I want to do here. I feel like it is something much bigger than me sometimes. And I feel like I cannot just run away from it. Hyder says that he does not believe that he is doing much good for the country just running his NGO. And this is another change from who he was back when he was in college and we used to joke with him about how some day he was going to be either the foreign minister of Afghanistan or he would be out fighting in the hills with his uncle. Now he is in it for real and he is become a hard-eyed pragmatist. Lately he said to his old producer Susan Burton that he is beginning to wonder if it is possible to be good and also stay relevant in Afghanistan. The people who are rising to the top the people in power are people with guns and their own armed groups people who are not afraid to use violence and intimidation. And with that in mind Hyder is thinking about basically creating his own militia. He would do that by going into the security business with some partners. He would want it to be something that would eventually employ hundreds of armed men with their own trucks and their own ammunition so he could actually be a serious player in what happens in the years ahead with the help and the political connections of his father and his uncles and all their allies. If he is going to be serious he says he needs resources and he needs guns and he needs people who shoot guns. And he is conflicted about that. Is that something-- I do not like it. To be honest with you I do not. But knowing the situation of the country knowing that it is not very stable right now knowing that the use of force is something that is respected here if you want to be relevant in there you need to have the resources to be relevant. I did not go to Yale to become a war lord but I do not know. Given the realities of the situation given the realities of my goals-- Like in the States in the States the political systems are a bit more set like somebody can emerge politically because you can emerge through the party with  resources and campaign funding and all that kind of stuff that you need to be politically relevant through the political party system. Here those things do not exist. They are kind of done on force of personality. And you have to kind of be able to use your own force of personality to get both sides whether it is the politics or the resources. But you are saying the fear is just basically just like who you would be associating with that you would be involved with a lot of kind of-- Yeah yeah yeah who you associated with what you get comfortable with. Like it is kind of a joke but let us say 20 30 years down the line I am surrounded by armed guards and I have become a dictator and I have become an  to everybody. I think people can look back at these years and be like wow OK this is where his transformation was beginning. That is what I feel like sort of right now. And so have you already made this decision? No. I do not think I have made a decision yet. I think I am still weighing the pros and cons. And have I tested the waters? Yes. Am I looking at the possibilities of how this exactly would pan out? Yes. I was speaking to this guy that I had met here. He is an older guy. He is like in his '70s. He is a French guy. His name is Dr. Gerard Chaliand. He has kind of been all over the world. I cannot name a conflict that he was not either a participant or an observer in. He trained the Mujahideen here in the '80s. He was with the Palestinians in the '60s and '70s. He was in Eritrea. He was in all these various conflicts. So I asked him you have seen all of these different kinds of movements and you have seen many young motivated individuals like myself in these kind of circumstances and what would you tell me to do? And he said lay low. Lay low until 2014. I think that is kind of when people are predicting the end game being played out in this country where some kind of situation gets established some kind of understanding between OK what exactly the Americans envision here what exactly do the Taliban. And that is when somebody like you can emerge. You do not emerge in this kind of situation because it is too murky it is too dirty. Just stay alive he said. Just stay alive until 2014. And he told me that that is not going to be an easy task for you. Hyder Akbar in Kabul. The book that he wrote with Susan Burton when he was still here in the States is called Come Back to Afghanistan. Act Two In the Garden of the Unknown Unknowns. Marian Fontana who you heard from a little bit at the beginning of the show had the experience after 911 of going from a normal life to suddenly finding herself at events with the mayor and her senators and the governor. She met President Bush three times. She was interviewed everywhere. This is because after her husband Dave died in 911-- he was a firefighter-- she started an organization that is now called the September 11th Families' Association. And she was heavily involved in the politics that followed and especially in trying to get better pay for New York firefighters. We had her on the radio show back in 2005 to tell a few truthfully incredible stories about what it was like in this new life that she found herself in. And we only have time to play a part of one of those stories here. This story takes place two years after 911 on the anniversary. 911 also happens to be her wedding anniversary. And there was a small event at the White House that year. And the vice president of her organization her friend Lee who was a firefighter and who lost a firefighter son thought it would be helpful for them to go. But Marian did not want to go. I did not feel comfortable with this administration at all and what they were doing. This is in the run-up to Iraq by then. Right. Oh yeah were already in Iraq. And so I felt very uncomfortable. I said oh you do not want me to go. And he always teased me about having a big mouth and saying the wrong thing at the wrong time. And he said no I absolutely want to go with you. Lee told her that they needed to go because they had to talk with New York Governor Pataki and he was going to be at this dinner. And so she went. He told me it was formal so I put on this sparkling blue gown. And we arrive at the White House and go through this elaborate security system. And I walk out into the Rose Garden and everyone's wearing business attire black suits including the women in brown suits. And I am in this sparkling blue dress that I wore at my sister's wedding. And I just saw all the Secret Service men kind of-- I could just imagine what they whispering into their lapels like whore in the blue dress has just entered the garden. And I was furious at Lee. He is in his late 50s and short. And I felt like I looked like his hooker basically. So we went in. Which is really not a good feeling in the Rose Garden. No I was so self-conscious. And so I was just playing with the dog because I am just-- Lee made me promise not to do anything inappropriate not to talk to anybody about my liberal politics. And then I am looking around this odd conglomeration of people including Maury Povich and Condoleezza Rice and the Rumsfelds. And I felt so uncomfortable I just wanted to go home. I really was feeling kind of emotional about the anniversary and feeling like a hypocrite being there. And so we got up to Governor Pataki and we chatted for a while and said what we needed to say and then I was ready to go home. But then there was a buffet dinner and a film to see so we had our buffet dinner. And I sat all the way in the back of the garden at this farthest picnic table in the back. And I am eating quietly waiting for Lee to join me. And I hear someone say is this seat taken? And I look up and it is Donald Rumsfeld and his wife and they want to sit at the table with me. And I was like no nobody's sitting here go ahead. So they sat down and Lee joined me. And of course Lee having served in Vietnam and having about 28 medals on his Class A firefighter uniform immediately got into the conversation. And Donald Rumsfeld had just gotten back from Afghanistan so they were chatting about all this stuff. And I decided I would be a good friend to Lee and just talk to his wife Joyce about his daughter's rock climbing. So that is what I was being good. But half an ear was listening to their talk. And I was getting more and more upset. And I could feel my face turning red. And then finally Rumsfeld turned and said Marian what do you think about all of this? And I said Oh you really do not want to know what I think. And he is like No no I actually really do. I am curious what you think. And I look at Lee to get permission if this is OK and he nods. And I said Well actually I think you used the death of my husband to go into a country you have no business being in. It felt kind of like a cop-out at the time because there was so much more I wanted say. Because there is some more direct thing that you can say than you are taking the death of my husband and using it to start an inappropriate war. What is the mean version of that? Like what were you holding back? No I think I was actually being good. I think if Lee had not kicked me under the table I probably could have said more. And everything kind of got quiet. Rumsfeld nodded and he said Thank you and turned back to Lee and they continued their conversation. Soon there was a screening of a 911 documentary and so they went to this tiny screening room in the White House. She is one row behind the president. And then so I was kind of up against the wall and Lee was sitting next to me and Condoleezza Rice and some other guy. And then the film began and I did not even think about what the film was about. And the screen opens and it is the towers burning and the shaky cameras filming it. And I lost it like I have never lost it publicly in my life. I just started almost like having an epileptic seizure of grief sobbing really loud. And I had to get out of there. And so I literally just stood up like a hysterical woman which I am not but suddenly became and started clawing my way out of the row. And I stepped on Condoleeza Rice's foot. And they had pulled a curtain over the door and I could not find the knob. And I am like at the door kind of shaking the curtains and Lee's behind me trying to find the door. And do you think it is just the combination of being in the most alien environment possible and then suddenly just missing your husband so intensely like it is all coming together at once like that is why? Yeah exactly. Absolutely that is exactly what happened. And it was the anniversary and I really wanted to be home with my son. And I had that feeling in my stomach like I made the wrong choice. I should not have come down. I talked to Marian again last week. She is no longer heading the September 11th Families' Association. She got tired of the politics within the organization and the bigger politics too actually. And she told me that she started to feel like she could not make this one day in 2001 the rest of her life. Her son Aidan who was in kindergarten on 911 is now 15 years old. And she and I talked about what these anniversaries are like for him. For him it is harder now that he is older and understands it. I think he was so young and did not really comprehend what was happening. And I kind of kept things on a very simple easy-to-understand scale for him. And I avoided letting him see the images of 911. I never took him to Ground Zero. I really tried to protect him from a lot of the violence of 911. That said now that he is older and he is much more political and interested in politics he has a lot of questions. And I try to answer them as best as I can. But I know the bin Laden capture was a very hard day for him at school. All the kids were talking about it congratulating him and he really had a hard time wrapping his head around that. Yeah I read you wrote about that in salon.com back when it happened in May. And you wrote that when he went off to school the morning after-- bin Laden was killed on a Sunday so on Monday he went to school-- and that morning when you dropped him off he said he felt like a big weight off of his shoulders. And then you wrote a little after 100 Aidan called. You wrote he was uncharacteristically upset. He wanted to come home after school. Everyone's talking about bin Laden. In every class they are happy he is dead but I do not feel happy. Yeah he kind of was coming to terms with his own feelings about it. I think he felt uncomfortable with the celebratory nature of what was happening. In New York he had heard that people were down at Ground Zero partying all night. And he said to me does not that make us like them? Oh that just seemed wrong to him. Yeah he said it felt a little archa-- I mean he did not use the word archaic but he said it seemed a little medieval. And I kind of agree. In 2005 you said that you felt like you were still kind of a walking symbol for what had happened to the country. Has that worn off or has that gotten worse as time has gone on? Well I think for the people who know me and my friends and family I do not think they ever saw me that way thank goodness. But I think it is hard. I think dating it makes dating very challenging. I had dates cry when I tell them the story which is a little uncomfortable to say the least. I guess it is just not very romantic. It is not sexy. No. I have had a lot of strange and different reactions from different men on dates about-- Like what? Well I always hear everyone's 911 story almost always which I appreciate. It is understandable. I think they want to connect. Sometimes it feels a little strange where they will say oh 911 yeah I was in Queens and my subway could not get to my stop and it was really really hard. And I was like yeah.  I can beat that. I cannot sound like yeah that is tough. And I guess everything's relative. I try to have patience and understand. But it is sometimes like really? Did you find yourself just at some point you just stopped telling strangers? I have tried that yes. I do try to avoid it. Do you hope that this 10th anniversary after this the anniversaries will pass with less ceremony and commemoration? You know I am not sure. I have mixed feelings about it. I mean I do like that people remember but for me personally I want to forget. So it is kind of I am not sure. I feel like 911 happened to everybody and so I think people have this strong draw to come back to Ground Zero or to come back to 911 and connect with that. For me I like to connect with the kind of moment in time that was so unique after 911 where the world kind of came together for a second. You mean that everybody was getting along for a second? Yeah. It kind of gave me hope for us as a culture and as a world. And I feel like we have moved in the complete opposite direction of that that we are more divided than we have ever been before. It is just very hard to watch. The thing you are describing is the thing you wish people would dwell on. I feel like even that somehow has become part of the standard blah blah blah of this day. You know what I mean? I feel like if you were to tune on to the television coverage that day I am sure that there'ill be a lot of things in the speeches about the moment after when we all came together. And I feel like there is like-- It is almost a cliche. It is almost a cliche in a way that is hard to even get back to that feeling. Absolutely. And yet anyone who was involved when I mention that they nod vigorously because they do remember that. And it was very fleeting. But I mean it was so profound. I really do not know if I would have made it through that time without having had the kind of whole world wrap their arms around me is what it felt like. Marian Fontana. She wrote a book about her experience after 911 that is a lot like the story she is telling here on the radio. It is called A Widow's Walk. She is now working on a book about her dating experiences since 911 called The Middle of the Bed. And it is looking for a publisher. Coming up a story that generated more email than almost anything we have ever broadcast. We return to see what is happened in the years since. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today for the 10th anniversary of 911 we are returning to people who we have had on the show during the past decade people whose lives were changed by 911 because we wanted to see what is happened to them as the decade's proceeded. We have arrived at Act Three of our show. Act Three Put on a Happy Face. On 911 where were you when that happened? I was actually in war games in Gulfport Mississippi. This is reporter Chris Neary talking to John who was in the Navy back then. What are war games? Playing war. You do live fire stay out in the field for two or three weeks. And at that time we had not even put on our gear or anything. We are getting ready to go out to the field for war games and someone ran in and was like a plane just hit the Twin Towers. And we are all looking we flipping through our manuals like what do we do? What do we do? What are we supposed to do? Like this was a situation that they gave us. So wait. So you did not think it was real? 