They can laugh about it now the Ohm family. It was Thanksgiving dinner suburban Minneapolis big spread pumpkins on the table 14 people. And it was 2002 the year after 911. And we were all just talking about 911 just 911 anything. This is Alexis the baby of the family. She and her parents came into our studio and talked with one of our show is producers Alex Blumberg. And one of the topics that was brought up was Osama bin Laden. And I just for some reason just said I thought he was attractive. I thought he was hot. And my dad really did not appreciate that comment. I was not going to listen to any of it. I really was not. I mean I was not going to let any comment like that about his looks get one inch further out of her mouth. I will say to this day it was ridiculous. What did your father say? I think he told me to  off. That had never happened before. Alexis looked at her two little cousins Henry and Hugo who did not know how to react. Her mom Diane did not know how to react. I just saw my whole meal that I would spent a week preparing kind of going up in flames with that statement. The minute the f-bomb landed I thought well now what am I going to do? There sat these two precious little boys. And their eyes were as biggest as saucers. I had a do something anything to smooth this horrible situation over. So I think I probably said something like well you know what? He does kind of look like Jesus with the long hair. So just to smooth it over that is what I remember myself saying. Yeah. Needless to say comparing Osama bin Laden to Jesus did not exactly smooth things over. Then we all just started yelling. Yeah I probably went to about 250 degrees. I think you got out of your chair. I think I got out of my chair. I really did. I said if that is the best we can come up with after what is happened to our country boy I will tell you. He was going off. And when Jeff goes off we all listen. I do remember him saying something horrible like I think the Middle East should be made into a parking lot. I do not think I ever said that. I think you did that day. Yes you did. I guess in retrospect my reaction I regret for what I said. But I had to get my point across. I just for some reason had no appreciation for what Osama bin Laden looked like. This guy I do not care what he looks like. I do not care if he looked like Paul Newman. He is still responsible for what he did. The looks things it just jacked me right there. Alexis pretty much knew what she was getting into talking about Osama bin Laden this way with her dad. He is conservative and served in the army. She knew what kind of room she was working. But she had not really factored in the fact that it was Thanksgiving dinner. Her dad says that a lot of what made it blow up. That was just the wrong place at the wrong time. It really was. I think the tension of Thanksgiving getting the food all on the table getting prepared getting going. And then all of a sudden here we go. Today on our show we have stories of people facing various kinds of tough rooms. Trying to calculate what they are going to say what they can get away with and usually not getting the reactions they figured they were going to get. WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Our program today. Tough Room in tough acts. Act One Make 'Em Laff in which we go among comedy professionals who face a room that is so tough there is just one laugh every 100 jokes. Act Two Bar Car Prophesy. A young person tries to hang out in a tough room full of adults-- adults and booze. Act Three Mission Impossible. At the doorsteps to one of the great secular temples to science ever built New York's Museum of Natural History two Mormon missionaries work a very tough sidewalk as they try to bring unbelievers over to their way of seeing things. Act Four we go to the opposite of a tough room the easiest room anywhere in this country. Well maybe in this country is not the right way to put it. Stay with us. Act One Make 'Em Laff. There are tough rooms for salesmen tough rooms for politicians and tough rooms for teachers and grant applicants job interviewees and doctoral students taking their orals. But I think the classic tough room the tough room the defines them all is when a comedian stands in front of a silent audience delivering one joke after another and getting nothing back whatsoever. And there is no tougher audience than other comedians. All right here we go. Global warming proven by one 50-degree day in January. Area man just wants to know if he should cancel his annual Oscars party or not. Nation guesses it will have the chicken Caesar salad. It is Monday morning in the offices of The Onion. And to start the new issue each of the the writers has brought in a list of 15 headlines for their fake news newspaper. There are eight people at the table seven men and one woman-- which is par for the course in the comedy business-- almost all of them are in their 20s. Seth Reiss goes first. He is just 24 been at the paper for two years. And the way it works is if Seth can convince two people to vote for a headline it survives one more day till the next round of editing. Star of David to add seventh point. Report America runs on-- Wait. I am sorry it got enough votes. I just did not understand why that was funny and I was going to ask for it. I just thinks it is silly. OK. I am just saying. The jokes survives. Seth marks it with a highlighter. I came here because by the time they are done with this process The Onion is one of the most reliably funny things out there. And I heard that one of the reasons for that was this room. It was a very tough room with a tough-minded editorial process that they would been using for 20 years. And I wanted to see what that meant. Car commercial pretty adamant about car. Yeah. Class struggle a breeze for local investment banker. Todd?  Now you are just calling out who you want to vote for them? That is not right. Though it is incredibly popular-- with three quarters of a million copies in print each week plus five million individual visitors at the website every month-- it is possible that especially if you are older you have never actually read The Onion. So here's what you need to know. It is written in newspaper form though lots of the funniest stories are not really new parody but just everyday life described in a deadpan newspaper style. Like Stoners Announce Plans to Get Stoned for That or Rejection Letter Silently Flipped Off or Control of Anecdote Rested from Boyfriend. These were all considered for this one issue by the way. The younger staffers say that it is hard not to take what happens in this room personally sometimes. Seth Reiss tells me that he is made a resolution to stop muttering under his breath you are all wrong when the group rejects his headlines. Because after all they cannot all be wrong. Megan Ganz who is 23 and who is been at the paper for a year and a half says it can be a blow and it smarts when a headline that you are sure of that you love does not make the cut. And it happens a lot. And then all of that work just evaporates into nothing. There are headlines that I remember pitching that I think I know that they are not any good. But some part of my heart is attached to them. Like I had this one that was Spork Used as Knife. And for some reason that was the funniest thing I thought I would ever thought of was the fact that here's a utensil that is two utensils. And you are using it as the only utensil it is not. And it did not even get a titter in the meeting. Just nothing just died. And I read it twice and they were like yeah move on. Then still-- that must have been this summer-- it was like months ago that I wrote headline. I still think about it. World's most depressing technical college creates world's most depressing bus ad. It is a slight variation on one that I have-- I still like that. I like that one. OK The highlighter is passed to Todd Hanson who is not just the oldest person at the table. He is been at The Onion longer than anybody else. He started in 1990 when The Onion was not really a business but more of a hobby for a few friends who all worked crappy jobs elsewhere to support themselves. In these meetings he tends to talk the most partly out of seniority and partly as he admits because he just cannot be any other way. But when he reads his list he is just like any of the other writers. And this is really the damnedest thing about their jobs-- even with all of his years of experience even he cannot tell which of his brand new jokes is any good. Man evidently think those sideburns make him look cool. That is not funny. I kind of like that. Really? Kind of. Is it funny with something other than sideburns? No? OK. All right. Pornography desensitized populace demands new orifice to look at. Yes. OK area man not technically pathetic in that he fails to elicit pathos. But are you just making a joke about how people incorrectly use the word pathetic? It takes them two long mornings on Monday and on Tuesday to come up with the 16 headlines they are going to use in the paper this week. And to get to those 16 they go through-- and I know this number is going to sound kind of crazy-- 600 possible headlines. OK this is a sad joke that come straight from real life. Casual relationship enters third year. So that is still going on?  I am sorry. I am sorry. That was not to be mean. That was a legitimate question because we have talked about it before. Truthfully the staff was a lot nicer to each other than I figured they would be. Comedians can be incredibly competitive. And The Onion has gone through phases when the chemistry was not so chill. But mainly they are just tough on the material. It is a tough room because of how minutely they dissect all the jokes. Over the years they have developed a way of discussing the material that helps them decide whether something is so outstanding funny it beats a lot of other jokes that are also pretty funny and what makes each joke funny and how to make it funnier. As an outsider and not privy to the shared assumptions and what one of them called their hive mentality it was sometimes hard to figure out why for instance Local girlfriend always wants to do stuff was a good enough headline to make it into paper while a headline that seems nearly identical Nation's Girlfriends Call for More Quality Time literally gets jeer-- jeers. Listen. Nation's girlfriends call for more quality time. Or nation's wives spend all the husband's money on expensive hat. Coming home with another round shaped box. Look at that stack of round boxes. I am pregnant. Lucy! Or why does this joke immediate unquestioning approval? Beauty regimen horrifying. Yes. Yes definitely. That is funny. While the headline Roommate's unopened bag of Doritos taunting area man deserved a long discussion of whether the point of the joke was in fact the taunting. The reason it is funny is because the word taunting-- Like he is been staring at it from a distance of 15 feet from his couch for the past 10 minutes. Or did the Doritos themselves make the joke too obvious? It is like it would be funny and have funny details in it. But on its immediate surface it is a joke about Doritos. I agree that Doritos has an immediate go-to kind of snack. Is there another snack it could be? I mean Doritos is the exact right product. Watching them parse jokes like this with a kind of academic precision they are sort of proud of hour after hour it is not just tedious. It is the opposite of comedy. And the other thing that was very odd watching them work was that most of the jokes that got the biggest laughs from the writers themselves did not make it into the paper. For example this headline. Cardinal teaches Pope to make church by interlocking his fingers.  Or this one. Gay retard teased.  No! That is so awful. Or here's another Infertile woman treats frog-shaped humidifier as human child.  And what the hell? Let us just do one more. Biologist realizes he is been studying Cadbury Egg.  After the meeting I get explanations for the many mysterious decisions I have witnessed. I am told that usually the jokes that get laughs on Monday do not survive. Again Megan Ganz. A lot of the jokes that we laugh really hard at do not make it in the paper. Because they are just initially funny. But then we sit down on Tuesday and go well what does that mean though? Like what do we say about that? Where does that joke go? Like there was a headline once that everyone laughed at really hard. It was Woman crying by penguin exhibit. Do you guys remember this headline? Woman sobbing near penguin exhibit. And everyone laughed really hard. And then everyone went OK but why is that funny? It is funny because it is the penguins I guess. And women crying is kind of a weird thing to be happening near them. But then nobody would pitch that on a Tuesday meeting as being funny. Even though it made everyone laugh nobody would pitch that. What do you write about that? It does not go anywhere. And then there was this mystery. Why did this story Local girlfriend always wants to do stuff make the paper while Nation's girlfriends call for more quality time got heckled? Todd Hanson and Dan Guterman explained that the story that went with Local girlfriend always wants to do stuff was actually written in a way that made fun of the guy in the relationship. And talking about what a sort of lowly loser he is for being irked by his girlfriend's desire to do things. It is just more like she is always wanting to go do stuff and be around people. She always wants to leave the house. And that seemed more original and different to us. Whereas nation girlfriends-- what was it-- just seemed like a joke about nagging girlfriends. And the problem with a joke about nagging girlfriends is not the political correctness of it but simply it is a really tired joke. It is a really tired joke. In fact all through their editorial meetings they are talking constantly about what jokes are tired. A joke about the Green Party and marijuana brownies was killed partly because mentioning the Green Party at all seem passe. A headline about Nicole Richie's new baby Nicole Richie thinks baby looks fat was ditched on the theory that any Nicole Richie fat or anorexia reference was very 2005. But one area where tastes differ on the staff is when it comes to silliness. They are for silliness sometimes. Take the joke Scientist Realizes He is Been Studying Cadbury Egg that got such a big laugh on Monday. It is just a silly joke says Megan. Like we do silly jokes granted. But it just does not have that x factor of being silly and kind of compelling. I do not know. I cannot explain what the difference is between that one and-- we ran one that was Thirsty mayor drinks town's entire water supply. And that one we had the same reaction. When it was read we laughed really hard. And then it went in the paper. And why is that one sillier and in a better way than the other one is silly? It is funny because it is almost always agreed upon in the meetings. Almost but not quite. When Todd Hanson and I sat down for an interview he spontaneously brought up the exact same headline Megan had mentioned though to made a very different point. No no no. Do not get me wrong. I like the silly jokes. I just have to think them through and find out what they are saying. Like I remember there was a joke Thirsty mayor drinks entire town's water supply. And just kept saying why? What is it? Thirst guy drinks a whole lake? What is funny about that? It is just silly. It is silly in a way that is not funny. And they are like no no. You have to trust us. Because he is the thirsty mayor. He drinks the whole town. And they were trying to explain it to me. I just did not get it. And then finally it clicked in my head. And I said oh I get it. It is about misappropriation of public resources by a corrupt ruling oligarchy or whatever. And then everyone made fun of me. Like Oh yeah. That is what it is about. It is not just silly. Well of course it is silly. But it has something to say and that is why it is funny. That is what I think. I just do not think jokes that do not have anything to say are that funny. If you cannot find something legitimate to say within the context of the joke no matter how silly it is I do not see the point of it. In fact to sort this out a whole language has emerged over the years at The Onion to talk about whether something is too silly or silly in the wrong way. Writers speak about a joke taking them to Sillytown or Crazyville or Sillytown Heights which is either good or bad depending on the person. And it can be bad-- though it is usually good-- when something is called a Laffer. That is laffer with two F's. A laffer is a big dumb joke that you have to laugh at. If the photo that accompanies a story is a sandwich holding a press conference that is a laffer. And the whole story is a laffertunity. Laffers are often the most emailed stories the most popular things that The Onion does. And while everybody on staff likes those silly jokes and jokes with a bigger meaning a fewer of the younger writers definitely have more tolerance for jokes that are purely silly and a different vision for what should go in the paper. And there were a couple times during the editorial meetings that I watched where the two sides squared off against each other. At one point they were discussing two headlines that covered very familiar ground at The Onion. Plan to stay in all weekend and play video games goes off smoothly and Area man makes it through day. Seth one of the newest staffers and Todd the oldest saw these very differently. Especially the video game one. It seems very Onion by the numbers. That is kind of why I liked it. I know. But I will tell you almost to a point where that sentiment I do not think we are doing anything new there. I do not know I just think of that as The Onion's ethos. That is kind of what The Onion is about. I mean that is what America is. I feel like you have done that joke before. The reason we have done that joke before is because America has been like that for a long time. And it still is. But the sentiment is so similar to the sentiment of a lot of Onion headlines that people they are not going to notice that. They are just going to be like oh The Onion does this again. I do not know. It just does not feel right. Well I am going to keep writing jokes like that until the day I die. So I am just warning you. At the heart of this dispute is a problem that comes up in any creative project that lasts even a few years. You do not want to become a parody of yourself. You do not want to keep repeating the same things over and over. Yet there are some things you do a lot of that are just built into the DNA of what you make. This is definitely something that we struggle with here on our radio show. And in fact The Onion once did an article that made fun of us for rehashing certain kinds of stories which was funny. And it stung. Megan Ganz says that as one of the newer writers on staff she worries sometimes that they are just repeating the same jokes over and over with different words. There is the one for instance where a big government institution just acts like your schmo college roommate. Like Syria attends mideast peace talks for free continental breakfast. Funny but it is a formula. And now they have like with the youngs and olds the problem is all of the young people grew up reading the stuff that the older people wrote. So we formed our sense of humor on The Onion and then became writers for The Onion. You are trying to write for your idols. It is strange. It is strange for us. I know we have talked it many times the young people here it is strange for us to write for your idols. But also you are saying to Todd who is been here forever yeah you cannot do that again. Do not do that joke again. I am tired of that joke. That is really horrible is not it? So I have been trying to mimic him throughout my life to get to where I am. And now that I am where I am I am like do not do what you do. In the end Area man makes it through day makes it onto a list of stories that will appear in upcoming issues of The Onion partly because the founder and editor-in-chief of the paper Scott Dikkers liked it. But this disagreement was not even close to the biggest fight they have all had lately. That fight I am told was over the headline Ghost just dropped by to say boo. One group 100 hated it. One group 100 loved it. People raised their voices. One usually mild-mannered editor walked out in protest. I guess people kind of read it as like a third grade joke book joke. Editor Joe Randazzo says it was an existential fight about what kind of paper they were that would or would not publish such a thing. One member of staff may love The Onion that would never have Ghost just dropped by to say boo while another member of staff may love the fact that The Onion can include a joke that says Ghost just dropped by to say boo. It is totally subjective though. Finally the editor-in-chief had to tell everybody to cut it out. And they published the joke. And this one headline did not ruin the paper. But a room full of people who would even entertain the possibility that it might who feel that strongly about it? That is a very tough room.  Act Two Bar Car Prophesy. When you are a kid adulthood itself can seem kind of a tough room in which you are going to have to adapt to the strange custom that is the world of adults. But for Rosie Schaap when she was a kid the prospect of hanging with the adults seemed exciting an adventure. 1986 when I was 15 I discovered the bar car on the Metro-North New Haven Line a dingy crowded badly-ventilated chamber where commuters drank enough to get a decent buzz going told dirty jokes and chain-smoked. These were my kind of people. And even though in my memory the whole place is covered in this sort of grimy yellow film it was my kind of joint. I took the train once a week from Westport Connecticut to Manhattan's Grand Central Station to see my psychoanalyst. As self-absorbed as any teenager I would come to enjoy psychoanalysis. I would been going since eighth grade and the 50-minutes sessions made me feel like the featured guest on a talk show. It helped that my shrink sounded a lot like Dick Cavett. But from the moment I first stumbled into the bar car after one of our appointments my return trip to Westport became the best part of my Thursday visits. I liked the company of grown ups especially strangers. With them I found it easy to feel smart and funny and interesting. Once when I was eight and we were vacationing at the beach my mother sent me to borrow a skillet from the neighbors a bunch of 30-somethings in a shared rental. They were lounging on an L-shaped white couch and seemed to get a kick out of everything I said even the word skillet. I was not even sure what the word meant until a tall woman handed me a heavy pan with flared sides. I thanked her and turned to leave. But they were not ready to let me go. They had questions. Who was I? What grade was I in? What was I into? I was astonished by their interest. I sat myself down and asked if they wanted to hear a joke. So this Jewish-American Princess married an Indian chief. Guess what they named their baby? I paused for effect. White fish. It is a terrible joke. I would heard my mother tell it to one of her friends. I did not exactly get it. But these grown ups sitting there drinking wine tumbled off the big white couch laughing. And I felt like a superstar. That is how I wanted to feel in the bar car surrounded by its regulars mostly men in wrinkled suits and loosened neckties. I liked listening to them. They drank beer or Scotch laughed loudly talked fast and always seemed happy to see each other. They were a tribe and I wanted in. Still I did not dare pony up to the bar and order myself a beer. There was no way the weary Metro-North crew would serve me. I needed a point of entry. I found what I was looking for the night I pulled my Tarot cards for my backpack and gave myself a reading right there in the bar car. I would been studying The Pictorial Key to the Tarot a 1910 primer by Arthur Edward Waite and had cultivated a look that fell somewhere between Janis Joplin and Madame Blavatsky. Gauzy Indian dresses  kaftans chunky silver rings on my fingers. My Tarot cards smelled of patchouli and sandalwood cigarettes and pot. I shuffled and then began to lay them out in the Celtic cross pattern I would learned from Waite's book. First the significator the card that stood for me. Then the card that crossed me signifying the things that blocked my path. Next the card that crowned me representing my ideals and aims. And so on and so on until I laid out the 10th and final card which would reveal the answer to my question. By then a small crowd had gathered around me. When I finished a woman asked if I would give her reading. It was the first time someone in the bar car had spoken to me without wanting to see my ticket. She asked what I charged. I had not thought about that. I mulled it over and told her I thought it was kind of bad mojo to take money for readings. But I was cool with bartering. And I would not mind a beer. She did not ask how old I was. Her reading was good mostly positive cards. Yes I told her she would thrive at her new job. She might even get a promotion soon. She smiled and discreetly got me that beer. Suddenly it was like a divination marathon. I must have done five readings in an hour. The more I read the more confident I grew. A routine took shape. As I laid down the cards I would sing Neil Young's After the Gold Rush quietly almost under my breath. Then when I was done I would give the whole pattern an initial once over and look solemnly into the questioner's eyes. The cards are here to guide us I would say in a voice an octave lower than my own. But what they tell us is not carved in stone. You have the power to change any of this. And all these grown ups-- accountants lawyers executives-- hung on my every word. The next week after therapy my fortune telling for alcohol scheme began in earnest. Again I settled into the bar car and gave myself a reading. And again a cluster of commuters assembled around me. I felt like I would cracked a code. They would sit down next to me and listen obediently. When you shuffle the cards put your energy into them. Concentrate on your question I instructed them. If you are doing this half-heartedly the cards will know. This continued for weeks and out of it I got plenty of beer a couple of books a pair of silver earrings. That and the undivided attention of all these adults. I would explain what each position in the Celtic cross meant the significance of casting more cups than swords more wands than pentacles. If someone's reading turned up an unusually high number of Major Arcana cards I would go quiet for a moment before I disclosed to him how much power that foretold and urged him to use that power responsibly for the greater good. I never asked them their names and I never told them mine not my real one anyway. Yet time after time as I laid out their futures complete strangers would drop intimate clues about their lives their jobs their families. More than once a wingtip wearing banker or salesman confided in me that he would taken acid and sloshed around in the mud at Woodstock and felt very connected to the energy of the universe. I would nod and say something like That is awesome man. I wish I would been there. It was as if I would materialized before their eyes like some ghost from their youth come back to answer questions about their future. Of course there were people in the bar car who paid me no mind and others who made their skepticism known. But I was dismissive of the nonbelievers. They were out of touch and that was their loss. Still one heckler in the crowd made me nervous. I could not pinpoint his age mid-30s I guessed. He was a broad-shouldered thick-necked guy with a beer gut strawberry blond hair and a big ruddy face. He looked like a Kennedy but you could not quite put your finger on which one. And did he have a mouth on him. The F word used as a noun verb and adjective strung together in one sentence and then the next and the next like artillery fire. The guy was always drunker and louder than anyone else. Once he cupped his hands into a makeshift megaphone and sort of stage-shouted at me something like The '60s are over. Get a life. As much as I basked in my bar car celebrity I dreaded seeing that guy. And then one Thursday after I had already served a few of my patrons he half-staggered half-swaggered over to me. All right he said. This is total BS. But go ahead. Do mine. He plunked himself down across from me his knees a little too close. I wanted to tell him to go away. I wanted to tell him that his unwillingness to believe would insult the spirits and make them uncooperative. But I worried he would call me a fraud. I played it cool and started my spiel. Shuffle focus give the cards your energy. He rolled his eyes but played along. He cut the cards once and handed me the deck. I laid them out. First I set down his significator the 10 of swords. Possibly the worst card of all with a solitary prostrate figure under a black sky pierced in the back by all 10 swords. It represents in Waite's words pain affliction sadness. The rest of the cards were not much better. He pulled the tower a card signaling corruption destruction and the presence of evil. He got the death card too. And as much as I disliked the guy I really did not like what I saw in those cards not for anyone. Not even for him. I kept quiet for a long minute while I tried to figure out how to spin this. But there was nothing good I could say. Maintaining eye contact is key to being a good mystic but I could not even meet his gaze. Well what is it say? he finally asked. I took a deep breath. None of this is carved in stone or written in blood. He cut me off. Well what? So I told him what I saw. And as I interpreted one dismal symbol after another the guy leaned in closer put his elbows on the table buried his head in his hands and started to cry. He told me that his marriage was falling apart that he constantly worried about his health that he was too young for heart problems but he had them. That he felt as though his life had added up to zero. He asked Will I ever be happy? The cards I answered bluntly said no. But I told him just like I told everyone else you have the power to change that. He shook his head and glared at me with red swollen eyes that said he did not. Maybe he did not. Maybe no one had the power. Maybe the days that lie ahead of us are set in stone and that was that. And maybe I would been the cynic. Something I had believed in had become a gambit for attention. I had not thought it though. And maybe I would even hurt people. In the background other passengers were caught up in conversation laughing and drinking and carrying on. I could think of nothing more to say to the guy nothing reassuring. I felt small and foolish. And when the guy finally got off the train a couple of stops before mine I was relieved. I sat awake in my bed that night and thought about him. I imagined him going home to a white clapboard colonial to an unhappy wife pretending to be asleep. I imagined him returning the next day to a job he hated and getting wasted again that afternoon. But of course at 15 I could not imagine what it was like to be him to live his life. And I realized I did not want to be able to. Reading Tarot cards in the bar car had been fun until it got serious. Adults had problems I could not begin to fathom. And they had things to say I was not ready to hear. I did not go back to the bar car. I missed the grown ups. I missed their attention. But I was not one of them. I did not belong there. Although I could feel adulthood encroaching-- real adulthood which now seemed less about drinking and smoking and freedom and more about loss and fear and the sense that death itself lay waiting somewhere just ahead. Rosie Schaap. This story comes from a book of essays that she is writing about drinking called Drinking With Men. It comes out next year. Coming up if Jerry Seinfeld became a Mormon tomorrow the most likely way that it would happen would be because of two guys that we are going to introduce you to. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life I am Ira Glass. Each week on our show of course we choose a theme bring you a variety of different kinds of st