IMITATING IRA GLASS One two three. One two three. One two three. One two three. IMITATING IRA GLASS One two three. One two three. Sometimes things are not what you think they are. And people are not who you think they are. That is what we are talking about today. I am Ira Glass. That is really weird to hear you do that. I am here. This is actually Ira Glass. I am sitting here with Fred Armisen-- Hi. Hi. Who is probably best known for Saturday Night Live but also Portlandia. And I knew that you had worked up an imitation of me because we just happened to meet once. Yeah. And then you said this thing that I thought was a polite way of saying-- I cannot remember exactly how you put it but it was sort of like but you are not famous enough so I have no use for this on television. . I might have said that exactly. Yeah. And-- Well after that this writer at SNL Christine Nangle and I we figured out a way to turn it into a sketch that we could put on Weekend Update the news segment on Saturday Night Live. By chance NPR came up in the news. I think this was around the time that they were talking about cutting some of the funding. Cutting funding when Vivian Schiller got fired-- Vivian Schiller the president of NPR. That is exactly right. How is she doing by the way? OK? Have you kept in touch with her? --Tea Party. Here to comment on NPR's troubles the host of This American Life Ira Glass. So I came out and I am wearing your glasses with a wig to look like you. IMITATING IRA GLASS It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Act One. You know I was thinking the other day-- And then the joke being that you were interviewing people at Weekend Update. Ira look. You cannot bring other people on as your guests. You are my guest. It is just your CEO just resigned. And now the Republican budget proposes cutting your funding completely. I mean are not you afraid that NPR might start laying people off? IMITATING IRA GLASS Act Two. Oh boy. IMITATING IRA GLASS Laid off no guts-- So this never made it to air. This is just the recording from the dress rehearsal. Why did not it make it to air? IMITATING IRA GLASS Rita finally gets a job. Who knows? It might have been a little unwieldy. So if people want to watch that the entire video-- we have a link at our website. So I invited you here today because the theme of this week's show is doppelgangers. This show is about doppelgangers about people who are doubles or look-alikes. And I realized that because you had worked up this imitation you could co-host as my doppelganger. In this room in this studio this is the one place where I actually am famous enough that you can use this imitation. Yeah yes. So if you are ready that is what we will do. IMITATING IRA GLASS Sure. And another way to look at it is you are co-hosting with me that this is my show. Exactly. IMITATING IRA GLASS And that is what we are talking about today. I am Ira Glass. . All right. So let us go to this copy. So we have some copy for today. OK.  That is this one. And let us go to there. And let us just-- why do not you start? IMITATING IRA GLASS Today on our show-- today on our show-- Let me think. I am just thinking about how I would do it. I would go like today on our show. Oh yes. That is better. OK. IMITATING IRA GLASS Today on our show-- We have two stories of supposed doppelgangers. IMITATING IRA GLASS We have two stories of supposed doppelgangers. And we try to figure out the truth of them. Do I sound that nasal? Maybe. And we try to figure out the truth of them. IMITATING IRA GLASS And we try to figure out the truth of them. One concerns two men who have never met-- IMITATING IRA GLASS --the other two animals who never meet. I think you should do the next part because it is so like-- do you want to hear me do it first? Or do you just want to do it? IMITATING IRA GLASS From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life-- Distributed by Public Radio International. IMITATING IRA GLASS Distributed by Public Radio International. . I feel like a Muppet. Why does it make me feel like a Muppet Fred?  Seriously. Why--? I think you could be a Muppet. I do not know why they do not have a Muppet of you. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life-- IMITATING IRA GLASS From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life-- Distributed by Public Radio International-- IMITATING IRA GLASS Distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. And I am Ira Glass. IMITATING IRA GLASS And I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. So Fred do you want to start Act One? Yeah OK. IMITATING IRA GLASS Act One Dead Ringer. We start today with a story of physical resemblance not of a person but of a food. A quick warning that if you are squeamish or averse to graphic images of food there is going to be some of that in this report. Here's Ben Calhoun. I first heard about this whole thing in an email. It came from a listener a woman named Emily Rancer. She works in the food industry. And the letter Emily wrote was about a story she would heard from a farmer. The farmer who told her this is apparently a person of some standing in the pork industry. Admittedly I do not know the first thing about the pork industry. But he is in charge of a pork-producing operation that spans several states. The story he told Emily went something like this. A while ago he was visiting a pork-processing plant in Oklahoma. He is walking through it with a friend a guy who managed the plant actually. And at some point he saw boxes stacked on the floor labeled artificial calamari. He stood there wondering for a second. And then he asked his friend what is artificial calamari? Bung his friend replied. It is hog rectum. Rectum that would be sliced into rings deep fried and boom. There you have it. OK. If I can let me just narrate for you what this would mean. It would mean that in restaurants everywhere right this second people are squeezing lemon wedges over crispy golden rings and dipping the rings into marinara sauce. And they are eating hog rectum. Now they are chewing satisfied and deeply clueless. It is payback. It is payback for our blissful ignorance about where our food comes from and how it gets to us. It is amazing. And it is perfect. But it also seems like it could not possibly be true. So I called up the farmer to talk to him personally. I wanted to hear it first hand. And the farmer confirmed the story-- the entire thing the boxes the bung. But when I asked him to go on the record to tape an interview and give his name here on the radio he very politely declined. Which seems suspicious right? When I asked him why he said he would spoken with his girlfriend about it. And she suggested that he should think about the words that he wanted to come up when somebody googled his name. This was all fine though because he referred me to the real expert-- the guy who gave him the tour of the hog-processing plant. And that guy-- he agreed to talk.  Hello? Hi. Is this Ron? Yeah. Yeah. This is Ron Meek meat-processing plant manager presently residing in Mountain View Missouri where he runs an organic beef processing plant there called Beyond Organic. If the story really were true Ron would have been the guy who explained to the farmer what was in those boxes. The boxes are 10-pound boxes. They cut off so much of it like maybe a 10 or 12-inch piece of the bung. And you know what it looks like? After they are cleaned and washed and everything they just look like a bunch of big noodles in a box is all it looks like. But specifically the labels that said imitation calamari where did you personally see the imitation calamari labels? Oh I have never seen a label say that. That is all I was told by the people I work for. They told me that. Oh. The people that you work for told you that it was used for imitation calamari. Right. And is there any possibility that you think that when they were explaining this to you that they were kind of having you on a little bit? Having me on? Yeah like-- Bull ing me? Yeah. Well I would not think that. You know it could be 5 could have been that. But I seriously doubt it. OK just to give a little better picture. A pork bung-- and bung is the actual industry term for it-- is long and flappy and ugly. At one end it widens out into this more bulbous shape like a pink wrinkly pear. That is the rectum. At the other end it narrows into a soft pinkish-white tube. I know. It sounds gross. But also consider we are a nation that eats more than a billion pounds of sausage every year. Billion with a B. Maybe you like liverwurst or capicola or summer sausage with a natural casing. Then you like me have eaten bung-- stuffed dried bung. A lot of brats and Italian sausages are stuffed in intestine. So if you eat those regularly you pretty much live up the street from bung. So why does the idea of a fried ring of bung just feel grosser? Partly it is the visual right? When you see that little ring of calamari you do not want to picture it in the context of a pig's behind. Then there all the people who do not eat pork period. Ron said there is also another reason. Just because the word bung probably. I mean people do not just want to jump up and say man I am gonna eat me some bung tonight you know? I mean that is just the way it is. But the big question the question you have been thinking about since we got on this topic-- have you or I eaten imitation calamari bung dressed up as seafood? Well Ron did not know. He said his plant exported a lot of their bung to Asia. But he just did not know much about whatever happened after it left the door. So he could only speculate. Anything he said would be a wild guess. So I turned to people who would know is pork bung being falsely peddled as calamari? I called the USDA. The USDA's food-inspection service issued the following statement to me. Products we inspect including those derived from pork must be accurately labeled and cannot purport to be a product of another species. So it is against the rules. But people break the rules. A recent study of seafood by a group called Oceana used DNA testing and found that all across the country fish is regularly being labeled as other species in restaurants and in grocery stores. Escolar sold as white tuna Pacific rock fish being fraudulently sold as snapper. In Miami more than 30 of fish was being sold as something it was not. In New York the number was 39 Boston 48 Los Angeles-- are you ready-- 55. 55. That means if you order fish in LA you are most likely eating a species you did not order. In other words seafood substitution is rampant in this country. And depending on where you live from what I can tell you can get cleaned hog bung for about half the price of cleaned squid. So there would be money in it if you could pull off the switch. And as best as I can tell were you to do this you would not be caught. A lawyer who is familiar with this area of law and regulation told me once bung leaves the plant there is a variety of agencies and entities that would be in play-- USDA FDA state and local government. But ultimately he said the regulation we have is not designed to catch an offense like this. It is aimed mostly at sanitation and food safety. So bottom line the lawyer said if somebody wanted to do it chances are they would get away with it. So is someone out there doing this? Well for weeks I looked for an answer. The USDA says they have never heard of anyone trying to pass pork bung as squid or any other species.  I contacted the National Restaurant Association the National Pork Producers Council the National Pork Board-- Hello? --a squid fishermen's association-- Good afternoon National Pork Board. --Sysco and other big food and restaurant supply companies. It is hog what? Bung. Hog rectum. Oh my gosh. That is the executive director of the California Wet Fish Producers Association. But the answer was pretty much always the same. Nobody had heard of it. But almost to a person they added that that does not mean it is not happening somewhere. Ron Meek said a lot of the bung from his plant got exported. So my next call was to the US Meat Export Federation which confirmed that quote The main destinations for pork bungs are China Hong Kong Japan Taiwan Korea and the Philippines. They are mainly used for processing but we are aware of some uses in soups and certain entrees. We are not aware of them being used as a substitute for calamari but it is not impossible unquote. So over the past few weeks I have called Asian food suppliers people who live in work in and eat in those countries. I talked to a woman named Corinne Trang who is written an overarching compendium of Asian cuisines. I have talked to academics at NYU and Haverford and USC and Harvard. I have reached out to chefs who know Asian food. The answer again always similar-- never heard of it but it is possible. Partly because bung does not have such a complicated reputation in Asia where it has to be some kind of secret ingredient like it does here. On the other hand though people pointed out that in Korea and Japan you cannot get more than a few hours from the ocean. Squid is cheap and it is readily available. You would only eat a substitute if you wanted the substitute. Generally people said if the switch was happening somewhere they would guess China. Eventually I found my way to this guy who I was really excited about someone who I thought might have my answer. He was-- get this-- an anthropologist who lived and worked in China for 40 years where he studied food and specifically meat. When I talked to him though he made two points. Point one my question about this happening in Asia was racist. Even just asking the question was racist because it plays on ignorant stereotypes about other cultures eating things that we perceive as weird. Point two was that Ron Meek-- my guy from the pig plant-- Ron was pulling my leg. And he was getting away with it because I was a dumbass. He told me more than once that I should quote find something worthwhile to do with myself. When we ended our conversation he told me that he was refusing to even dignify what I was doing by appearing on the radio or by letting me use his name. OK. So to respond to his points one by one first am I racist against Asians? Well I am half Chinese. My mom's Chinese. Like anyone I have had the occasional issue with my mother. But this has not been one of them. We grew up eating chicken feet and fish eyes. And I think it is possible to raise the question of who eats what without being racist. His second point though that Ron Meek was pulling my leg-- I mean the guy was still an expert on meat in China. So I called Ron back. All right. Shoot me some questions dude. I told him the whole thing about the anthropologist about what he said. I mean the only thing I want to ask you is are you messing with me? No. I mean that was what my boss told me. I was like what the hell are we save these hog bungs for? He says they use them for imitation squid and stuff like that. But so in your heart of hearts you believe it. Yeah man. I mean I as not going to sit here and tell you things that are bull  and play with you when I am just going off of my knowledge of saving hog bungs. I mean you got to think about how far advanced slaughterhouses are especially big ones that want to make every penny count. Like the one I worked at you bring the pigs in you stun them then you stick them. And the blood goes off into a trough. And it goes down and it is vacuum sucked out of there with a vacuum into centrifuges. And they separate the blood from the blood plasma. And they save that. I mean they save the lungs. They save the pancreas. They save the spleens. They save the hearts. The only thing left by the time it is all said and done is a skull and jaw bones. I mean you can be an anthropologist all you want. But if you do not work in a processing plant you do not know . I contacted the plant Ron worked at where this happened. And for what it is worth they backed him up. They said their sales team had heard of people eating pork bung as imitation calamari though they had not witnessed it firsthand or heard it directly from a customer. It was all hearsay. So at the end of all this I still had no proof that anyone was passing off bung as squid. And then I realized I had not asked the more basic question here. Could bung do it? Could it pass as calamari? And that question led me to a guy named Eddie Lin. Eddie Lin has eaten a lot of bung at least 100 times he said probably more. Eddie has an extreme food blog called Deep End Dining and an online TV show called Kamikaze Kitchen. I can definitely see a resemblance texture-wise. Oh really? Yeah definitely. There is sort of a rubbery texture sort of like a calamari. Huh. But you would really have to get rid of that-- needless to say-- foul flavor and odor from the bung. Somehow I had not figured that the bung once it was scrubbed and rinsed and cleaned with steam that it would still taste like-- you know. So yeah you would definitely have to do some major major blanching. Or brining I meant. Brining. To just try and leech those flavors out of there. Yeah. I mean those flavors have been marinating in that pig for quite a while. So-- A lifetime. Yeah. . He thought it would not be easy. But he thought it could be done. And there was only one way to tell if he was right-- to cook up some bung and eat it. And if the taste was overwhelming and the texture was all wrong well then I would have my answer. And at this point I will be frank. I started to root for the bung. I realized that this is not a story about fraud. It is not a bait and switch story. It is a story about possibility. It is classic rags to riches. It is about whether a cut of meat-- perhaps the lowliest most malignable cut of meat in America-- might somehow in at least one place on the planet be dipped in the redemptive oils of the great culinary equalizer that is the deep fryer. And it might emerge transformed no longer an outcast but instead hair combed clean shaven in a suit and tie. It might walk reborn onto a table. Through sheer force of resemblance it might be loved. Its history years of drudgery and hardship doing the body's least glamorous job all washed away. No this is not the story of a con man like Bernie Madoff. It is Pretty Woman. This is whether Good Will Hunting finds his way out of Southie. It is whether Charlie on that very last chocolate bar really can get a golden ticket. To do all this to try it I called my little sister Lauren. She is a chef trained abroad at the Cordon Bleu worked at Michelin Star restaurants. She is that kind of chef. Soon we were standing in front of a deli case. And I do not know why I feel hesitant about saying this because I do not think it is racist. It was in Chinatown. Pork bung there it is. Look at it. It looks like the sphincter. Wait. What do you mean it looks like a--? This one up here that is cut up it looks like a butthole. . It does. And Lauren had theories about pulling it off-- brining soaking maybe braising. But once we got to the store once she would seen the meat up close her doubts got worse. I think if you are looking at it I do not think it is going to-- You do not think it is going to work. No. It is too thick. There is too much muscle tissue. It is too thick. You would have to use a ring cutter to make it the right thickness. What do you think those bits are in there? Oh you know. Poo. My sister said Eddie Lin was definitely right. The giveaway would be the stubborn flavor of poo. That flavor she said it is tough to get rid of. The earth revolves around the sun and bung will always tastes like . But there was no backing out now. We would eat. We would eat our way to the truth. And so what if it did not look good? So what if bung was destined to taste like bung? You know who it did not look good for and he still put up a fight? Rocky Balboa. That is who. This was it. The bung versus calamari. Squid versus tail. The rumble in the bunghole. We set up the tasting at a restaurant in the lull between lunch and dinner. In the dining room there was just a few tables eating. And all around the restaurant the morning shift was wrapping up as we walked in with a red cooler filled with squid and hog bung. So originally I would recruited some half a dozen people from our office at This American Life as tasters. The final group the day of the tasting included from the office Seth Lind and Brian Reed. So when is the last time that you guys had calamari? I had calamari probably like a month ago. And what about you Brian? I have not had it since we got this tip about the possible-- Oh my gosh. Have you been avoiding? Yeah no totally. And to be honest I am like a regular eater of calamari. Not like all the time but it is something I will routinely order if it is on an appetizer menu you know? I mean I grew up in an Italian-American family where my grandparents were also born here. I feel like calamari is just big among that sector of people at Olive Garden and stuff like that. So I just grew up eating it you know? I had not realized this. For weeks Brian had been avoiding calamari. He would been living in fear. Brian if you find out that they are indiscernible from each other will you ever eat calamari again? No I do not think so. That is why I want to do this just to know going forward. Back in the kitchen things were looking bad. I would given up on the idea that bung would taste the same as calamari. Now I would hung my hopes on the idea that at least visually it would look the same. But as my sister dropped the flowered rings of hog bung into the fryer they had turned into this big ugly tangled wad nothing like the jiggly squid rings. They are very scraggly looking. But then as if by a miracle they changed. My sister gave a shake to the fry basket. And as they sizzled the bung just seemed to gracefully snap into rings. Well look at that though. It is like magic. They are turning into circles. Yeah.  I am going to pull these first ones. Soon we were face to face with the plate. On it there were two piles of rings similar in size similar in shape. The bung had more of a frizzly edge to it kind of like a fancy onion ring. The calamari was smoother. I asked Seth and Brian to just give a first impression. I have a guess. It is one of those things where you are pretty sure but you could totally be wrong. God I thought I would be more sure. I do not-- I am waffling now. My gut reaction is that this was calamari and this was not. OK. Before you eat it see I totally thought this was calamari the other one. So I am going to do it at the same time. All right. OK. So just to be clear what is going on here Seth has chosen one pile of rings which he thinks is calamari. Brian has done the same thing. Only Brian is choosing the other stack of fried rings. OK. So we are about to bite into these simultaneously which we both think this is calamari. But they are the opposite ones. But they are the opposite ones. OK.  So in actuality Seth is right. Seth is eating calamari. The chewing you hear from Brian's mike that is this sound of a calamari lover eating fried pig rectum. I should also add there were actually two varieties of bung on the plate that day. One bung that my sister had blanched over and over to mellow any organy fecal flavor. And then untreated straight-up bung-- unfiltered unchained uncut 100 pure bung. That one the latter one bung at its purest at the height of its bung-iness this is what Brian was eating. As they ate Seth still looked confident. I think I was right. I think I was right. Really? Yeah. . I totally think I was right. Game set match bung. And it was not just Brian. I thought so. Damien who manages the restaurant he also thought it was passable. A few of us picked up a faint flavor of pork rind. But if you were not really looking for it you would not notice it was there. One of the restaurant's staff a guy named Ethan Vanburen had the simplest clearest explanation. I think that when you slice something up really thin and deep fry it it is going to taste like something that is been deep fried. If a plate filled with bung came out how many people do you think would even-- do you think you would notice if you were in that setting? I would say top scenario is somebody says this calamari tastes funny and keeps eating it. And as for Brian-- oh Brian-- Brian was reeling a bit trying to figure out just what this was going to mean for him. I am sure I have been fooled in the past. I am just sure of it. Wait you are thinking that you have been places in the past and you have had bung? I just imagine seeing a plate with this food that looks like this on it sitting with my family growing up. We have definitely have eaten something that tasted like this and just thought it was calamari for sure. Not only was not he sure if he would ever eat calamari again he did not want to eat the calamari on the plate in front of him. Calamari I guaranteed him was real. Just to repeat one last time I have no proof that anyone anywhere has ever tried to pass off pork bung as calamari in a restaurant. All I know is if you wanted to do it it would be easy. And I am choosing to believe that it is happening somewhere. Because at some point in working on this story I stopped identifying with Brian and anyone who might feel ripped off or grossed out by getting imitation instead of the real thing. Now I identify with the bung. And I would like to think that somewhere out there right now under a heat lamp a platter is sitting. It is warm and it is full of promise and transformation and redemption. That is the world that I will choose to live in. For me for you for the bung for the bung in all of us. Ben Calhoun he is one of the producers of our program. IMITATING IRA GLASS Ben Calhoun he is one of the producers of our program. Thanks to the restaurant Aurora in Brooklyn for letting us use their kitchen for our taste test. OK. IMITATING IRA GLASS OK. Who was this? Wait who am I? Well coming up Philadelphia and Afghanistan doppelgangers? IMITATING IRA GLASS That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. So we are going to start Act Two? So we start here. So we are coming back from the ID break. IMITATING IRA GLASS It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our show of course we choose a theme and bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show Doppelgangers. Stories of things that have a double an evil twin or a not so evil twin. Oh wait. I should just explain. Oh right so-- IMITATING IRA GLASS What? That was just a note to myself. I should explain-- IMITATING IRA GLASS No that was a note to me. . IMITATING IRA GLASS .  So this is why Fred is here. Fred Armisen is co-hosting the show as me because it is a show about doubles and look-alikes. IMITATING IRA GLASS Right. But we are both creating the same person in a sense. And that is kind of what the fun is of-- Oh that was really good the way you just did that. . Finish your thought? I did not have an end to that thought. You just knew that you could-- I like when you do the little self-- the little discovery. All right. Well we have arrived at Act Two of our program. Act Two In Country In City. So for decades now the writer Alex Kotlowitz has been writing about the inner cities and especially the toll of violence on young people. He is probably best known for his book There Are No Children Here. He appears on our show from time to time. IMITATING IRA GLASS Recently he heard about an unusual program at Drexel University in Philadelphia where they are giving guys from inner-city neighborhoods counseling for symptoms of PTSD. And it is interested Alex because for a long time he has wondered whether the violence that he was reporting on in Chicago and its effect on kids and adults was comparable to the effects of trauma that a person experiences at war. IMITATING IRA GLASS So he knew and we know how strange that sounds. You know to compare being in Afghanistan or Iraq to working a street corner in Chicago or some other city. So Alex tried to see if it was really comparable by doing a pair of interviews. He talked to this vet from Afghanistan and also a guy from Philadelphia who is lived in some pretty bad neighborhoods his whole life. Alex wanted to see if they were doubles of some kind for each other. IMITATING IRA GLASS One of these guys is 28. One is 30. And both of them are trying to make sense of what they experienced. Here's Alex. Here's the first of these two guys Brandon Caro. Brandon spent a year in Afghanistan. His roughest time was the six months he spent in the eastern part of the country near the Pakistani border. He was a Navy corpsmen a medic who worked with the Marines. As a teenager yeah I certainly lacked discipline. I have been thrown out of my house more times than I could remember. And I was 21 when I enlisted. And really I enlisted because I had up to that point not finished college. And it did not seem as though I was going to finish college any time soon. Then there is Curtis Jefferson. He grew up in a rough neighborhood in North Philly where he oversaw a small group of guys who sold drugs. He made his first drug sale when he was still in high school. I was 16. And my aunt gave me some money for school. And at that point I purchased some weed and some crack with that. Never bought my clothes. After that I sold all the drugs. And I guess from there that is where it started. And I seen that money come in and I was not asking nobody for no money. Especially with my aunt I was not asking for it from her pockets and all that. So from there it was all she wrote. OK. They are two completely different people who made very different choices in their lives. But I spoke to each of them looking for similarities in their experiences. And honestly there were more than I expected. Here's the first similarity. For Curtis on the street and for Brandon in Afghanistan they could never let their guard down. During his tour Brandon was charged with training Afghan soldiers. And in May 2007 he heard about Afghan soldiers who attacked their American trainers. They had weapons around us all the time. On convoys we would have to line them up in the morning and collect their cell phones because we could not trust them not to inform on us to Taliban fighters. It was exhausting trying to keep an eye on the Afghan soldiers and look out for IEDs or snipers. Because you trying to just focus on one thing trying to get money they are the same thing eventually somebody is going to come up and test you. Somebody is going to test you. There is either somebody who is going to rob you somebody going to send something to your boys' they are going to get robbed someone is going to send shots through your way or something. It felt like a piano could fall on you at any time you know? That is what it felt like to be on patrol and especially to be on patrol with the Afghans. Because if you were out there you noticed different things. For one people with their hands in their pockets. You are looking for someone that does not look right that does not feel right. Another thing people got hoodies on especially black. There is a certain look. They put the hoodie on their face you cannot even see their eyeballs. Like come on. It is daytime. I cannot see your face. Let me see your eyes or something. I would watch the way they looked at me. You know if they would stare back at me if they would smile at me. If a person always got to keep touching their side you are not going to your pocket. You are touching something. And I have been out there so long I could tell if somebody got a gun on him or not. For some reason it was always a white Toyota Camry that was packed with explosives and driven into a convoy or driven into a checkpoint. Grand Marquis or what else? Crown Victoria. That is a dope boy car. And when I seen cars when I was on the streets it was either get ready go for the stretch go to the guns or get out of the way. That might the hop-out boys coming to stick you up. Here's something else they shared. They both saw people killed and then had to figure out how to keep going. The first fatality Brandon ever saw came when a convoy which he was originally scheduled to be a part of was hit. They brought the casualties into our base. And when we swung open the two doors that opened up into the cab of the truck I was looking at just a heap a mass of flesh and that gray digital pattern army uniform. But there was no form to what I was looking at. I knew that what I was looking at was human but I did not know what position the body was in because it had been so badly damaged. And so we got into the cab. A