From WBEZ Chicago and Public Radio International it is This American Life. And I am not Ira Glass. I am Alex Blumberg a producer here. I know I sound a lot like Ira. But trust me he is away this week. And I am really excited to be guest hosting because I have the opportunity to play one of my favorite pieces of tape we have ever aired on the show. I have been here 17 years. This is one of my all-time favorites. And I have the excuse to play it for you thanks to a 180 that the city of New York is doing. So a couple weeks ago the city of New York said that it was considering lifting its longtime band on ferrets as pets.   I am holding the Department of Health memo on the subject here. It was obtained by The New York Times recently. Decision memo-- ferrets. Purpose-- allow ferrets to be kept as pets with restrictions. The memo goes on to discuss the history of the ferret ban how it started under former Mayor Rudy Giuliani how it came about because of quote reports in the literature of ferret attacks on young babies. And then it lists the reasons to lift the ban. Most other places including New York state do not ban ferrets. Ferrets are not anymore disease-prone than dogs or cats. And quote evidence shows ferrets do not bite more frequently or severely than pets of the same size. Ferrets in other words are being unfairly singled out. And then down at the very bottom there are these couple of lines where it discusses what the reaction might be if the ferret ban is lifted. It says quote There was a well-known exchange between Mayor Giuliani and a ferret advocate. The city should quote expect the past to be reprised. Past reprise yourself. We are going to go to David in Oceanside. Hello Mr. Giuliani. We speak again. Hi David. Uh-- The set-up here-- it is the summer of 1999. Mayor Giuliani back then had a call-in radio show that he would host. And the caller on the line is David Guthartz executive president of an organization called New York Ferret's Rights Advocacy. Let me introduce myself again. David Guthartz executive president of New York Ferret's Rights Advocacy. Last week when we spoke-- Oh no. --you said a very disparaging remark to me that I should get a life. That was very unprofessional of you. Here we are trying to get something-- I-- --seriously done. Without you talking over me we are trying to get something very seriously done. David you are on my show. I have the right to talk over you. But here's the thing-- And the fact is-- --you talked over me the last time. And the fact-- And we are trying to get-- And the fact-- David! --an important issue taken care of where the city is violating state law. Get-- David. And I asked you last week if you care about the law. Yes I do care about the law. So why are you-- I think you have totally and absolutely misinterpreted the law because there is something deranged about you. No there is not! They go back and forth like this for quite a while until finally Mayor Giuliani hangs up on David but then keeps on talking. --serious. There is-- Mr. Giuliani. David. Rudy. This conversation is over David. Thank you. There is something really really very sad about you. You need help. This excessive concern with little weasels is a sickness. I am sorry. That is my opinion. You do not have to accept it. There are probably very few people who would be as honest with you about that. But you should go consult a psychologist or a psychiatrist and have him help you with this excessive concern how you are devoting your life to weasels. You have a sickness. And I know it is hard for you to accept that because you hang on to this sickness. And it is your shield. It is your whatever. And I know you are real angry at me and you are going to attack me. But actually you are angry at yourself. So David see what you can do to get help. Now we are going to move on to Richard in the Bronx. Hello? Yes Richard. Yes. Mr. Mayor my name is Richard-- Whoa. That is Little Girl. So what is-- who is this? This is Princess Stardust Serenade Ferret. That is her full name. Wow. This week one of our producers Brian Reed caught up with David Guthartz the ferret advocate in that exchange at his home in Long Island. At times in his life he is had up to five ferrets at once. There was Butch Cassidy Thief of Hearts Butch Cassidy Thief of Hearts Junior Linus van Pelt. But now it is just the one-- Princess Stardust. And Brian was here because we wanted to hear David savor his victory. 15 years after that radio interview where he is berated by the nation's most powerful mayor vindication is at hand. Ferrets may soon be legal in New York City. But David Guthartz says the way these new rules being proposed would only make things worse. Sure they lift the ban but only if you have a license. State law which allows ferrets and which David feels should trump city law anyway does not require a license. So if the city puts this in place it is going contrary even more so to New York state law. But you are still allowed to own ferrets. Like that still sounds better to me than if you want to have a ferret then having to break the law to do it. No. Because if you going to do something you do it right. Otherwise do not do it. Brian and David went around and around on this. Brian saying come on. This is worth at least a little bit of celebration right? David's answer always the same-- no. I got to say the theme of our show this week is 180. Like doing a 180 a complete turnaround or complete reversal. And I came to visit you because our impression was that the city was doing a 180 on ferret policy. But from talking to you it seems like you do not think it is a 180. No it is not a 180. It is more like a five-degree turn.  It is a tiny tiny step when by right they should be taking a giant leap. 180s are hard to get right. They can be controversial even to the people whose side you are joining. There is all that history that came before when you were going in the other direction fighting on the opposite side. It is hard for people to trust you now. Today on our show 180s and the controversy they invariably cause. Act One of our show Seeing the Forest through the Little Trees the story of a beloved classic of high school English an infamous speech on racial hatred and the 180 that unites them both. Act Two Unsafety Exit wherein a teenager after consulting the many adults in his life charged with keeping him safe takes all their advice and decides that the one rational act to take is to put himself in danger. Act Three I am the One who Knocks a short story by Ben Loory about the 180 we are all hoping for. Stay with us. Act One Seeing the Forest for the Little Trees. I am going to start this story here in the halls of Masconomet Regional High School in Topsfield Massachusetts. The story will eventually take us many other places from Alabama to Texas to New York and Hollywood. But we are starting here just outside Thomas Trevenen's sophomore English class. The students are about to discuss a book that is read in a lot of high schools just like this one all across the country a book that is at the center of our story-- The Education of Little Tree. OK so The Education of Little Tree is about this boy named Little Tree. This is a 16-year-old in the class named Mana. So his parents die when he is five like both his mother and his father. And he goes to live with his Cherokeean grandparents. The Education of Little Tree was first published in the mid-1970s as an autobiography of the book's author Forrest Carter. It is been a staple of high school English and history classes for decades. Little Tree's grandparents teach him to respect the earth to take only what he needs from nature and to appreciate the fundamental human virtues of respect and tolerance. Here's another student Joseph who is 16. He was learning to deal with racial discrimination and prejudice and try and expand his understanding of the world and nature. And I am trying to do that too. And this book? It is a hit. This is kind of embarrassing. But near the end I really-- I sort of found myself getting a little emotional. But I really liked it. I found that I really connected to Little Tree. I felt like he was a lot like me. Sort of I am on the same journey that he was. We are both trying to become better people. I am trying to learn to be a good person become who I am be a man. But so was Little Tree. There is one more thing we should say about The Education of Little Tree something many people may already be aware of. It is a lie. It is not an autobiography. It is all made up. And the fact that it is one of the larger literary hoaxes in history is discussed in some of the high schools where the book is taught like this one. But in many others it is not. And the true tale of how this book came to be contains some even more memorable characters learning somewhat darker lessons. Once you know this true story behind the book it is hard to believe that it could have the kind of impact convey the kind of message that it does to the students who read it today. Here to tell this larger story around the book is radio producer Joe Richman who runs Radio Diaries. One more thing to mention-- there is some potentially offensive language about midway through this story. OK Joe Richman take it away. The story behind The Education of Little Tree this iconic book with a message of tolerance and respect begins with the most famous racist political speech in American history. Thank you ladies and gentleman. This is the inaugurate day of my inauguration as governor of the state of Alabama. And this day-- During the Civil Rights era George Wallace the governor of Alabama was the personification of Southern racism. He was the one who famously stood in the schoolhouse door to prevent two black students from enrolling at the University of Alabama. But the moment that first really catapulted Wallace onto the national stage was his inauguration speech in 1963. Let us send this message back to Washington that from this day we are standing up and the heel of tyranny does not fit the neck of an upright man. He was promising that he was going to stand alone for the Southern cause the cause of the white people. Wayne Greenhaw was a young reporter in Alabama in the 1960s. He remembers listening to this speech and the famous words segregation now segregation tomorrow segregation forever. It is vehement it is mean-spirited it is hateful. It is like a rattlesnake was hissing it almost. But it is beautifully written. In the name of the greatest people that have ever trod this earth I draw the line in the dust and toss the gauntlet before the feet of tyranny. And I say segregation now segregation tomorrow and segregation forever.   This speech was a catalyst for much of the violence that followed. Just a few weeks later Birmingham police used dogs and fire hoses on protesters. And later that same year there was the bombing of a church in Birmingham where four little girls were killed on a Sunday morning. Today what most Americans know about George Wallace are those words-- segregation now segregation forever --even though they were not actually his words. Behind those words behind that speech was an entirely different person-- Asa Carter the poet laureate of Southern racist speech writing. Segregation now segregation forever became Wallace's symbol. It all came from Asa Carter's pen. And nobody could write it any better than Asa. It is time for another essay on liberty by Asa Carter. Thank you. The one great truth is race. Each race has a character and each race-- That is Asa Carter. He was a staunch segregationist. He started his own splinter branch of the KKK in Alabama. He wrote and published a white supremacist magazine. And every week radio stations around Alabama would air Asa Carter's 15-minute liberty essays which were about everything from his views on racial purity to the dangers of integration communism and rock and roll all delivered with literary flair. That is why the left-winger so much wants to make our history a shrouded nothingness of confusion to twist the songs of our fathers into bebop rhythms and to degenerate our mores into a cacophony of chaos. You have been listening to Asa Carter with an essay on liberty. In 1956 Asa had his KKK group attack singer Nat King Cole on stage because Asa hated the idea that a black musician was performing for white women. Asa reserved special hatred for the Jews who he felt were really to blame for the corrupting power of popular culture. He once said The Negro is the virus but it is the Jew that inserts it in the veins of America. And then in 1962 Asa got a new gig as George Wallace's speechwriter Ron Taylor was a good friend of Asa Carter's. They would call him and tell him what they wanted you know. And they would just give him a cup of coffee and two packs of Pall Malls and he could write you a 20-minute speech in 30 minutes. Asa's speeches helped George Wallace become governor in 1962. But within a few years the arrangement was falling apart. Tom Turnipseed was George Wallace's campaign director back then. Times changed and Wallace wanted to cool it a little bit. He did not want to just come out and say I am a segregationist. He did not want to use that terminology anymore. He wanted to be more moderate. Asa's views were too extreme. And so Gov. Wallace did not need Asa anymore. Asa would call me up and talk with me on the phone some. And he was resentful because he just felt like he was being ignored. Here's the guy that wrote the famous iconic speech. And now Wallace he will not listen to me anymore. He will not talk with me. He will not take my advice. And so he felt used I think by Gov. Wallace. --upon which I am about to enter to the best of my ability to the best of my ability-- George Wallace was elected governor again in 1970. But this time his inauguration speech was very different from the speech that Asa Carter had written back in 1963. Wallace said Alabama belongs to all of us black and white young and old rich and poor alike. Reporter Wayne Greenhaw was on the steps of the capital at the time covering Wallace's inauguration address. And he happened to run into Asa Carter. After the speech I found Asa out on the back steps of the capitol. And we sat on the stairs talking. And he started crying. He said Wayne George Wallace sold out. He is betraying us to the liberals of this nation. He stood up and turned around and said farewell. Well I am just an old rebel I reckon that is all I am. For this carpetbagger government I do not give a dadblame. I am glad I fit again'it. I will keep fighting until we won. And I do not want to pardon for nothing that I have done. This is Asa Carter. May God bless you. And I thank you for listening. And that is the last time I ever saw Asa Carter. He just vanished like he dropped off the face of the earth. My name is Chuck Weeth. I am Betty Weeth. And I and my wife ran a bookstore in our town of Abilene Texas. In 1975 this man came walking in the store and said I would like to introduce myself. I am Forrest Carter. He wore a cowboy hat blue jeans and had a mustache. He is dark complected smile wrinkles around his eyes. He said he was Cherokee and he was raised by his grandparents back in Tennessee. No electricity no running water. And I liked him. From the very start I liked him. This new guy in town Forrest Carter quickly became a fixture in Abilene Texas. Chuck and Betty Weeth say Forrest was outgoing and friendly. He told people in town he never had any formal education and spent his adult life wandering between ranch jobs. And he entertained everybody with stories about his Cherokee childhood. We had him to our house several times for supper just because you wanted to hear a little more about this life which I was not familiar with at all. He was sort of the underdog of the American culture and you were cheering for him. And you just grew to love him. Chuck and Betty Weeth knew Forrest was a writer and that he would written a Western. Forrest told them he was sending copies of the book to people in Hollywood. He would already approached-- Clint East-- --Clint Eastwood. And lo and behold Clint Eastwood was well enough taken by this first book Forrest told us he is planing to make a movie of it which indeed he did do called The Rebel Outlaw-- Josey Wales. He lives by his word. And he lives for revenge. Clint Eastwood is the outlaw Josey Wales. Why you gonna pull those pistols or whistle Dixie? During the time all this was happening Forrest was hard at work on another book a book he described differently than his first one. That was a novel. This was an autobiography. And he was calling it The Education of Little Tree. An orphan Cherokee boy raised by his grandparents who grows up to write a Hollywood movie starring Clint Eastwood-- it was made for TV. Good morning. This is Today. I am Barbara Walters with Jim Hartz. And in fact in 1975 Forrest was invited to New York to be a guest on The Today Show with Barbara Walters. She introduced him as an Indian who had busted broncos all over the Southwest. While viewers around the country were being introduced to Forrest Carter there were some people back in Alabama who recognized a man they had not seen in years. Ron Taylor remembers watching that morning as Forrest Carter told viewers he was the storyteller to the Cherokee Nation. He had that black hat pulled way down.  He just tanned himself up grew a mustache lost about 20 pound. But as hard as he tried he could not fool the folks back home. I literally got down on the floor laughing and rolling around. Call the wife Asa's on TV! He is on with Barbara Walters. And I am just rolling around on the floor laughing because Asa had pulled it you know. He had fooled them. By the time The Today Show aired around the country reporter Wayne Greenhaw had already been onto the story for a few months the story that Asa Carter and Forrest Carter seemed to be the same person. The tip-off came when Wayne happened to write a review of Forrest Carter's first book the one that became a movie. After the book review appeared in the paper Wayne ran into an old friend of Asa Carter's Ray Andrews. And Ray said Old Asa's got you fooled too huh? And I said What are you talking about? And he said I saw you wrote a review of Asa's novel. I said That is Forrest Carter. And Ray grinned and laughed and said Yeah that is old Asa. Asa's Forrest Carter. Well I thought what in the world? And it just bumfuzzled me. After that original bumfuzzle Wayne started to make calls. I got in contact with Eleanor Friede who was a editor at Delacorte Press. And she had discovered Forrest Carter. And when I told her the story she said Oh no. It could not be the same guy. He is such a sweet gentle fine man. He would never say a word about anybody because of the color of their skin. And I know he is not anti-Semitic because my husband and I are Jewish and we have had him to dinner a number of times. And he is always just as nice as he could be. It just could not be the same man. In fact the editor told Wayne she was about to publish Forrest Carter's autobiography The Education of Little Tree. Wayne told her he would still love to talk to Forrest Carter himself because he was writing a story for The New York Times about all this. Sure enough in a few days Forrest Carter called me. And he said You are this Greenhaw writing about me. And I said Yes sir. And he said Now you do not want to hurt old Forrest do you boy? And I said Come off of it Asa. I recognize that voice. I know you you know me. We have drunk beer together. I said I am not trying to hurt you but this business of Little Tree is not a true story. I said I want to tell the truth about what is going on here. He said Oh boy you know I do not do things like that. And he pretty much after that hung up. Wayne had no idea why Asa was doing what he was doing. Why had he changed his name and become a storyteller to the Cherokee Nation? Why had he gotten a tan slimmed down and grown a mustache? And how did he expect to get away with going on TV and talking to Barbara Walters in a fake Texas accent? All Wayne knew was Forrest Carter was lying. He was not a Cherokee. This was not a memoir. And his name was not Forrest. And the story ran in The New York Times August the 26th of 1976 with the headline Is Forrest Carter really Asa Carter? Only Josey Wales may know for sure. Wayne though his New York Times article was going to set off a huge scandal. But a curious thing happened after the article came out something that surprised Wayne Greenhaw. And it probably surprised Asa and Forrest Carter. What happened was nothing. A few months later Forrest Carter's autobiography The Education of Little Tree was published. And in fact after Forest slash Asa died in 1979 the book just became more and more popular. In the late 1980s The Education of Little Tree caught a wave of rising interest in all things Native American. And people seemed to identify with its themes-- humility tolerance living in harmony with nature. A new paperback edition included a foreword by an actual Cherokee writer who called the book deeply poignant and compared it to Huck Finn. More than a million copies were sold. In 1991 the book reached number one on The New York Times Nonfiction Best Seller List. In 1994 Oprah Winfrey recommended it on her TV show. Every once in a while a new article would come out revealing yet again the racist past of the book's author and some small things would change. The New York Times moved the book from the nonfiction to fiction category. Oprah eventually took it off her book list. Some Native Americans said the book was full of stereotypes and was a complete fraud but the Cherokee guy who wrote the foreword stood by it. It seemed that no matter what came out about the background of the book its popularity continued. Today you can find it in Barnes  Noble in the Native American section. Most people who loved the book simply could not imagine that a former Klansman racist anti-Semite this person could not have written The Education of Little Tree. This is historian Dan Carter who by the way is not related to Asa Carter. But he is writing a biography of the man. And he hits on the question that is at the center of the whole story. Is it possible that something happened in the heart of Asa Carter? Did he change? Was he a reformed racist trying to break from his shameful past? Or was he just trying to make a buck? Or was it all just a joke on his new-age liberal readers? What does it mean that the man who wrote this-- And I say segregation now segregation tomorrow and segregation forever. --could also write this? One time grandma told me when you come on something good first thing to do is share it with whosoever you can find. That way the good spreads out where no telling how far it will go. Here's Asa Carter. In the South we have 98 Anglo-Saxon races not counting the niggers. The only group Asa Carter hated more than blacks were Jews. So what does it mean that Forrest Carter created the character of Mr. Wine a generous and sympathetic Jewish peddler who befriends Little Tree? Mr. Wine said if you learn to place a value on being honest and thrifty on doing your best and on caring for folks this was more important than anything. How could someone talk with so much venom-- We shall submit to Negro dominion another day another hour another month. Behind every ballot is a bayonet and the red blood of an Anglo-Saxon who holds it. --and still write something so sweet? I could feel something more as Grandma said I would. Mon-o-Lah the Earth Mother came to me through my moccasins. I would have liked to live that time forever for I knew I had pleased Grandpa. I had learned the way. Actually the live in harmony with nature message is not really that surprising. You might expect a white supremacist to be nostalgic about living off the land. And someone can certainly write hate speech and still love nature. But what most leaders took from The Education of Little Tree is a message of tolerance and respect for Native Americans and for the African American and Jewish characters in the book. In fact the villains in this story are not the minorities. They are the white politicians. For many people who love The Education of Little Tree the only way to make sense of it was to take the book at its word and to believe that Asa Carter had truly changed. It was not an act but a sincere transformation. Yes OK he was not a Cherokee orphan. But in this heart he had become Forrest Carter. And Exhibit A for this point of view for the people can change and people do change point of view is Asa Carter's former boss George Wallace the man he wrote speeches for. Primary elections are being held Tuesday. And George Wallace is trying a come back trying to become governor again. At black meetings Wallace repudiates his former racist stance. And whether or not you agreed with me in everything that I used to do and agreed to I know that you do not. I too see the mistakes that all of us made in years past. This is footage from George Wallace's last campaign for governor in 1982. He was actually in a wheelchair-- the result of an assassination attempt. And he was in the midst of what would be known as his apology tour going around the state to black churches and civic groups anyone who would have him and saying I was wrong. One of the civil rights leaders Wallace apologized to was Congressman John Lewis who still has a visible scar on his head from famously being beaten by Alabama state troopers on the Edmund Pettus Bridge on the march to Selma Alabama. And I remember the occasion so well. It was like someone confessing to their priest or to a minister just telling me everything and asking me about everybody that he never had an opportunity to meet with Martin Luther King Junior to meet Dr. King. He wanted people to forgive him. He said I never hated anybody. I never hated black people. He said Mr. Lewis I am sorry. And I said Well Governor I accept your apology. I believe people have the capacity to change. I think he was sincere. George Wallace was a lifelong politician. And it is impossible to say if his change of heart was authentic or not. But the people he was apologizing to believed it. In his last election as governor of Alabama in 1982 he won with 90 of the black vote. Wallace continued his apology tours long after he left public office. So George Wallace represents the transformation-is-possible theory. To people in Abilene Texas who are friends with Forrest Carter the Cherokee writer that is what happened to Asa Carter. He pulled a Wallace. Here's Chuck and Betty Weeth. I personally think the Forrest Carter I knew was sincere. The other life he seemed to have had as Asa Carter I just sort of dismiss it. I agree with that. I guess it is sort of that feeling that give a man a chance he might change himself. And we felt like well he tried to change himself and he succeeded with us. I did not like Asa Carter I will guarantee you. But I did like Forrest Carter. There is another person who has some thoughts on this one of the few people who knew both Forrest and Asa Carter. He was Uncle Asa to me. He was not Uncle Asa the white supremacist. He was not Uncle Asa the staunch segregationist. He was Uncle Asa. So for me it was my uncle wrote this wonderful book. Carol Boyd is the daughter of Asa Carter's brother. She is never spoken about any of this on the record before. All of Asa's family members have kept silent for years. Like many of them Carol was sheltered from most of the details of her uncle's racist past. The main thing she knew about her uncle-- he was the true author of The Education of Little Tree. So when did you first read The Education of Little Tree? I guess I was a senior in high school when I first read it. I loved it. I fell in love with it. I actually cried. I just think it is a beautiful story. I still read it today. Carol describes herself as politically liberal. She voted for Obama twice. And to her that book is all the proof she needs that in the end her uncle was not so so different in his view from her. Just to have the ability to write that book whether you present it as an autobiography or not just to have that in you I think says that there is a good part of this person. I would hope that people would choose to believe maybe he found a softer side in his older years. And maybe he did change. Did he change? That is the question you asked. No. No no no no no. Not at all. Not at all did he change. This again is Ron Taylor one of Asa Carter's friends from the early days back in Alabama. Ron would describe himself as the opposite of politically liberal. And he is chief proponent of theory number two-- No no no no. No. --Asa Carter did not change. You know I could do like some and just say oh he did not really mean that. He did not this that and the other but did. He did. And to refute it like say Wallace did and people like that then that makes it their whole lives lies before. I mean old Wallace after they wheeled him out in his wheelchair and he apologized for everything he ever was. But Asa Carter was not going to apologize. He felt like he was right. And he lived it and he died it. He just did not change. He was Asa Carter. There are some interesting clues that support Ron's theory. Many of the supposed Cherokee words in the book Asa completely made up just nonsense words. Mon-o-Lah the Earth Mother comes up a lot. Not a word. The name Forrest it is not about communing with nature. It comes from Nathan Bedford Forrest. Never heard of him? He was the first Grand Wizard of the Ku Klux Klan. And even the fact that the book is told from the point of view of a Cherokee kid some white supremacists it turns out had a thing for Native Americans. KKK members sometimes bragged about being part Native American. It is the noble savage trope that goes back to DW Griffith films and much earlier. It may seem counter-intuitive but to Asa Carter it was perfectly reasonable to glorify Native Americans while hating blacks and Jews. And there is one more thing-- Asa's inscription in the copy of the book that he gave to Ron. And this is my copy of it. It has gotten rather tattered. Here's signature page. It says For Ronny my friend whose loyalty to the Southern cause has made us comrades. Forrest 'Asa' end quote Carter. The only time he ever signed it that way. All this leads Ron to a third theory one I was not expecting. Asa did not change and he did not fake a change. The Education of Little Tree is exactly what Asa Carter always believed. Everyone else just misinterpreted it. Well one way you look at it it is a tree hugger's book. It is all about nature and this that and the other. And the other way it is a right-wing government leave me alone book. The government took Little Tree and put him in an orphanage you see. And the government passed the whiskey tax. And the government did this. And the government did that to the American Indian. And that is the way I read it. I was shocked when I found out other people was understanding it differently. Ron feels that The Education of Little Tree is speaking directly to him and to what he believes. But I asked Ron what if it is the other way around? What if you are the one who is wrong?  Well I would like to know myself. If it is what I think it is. What I think it is I think he wrote it for me me and my ilk. But I do not know that. Because it is probably been more interpreted the other way-- the other way being the tree hugger way as opposed to my anti-government anti-cities and government intrusion in our daily lives that type thing. I do not know. I know how I took it. But I also know that there is many or more people took it the other way. Asa Carter. I wish I knew what he thought. I really do. But I honestly do not know. I do not know myself what to make of the whole thing. But while I was working on this story I picked up a new copy of The Education of Little Tree and I started to read it to my two daughters. They are loving it. Of course they do not know the back story. And I am not sure when I am going to tell them. For me it is kind of confusing to read the book and know the history. Like am I a sucker for just reading it? Every once in a while I will come across a passage like when five-year-old Little Tree sees a hawk kill a young quail. It makes him sad. So his grandfather teaches him the way which is about taking only what you need and about how nature weeds out the small and the slow so the species can grow stronger and more powerful. And I think is this some white supremacist secret code of racial purity? Or is it 