So Miki this is your high school. This is my high school. And it is really weird to be here with you even though I suggested this. Even though this was my idea. We are in Payson Utah a small town about an hour south of Salt Lake City. It is me and Miki Meek one of the producers here at This American Life. She has not been back to her high school since she graduated but says it looks the same. And same groups of kids too-- jocks stoners cowboys regular kids. And which were you? I think I was a regular kid. Regular kidcounty kid. OK so you guys lived in the country. We lived in the country yeah yeah. Let us see where are we are walking by now? Just walking through the hallway. This is the main hallway. Opening scenes of Footloose are right here. Oh right. Payson High School is where they filmed Footloose. Yeah the opening scene so Kevin Bacon's first day of school. He walks past the cafeteria in this hallway and a cowboy confronts him right in this spot. Right in the spot where we are standing? Right in the spot where we are standing yeah. I downloaded the film later. Totally true. But of course America everybody knows there is a time to be born and a time die and a time to dance and a time to talk about Footloose. And this is not that time.  We are not here in Miki's school to talk about a movie about dancing. We are here to talk about real life dances at this high school and more specifically the way that the real life students ask each other to dances. You ask someone to a dance you have got to go big. Which means you have got to leave something on someone's porch. You gotta decorate their car. You gotta break into their bedroom. You gotta send them on a scavenger hunt. Break into their bedroom and do what? Decorate it trash it leave a message. The very minimum anybody does is a bit of prop humor. You leave some object and then a pun written on poster board. Like Owen Grimshaw was just asked to the Sadie Hawkins Dance this way. They had pants in a box. And they said I would ship my pants if you went to Sadie's with me. A senior Ivan Webber Told me about last year's Sweethearts dance he took a laminated name tag wrote a message on it and then froze it in a block of ice which he was very proud of. I was just like Going to Sweethearts would be cool. And it was like it is pretty chill. Like chill. OK? No I get it. Sometimes the props they use are living animals. And some of these kids have access to farms. Ivan's little sister Mariah left a pair of goats at a guy's house with a poster. And it said I am not kidding. I would love to goat to Sadie's with you. Slight variation on that senior Alyssa Sutton left a guy a basket with four baby kittens and this message. I am not kitten when I say I want to go to Sadie's with a cool cat like you. Senior Ashlynn Yul left a chicken for a guy who asked her to a dance a live chicken and Starbursts. The message? I am not going to chicken out on you. I have been bursting to say yes. The guy actually returned the chicken. The goat got returned too. The kittens stayed. Junior Caitlin Mitchell left a tree for her boyfriend. And I asked him It would be tree-mendous if you would go to Sweethearts with me. And he answered back with Needle-less to say I would be burning up if I would said no. And he lit the trees on fire in my front yard. Wait. He set them on fire? Yeah. There was snow in my yard so-- I mean-- Saying yes you are supposed to be as creative as the person who asked you. Tyler Johnson told me about the time that his sister had a neighbor help her out with that. The neighbor was a policeman and she hid in the back of his police car as he spotted the guy who asked her to dance. So I pulled him over. And at the time the kid had a few-- I do not know the point system where you can get your license suspended. He was really close to getting his license suspended so I thought it would be extra funny. And so he pulled him over. Officer told him all these things that he did wrong. And he was freaking out. And then the officer gave him a ticket and the ticket just said yes and then my sister's name on it. Incredibly the guy still took her to the dance. It can be a ton of work doing these things. The most elaborate one I heard about was I met this one couple Tyler Batty and Liz Callahan. And Tyler kidnapped Liz this elaborate kidnapping-- duct tape blanket over her head. She knew it was fake by the way. Was not scared. There was three boys and they were talking. They were trying to sound like they are terrorists kind of. They were trying to talk him in some weird language. And we would just kind of shout gibberish just a mix of any foreign words we know from Japanese Russian Korean kind of sticking to mostly like a Russian accent. Like this deeper.   Just kind of random stuff like that. Give me a little more. It is not logical. Just shout random words.  Just random syllables and funny stuff goofy stuff yeah. But I mean if you were wrapped up in a blanket and someone's talking like that you are more than likely to be scared. I was like I know it is you guys. And they were like no you do not! What? There is no way she could have known who it was. So I was calling all their names out. I was like I know you guys are right there. They threw her into the back of an SUV and then swerved around the roads up into the mountains. And then Tyler staged a rescue in a Batman costume supposedly saving her from the fake kidnappers. I just start flinging open doors kind of punching my buddies kind of hard so it sounds realistic. Of course it is not super hard punches but just they are grunting and uh oh. They are yelling stuff. Get him. Where is he? So I throw open the back hatch. He had his Batman mask on and he has this Batman voice that he likes to talk in. And you cannot really understand him. And I said-- man what did I say? Do not move. I am here to rescue you. We came to Payson High School because our show this week is all about grand gestures. And while you hear about schools where kids do these kinds of things for prom-- in fact right now MTV is casting a TV show called Promposal-- here in Utah and a few other places around the country they make the grand move every dance-- homecoming Sweethearts dance Sadie Hawkins Winter Ball. And when I was going around meeting kids and I would break the news to them that kids elsewhere do not do this they were surprised. Really? This is a junior everybody calls Juddy Bear. No other states? Most places do not. Wow. Well that would be terrifying because then she could say no to my face rather than say no through a creative way. Alyssa Sutton knew the truth about how kids elsewhere ask each other to dances but she had a special source that gave her insight into how people live outside of Utah. I found that out from reading Harry Potter. When they just asked each other to the Yule Ball I was like what the heck? Do people actually do that? And I was like I thought it would just be so awkward though to walk up and be like Hey so you want to go to the dance? And then you would not know. You do not have anything to post on social media and say like Oh they asked me with kittens or on a scavenger hunt. The kids I talked to said this idea of just walking up to somebody out of the blue and then just asking them to a dance it seems lame. Like where is the effort? If doing these elaborate schemes just sounds like so much work and so much fuss just to ask somebody to a dance a bunch of kids told me no no no. It is like this project. You draft your friends into it. The invitation is a whole activity itself. She lives just over here and there is a little park right next to her house. And that is where we are gonna bury it. Hopefully she does not see us as we drive by. Case in point one day after school I joined Ivan Webber-- the kid who froze the laminated name tag and thought it was chill-- and his little sister Mariah and his friends Ezri Max and Kylie to bury in the snow a little treasure chest-- actually an old wooden jewelry box Ivan got at a thrift store. It has a note inside to the girl who asked Ivan to go to the Sweethearts dance a note saying yes. We get to a little park about a block from his date's house. It is a bright clear sky day. Ivan is like a skinny teenaged Tom Hanks wearing just a green t-shirt even though it is freezing outside. OK we may have spray paint and a shovel but we are definitely not going to be using them in a murder vandalism type way. Yeah so the spray paint is to make the X for where we are going to bury the treasure chest in the snow. And the shovel is for her to dig it up. And this is where we have our note. This is our note. We are going to put it on the shovel and leave it at her doorstep. It says It would be neat if you went down the street. The X marks the spot. There may be treasure or maybe not. That is pretty good in my opinion. We tromp around a little bit. The snow's maybe a foot deep. OK where do we want to bury this? We do it by one of these trees? We will do it by that tree. OK what if we just do it right there? That looks good. What if we just do it right there?  They put the wooden box in the hole cover it over again with snow pat it down. Yeah we are going to spray paint it now.  OK drawing an X. What color is this? It is the leftover stuff we had in our garage color. That pinkish fleshy salmon color. Ezri points out it is less pirate and more bladder infection. Our treasure marked and now buried in the snow Ivan takes the shovel and the note and heads up the street one block to leave it on the girl's porch. Her name's Makadie. I pin a wireless mic to him. OK I am now walking up to her doorstep. Just gonna set this here. OK. We have got a shovel set down by her door. I am just gonna open up the glass thing hit her doorbell and knock. Now I am running I am running I am running I am running running running running. Fast forward 36 seconds. OK in the car. There is a big SUV between our car and the path that Makadie's going to walk to the park. So if we all stay low it is possible Makadie will not notice that we are here. And so we all crouch down and we take turns peeking to see if she is coming. Oh I see her. I see her. She is right there. Yeah OK. She is leaving her house is not she? Yeah. Yeah she is got the shovel. Oh oh yeah. Well she is looking around. She does not know which way to go. Dang it. I hope she guesses right. She does not know which way to go. Wait we did not include that in the note? Well it did not rhyme OK?  Wait nowhere in the note did we say go to the park? Someone send her a text. Ezri send her a text. Just tell her go south. Oh she is figuring it out. Makadie and her sister walk towards us and the park. They get closer and closer. We are all as low in the car as we can be. Ira think you have the best angle. Can you see? Is she there? I cannot see if she is in the parking lot. So to see what is happening Kylie who is in the driver's seat takes the little square mirror that she got at Walmart to check her eyebrows during the day and thrusts it in the air like a periscope above the steering wheel and then--   Kylie! Hits the horn.  Stay down stay down. She is coming for us! No no. OK Kylie drive us away. She is coming for us. Get down Ivan. I am down I am down. I am hiding. We pull out past a very confused looking Makadie and her sister cruise up the street. Kylie repeats how sorry she is in between laughing. Ivan looks out the rear window at the park. Look look they are finding it. I think they are finding it. It this more fun than the actual dance? Yes. It really is. I mean in this case the dance is not going to compare. This has been quite an experience. It is just so fun to get it together and then have all those embarrassing scary anxious moments. I do not know. It is fun. It is the best part. Other kids I talked to said the same thing. In fact the elaborateness of these stunts does not necessarily mean that the kids feel strongly about the person the stunt is for. The guy who kidnapped the girl and dressed in a Batman costume to stage a fake rescue? She and he both told me it was not romantic between them. They do not even like each other as more than friends. He and his buddies just thought it would be cool to stage a kidnapping. Well today on our program we have stories of grand gestures and so many of them are like that. They are an end in themselves. Even when they seem like they are trying so hard to say they are about love and devotion and some beloved person. From WBEZ Chicago. Oh wait I do not need to say this myself. Can you say this for me? From WBEZ Chicago? From WBEZ Chicago. It is This American Life. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Stay with us. That was good. That was good. OK we will start the show right there. Act one Dr. Strangelove. OK this first story is about a guy who goes so far in his grand gestures that I need to say before we start this story is not for kids. OK? Here's Miki Meek. I have a pile of newspaper articles about the story I am going to tell you. It is a love story from Florida in the 1940s. The papers went nuts for this story. It is about a man who loved a woman so much that he never got over her death. The Miami Herald at the time ran their love story across the front page. The man's name is Carl von Cosel. There is a giant photo of him where he looks charming and fragile in a white suit. Right next to that is a photo of Elena Hoyos in her wedding dress and a tiara. Her hair is in perfect black ringlets. She is beaming. Elena died young. She was just 22. After her death Von Cosel visited her grave every day and brought flowers. He built her a fancy mausoleum with a dome surrounded by palm trees and flower pots. And then this is the thing that made it a news story. Von Cosel stole her body from her grave and then kept her in his house for seven years. From the time von Cosel first met Elena he launched into a series of grand gestures each bigger than the previous until he went too far. They first met at the hospital in Key West. Von Cosel was an x-ray technician and Elena was 20 years old and sick with tuberculosis. Back in the '30s TB killed a lot of people. There was no cure. I talked to a guy named Ben Harrison. He wrote a book about the two of them. He lives in Key West and got curious about the case when he moved there. He says that von Cosel fell in love with Elena right away. She apparently was strikingly beautiful. He took a blood sample from her finger. Normally he would take it from a patient's ear but hers was far too lovely to mar. Is that what he said? Yes these are in his journals that he did not want to in any way disfigure her beauty. This was the kind of guy von Cosel was. He wrote a memoir where he said things like he did not want to disfigure Elena's beauty and that her voice sounded like a mockingbird's song in spring. He considered himself a scientistinventor and claimed to have multiple university degrees in subjects like chemistry philosophy and physics although Ben says he never could verify any of that. He told me von Cosel's first grand gesture is telling Elena sure science has not developed a cure for TB but-- Not to worry. He has revolutionary new cures and he will cure her. And what were they? I mean how was he going to cure her? Well he at first started radiation treatments there at the hospital. Then as her illness progressed he came by and started treating her in her home. He made this Frankenstein-ish electrical contraption. What did it look like? It looked like a big globe and it had sparks inside. And he put electrodes on her chest and they would shock her. He claimed that this put thousands of neutrons in the air billions of neutrons in the air. And these were going to help cure her. This gets weirder and weirder. It was pure nonsense. It was just not going to work. Did she want the treatments though? I mean there was just nobody else who offered any hope whatsoever. So this was her only chance because he was the only one offering a silver bullet. Von Cosel was full of confidence about his own abilities. For example he was trying to fix up a broken airplane he would parked behind the hospital. It did not have wings. He lived inside it. He was a German immigrant in his 50s with a trim beard and wire-rim spectacles walking around town wearing all white and carrying a cane. So far their story has the makings of a great tragic love story. He loved her on sight. She was sick with an incurable disease that he would do anything to cure. But there is one detail most of the newspapers left out. She never loved him. Elena was actually married to another guy. But after she got sick he left her. So she moved back in with her family. They did not have a lot of money. Von Cosel pursued Elena with the same arrogance and optimism he did everything else giving her gifts jewelry a catalog where he told her to pick out whatever she wanted. But Elena's sister Nana Medina says it was not mutual. She gave a long interview to the Miami Herald where she said quote She never loved him. She was only nice to him because my mother told her she should be kind to those who were kind to her. She looked upon von Cosel as a grandfather. And when he proposed marriage she always told him 'You are too old. Why you are old enough to be my grandfather. What is more I do not love you.' He became so persistent that we asked him to stay away from the house. Elena died about a year and a half after she met von Cosel. When he heard the news he rushed across town to be by her side. Here's how he wrote about it in his memoir. I went down to my knees before the bed. Elena's jaw had dropped but her eyes were bright and clear. They had a faraway look. And as I gazed into those beloved eyes they seemed to become deeper and deeper like wells which with magnetic power drew me in. I could not tear my eyes away from her. I could look forever. My poor darling Elena. So many of Von Cosel's choices during this period of time illustrate just how thin the line is between romantic and creepy. Gestures that seem romantic when someone loves you immediately flip to disturbing when they do not. Von Cosel paid for Elena's burial and for a headstone which did not include her married name on it. But it did have his name inscribed on the lower half. Again here's Ben. Because for one her married name is Mesa and he was not about to put her married name on a headstone that he had bought. On his daily visit to Elena's grave von Cosel starts worrying about rainwater seeping into her casket and convinces the family to pull it from the ground. He begins building a mausoleum. Von Cosel talks to the funeral director or the night watchman or whoever that he needs to come in and rebed her body. What does that mean? She is been dead for long enough so that she is decomposing. And he is very upset because he claimed the mortician did not follow his instructions as far as embalming goes. And so he puts new cloth on it and cleans up the casket and he takes off the dress she was buried in. Man. Because it is rotted and replaces it with cloth and I think he put some new felt underneath her. He loved her that much. That is one way to describe it. Yeah. And he was becoming more and more delusional. Elena of course did not ask for any of this. She did not love him. She is paradoxically at the center of this story and utterly left out. Still von Cosel kept going. He put Elena in a double casket. That is one casket inside of another. He said he wanted to protect her. I really do not think he accepted the fact that she was dead. I think he still felt she was alive because I think he had valves on this thing. For what? So he could speak with her directly into the casket. He wrote in his memoir that to him these were not one way conversations. He would sit there in the mausoleum and talk to her and she spoke back to him and sang. Ever since the moon began to wane Elena had begun to sing in her casket with a very soft clear voice which became just a little stronger from night to night. It was always the same old Spanish song about a lover who opens the grave of his dead bride. I could distinctly hear and understand every word.   The song is a Cuban bolero called Black Wedding. Ben found out it was one of Elena's favorites after talking to her friends. Presumably von Cosel knew this too.   I asked Ben to translate some of the lyrics for me. A young man's lover died before their wedding. Without her love he simply could not reason. At night he would visit the graveyard and dream about the days she was alive. His tears would fall upon her tombstone the tombstone of the girl to be his bride. On a night when thunder roared and lightning flashed he broke apart the tombstone of her grave. And with his hands he dug into the earth and in his arms he carried her away. By a flickering funeral candlelight on his bed that flowers covered he gently laid the body of his sweetheart and said his wedding vows to his dead lover. The song was written to be tongue in cheek ironic and inappropriate but von Cosel took it literally as inspiration for everything he is about to do next. According to von Cosel this is her plea for him to please take her home with him the same way the distraught lover does in the song.   Von Cosel wrote that he waited for a new moon got a wagon and stole the casket. He brought Elena home and tried to repair her decomposed body. Her face was in such poor shape that he had to do something and so he put on this gauze wax concoction and fastened it to what was left of her face. He did this to the rest of her body too inserted glass eyes and painted on eyebrows. Von Cosel had not been deterred by what Elena wanted back when she was alive. Now that he had her dead body in his home he could play house dress her up have sex with her. And he did all of those things. He wrote in his memoir that he made Elena breakfast eggs and a cup of Lipton tea. He filled the vases next to her bed with flowers and sometimes just talked to her about the weather. She was kind of his living doll there in their little household. And they celebrated Christmas together and he put a Christmas tree there and put 13 candles and said he played his organ to her until the candles burned down. This went on for seven years. He also conducted experiments to try to bring Elena back from the dead. In his memoir he wrote that he gave her radiation treatments and submerged her in a tank filled with quote plasma fluid. Eventually Elena's sister Nana Medina started to suspect that something was up. There were rumors. And she asked von Cosel to open Elena's mausoleum for her but he refused. So one day Nana showed up at his house. Well she walks in and sees this effigy this Elena in a sort of wedding gauze wedding thing lying on the bed. I mean as she describes it it was the most horrific thing she would ever seen in her life. But as upset as she was she said if you will take the body back and put it in there we will just let this go. Von Cosel did not return the body so she went to the Key West police. They arrived at his house in a motorcade and von Cosel confessed immediately. And that is when the gifts started arriving at the jailhouse. People brought him fruit cookies and hot tea. They serenaded him at night. A group of women from Tampa brought him money. Locals posted his bond. An attorney took on his case pro bono. People were captivated by this story. A newspaper quoted von Cosel saying I did not want one so beautiful to go to dust. A radio station in Havana ran a soap opera about Elena and von Cosel's great romance. He was in love with her? OK he was in love with her and he wanted to make her better. This is Ida Roberts. Her mom was good friends with Elena lived down the street from her. I talked to her for a while about this question. How could people see this as a romantic story? Well for starters Ida's mom did not know at the time that von Cosel was having sex with Elena's corpse. There were rumors but the truth did not come out for decades when a doctor from her autopsy wrote about it in a medical journal. But still that does not change the story so much for Ida. My mother knew Maria Elena. And because she accepted him my mother had no problem was with what he did. I mean was your mom upset that he had had the body for so long? No. Really? She was not upset. But is not there something also later? The autopsy report came out he was having sexual relations with her or attempting to? Well I guess he was in love with her and he made love to her. And he did not care whether she was dead or not. In fact he never-- he never wanted to think that she was dead. He wanted to think that she was coming back. She was asleep. I think Ida you are a very hard person to shock. Yeah mhm. Just remember this was a very small town and very close. Everybody was very close. And I believe that is the way laid back in Key West like we are we just accept things. I heard this from a lot of people I interviewed down there-- live and let live. They take pride in their history of being home to people who did not fit in-- bootleggers drug smugglers people who dropped off the grid. But Ida's pretty straight. We talked in her office at a Catholic school in Key West. She is the director of Religious Education for kids there and looks like somebody's nice grandma. When you look at this story now the story of von Cosel I mean do you view it as romantic or completely nuts? I think it is a nice love story. I do. I would not have any bad thing to say about him.  Why is that? Explain that. Because he was in love with her. I mean he was eccentric of course you know crazy thoughts he had but I mean he was not there to abuse her or anything. You know I mean-- According the record he was. Wait but he did not chop her up and throw her in the ocean or anything like a lot of people have done you know? A lot of spouses. But he took good care of her. And he wanted-- he just did not want to let go. I mean definitely selfish though. In a lot of ways I mean he is doing what he wants to do and not necessarily what the family would have wanted her to do-- wanted him to do or even Elena. Love is like that. Love is kind of selfish is not it? When you find somebody you want you want them regardless. Love is an excuse for all sorts of behavior. I can understand why so many people wanted to believe this version of the story. It is much easier and nicer to see this as a grand gesture of a lovesick man than the abuse of a delusional pervert. In the end the charges against von Cosel were dropped. The court looked into whether he was insane and decided no. They called his obsession with Elena a quirk. Even when the public was presented with physical proof Elena's body they chose to see the story this way. After police took Elena's body from von Cosel the funeral home incredibly put her out on display probably without the family's permission. It was a big crowd that day I think and we just followed the crowd. That is Don Carbonell. He was a kid at the time and lived across the street from the funeral home. There is actually a photo of Don in the newspaper spread standing in a big crowd right behind Elena's body. I might have even been playing in the yard with Frank whose father owned the funeral home at the time. And they opened the embalming room doors. And how close did you get? I was probably six to ten feet away from the table that they had her laid up on. And what do you remember? Do you remember what she looked like? Yeah vaguely I remember. She had glassy eyes and she just-- she did not look real. She did not look real. Looked like maybe somebody made up a body. That is the way she had impressed me. You would say a big overgrown doll. The newspaper articles quoted people who said she looked beautiful. Von Cosel did such a good job preserving her. One woman wrote a letter saying they should enclose Elena in a glass case and turn her into a Sleeping Beauty attraction. Which is basically what is happened to Elena and her story today. All right our story takes place here in 1930 and involves this young girl right here. This is from a trolley tour of Key West for tourists these days. All the disturbing facts of the story are now out. And our ideas about sex and men and women are dramatically different. But listen to this. They still tell this story as a romance for the same reason people did in the '40s. They like it. Well I thought we would discuss a love story an undying love story a story that involves grave robbing and a corpse bride. Who is interested? All right good. And here's another. By show of hands how many of you believe in true love? Just trying to set up this next tale-- this is a tale of true love Key Weird style with a twist. It starts with a gentleman by the name of Count Karl von Cosel. Enter into the picture a beautiful Cuban girl. Her name is Elena.   Miki Meek Payson High School class of none of your business is one of the producers of our program. John Ellison Conlee read the excerpts of von Cosel's memoir. Ben Harrison's book about von Cosel is called Undying Love. Coming up what happens when sky writers make mistakes and a few grand gestures that actually go right. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program we choose a theme bringing you a variety of different stories on that theme. Today's show as we watch Valentine's Day recede into the rearview mirror of our lives our theme is grand gestures stories of people who go all out and what it means when they do. We have arrived at Act Two of our program. Act 2 Say It Out Cloud. One of our producers David Kestenbaum spoke with some people who are in the grand gesture business. I am talking about sky writers. Every sky writer I talked to you had a story of some odd message they would put in the sky. Someone paid for a cartoon cloud to be drawn in the sky with little lines for rain. And then there was the message that was just numbers 3.1415 etc. Get it? Pi in the sky. The comedian Kurt Braunohler recently hired a pilot to put up the skywriting message over Los Angeles that he would always wanted to see. How do I land? Even a simple message can cost a couple of thousand dollars. And it does not last very long. Basically as soon as it is written it starts to fall apart. So a lot of the time it is people with a pretty big emotion who want to write something in the sky. It was the woman that contacted me and she could not-- it was a very secret love affair. This is Suzanne Asbury-Oliver. She is a longtime sky writer. And it could not be known that this relationship was happening. Wow. But she really wanted to express her commitment almost in a public way that she could not in any other way. You know shout out to the world I love you and I am with you forever. But nobody else can know. The message? A heart. No name just initials in the sky over a lake. It was just kind of sad and romantic all at the same time. Were they having an affair? Well that was my guess. Yeah. How did it feel doing that one? Yeah it was nice you know? Letting somebody express a huge emotion. In clouds of smoke. Yeah mile-high letters 10000 feet above the Earth. Sky writing seems to satisfy some very basic urge. Essentially as soon as we figured out how to fly someone was like You know what? I am gonna write giant letters in the sky. The first pilot did it in the 1920s maybe even earlier. And the vast majority of personal messages seem to be essentially the same thing over and over. Marry me or I love you or a heart or I heart you. Here in New York the usual spot is over Central Park. And it seems to be mostly guys who want to put messages of love in the sky. The male sky writers I talked to did not have a lot of theories about why that was. But Suzanne did. Maybe men have a harder time expressing themselves? And want to say I really really really do love you. I really really do want you to marry me in a really big way. This is it. These are our airplanes. Only a handful of people in the world do sky writing. It is this weirdly technical piece of flying. I went to visit Jim Record he is a pilot with a company called Skytypers out on Long Island. It was snowing out so we were not going up. But he showed me one of the planes. OK this is our lead airplane. How do you get in? Climb up on the wing?  yeah. The plane looks like he stole it from a museum. It is a World War II plane built in 1940. Imagine someone wearing goggles and a long scarf flying it trying to shoot down another pilot. There is a spot on the wings where the machine guns would have been moun