You may remember last fall President Obama decided to do something that lots of other presidents had done before. Him Give a short speech to the country's school kids at the start of the academic year. The head of the Republican Party in Florida a man named Jim Grier issued a statement saying that he was appalled that President Obama would be spreading his lies and socialist ideology to school children. Others chimed in. It kicked off a little fire storm in the media. --he joins us right now. Mr. Grier thanks for coming on. You had put out a pretty strong statement the other day. You said the President-- you referred to him as the Pied Piper Obama. Pied Piper is a guy who took children away and they were never seen again. Is that what you think? I mean really. Well I do not want him to take children away but I do not want to him to take their minds away either to push his agenda. When the President finally gave his speech what was his socialist message for the nation's school children? Put down the video games read books come to class ready to work hard. --and along those lines by the way I hope all of you are washing your hands a lot and that you stay home from school when you do not feel well so we can keep people from getting the flu this fall and winter. After the speech the controversy pretty much vanished overnight and for most of us that is the last we heard of Jim Grier the guy who led the complaining. During the last year a lot has changed for Jim Grier. James A. Grier has been charged with six felony counts-- He is no longer the Chairman of the Florida Republican Party. He is currently facing a half dozen felony counts for things like money laundering and theft. And two weeks ago Grier did something kind of remarkable. With the school year starting again all of a sudden he essentially came out of hiding to send a single message a text message. It was September 14 actually. Grier sent a text message to reporters in Florida. A couple of days ago I sat down with one of the reporters who first wrote about the story Dave Weigel who is a political reporter for Slate. And the text messages say that well the President's going to be giving another speech. And just for the record I apologize for making such a big deal about the last one. My take on that was wow he admitted it. This was somebody being honest about the fact that this was not really something he had been worried about at the time. It was a pander to get people panicked to basically support the Republican Party. He just wanted for whatever reason to have a mea culpa. And you never really get a mea culpa after people have started a frenzy about something they know was not really a problem. That is especially true today Weigel says. When manufactured outrage has become such a big part of our politics. Oh this happens about once a week now. You cannot quite set your watch to it but you can expect on a Monday that by Friday something that was not actually a huge problem for some politician or political figure is going to be blown up into a huge problem. They are going to benefit. We are going to have to analyze it. Both parties do this but Weigel says it is a much bigger part of Republican political style right now. And frankly the Republicans are just a lot better at it. I mean attack's really been part of Democrats' strategy this year that is been pretty unsuccessful-- is they continually think they are going to get sympathy from their base if Republicans are seen to be overly mean and blocking something in the Senate. That has not worked. So the Democrats try to rouse the troops without rage of the Republicans saying no and it does not seem to change the political equation very much at all. The Republicans meanwhile are not only better at attacking. When they are attacked they do a better job flipping the script and turning the story into outrage over the unfairness of how they were attacked turning that into support and money. The example of this on our TVs this week of course is Delaware Senatorial candidate Christine O'Donnell. Even before the statements that she made about dabbling in witchcraft came to light she was questioned about how she handled campaign finances about people who did not get paid about a campaign worker who said that O'Donnell used contributions to cover rent and personal expenses. We know for example in this campaign her mother got a 3000 check and no one can really explain that. So if you look at this on paper and you analyze it like you analyze any story of fiscal incompetence you would not think she could turn this to her advantage. She did turn it to her advantage. She won the primary and she raised in the first five days after it about 2 million. And that according to her in the campaign and people around her is in large part a response to the way the media was covering her finances the way the media was covering her career as a TV pundit. What are we to make of the attacks against you? Well watch this. Watch how this campaign unfolds. They started their ads this week and they are attacking me personally. They are not attacking where I stand on stimulus they are not attacking where I stand on extending if not making permanent the Bush tax cuts. They are not attacking me on my positions. They are trying to attack me. She was able to turn this back into proof that the media was trying to tear her down. It was not an outrage that she said it it was an outrage that this was being brought up drudged up against her. The way O'Donnell put it was that this is attack on me but-- and she said this her supporters also said this more explicitly-- it is an attack on people who believe the way I believe. This is an attack on Christianity. It is an attack on our values. And the money she raised off that which-- 2 million is actually 10000 of what she had in her campaign fund before the campaign heated up at the end of August. Before the attacks. Before the attacks she had 20000 roundabout and then she got 2 million after this. The way she pivoted is just a great textbook example. Being outraged works. Playing the victim works for that matter. And today on our radio show we see that not just in politics but in sports on Wall Street on the streets of California. We also by the way have a brand new story by David Sedaris. We have victims we have mock outrage we have mark outrage that turns into real outrage we have real outrage that is bigger than maybe it should be. We have crybabies of all sorts but mostly very very effective ones. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One. Wall Street Money Never Weeps. You would think if anybody would be out there thanking President Obama for helping them out these past few years it would be Wall Street. Back when he was running for office Barack Obama led the Democrats in supporting President Bush's original bailout of Wall Street. And as President he kept that bailout going and put into place all kinds of regulatory measures to make it easier for banks to recover and to turn a profit. And he is paid the price with some voters for that. But no Wall Street is not happy with him. At the President's televised town hall meeting this week hedge fund manager and CNBC commentator Anthony Scaramucci told them this to his face. I represent the Wall Street community. We have felt like a pinata. Maybe you do not feel like you are whacking us with a stick but we certainly feel like we have been whacked with a stick. Back during the summer-- kind of famously-- a billionaire named Stephen Schwarzman who founded and runs a private equity firm called The Blackstone Group went even further. At a meeting that he thought was private Schwarzman declared that the President's proposal to raise the taxes on certain profits that his company makes from 15 to 35-- 35 being the corporate income tax that most companies pay-- he said that tax change was just like Hitler invading Poland in 1939. Well I think we all obviously agree with that view that shifting the tax structure of private equity firms is-- I do not really see any difference between that and Hitler invading Poland. Yeah I mean obviously we can just laugh at it but Stephen Schwarzman and The Blackstone Group have spent the last two years or three years since the crisis began finding so many different government incentives government programs that allows them to directly profit from the government's overall effort to pump up the financial sector. For example? So one example is he bought a bank from the FDIC the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation at x ridiculously discounted rates. Another? Another is he took advantage of a variety of government programs that allowed him to buy up these toxic assets you always hear about at really low prices with government guarantees almost guaranteeing that he would make money. So yeah he will have to pay taxes. He is a billionaire and he is made a lot of money even during the crisis. But a good chunk of the money he is made is the direct result of what President Obama and his administration have done to help out Wall Street. And so how much whining and complaining are Wall Street guys doing about the federal government now? Like this guy Stephen Schwarzman is he an outlier? My view is he represents a much broader view and he is one of a very few who have the guts and confidence to say that. It is something I have noticed. I cover Wall Street a lot. I talk to people who work on Wall Street-- high level people lower level people-- a lot. And it is something that I have found sort of maddening. And if I can use an odious and ridiculous comparison it reminds me a lot of Ba'athists in Iraq. Ba'athists being Saddam Hussein's party. These are the people who made money and were in power when Saddam Hussein was running the country. Yes and I am talking about high level Ba'athists that when I when in Iraq after the war the group that I found had the most self-pity the most ugh how horrible my life is nobody understands me the world has just turned against me were those people who had made a fortune through the evil and illegal activities of the Ba'athist regime that they were a part of. And it feels very similar when I am talking to people on Wall Street-- this self-pity combined with a total lack of self-reflection about how they had been such massive beneficiaries of a system that ended up being so bad for the country. And that continues to generate huge profits. Yeah. Pretty much every big bank that you can name-- with the possible exception of maybe JPMorgan Chase-- would not exist today. It would have failed if it was not for the government. They are growing quickly and making record profits huge bonuses. By some counts this year will be the biggest bonus year ever for Wall Street and last year was bigger that any year before. So that bucket of activity-- let us just call it the bailout although it covers more than the bailout-- most folks on Wall Street who I know feel that well that was just necessary. If we had gone down the whole US economy the whole world economy would have gone down. We would have had a Great Depression. And I will say I am sympathetic to that argument. That being said it still seems to me that it would be appropriate for folks on Wall Street to say publicly and to really have inside of their souls the fact that their businesses failed. And something that they have always said they are against government intervention rescued them made them get the opposite of what you are supposed to get in a Capitalist economy-- rewarded instead of punished for bad risk management. And instead I cannot think of a single thing I have heard in the media or that I have directly heard that expresses any gratitude and-- there is a few folks who I have heard-- self-reflection. But I would say self-reflection is a very small small percentage of what I hear from Wall Street. But wait. Is not there some kind of pro forma we are very grateful to the federal government for stepping in sort of thing that big bankers have to say when they give speeches to the public? I have not heard that. What about when they go in front of Congress? Do not they would say like thanks you saved us we just want to acknowledge what is happened here in this partnership with the federal government blah blah blah? I have not watched every hearing but I have watched a lot of them maybe most of them. I cannot think of a time that someone said my bank that I run would not exist today. It failed because we took actions that led to our investors and our lenders having no faith in us. But the government stepped in and because of that we are making more money than we have ever made before. Yeah what about if you go ahead and just talk to the work-a-day people who work on Wall Street? The analysts the brokers the traders the middle level people who make a lot of money. Are they whining about the Obama administration? Are they grateful for the federal government and all of us taxpayers saving their asses? See this is a perfect example. Alex Blumberg my partner in Planet Money and I went out for a drink. And we were out we went to a Wall Street bar. And there is this private dining room that had been rented by a group of young guys-- clearly Wall Street guys suits and ties. And it was a group of furious Wall Street guys getting together to figure out what to do about their anger at the President and the Democrats in Congress. And one of the guy said I swear to God they are trying to destroy business in America. And they were discussing what should we do? How do we fight the President? How do we fight Congress? Should we get a march on Washington? Other people were saying no that is not going to work. And I gotta say it was a pretty emblematic moment. I am willing to bet that you could go to just about any bar around Wall Street any night of the week and you will find someone complaining about the President complaining about the government and all the different ways they are hurting Wall Street. And in fact to test this theory just last week you went with one of our producers Jane Feltes to a bar down on Wall Street. And you talked to just random guys who you walked up to at the bar. Yeah exactly. The bar was called Pound  Pence. It is literally across the street from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York-- filled with guys talking about their options hedging strategies and their new software database for monitoring capital flows. And you found these guys and you recorded conversations. And these guys very much felt like they are the victims. They are being scapegoated by the federal government. The government must must must have an enemy. Because if they do not have an enemy they are the enemy. So Wall Street is the current enemy OK? So it was three guys and it was actually kind of moving. It is right after September 11. They all worked together in I think it was the second tower of the World Trade Centers. On September 11 they are on the 58th floor One guy was saying that he did not want to leave the building. And the other guy told him he had to leave so every year they have a drink. He buys his friend a drink for saving his life. They now all work for different companies but they get together around September 11 every year. Now I have listened to this tape before. We walked into the studio and we are just going to play snippets here. But it was interesting. It is interesting hearing it how at no point will they cop to the notion that they benefited from the government's actions. Even once. You think everybody that works on Wall Street has money from the bailout? Is that what you really think? I think the reason Wall Street still exists in this form today where you are all sitting in a bar drinking beers-- Now I should say you guys are shouting not because you are angry but because it is just really loud. Yeah it was a really loud bar. It was packed. And we have been arguing with these guys. We have been going back and forth for quite awhile at this point. So you are an institutional investor you work for a credit rating agency. What do you do? I work in a bank on Wall Street. All right. I can guarantee your bank would have gone under. Your stock valuation would have collapsed. Your credit rating agencies-- Are out of business. --would have been out of business. All three of you directly benefited from the bailout. What? You are crazy! How am I crazy? You are crazy babe! So what do you do? Do not bail it out? That is the question. Do you not bail it out? I do not know. OK. So you let it tank. It is up to you. I would like to bail it out and I would like to walk into a bar in lower Manhattan and have one of you thank me. Thank you I still have my job and I appreciate it. Why do you want that? You guys still have your jobs. Because I am a smart person. And you think you got to keep your job because you are smart? You got to keep your job because you guys got bailed out. You guys got bailed-- No no no no no. That is not what happened with my job. I mean survival of the fittest. Because I am smarter than the average person. And even if the government bails out your industry that failed you still say it is because you are smarter. No. The government bailing out an industry was out of necessity for whatever the situation was. The fact that I benefited from that is because I am smart. I took advantage of a situation. 95 of the population does not have that common sense. The only reason I have been doing this for so long is because I must be smarter than the next guy. They basically saw it as their own individual initiative is what put them where they are today government had nothing to do about it. Yes. My thought is-- that for at least some folks on Wall Street-- you have to come up with a story that explains to you why you are making so much more than other people even if you feel you are dramatically benefiting society. And I think the story they come up with is that they are battling in a true free market. That they are taking risky bets and they are paying the cost when those bets do not pay off and they are reaping the rewards when those bets do pay off. I do not think that can possibly be defended by a careful study of what has happened. I think it is quite the opposite. I think Wall Street firms took enormously risky bets reaped whatever rewards there were to make but did not have to pay the costs when those bets did not pay off. The rest of us did. And do the Wall days have a legitimate beef? Is there something that Obama has done to them that they are right to get mad about? I think that there are two things that I see as at least somewhat legitimate. Yes. One thing that I would say sure they have a right to be mad about-- in the sense that any of us would-- is they are going to make less money probably. These regulatory reforms are going to come into place over the next two three years. And we know that some of those were specifically designed to lessen profits for Wall Street banks. Capital reserve requirements-- the amount of money you have to hold on hand-- we know that capital reserve requirements are going to increase and that directly means they will make less money. Because basically they have to hold more money on hand. So they cannot either use that money as their profits or go out and invest that and make more money with. Right. There is a whole host of other things that the regulatory reform closes off that were avenues to profits. So yes I think definitely-- it is almost indisputable-- that in the short term regulatory reform will mean they will make less money than they would have otherwise. The second issue is vilification. I think if you work on Wall Street-- actually I can assert this 100-- you feel vilified. And I think if you work within Wall Street chances are you did not work directly with subprime mortgages and collateralized debt obligations and derivatives or any of the things that got the economy in trouble or were central to the financial crisis. I am just thinking about your comparison to the Ba'athists in Iraq. Is it just it that these people who are in a position of such privilege will just whine more because they are just used to being on top and getting their way? Yeah. I spent a lot of time in Haiti this year and I spent a lot of time with wealthy Haitians and with poor Haitians. And I would say the wealthy Haitians definitely went out for being more crybabyish. People do not understand us. People are getting in our way. The poor Haitians are literally the poorest people on earth and it is not that I never heard complaining but it was not nearly as much. I would say I had a very similar experience in Banda Aceh after the tsunami. That has been my experience-- that the rich and the powerful when there is a shock are much more vocal and much more self-pitying than the poor. Maybe the poor are more used to these shocks. Maybe they have lower expectations about the future. But this Wall Street stuff did not surprise me although it is disappointing. Adam Davidson of Planet Money which is a co-production of our show and NPR News. You can find the Planet Money blog or hear their great twice-weekly podcast for absolutely free at npr.orgmoney.  Act Two. Foul Play. Sports of course is a place where there are some of the biggest crybabies or people who get called crybabies anyway. And in professional basketball in the NBA there is a kind of institutionalized crybabying called the flop which has not always been part of the game. One of our producers Alex Blumberg has been watching basketball for a long time and started to wonder if the story that basketball fans tell themselves about the origins of flop is even true. But first a quick explanation of the flop. What you do when you flop is that you try to sell to the referee the fact that you were fouled. So you basically pretend that somebody fouled you very hard. And you fall backwards and you fall down perhaps or you throw up your hands in the air even if the contact was incidental or in some cases non-existent. It is acting. I think Raja Bell flopped his way into that call. Ginobili and Bell-- two of the best floppers in the league. A little push but not enough to draw that kind of reaction. And the payoff for the flop is? Then I get the ball. You committed a foul then there is a turnover. I get the ball. You have a foul against you. If you get six fouls you are out of the game. And Boozer just throws Horry to the ground. He did not throw him! And nice flop by Manu Ginobili. I thought they were not going to call that flop anymore. Now there is a story that people tell about the flop about where it came from. And can I just have you tell us that story? Yes I can. And this story is almost like hardened conventional wisdom among NBA fans. If you search on the Internet you will find all sorts of versions of this story. But it is best summed up by this guy Bill Simmons who wrote a post about flopping. Bill Simmons is? Bill Simmons is a columnist for ESPN. He is got a podcast. He is this world famous sports columnist. He is got a big book. And he wrote in this post the single most disgusting NBA development of the past few years the flopping. Slowly regretfully inexplicably the sport is morphing into soccer. And that is because if you watched recently the World Cup you would see regularly in game after game every game had this-- where it would feature two guys a guy dribbling the ball on somebody. And then all of a sudden the guy dribbling the ball would crash to the ground throw up his arms roll around grabbing his ankle writhing in pain. And then they would show the replay and you would see that nobody touched the guy. He would just fallen over. And that happened every single game. And in soccer there are players who are known as being great floppers. The word flop really comes from there. It is clearly a part of the game in soccer. And so the story goes that as more and more Europeans started playing NBA basketball Europeans have been raised in the culture of soccer they all embrace the culture of the flop and then when they started playing basketball they brought it with them to the NBA. That is the story. So if this conventional wisdom were true if this legend were true that means that somewhere there is a patient zero. There is a player who was carrying the virus from European soccer into American basketball. Do we know who that patient zero is? Who is that crossover athlete? Well we do. I did some poking around on the Internet and everybody points to one guy. The one guy who brought the flop to the NBA. And that guy is Vlade Divac. Who'd he play for? Well he started playing in 1989. He started playing for the Lakers and then he played for the Sacramento Kings for a while. And then he went back to the Lakers. And Vlade Divac-- he is such the perfect patient zero because he is this gigantic Serbian guy. He is 7'1 he is got the definition of a hangdog face. He is just got this long face with this permanent five oclock shadow. And these sad droopy eyes. And then his former coach Dell Harris one time was asked about it and somebody asked Harris if he taught Vlade to flop and Harris said and I quote are you kidding? He brought that over here and taught the whole NBA how to flop. And you would see these games and he was always playing. And so during his heyday he played for the Sacramento Kings. They were really good and he was always matched up against the LA Lakers who had Shaquille O'Neal who was the dominant gigantic center. He is immense heavy strong super fast. He is superhuman. Impossible to guard except Vlade Divac had to guard him all the time. And so the games were replete with scenes of Vlade Divac just sort of flopping in all sorts of manner. Shaq would turn around and Vlade would go flying back and then the refs would call a foul on Shaq. But the problem with the flop is that it is a lie. Oh right you were not really fouled. And yet somebody has to serve the time for you being fouled. Exactly. And so you have penalized somebody else. And then it also becomes-- if it takes a hold it sort of self-perpetuates. It is like corruption. Once one person gets away with flopping then an incentive is raised for other people to start flopping. Because if they are going to do it well then I have to do it back. And then it sort of spreads very quickly.  So that is the generally accepted story. Yeah there is only one problem. It might not be true. I talked to a guy named Tommy Craggs. And he is a sports writer at this fantastic website called Deadspin which is a sports commentary blog and he totally disagrees with this theory. I do not think Vlade Divac was the-- I do not think flopping was born with him. And I think what we see is the proliferation of flopping was really more a response to rule changes. So he is saying it is not the Europeans who brought this to us it is our own rule changes. Government intervention if you will. That is exactly what he is saying. Bad regulation with unintended effects. Yes exactly. He is saying the temptation is always to blame the culture but really it is the regulation that changed and it created the culture that followed. And so the specific rule change that he is talking about is there used to be this thing in basketball called the hand check where-- let us say you are Michael Jordan. Yeah let us say that. And I have the unenviable task of guarding you. Back when Michael Jordan played I could put my hand on you a little bit I could put my elbow on you. I had all these tools at my disposal to try to slow you down. Even though you were faster than I could ever hope to be you were the most dominant offensive player ever to play the game I had some tools that I could use to help even the score a little. But then-- partly because of Jordan and other factors as well-- the NBA started tweaking the rules and they made the hand check illegal. So you cannot touch at all. You still do. But yes it gets whistled a lot more. It is called as a foul a lot more. And so what that means is that as a defensive player-- say I am a slow defensive player and I am playing a fast offense player whereas before I could hold them muscle them around a little bit now I got nothing. A flop is the defensive player's last resort. And it is something that a defensive player can do to gain a tiny advantage back. And the incentive to do it is incredibly high. I mean by drawing an offensive foul it is a turnover and a foul on your opponent. And I think there have been studies that show that there is a small correlation between winning and teams that draw offensive fouls. Now Tommy Craggs also takes issue with the convention wisdom in the second way as well. Most basketball fans if you talk to them about flopping they say it is a scourge upon the game. They hate it and they think it is the sissifying and Europization of the game. Rasheed Wallace he is a player in the NBA. He is also very outspoken. He is one of my favorite players. And Rasheed he is somebody that people point to a lot as being a whiner and a crybaby because he constantly complains to the refs about getting fouled himself. But he hates it when people flop. And he was playing this game and his opponents had been flopping and he said that is not basketball. That is entertainment. So that is this other conventional view. Tommy Craggs though he does not mind flopping. I think with flopping in particular it is the tax we pay to have a more liberated game to have a more offensive-oriented game. I think what you would call the flopping era. It is also the more beautiful era. It is also the dunking era and the amazing drive to the basket era and the behind the back pass era. And a lot of other really exciting things that people like about basketball has come hand-in-hand with the flopping era. Yeah. And if it means we have a more beautiful game I can live with players occasionally doing the death scene from Little Women. You know there was this incident recently where Derek Jeter was standing at the plate and pretended that he got hit with a ball and got a free base. This is a baseball game. And then looking back at the video you see oh the ball did not even touch him. But he totally faked it. And there was a debate about well was this right? Was this what baseball should be? And do you think that at this point since the flop exists in soccer since it exists in basketball that now basically it is like a pan-sports movement? That basically it is just in the culture and now anybody can grab at it in any sport and it is just out there? Yeah I do. I do not think if we just had the World Cup where you saw players flopping all over the place I do not think that Derek Jeter would have necessarily had that idea. I mean it is harder to flop in baseball there are not as many opportunities. But I do not think he would have done that if it was not for the expansion of flopping throughout professional sports. Like Derek Jeter-- he is unquestionably one of the best players ever to play baseball and so in a certain sense-- to be that good you have to have this do whatever it takes to win mentality. There is just no way that you can achieve his level without having this incredibly competitive streak in you. But can you imagine Michael Jordan flopping? No. There would be just no dignity it it. No. But see that is not fair. It is like can you imagine God cheating on a test? God does not need to cheat on a test. You know what I mean? Alex Blumberg is one of the producers of our show. Coming up how to make a living by complaining. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. This American Life I am Ira Glass. Each week on our show of course we choose a theme bring you a variety of different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show crybabies stories of whiners complainers malcontents and how being a crybaby can get you what you need and get results and maybe even sometimes yes justice. We have arrived at Act three of our show. Act Three. The Squeaky Wheelchair Gets the Grease. In California a kind of a crybaby cottage industry has popped up around of all things the Americans with Disabilities Act the federal law that requires all public places to meet a minimum level of accessibility-- parking spaces ramps grab bars in the bathroom. Some people have taken to suing hundreds of business owners for not being up to code. Alex MacInnis hung out with one of them. Behind a furniture store in West Los Angeles I am on a tour of handicap parking spaces with a guy named Tom Mundy. He drives a baby blue minivan. A handicap placard dangles from his re