From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. OK so for months around here at our radio show we have all been preparing for this day today. The date of this day has been written on our white board in big letters for months because this is the day that we launch our first real spin-off. As of today we are not making just one weekly show here but two shows. Our second show is called Serial. That is not like breakfast but the kind of serial where one thing follows another. And I have mentioned this show on the air before. But just in case you missed that here's the premise of the new show. Instead of each episode bringing you a different theme and different stories every episode of Serial brings you back to the exact same story and tells you the next chapter in that story. This is a long story told over a dozen episodes a true story. One of our producers and regular contributors Sarah Koenig is going to be hosting the new series. And the first story Serial is taking on is about a murder. It is a case where what really happened is actually much more complicated than the jury ever heard when this thing went to trial. And each week we will go with Sarah on her hunt to figure out what really happened. And we will learn the answers as she does. Our new show by the way is not a radio show. It is a podcast. I will explain more about that later in the hour. And what we are going to do today here on the radio is play you the first episode. OK and so with that here's Sarah. And I really hope you like this. For the last year I have spent every working day trying to figure out where a high school kid was for an hour after school one day in 1999-- or if you want to get technical about it and apparently I do where a high school kid was for 21 minutes after school one day in 1999. This search sometimes feels undignified on my part. I have had to ask about teenagers' sex lives where how often with whom about notes they passed in class about their drug habits their relationships with their parents. And I am not a detective or a private investigator. I have not even a crime reporter. But yes every day this year I have tried to figure out the alibi of a 17-year-old boy. Before I get into why I have been doing this I just want to point out something I would never really thought about before I started working on this story. And that is it is really hard to account for your time in a detailed way I mean. How did you get to work last Wednesday for instance? Drive? Walk? Bike? Was it raining? Are you sure? Did you go to any stores that day? If so what did you buy? Who did you talk to? The entire day name every person you talked to. It is hard. Now imagine you have to account for a day that happened six weeks back. Because that is the situation in the story I am working on in which a bunch of teenagers had to recall a day six weeks earlier. And it was 1999 so they had to do it without the benefit of texts or Facebook or Instagram. Just for a lark I asked some teenagers to try it. Do you remember what you did on that Friday? No. Not at all. I cannot remember anything. Wait nothing? No. I cannot remember anything that far back. I am pretty sure I was in school. I think-- no? That is Tyler. He is 18. I asked my nephew Sam. He is 18 too. Not a clue. In school probably. I would be in school. Actually I think I worked that day. Yeah I worked that day. And I went to school. That was about it. Actually on second thought? I do not think I went to school that day. You do not think you went. Yeah no I did not. I definitely did not. Here's Sam's friend Elliot. He seemed to have better recall. Actually I may have gone to the movies that night later. Do you remember what you saw? Now that I am thinking. I am sorry? Yeah I think I saw 22 Jump Street. OK. And did you go with friends? Yeah. I went with Sam and this kid Sean Carter a bunch of people. Wait Sam my nephew Sam? Yeah yeah. Oh OK. So Sam says he was at work. Oh then it was not that night then. One kid did actually remember pretty well because it was the last day of state testing at his school and he would saved up to go to a nightclub. That is the main thing I learned from this exercise which is no big shocker I guess. If some significant event happened that day you remember that plus you remember the entire day much better. If nothing significant happened then the answers get very general. I most likely did this or I most likely did that. These are words I have heard a lot lately. Here's the case I have been working on. Almost 15 years ago on January 13 1999 a girl named Hae Min Lee disappeared. She was a senior at Woodlawn High School in Baltimore County in Maryland. She was Korean. She was smart and beautiful and cheerful and a great athlete. She played field hockey and lacrosse. And she was responsible. Right after school she was supposed to pick up her little cousin from kindergarten and drop her home. But she did not show. That is when Hae Lee's family knew something was up when the cousin's school called. About a month later on February 9 Hae's body was found in a big park in Baltimore really a rambling forest. A maintenance guy who said he would stopped to take a leak on his way to work discovered her there. He would noticed a bit of her black hair poking out of a shallow grave. The cause of death was manual strangulation meaning someone did it with their hands. A couple weeks after that so six weeks after she first went missing Hae's ex-boyfriend a guy named Adnan Syed was arrested for her murder. He is been in prison ever since. I first heard about this story more than a year ago when I got an email from a woman named Rabia Chaudry. Rabia knows Adnan pretty well. Her younger brother Saad is Adnan's best friend. And they believe he is innocent. Rabia was writing to me because way back when I used to be a reporter for the Baltimore Sun and she would come across some stories I would written about a well-known defense attorney in Baltimore who'd been disbarred for mishandling client money. That attorney was the same person who defended Adnan her last major trial in fact. Rabia told me she thought the attorney botched the case-- not just botched it actually but threw the case on purpose so she could get more money for the appeal. The lawyer had died a few years later. She would been sick. Rabia asked if I would please just take a look at Adnan's case. I do not get emails like this every day. So I thought sure why not? I read a few newspaper clips about the case looked up a few trial records. And on paper the case was like a Shakespearean mashup-- young lovers from different worlds thwarting their families secret assignations jealousy suspicion and honor besmirched the villain not a Moor exactly but a Muslim all the same and a final act of murderous revenge. And the main stage? A regular old high school across the street from a 7-Eleven. Hi are you Rabia? Hi. Am I saying your name correctly? Rabia. Rabia. OK. I went to go see Rabia. She was surrounded by paper-- files loose stacks binders some crappy looking boxes-- all court documents and attorney's files from Adnan's case. Some of the papers were warped and discolored. Why do they look wet? They look wet. These have been damaged because these-- She explained that it was because the boxes had been in her car on and off for 15 years. Rabia is a lawyer herself. She mostly does immigration stuff. Her office takes up the corner of a much larger open space that I think is a Pakistani travel agency though it is hard to tell. It is in this little strip mall. Across the parking lot there is a new Pakistani restaurant an African evangelical church an Indian clothing shop a convenience store. On the sidewalk outside I found a teeny weeny bag of marijuana. Baltimore County is like this at least on the west side. It is where a lot of middle class and working class people go many immigrants included to get their kids out of the badass city. Though the badass city is close by. Rabia is 40. She is short and she is got a beautiful round face framed by hijab. She is adorable looking but you definitely should not mess with her. She is very smart and very tough and she could crush you. Her brother Saad was at Rabia's office too the first time I went. He is 33 a mortgage broker more laid back than Rabia. They told me about Adnan Syed their friend-- not just a good kid but an especially good kid-- smart kind goofy handsome. So that when he was arrested for murder so many people who know him were stunned. He was like the community's golden child. Oh really? Talk more about that. He was an honor roll student volunteer EMT. He was on the football team. He was a star runner on the track team. He was the homecoming king. He led prayers at the mosque. Everybody knew Adnan to be somebody who was going to do something really big. I later fact checked all these accolades of course and learned that Rabia was mostly right though she sometimes gets a little loosey-goosey with the details. Adnan was an EMT but he did not volunteer. He was paid for it. He was on the track team but he was not a star. He did play football. And he did lead prayers on occasion. He was not homecoming king. But he was prince of his junior prom and this at a high school that was majority black. They picked the Pakistani Muslim kid. So you get the picture. He was an incredibly likable and well-liked kid. This conversation with Rabia and Saad this is what launched me on this yearlong-- obsession is maybe too strong a word-- let us say fascination with this case. By the end of this hour you are going to hear different people tell different versions of what happened the day Hae Lee was killed. But let us start with the most important version of the story the one Rabia told me first. And that is the one that was presented at trial. The state's case against Adnan went like this. He and Hae had been going out since junior prom. But Adnan was not supposed to be dating at all. Adnan was born in the US but his parents are from Pakistan. And they are conservative Muslims-- no drinking no smoking no girls all that. Saad and Rabia's parents are the same way. Their families are friends. But even though Adnan and Saad and their buddies were Muslims they were also shall we say healthy American teenagers who were going to do what teenagers do so long as they did not get caught. So Adnan had to keep his relationship with Hae secret. The state used this against him in two ways. First they argued he put everything on the line-- his family his relationships at the mosque-- to run around with this girl. So that when she broke up with him eight months later he was left with nothing and he was outraged. He could not take it and he killed her. And the second way they used it as they said-- look at what a liar he is how duplicitous. He plays the good Muslim son at home and at the mosque but look what he was up to. Saad remembers the prosecutor's closing argument at trial. His family did not know that he actually drank he smoked he was having sex. This was proof of bad character someone who could be a murderer. But Saad says if Adnan is guilty of anything it is of being a normal kid with immigrant parents. So the prosecution had painted Adnan as a totally bipolar or a maniacal dual personality. We all grew up with that dual personality. I know it was forced. I am the same way. I was like they could paint the same thing. Because I was actually homecoming king which I do not know if my sister even knows. I did not know this. She did not know. So I was dating a girl that was-- And why is homecoming king bad? That sounds like a good thing. We do not go to homecoming. We do not-- Because it is a dance. It is a dance. It is a mixed gender-- So I was in the same boat. My parents my sister they did not know about this at all. Right now more than 10 year later she is finding out. I know I will admit. On one side my family thinks I am a virgin. But on the other hand I play-- you know. --way too much. But it is the truth. TMI TMI TMI. See that? That right there is kind of making her feel uncomfortable. She is like whoa whoa whoa. So just on motive alone Saad and Rabia found the whole thing ridiculous. As for physical evidence there was none-- nothing. Apart from some fingerprints in Hae's car which Adnan had been in many times there was nothing linking him to the crime-- no DNA no fibers no hairs no matching soil from the bottom of his boots. Instead what they had on Adnan was one guy's story a guy named Jay. He is the third person you need to remember in this crime story besides Hae and Adnan. Jay was a friend of Adnan's. They would been in school together since middle school. They were not super close but they had mutual friends. Jay sold weed and he and Adnan smoked together. The story Jay told police had problems because it kept changing from telling to telling. But they were able to bolster the main plot points using cell records from Adnan's phone. By the time I left Rabia's office that first day I understood only one thing clearly though maybe not the thing Rabia and Saad wanted me to understand. But what I took away from the visit was somebody is lying here. Maybe Adnan really is innocent. But what if he is not? What if he did do it and he is got all these good people thinking he did not? So either it is Jay or it is Adnan. But someone is lying. And I really wanted to figure out who. In the early morning of February 28 1999 Adnan was arrested by Baltimore City detectives. He was asleep in his bed when they showed up at his house. They took him straight from his untidy bedroom to an interrogation room at Homicide downtown. What Adnan did not know is that just hours before they picked him up the cops had interviewed his friend Jay. This is a taped interview of Jay black male 19 years of age. We are at the offices of Homicide specifically the colonel's conference room. The police recorded two taped interviews with Jay. And I am going to play you the second one from a couple weeks later only because the sound quality is much better. Just a warning that the tape is a little upsetting to hear in parts. Why do not you go ahead and tell us what you know about the death of Hae Lee. OK. I would left out went shopping with a friend of mine an ex-friend of mine Adnan. We had had a conversation. During the conversation he stated that he was going to kill that bitch referring to Hae Lee. I took it with context. It did not stand out in my head any. Jay said he did not take it too seriously. The cops have him start again from the top. On the morning of the 13th Jay says Adnan had left school and driven to Jay's house. Jay had graduated from school the year before and was working but not on that day. January 13 happens to be the birthday of Jay's girlfriend Stephanie. And Jay who did not have his own car needed to go buy something for her. So Adnan comes over. According to Jay they go shopping at the mall. When did you do that? We left the mall. I took him to school. I dropped him off in the back of the school. He went up to class. He left his cell phone in the car with me told me he would call me. I went back to my friend James' house and waited for him to call. OK now at this point you know why he is leaving the car with you. Yes. And why is that? Because he said he was going to kill Hae. And the reason you have the car and the cell phone was why? To pick him up from wherever he was going to do this at. OK and you had talked about this while you were shopping that day? The details of the car and all? The events how they were going to plan out. That day he told me yes. He told me I am going to leave you with my cellphone and my car and I need you to come get me. Yes. After-- After he had killed Hae yes. OK. Later that afternoon the call comes. You received a phone call from Adnan. Yes. On his cellphone. Yes. Which is in your possession. Yes. And the conversation was what? That bitch is dead. Come and get me. I am at Best Buy. Jay drives to Best Buy and sees Adnan in the parking lot. I noticed that Hae was not with him. I parked next to him. He asked me to get out the car. I get out the car. He asks me am I ready for this? And I say ready for what? And he takes the keys. He opens the trunk. And all I can see is Hae's lips are all blue and she is pretzeled up in the back of the trunk. And she is dead. They leave the parking lot. Adnan's driving Hae's car with her body in the trunk. Jay's driving Adnan's car. They ditch Hae's car at the I-70 park and ride. And then to hear Jay tell it they just kind of tool around Baltimore County together for a while as if nothing had happened-- buy some weed cruise around make some calls. After a while Jay drives Adnan back to Woodlawn High School. Why did you take him back to school? He told me that I had to take him back to school because he needed to be seen there. Was he going to a certain event? It was practice track practice. Track practice. Yes. So he wanted an alibi? Yes. He wanted to be seen by people at track. Yes. And you guys had discussed that? He just told me that he needed to be seen. Yes. He told me that he needed to be seen. At track practice. You took him back? Yes. Are you having any conversation with Adnan at the time? To the effect yes. Do not tell anyone. He said that he could not believe he killed somebody with his bare hands that all the other mother  referring to hoods and thugs and stuff think they are hard core. But he just killed a person with his bare hands. So at this point he is bragging about it? Basically. He was proud of it? Yes. After track practice Jay picks Adnan up again. They drive around some more. By this time Hae's family was worried and they would called the police who in turn called a couple of Hae's friends including Adnan. The call comes in on his cell. The cops ask if he is seen Hae or knows where she is. Jay says after the call they drive to Jay's to get some shovels go retrieve Hae's car from the park and ride. They drive around some more and finally end up at Lincoln Park where Adnan proceeds to bury Hae. It is evening by now maybe 700 or 800 PM. And he asked me if I was going to help. And I told him  no. And he starts just shoveling dirt on top of her. After we leave there-- Let me stop there. Yes. You helped him dig the hole. Yes. How long did it take you both to dig the hole? 20 25 minutes. How deep did you make the hole? Oh maybe six inches at the most. It was not very deep at all. Who did most of the digging? Uh it was-- Both of you? Yeah. Equal work? I would not say that but yeah. OK. So those are the key points. Adnan told Jay in advance he was going to do it. He did it. They buried her. Jay's story was not just the foundation of the state's case against Adnan. It was the state's case against Adnan. In the picture Jay drew it is cold. I mean he is not describing a crime of passion here. This is something much darker-- to methodically map out the death of your friend to strangle her with your own hands so close up like that. That would mean Adnan was not just a killer but a master liar and manipulator a psychopath probably. Adnan's in a maximum security prison in western Maryland. He calls me at my request about twice a week. He talks to me from a bank of eight pay phones in the rec hall a pretty large room where other guys are sitting at tables with metal seats attached to them playing chess or cards or using the microwave or watching TV. It can get a little loud sometimes. Once I asked if all eight phones were always occupied. And he said usually not because guys who have been in for a long time often they have no one to call. When I first met Adnan in person I was struck by two things. He was way bigger than I expected-- barrel chested and tall. In the photos I would seen he was still a lanky teenager with struggling facial hair and sagging jeans. By now he was 32. He would spent nearly half his life in prison becoming larger and properly bearded. And the second thing which you cannot miss about Adnan is that he has giant brown eyes like a dairy cow. That is what prompts my most idiotic lines of inquiry. Could someone who looks like that really strangle his girlfriend? Idiotic I know. When he first heard Jay's story of the crime Adnan did not say well it did not happen like that or I did not mean for it to happen like that. He said it did not happen. None of this is true at all. He says he had nothing to do with Hae's murder and he does not know who did. Hae was Adnan's first serious relationship with a girl. He says he loved her in the way of high school love but then also in the way of high school got over her. So that when they broke up for good sometime before Christmas break of senior year he says he was sad for sure but not obsessed or anything. I just sometimes wish they could look into my brain and see how I really felt about her. And no matter what else someone would say they would see man this guy had no ill will toward her. Whatever the motivation is to kill someone I had absolutely-- it did not exist in me you know what I mean? No one can ever say why. People could say why. Oh man he was mad this that or the other. But no one could ever come with any type of proof or anecdote or anything to ever say that I was ever mad at her that I was ever angry with her that I ever threatened her. That is the only thing I can really hold onto. That is like my only firm handhold in this whole thing that no one's ever been able to prove it. No one ever has been able to provide any shred of evidence that I had anything but friendship toward her like love and respect for her. That is at the end of the day man. The only thing I can ever say is man I had no reason to kill her. He is adamant about this. You can hear it right? He is staunch. The problem is when you ask Adnan to go back and tell his version of what happened that day to refute Jay's story everything becomes a lot mushier. Yes he hung out with Jay on the 13th both during and after school. But he does not remember exactly where they went or what they did or what time it was. Here's what he is got. January 13 unfolded like any other day a normal mostly uneventful day. He says there are a couple of things that do stand out though. That day was Stephanie's birthday. Stephanie was one of Adnan's best friends and also Jay's girlfriend. Adnan had gotten Stephanie a birthday present a stuffed reindeer which he would given to her in second period Miss Ephron's English class. And it occurred to me that day that I was going to ask her boyfriend Jay did he get her a gift? So sometime during the day before noon-- Wait Adnan just hold up for a second. Why did you care whether Jay got Stephanie a present? What is it to you? Well Stephanie was a very close friend of mine as I mentioned. And I just kind of wanted to make sure that she also got a gift from him you know? She had mentioned to me that she was looking forward to getting a gift from him. She mentioned that she was really happy to get the gift that I gave her. So as I would with any friend I just kind of went to check on that. I kind of had a feeling that maybe he did not get her a gift. And I had free periods during school. So it was not abnormal for me to leave school to go do something and then come back. So I went to his house. And I asked him did you happen to get a present for Stephanie? He said no. So I said if you want to you can drop me back off to school. You can borrow my car. And you can go to the mall and get her a gift or whatever. Then just come pick me up after track practice that day. So then what happened? Well then when school was over I would have went to the library. I know that I usually check-- well I did not usually check. But if I was going to check my email it would be using the library computer. You know sometimes I would go there because track practice did not start until around maybe 3 oclock or 330-ish. So it did not start right after school. So there was a period of time of almost like an hour an hour and some change that was kind of free time. This hour and change after school this is the crucial window. This is the time when the state says Hae was killed. School got out at 215. People remember seeing her after her last class heading to her car. According to Jay's story and the cellphone records she was dead by 236 PM. So sometime in those 21 minutes between 215 and 236 she was strangled. So that is obviously the same window Adnan needed to account for. To quote Adnan My case lived and died in those 21 minutes. So where does Adnan say he was? Well maybe the library but nobody testified to that at trial. Then to track practice-- he does remember being at track one day when it was snowing which might have been that day. The coach testified that Adnan probably was there but he cannot be 100 sure because as a rule he did not take attendance. After school is when his memories become nonspecific. Usually we did this or we probably would have done that. Probably track practice would have ended like I would say 430. Jay did come to pick up Adnan after track. That part Adnan seems to more or less remember. It was Ramadan so Adnan would have been fasting all day and hungry. It probably would have been close to time for me to break fast. He would have came to pick me up and we would have went to go get something to eat. And then we would have smoked some weed after right? And then I would have had to have been home around 7 8 oclock right? Or usually like the last 10 nights of Ramadan my father would spend the night at the mosque. So a lot of times I would take him food. I think my mother would make food for him and I would take it usually before 8 oclock. Because that is the last evening prayer. Did you ever leave the campus before the end of track practice? Did you ever-- No. OK. No. You are sure? I want to say that I am 99 sure. OK. The reason why I cannot say 100 is because-- I mean I do kind of understand that it comes across as-- I do not know if it does or does not. But it seems like I remember things that are beneficial to me but things that are not beneficial to me I cannot remember. It is just that I do not really know what to say beyond the fact that a lot of the day that I do remember it is bits and pieces that comes from what other people have said that they remember right? And it kind of jogs my memory. Yeah. I do not really know what to say. And I completely understand how that comes across. I mean the only thing I can say is man it was just a normal day to me. There was absolutely nothing abnormal about that day. Adnan knows better than anyone how unhelpful this all is how problematic. Because it plays both ways. If he is innocent right it is any other day. Of course he does not remember. But you can also read it as how convenient. He does not remember the day. So no one can fact check him or poke holes in his story. Because he has no story. I definitely understand that someone could look at this and say oh man he must be lying. It is so coincidental that he does not remember what he did this particular time. I mean I completely understand that and I get that. Like I said that is the hardest thing I have dealt with for these past 15 years. There is nothing tangible I can do to remember that day. There is nothing I can do to make me remember. I have pored through the transcripts. I have looked through the telephone records. What else can I do? There is nothing I can do. So perhaps I will never be able to explain it. And it is what it is. If someone believes me or not you know I have no control over it. Adnan's trial was a long ordeal. Jay was on the stand for something like five days. A cellphone expert testified for two days a lifetime when you are discussing cell tower technology. There were absences and some bad weather closed the courts. So it was six weeks before both sides rested. But the jury? They moved like lightning. After just a few hours including a lunch break they convicted Adnan of first-degree murder. Rabia Chaudry was there in the courtroom when it happened. She says his mother was crying. She was crying. Rabia had not sat through the whole trial. So the first time she fully understood that the case came down to those 21 minutes was during closing arguments when the prosecutor brought out a dummy's head and strangled it in front of the jury. That evening after the verdict Rabia went to see Adnan in lockup. And so I went to go see him. So this is the same day he is been convicted. And this is the first time I actually had a conversation with him about what is going on? And I was like you know Adnan the whole thing's turning on these 20 25 minutes. Where were you? And he is like she disappeared in January you know? In March you are asking me where were you after school for 20 minutes on a specific day? All the days are the same to me you know? But then he mentions that there was this one girl an alibi girl. He is like the only thing I could offer is I remember there is a girl I go to school with. Her name's Asia McLean. He is like right after I got arrested she wrote me a couple of letters. And she said she also went to see my family. And she said she specifically remembers me being at the library at the public library right after school. The Woodlawn public library is just across the parking lot from Woodlawn High School. It is not technically part of the campus but it might as well be. He said I gave those letters to Christina Gutierrez to my attorney. He is like but apparently it did not really check out. So he is like I do not know. So they are not helpful to us. So this was the first time I heard of this girl Asia McLean. I had never heard of her before. Nobody had mentioned her before. Were you floored like wait wait wait wait what? I mean like-- I was not floored at the time. Because I thought if this girl wrote and the attorney-- what criminal defense attorney's not going to check out a potential alibi? So I asked him I said do you have a copy of those letters? He said yeah I have a copy. I said send me a copy. Adnan sends the letters to Rabia and here's what she reads. The first letter the first of two is dated March 1 1999. That is one day after Adnan was arrested. At the top of the letter she notes I just came from your house an hour ago. Dear Adnan-- I hope I spelled it right. I am not sure if you remember talking to me in the library on January 13 but I remember chatting with you. She says quote we are not really close friends but I want you to look into my eyes and tell me of your innocence. If I ever find otherwise I will hunt you down and whip your ass. OK friend? At the bottom she added a little note. My boyfriend and his best friend remember seeing you there too. That is letter number one. Then the next day on March 2 she writes Adnan another letter. This one's typed. It is chattier. She talks about the gossip at school the bits and pieces of evidence about the crime that are circulating what the students are saying what the teachers are saying about her visit to his house. Quote Your brothers are nice. I do not think I met your mother. I think I met your dad. Does he have a big gray beard? They gave me and Justin soda and cake. There was a whole bunch of people at your house. I did not know who they were. I also did not know that Muslims take their shoes off in the house. Thank God they did not make me take mine off. My stinky feet probably would have knocked everyone out cold. Why have not you told anyone about talking to me in the library? she asks him. Did you think it was unimportant? You did not think that I would remember? Or did you just totally forget yourself? Adnan says now that he does in fact remember seeing Asia in the library. The thing he remembers about it is so high school. Asia used to go out with Adnan's friend Justin. And Justin had confided that Asia was a proper young lady. In other words Justin was not getting any. So Adnan remembers thinking he would now get to tease Justin about seeing Asia with her new boyfriend. Maybe the new guy was getting lucky ha ha. Anyway Rabia calls Asia up. It is been a year since she wrote the letters but she agrees to meet. And she told me that day after school I went to the public library. And Adnan was sitting at a computer checking email or something. And I sat down next to him. We started chatting. And Adnan was a very popular boy in school. He was handsome and popular with the ladies. So she was speaking to him. And her boyfriend shows up a little bit later with a friend. And she said her boyfriend was really angry at her because he is like why are you talking to him? You know high school kids why are you talking to him? Is he hitting