When Jeffrey was 22 he had this rare problem with his eyes and doctors had to use lasers to fix vessels that were bleeding at the back of his left eye which worked great. But not long after on a cold bright winter day he came into his house from the cold and saw this color. And it was almost like an afterimage like when you look at a bright light. And it was a blind spot right where they had put the lasers. And instead of seeing blackness it was this greenish not-green. It was like a green that could never exist. And it was fluorescent. And it was kind of pulsating and staticky. Got that? Green but not green. You know actually maybe a better way of describing it was like if the color black was fluorescent and green. Wait. I am just going to say those words back to you. If the color black were fluorescent and green. Yeah. You know that sounds crazy right? Yeah. Yeah. You know how some colors seem more energetic like bright red or bright yellow and others are more peaceful like sort of a blue-green sea color? Which is this? It was both. It was both energetic and calming. But a lot of the color is greenish right? It is in the kind of green family? Yeah it is greenish. I remember I bought a bunch of markers a while ago trying to find a way of representing it to my doctor. And so if you were to try to paint it or draw it you would start with a kind of fluorescent green right? Mhm. And then what would you add to it to add the other part that is not green? Black and like fireworks. You just said black and fireworks? Yeah. He said that if you have ever had a migraine headache it can come with a kind of colorful sparkly static. It was like that. Fireworks. But really he said he is never done a good job describing this. How do you describe a color that only you have seen? OK which of these things would you say about this color? Does it remind you of the feeling of punching somebody in the face or more like a soft kiss from somebody who you are just falling in love with or more like warm toast and butter on a cold morning?  You know I have to say of those three options you give me I think I only have lots of experience with the third. And does the color remind you of that one? You said warm toast and butter on a cold morning? Yeah. No. The color does it remind you of the feeling of hope or more a feeling of existential dread? Existential dread. The color does it remind you at all of the feeling that you get when you are a kid and you get either a Ho-Ho or a Ding Dong and it is sort of cool and so the outside shell of it is perfectly hard and you bite into it and it cracks open and it is soft and chocolaty underneath? Um no. The color does it remind you of the feeling of somebody's going to cook something for you and you do not really know if they are a good cook or bad cook and then it turns out they are just an amazing cook. And everything you eat you think this is a very good version of this particular thing that I am eating? Yeah you know Ira it was a little bit more mundane than that. When you see something that nobody else can see it can be terrifying. And Jeffrey was scared that maybe something was seriously deteriorating with his vision. But once it became clear that he was going to be fine and he was going to be able to see he had this other impulse-- to show his friends. To share it. Well yeah. I used to make drawings of it. I used to make drawings of the shapes. Like I used a black pen and then I did the outline in that fluorescent. And you know it is like yeah I would show it to my friends and they did not get it. They did not think it was that neat.  What would they say? Oh man. Usually what I get is that is interesting. Ugh. That is the worst. Yeah. Of course when you see something that other people cannot you are stuck. I think for most people you want to tell somebody. You want to share it. You want to do something. Today no our program we have three stories of people in this exact situation-- one involving science one involving comedy one involving angels. These people see something nobody else can and they cannot stop themselves. They cannot shut up about it. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One Do These Genes Make Me Look Fatless? Well let us kick things off with this story of somebody who not only sees something that nobody else sees when she tells other people about the stuff she see they do not buy it. Investigative reporter David Epstein explains. I wrote a book called The Sports Gene. It is partly about how some super-athletes are genetically different from the rest of us. They have super genes. They are physiological freaks. I was deluged with emails from parents wanting to know how they could find out if their child had Michael Jordan genes. A coach wrote offering up his players as guinea pigs for genetic experimentation. There were so many unhinged email coming in that I pretty much stopped opening them. And then I got this one that had the subject heading Olympic Medalist and Muscular Dystrophy Patient with the Same Mutation I opened it figuring it would be a link to some article that I would missed in my reporting. Instead it was a note from a 39-year-old Iowa mother. Her name was Jill Viles. She was the muscular dystrophy patient and she had a wild theory linking her genes to an Olympic sprinter named Priscilla Lopes-Schliep and she wanted to send more info. Sure I said. Send it along. Why not? Days later a package arrived-- a 19-page illustrated bound packet. I thumbed through it. It was a little weird-- hand-drawn diagrams with cutouts of little cartoon weightlifters representing protein molecules old photos of herself and her siblings the original pictures not copies. There was a detailed medical history and it was clear she knew some serious science. She described in detail how proteins function. She referred to gene mutations by their specific DNA addresses the way a scientist would. And then I landed on page 14. There were two photos-- one of Jill in a royal blue bikini sitting on a beach. Her torso looks normal but her arms it is like they are on the wrong body like the stick arms on a snowman. Her legs too are so thin that her knee joint is wider than her thigh. Those legs cannot possibly hold her upright I thought. The other picture was of Priscilla Lopes-Schlip who'd been ranked the best hurdler in the world. In 2008 she won the bronze medal in the 100-meter hurdles at the Olympics in Beijing. In the photo she is in mid-stride. It is hard to describe just how muscular she looks. Picture all the muscle you can imagine on a woman. Now picture more. In that photo Priscilla's like the vision of a superhero that a third-grader might draw-- huge muscles bursting from her thighs like her skin can barely contain all of the power beneath it ropey veins snaking along her biceps. This is the woman Jill believed she shared the same genetic code with. Jill remember whose arms and legs are like sticks. But look at Lopes-Schlip. She is coming. Priscilla Lopes-Schliep making a move. To the finish she goes and she will surge across that line. A world-leading time of 1252. All Jill's life doctors had been mystified by her case. They had no idea how her muscle disease worked much less how to treat it. She did not know her disease came from a rare genetic mutation. And she wanted to reach Priscilla because looking at photos of Priscilla seeing her body she saw clues that made her believe Priscilla had the same mutation. If Priscilla did if Jill was right then scientists might figure out what was making Jill's muscles shrink and Priscilla's muscles balloon. And maybe people like Jill could someday be helped. The whole thing seemed like a long shot so I reached out to Robert Green a geneticist at Harvard who I got to know while writing my book. He is an important proponent of people being allowed to get their own genetic tests. But after looking at the pictures of Jill and Priscilla he thought Jill was almost certainly wrong. He doubted they had anything in common. And science aside he had other concerns. For one thing a somewhat famous athlete just like any other celebrity can become the focal point for an individual for various reasons in a very unhealthy way. I was concerned that empowering a relationship between these two women could end badly yeah. I mean people go off the deep end when they are relating to celebrities they think they have a connection to. Of course this is a very polite way of saying maybe she is a nut job. I wondered the same thing. How could you not? The idea that an Iowa housewife working off Google Images would make a medical discovery about a professional athlete whose body has been obsessively examined for years by a small army of doctors and athletic trainers it seemed pretty ludicrous. But the fact is people with MDs and PhDs have been telling Jill that her theories are ludicrous pretty much her whole life. Jill was born in 1974. At first everything was great. She met all the normal baby milestones. She sat crawled and walked on time. Then at age four she started stumbling and tripping all the time constantly falling flat on her face. I would describe this fear I had about witches' fingers. This is Jill. And my mom was kind of puzzled. What was I talking about witches' fingers? What do you mean? And when we would walk I would felt this sensation almost like there were little-- there were gnarled hands and fingers reaching up and grabbing my shins and I would fall really forcefully. That was kind of the beginning of noticing something was different. Jill's dad remembered that he would had some problems walking around the same age which his doctors had said was the result of a very mild case of polio. But Jill's troubles were much worse than her dad's had ever been. And no one could give them an answer. Her pediatrician was stumped. He suggested they take her to the Mayo Clinic. They were stumped there too. They tested the whole family and found that Jill and her brother and her dad all had signs of muscle damage. But Jill was the only one having trouble walking. It might be muscular dystrophy the doctors thought but that did not usually show up this way in little girls. They were really really sure they would never seen anything like this. They said our family was extremely unique. And they could not define what type it was. Ultimately that is good in one way because they are being honest. But on the other hand it was terrifying. What is my life expectancy? What are the symptoms that I will be dealing with? It is alarming if you do not have something to grasp a hold of. Jill went back to the Mayo Clinic every year and it was always the same. There was nothing the doctors could do nothing new they could tell her. The constant falling eventually stopped but it was replaced by a burning sensation in her legs. And while she was growing in height like a normal girl the fat on her arms and legs was vanishing. By the time she was eight her arms and legs were so skinny that other kids could wrap their fingers around her wrists and ankles. By age 12 veins were popping out of her legs. Kids asked how it felt to be old. And then her muscles started to fail again. I could remember just getting on a bike I would always ridden and feeling like someone came up behind me and just threw me into the handlebars and got a big bruise across my chest from-- I would fall so hard. I could not hold myself over the bike. My muscles would just start quivering. And roller skating-- I invited a friend to go with me and I cannot even stand up on the skates. And I am just sitting there going something's terribly wrong. How rapid? How quick was that that you basically lost the ability to roller skate and ride your bike? I would say probably within a few weeks. Jill did not even bother to tell her parents what was happening. She knew there was nothing there the doctors could do about it. By the end of that summer the symptoms eased up. She could walk OK again. She started looking for answers on her own but she did it the way a kid would. You know I am having my body do things that I cannot control. Forces are acting on me. And I developed curiosity fascination with things like I would read about poltergeists. And I would bring home lots of books from the library. I remember it really freaked out my dad at one point because he tipped over my book bag and there is all these books about supernatural things. And he was like what are you into the occult or what? And it was nothing of the sort. It was about I could not explain what was going on with me. The doctors could not explain. And I found these people that people could not explain what was happening to them totally fascinating. I believe them. By the time she went to college Jill had maxed out at 5'3 and about 87 pounds. She decided that if she was going to figure out what was happening with her body she would have to do it herself. So during Jill's first semester she set up camp in the library. She began poring over every textbook and scientific journal article she could find on different kinds of muscle disease. So I just thought well I will start reading about them one by one and see if something fits. She did this for months going article by article like a police officer driving up and down every street doing a grid search. But nothing really fit until she came to a page in a medical journal about an extremely rare type of muscular dystrophy called Emery-Dreifuss. And then looking at the pictures it was a very startling thing to realize I am seeing my dad's arm-- just an instantaneous lock on something that is in your visual memory. Well what did you see? As a little girl I would notice he had what I called Popeye arms-- big forearms and hand muscles. And then as I am reading about Emery-Dreifuss they actually describe the look of the arms as a Popeye-arm deformity. But there were very very few photos of women with Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy. The journal described the three hallmarks of Emery-Dreifuss patients. They could not touch their chins to their chests or their heels to the floor and their arms were perpetually bent at the elbow. And I am getting chills reading this thinking well I have got all three. A really great visual to think about that is shockingly a Barbie doll. That is elbows that do not bend and feet slanted to fit into high heels. Actually it is a terrific representation of what does Emery-Dreifuss look like which is very ironic because we give this to little girls and say this is perfect. And we are actually handing them a doll that has a genetic disorder. So when you flip open and you see these pictures and see these descriptions is it like the light bulb just flipped on and this is it? The light bulb. I was sure. It is eerie. It is great but it is terrifying. What was very frightening was to read there is a lot of cardiac issues involved with this disease. Emery-Dreifuss patients Jill learned often dropped dead of heart failure. She became obsessed with reading about it. Before she went home for college break she stuffed her bag full of medical books and journal articles. I purposely even hid them under several books because I did not want to alarm anybody at home. And I went out in the kitchen long enough to make microwave popcorn. And I came back in and my dad was reading them. And I tried to take them away. And I am like just do not read those. And he was really sucked into it. And he said well I have all these symptoms. And I said well yeah. I know the arm thing and the neck. And he said no. He said I have all these cardiac symptoms. He had always thought the stiffness in his muscles and heart troubles were unrelated. He said well the doctors told me I had a virus not to worry about it. We both just looked to each other and I said it is not a virus. We have Emery-Dreifuss. They went to the Iowa Heart Center where doctors put a heart monitor on Jill's father. His pulse rate dropped below 30 beats per minute which meant he was either about to win the Tour de France or he was about to drop dead. He had a pacemaker put in immediately. She saved her dad's life. I mean just absolutely amazing. This is Jill's mom Mary. If it was not for her how would we have ever known this? I remember being in the hospital that day. And I think he was just in awe of Jill and just love total love for Jill. But I think it was a hard burden for her because it just seemed like no one else was looking. The Iowa Heart Center was not set up to confirm whether or not her family had Emery-Dreifuss. That was not their specialty. So she went looking for someone who could. Remember she was 19. Well I went to a neurology clinic. I can remember even what I wore that day. I dressed up as professional as I could. I wanted to be taken seriously. I mean I had on a navy pantsuit and tried to present the articles to my neurologist. And how did you even start that conversation? How did you make your case? I just said I had been studying genetics. I have been spending a great deal of time in the library and I have come across these photos. And I am sure this is what we have and this is the name. And could you look at these with me? And the doctor just was very abrupt with me and said no you do not have that and refused to look at the papers. It might seem rude that a doctor would refuse even to look but at the time most doctors believed Emery-Dreifuss only occurred in men. Also this was a self-diagnosis coming from a teenager-- a defiant teenager. There was times that when I was in the doctor's office I would see my chart and it would just list diagnosis muscular dystrophy unknown etiology. I hated seeing that. I would literally just take a pen out of my purse and I would scratch it out and I would write Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy. And my mom would see me do that. And she is like you cannot change your chart! I want it listed what I have. In a reading binge Jill had come across a group of researchers working out of Italy. They were looking for families with Emery-Dreifuss to study hoping to locate the gene that causes the disease. Jill decided to write to them. She mapped out a family tree noting the symptoms she saw in her father two younger brothers and a younger sister. Then she stripped down to her underwear. And then I set the timer on my camera and I took pictures of myself because I thought well if that is how I identified it let me send a picture. And just inquired would you want to take a look at our family? Up to this point the Italians had only collected four other families to study so they were thrilled to hear from Jill and they immediately wrote back. From the letter it seems like they think she is a scientist who has access to a lab. They asked can you send us DNA? If you cannot prepare DNA just send fresh blood. But 19-year-old Jill soon learned you cannot just go to the local hospital and say draw my blood. I want to send it to Europe. So Jill convinced a nurse friend to smuggle needles and test tubes to her house. They filled them up with samples of her family's blood and shipped them off to Italy. Today you can sequence an entire genome in a few days. But back in the mid-1990s not so much. It was four years before Jill heard something definitive back from the Italians. They confirmed she had Emery-Dreifuss. She would been right all these years despite everyone telling her otherwise. One day I opened email and there it was. And that was a weird feeling to realize OK this is it. And I clicked on it and they told me the name of the gene. It was nuclear lamin. The researchers had discovered the genetic cause of Jill's illness a gene called the lamin gene. What makes the lamin gene really important is that it affects the command center inside every cell in your body. This turns other genes on and off like light switches changing the way they build fat and muscle. Jill's lamin gene has a typo in it a serious one. Along the spiraling ladders of her DNA-- the 3 billion Gs Ts As and Cs that make up Jill's genome-- she had one letter in the wrong place. And it is just almost darkly comical to think seriously? In this quest to find OK well what happened exactly it comes down to a G was changed to a C. Soon after Jill got an internship in a lab at Johns Hopkins that was mapping diseases associated with the lamin gene . The lab director had heard about Jill's research on herself and saw a chance to have not only a dogged intern in the lab but also their very own real-life lamin mutant. Jill's job was to sift through scientific journals and find any references that had been linked to a lamin mutation. Sitting there day after day reading she came across an incredibly rare disease a disorder called partial lipodystrophy. It causes the arms and legs to look as if all the fat on them has been melted away leaving veins and muscle to stand out. Looking at photos of patients with the disease all Jill could think was that these people looked like her family members. Could Jill and her family have not just one but two rare genetic diseases? The odds of getting one of them was one in a million. The odds of getting the other is one in at least a million. And the odds of getting both together? There have not been enough human beings in the history of our species that anyone should ever get both. So just like before when Jill discovered Emery-Dreifuss she zeroed in on a photo in a medical article and saw herself in it. And just like before she tried to get confirmation from doctors. She tried to tell scientists that she had the second rare disorder partial lipodystrophy. And just like before they said no. They said that statistically there was very little chance that could be true. Instead they diagnosed her with something a little more common. They did not necessarily laugh at me but were kind of incredulous that no you do not have that. And they even kind of described it as intern syndrome where you have a medical student that is being introduced to a lot of new diseases and they keep thinking they have what they are reading about. I just thought well I must be wrong. I think I too was buying into that idea that that is quite a reach to think that you have the second genetic disorder because it is so rare too. I just kind of thought well maybe I am nuts. So I kind of backed away from that even though it was kind of a deja vu feeling. So she dropped it. She stopped reading about this new disease. And before long she stopped doing research into Emery-Dreifuss too mostly because the research she was doing started to freak her out. In the case studies she read the average person with Emery-Dreifuss was dead by their early 40s. She was 25 and anxiety over this was landing her in the hospital. I had two panic attacks that were brought on by the stress of reading all of these things-- that they just died suddenly. And I went to a counselor for a while. I worked with my cardiologist. And we decided it was just too much information. It was not healthy. So I really just did not look up things did not read articles. And I really got to the point that I decided I want to go on with my old life. So she went cold turkey. No more medical research no more DIY diagnosis. She took a job as a writing instructor at local community colleges and taught adult education classes at night. She started dating eventually meeting the man who would become her husband. And even though there was a 5050 chance that she would pass on the Emery-Dreifuss gene mutation they decided to have a child. Her pregnancy was normal and her baby Martin does not have the disease. But after he was born Jill really deteriorated physically. If you have ever had a muscle twitch you know how strange it feels to not have control of your body. Jill's muscles started twitching from head to toe sometimes for hours at a time and she was suddenly having to hold onto her husband to steady herself. The best way I can describe what it was like it would be like where gravity is getting incredibly heavy and someone turns up the knob. And you think of how high would they have to turn up this gravity that I cannot get up off the floor by myself I cannot stand upright I cannot take a step? You know it is a tremendous amount of force pushing on the body. By Martin's first birthday she could barely walk. One day he was calling that he wanted macaroni and cheese. And I knew-- I had like six steps to take. And I realized this is it. This is the last six steps I am going to take. I just knew I was at that point that I was going to not be able to get up again. At the same time Jill's father was also losing his ability to walk. So father and daughter transitioned to life in motorized scooters. Jill says her dad was discouraged for the first time in his life. After a visit with a neurologist he told her I feel like I go there just to be weighed. Then one day she got a call from her mom and it was about Dad. He just moved from his scooter into his favorite chair. He said to my mom he just felt tired and then he would simply just bowed his head and he did not breathe again and he died. He had a sudden cardiac death. At what age was that? He was 63. On the day he passed away Jill and her siblings and relatives gathered at her parents' house. After most of the people had gone it was kind of slowing down. And my sister said I got this to show you. She starts pulling up pictures of this extremely muscular athlete. And I just took one look at it and just kind of went we do not-- what? We do not have that. I mean what are you talking about? This of course was Priscilla. At first Jill did not get it did not see any connection with the musclebound athlete. It had been 12 years since she went cold turkey on medical research. But a week later Jill got curious. She started googling pictures of Priscilla-- not just running photos but shots of her at home doing regular things like feeding her daughter baby food. It helped seeing the clothing on her to see how it fit. It was just unmistakable. It is like a computer that could analyze a photograph and get a match and be 100 sure that is the same shoulder. That is the same upper arm. I see the same veins. I see them branching this way. You just know. And that is hard to convey. How could you just know? But I knew we were very likely cut from the same cloth-- a very very very rare cloth. It was the third time Jill saw something in a photo other people did not see. It had happened with Emery-Dreifuss. It happened with lipodystrophy. Now she saw that she and Priscilla were both missing fat in the same places on their arms and legs. They had the exact same muscle divisions in the exact same places in the hips and butt. Jill was certain this was because they shared a mutant gene. And the only question was why did the gene blow up Priscilla with muscles and take Jill's away? This is my kryptonite but it is her rocket fuel. I mean we are like comic book superheroes that are just as divergent as could be. I mean her body has found a way around it somehow. I know that sounds like the plot of a Hollywood movie. In fact it is totally the plot of Unbreakable The Bruce Willis Samuel L Jackson film. Jackson plays a broken-boned physically fragile man searching for his genetic opposite a man born so strong his body will survive any physical trauma. In the final scene Jackson tells Willis that he is the guy. It all makes sense. In a comic you know how you can tell who the arch-villain's going to be? He is the exact opposite of the hero. So Jill wanted to enlist Priscilla in her genetic detective work but there was a practical problem. She had no idea how to go about reaching her. I mean I had crazy ideas like can I fly to Canada and show up at a meet-and-greet and try to talk to her? And if you are on this motorized scooter it is like you are just going into end up with a restraining order at best. I mean people will think you are crazy. I was just trying to resign myself to the fact that well what am I going to do? A full year passed. And then Jill happened to be in earshot of her television when I started yammering about athletes and genetics on Good Morning America. Find the best fit for your unique genome and then specialize in the-- And I thought oh this is just divine providence. This is exactly what I am looking for. Jill reached out to me with her request and I did happen to have a way to get it to Priscilla-- through her agent. It was such an odd request. It is just really out there right? This of course is Priscilla. He was just like this lady she is in Iowa. She says she has the same gene as you and wants to have a conversation. I was kind of like oh I do not know Kris. And he is just have a conversation. See where it goes. Jill sent Priscilla the same bound packet that she sent me. And it was not any of the cryptic science that got to Priscilla. It was the childhood stories Jill shared about kids pointing at the veins in her legs. Priscilla said she always used to come home sad and crying. She would ask her parents-- Can I get the veins removed from my legs because the boys are making fun of me? It was just like ew your legs are veiny. Ew why does it look like that? Once she grew up the finger-pointing did not end. It just morphed. When people see huge shredded muscles like Priscilla's on an athlete it usually means one thing-- steroids. And Priscilla's been dogged by doping rumors since college. After she won the Olympic bronze medal in Beijing some media outlets in Europe began to openly accuse her. And of course there were the not-so-furtive glances. You would walk by and people kind of like would whisper like oh look at her glutes or look at her arms or her shoulders or her calves. And just like ooh look look look. It is more like on the intern-- I remember there was one picture that was put up. They put a big dude's face on my body and he was just like  like I am lifting-- because I am running and pushing towards the finish line so I am using every ounce every inch every piece of energy in my body to get to that finish line. That was pretty messed up. And I was really pissed about that. And I got tested. I felt like I was targeted because I got tested so much for track and field. And I think a lot of people really honestly truly believed that I was taking steroids. At the world championships in Berlin in 2009 Priscilla was drug-tested just minutes before winning a silver medal. There is not even supposed to be any drug testing that close to the race. Then the following month at a meet-and-greet someone stole her training journal out of her bag. It was at the very bottom underneath expensive workout clothes and shoes none of which were taken. Why steal a training journal? As someone who is covered a lot of doping stories I am convinced someone thought the journal contained her steroid regimen. Priscilla and Jill spent a lot of time talking on the phone. And eight months after I first put them in touch they finally met in person in Toronto where Priscilla lived. They picked a hotel lobby. Jill arrived first. So it got to be a few minutes past the time we were going to meet and then a couple more minutes. And I started to get really scared because I am like I have so much riding on this. I was just watching the doors like OK is this her? Is this her? I was not sure. And I see this lady that oh my gosh this is like seeing family. Priscilla felt the same way. It really was just like a wow moment-- like do I know you? kind of thing. So then we started talking just giggling about it like OK I am going to flex for you. And then it is a little harder for her to get her sweater off so she is pulling her sweater off to show me. She is like see? I do have the definition too. I am like you do. You do. But she is like but it is a lot smaller than yours. And then we would kind of giggle. But it was still like OK there is something real. There is something here. Let us research and let us find out because how could the gene do this to you and do this to me? That was where my question was. I am like how? It took a year to find a doctor to test Priscilla. Finally Jill went to a medical conference and approached the foremost expert in lipodystrophy Dr. Abhimanyu Garg who runs a lab at University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center. He agreed to do the testing. The results showed that Jill had been right. She and Priscilla do have a genetic connection. They each have a single typo on the same one of our 23000 genes the lamin gene. It is not the exact same typo but they are almost right next to each other. That splinter of distance and typo location makes the difference between Jill's muscles and P