From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Sean Cole sitting in for Ira Glass. Back when Erin was in high school she had this friend Josh. They would known each other practically since they were born. Their parents were friends. This was in a small small city in Wisconsin. Fun was going down to this park with buffalo in it and throwing them hunks of bread. Anyway Erin was 15 Josh was a year older. And one particular day-- He gave me a mixtape like a mixed CD-ROM. Just to say this was long enough ago that the word ROM naturally followed the word CD. We are talking maybe 2007 2008. I can see-- I can see the CD-ROM. You can see it in your mind's eye you mean. You are not looking at it right? No certainly not. I can see like Sharpie scribbled all over it in sort of scrawled handwriting and squiggles is what I can recall. Josh was into theater. He and Erin did plays together actually-- musicals at this little community theater in town. He was like if there was a jock of theatre kids like that would be him. Hm. So charismatic. You know like the star of every play. Really like grabbing everything he could out of life. You could say he was a little bit dramatic. She only remembers a couple of the songs that were on the mixtape. She does remember the exact number of songs for reasons that will become clear in a minute. There were 12 of them. 12 songs. I dutifully uploaded it into my iTunes and listened to it and did not think much of it. I definitely did not read into it as I should have. I mean literally. Literally because of what happened next. Mind you this next part was months after he gave her the CD-- solidly months. Oh I was I do not know poking around in my iTunes library reorganizing something. And I am looking at it and it dawns on me that the song titles spell out like an acrostic I love you Erin. Wait a second. Yeah. So down the left-hand side of the track listing in iTunes-- Mhm. --the first letter of every song as you read downward spelled out I love you Erin. Yeah it did. Erin had missed it at first because loading it into iTunes somehow the track listing had been reversed. So instead of spelling out I love you Erin it said Nire ouy evol I. Not quite as romantic. The two songs she still remembers? One was Yellow by Coldplay. That was the Y in you. The E at the end of love-- or maybe the beginning of Erin-- was Elephant Love Medley from the movie Moulin Rouge which itself works a little like a mixtape. These two characters Christian and Satine just hurl lines from famous love songs back and forth at each other.  SINGING I cannot survive without your sweet love. Oh baby do not leave me this way. SINGING You would think that people would have had enough of silly love songs. Erin got all cringey about that one. And you might think Elephant Love Medley alone would be a dead giveaway. But to her that was just Josh being Josh. Like she said dramatic. A thing about mixtapes they are like the emojis of yesteryear. You could not always be sure what the intended meaning was or if the recipient would comprehend said meaning. Like does he love me or does he just love these songs? So in that way Josh literally spelling it out leaving nothing to the imagination was a decent strategy. Except even that was lost on Erin due to some dumb hiccup in the machine. It was-- you know it was a lot. It was a lot of emotion which I felt terrible for missing. Even if you are not going to reciprocate at least you feel like you should be getting the gesture. Right. But I just had not seen it. He was strictly a friend? He was a friend. We had like kind of a thing. You had kind of a thing? Yeah. Nurturing a crush. We never dated. But friends for a long time. May I ask an indelicate question? Um you may. Did you ever kiss or anything? Yeah. Uh-huh. I think we probably made out. I mean I turned out to be gay so it was not my cup of tea. Right. But-- revelations for the years to come. Just was not the time or gender. Who knew? Right. Who knew? Yeah. Importantly Erin has no memory of ever telling Josh she saw his secret message. So he was just left in the dark wondering. They stayed friends moved on saw each other a few more times after high school but eventually lost touch. They have not spoken in years at this point. It is funny that something that deeply felt was communicated and received and yet remained unspoken. I always thought of her like Hermione Granger. She was like my Hermione Granger. This of course is Josh. I did not bring up the mixtape right away when I talked to him. First I just asked him what he remembered about Erin. She was just so smart and well-respected by everybody and could just talk circles around anybody. And yeah her intelligence was very intimidating to me. Intimidating really? But in a friendly way. She would never show off about it. I had a crush on her to be honest. Any time I would happen to drive by her place I would think like the one that got away. You know that was always like the feeling. Wow. But-- yeah we were friends. Josh unfortunately does not have a copy of the mixtape anymore either. Did not remember any of the songs that were on it. But he did remember spelling out his devotion with the titles. He was bashful about it as a lot of people would be when talking about stuff they did as a teenager. I guess I was reading like Dan Brown and all of these kind of spy things and just like throwing hidden messages into things. And yeah I guess I was trying to do it in my own way.  And you could practically hear him blushing when I told him that he had put Elephant Love Medley on there.  Yep. That is because I thought I was Christian from Moulin Rouge. Yeah. I just loved the kind of level of seriousness he put on romantic love. I always had a thing about that. Clearly. And much to my detriment at times honestly. And you know there is a million ways we could psychoanalyze that but--  Yeah. Did I-- did I tell her that it spelled that? I really hope I did not. No no no. OK. I hope she found it out on her own. Well OK. So here's what happened. Erin brought the CD home. I took Josh through everything Erin told me. After all these years he was only just now learning what happened with his little Da Vinci love code. That she had seen it the message got through. She just had not felt the same. Wow. OK. Well I guess I could not have asked for it to go any better than that. Wait. How is that it going well? Well because it is a happy accident you know? It is kind of cool that it happened in its own time. I do not know. I picture a lovelorn Josh sitting in his bedroom like waiting like wondering like when is she going call me? Yeah I mean that is true. As I said I was kind of intimidated by her you know? And I think particularly at that time for Erin to be the person that I would date was like beyond something that seemed realistic I guess. Oh you thought she was out of your league. Totally. Oh I see. I wanted her to know somehow on some level but I also did not want to push the matter or make her you know feel uncomfortable or-- I do not know. I always thought she would probably turn me down. I guess I just wonder-- I mean other than it being a sort of very opaque and one could argue ineffective way of conveying one's love to put it in an acrostic on a mixtape-- I do not think it was ineffective. I challenge that. I think it is like-- it is not even about if it got through in terms of a really really clear communication. It is like if it was there even if it was out of order you know when she first popped it in it was somehow there I think in my mind-- like energetically you know? And I still see the transmission even if it was kind of quiet you know? I do not want to sound too grand but I think that right there is the power of mixtapes when you put them together a certain way-- the power of music even. Or at least the power that we believe it has. That it can confess devotion on our behalf even in the form of an exploded puzzle. Even the most casual mixtape-- or playlist these days-- that you make for a friend you are saying this is what I like. Or a lot of times this is what I am feeling right now. In a way you are saying this is who I am. Songs gathered together like that are a kind of parlance a language. The words are someone else's but they are also our own. So that is what is coming up on today's episode kind of a mixtape of its own because we have a crush on you and because the particular songs in this show tell you a surprising amount about the people listening to them. We cannot wait to play them for you. Stay with us.   Track One Just Be Good To Me. So you use music to connect with other people or send a message a la mix tape but there are all of these other times of course when you sort of communicate with yourself through music. Putting on a song to revel in some feeling or feeling like this or that band or singer is speaking directly to you. This next collection of songs works like that. They are all of a piece in a way that writer Nichole Perkins really related to. Here's Nichole. There have always been songs about cheating spouses and their lovers. When women sing them they tend to be from the point of view of the disappointed and hurt wife. In Dolly Parton's unforgettable Jolene she begs a woman not to take her man. In Shirley Brown's bluesy confrontational Woman to Woman Shirley lets the other woman know she is not letting her ruin her happy home. But how happy can your home be if you have to call another woman and tell her it is happy? Songs like these make the other woman a Villain with a capital V. Those songs were not for me. I was more interested in auntie songs the songs from the point of view of the other woman. They were what women in the wrong corner of love triangles sang about finding good love in the middle of bad decisions. They were old-school soul and RB hits that our mothers aunties and older play cousins used to listen to with shining eyes and far away expressions holding sweating glasses of drinks that were off limits to us kids. We were too young to be singing those songs but we felt their power anyway. We heard the longing in the singer's vocal acrobatics and it moved us even if we were not sure why. We would hear them on the radio played during every quiet storm sometimes with dedications like From Denise to that special someone. She says you know who you are. And then the ultimate side chick anthem As We Lay by Shirley Murdock would begin to play a song about everything that happens in the moments before your man has to go home to his wife.  SINGING Morning and we slept the night away. Auntie songs are where we got to hear from the other woman and realize maybe she is actually a human being with emotions too. We are hearing the perspectives of women who know their love is futile but they will take what they can get for as long as they can get it. SINGING We both belong to someone else as we slept the night away. One of the most famous auntie songs is an undercover one that most people do not realize is from the perspective of the other woman. In Saving All My Love For You Whitney Houston calls out her lover's lies even as she continues to wait for him. You used to tell me we would run away together. Love gives you the right to be free. You said be patient. Just wait a little longer. But that is just an old fantasy.  When Whitney hits that beautiful extended high note on fantasy it feels like we are all falling back into an ocean of her lover's lies with her. And like her we let ourselves be carried away anyway. SINGING But that is just an old fantasy. When I was 25 years old and living in New Orleans I met a man with a voice made for night. He was a lovely nerdy thing with a shaved head and freckles a sprinkle of joy across his nose and cheeks and a few dots on his lips that were clearly targets for my affection. He was not yet 30 but he already had the look of a hip-hop professor in line at Whole Foods. I will call him Bayard. At dinner with him and a friend I laughed too often and too hard at something Bayard said. He slipped me a questioning glance after one giggle too many and I tried to pull myself together. But it was too late. At a club later we ended up sitting next to each other trying to talk over the music. At midnight we sat in my car talking. And then the sun reminded us our deodorants had been working for 24 hours. I decided to shoot my shot. Is there anyone back home waiting for your morning call I asked him. He took a long time to answer which was answer enough. Yeah there is he finally said. He looked down at his hands and I looked at them too. Of course he was involved with someone. He was smart cute and funny and I would met him at the wrong time. We exchanged email addresses because that felt safe. There was nothing wrong with having a pen pal was there? Soon we were exchanging pages of text almost daily. He would call me at work and have me crying from laughter. And sometimes he would call me at night when that someone back home was out with her girls and he would talk to me with that voice saying what his words would not. After about three months of constant communication he came back to New Orleans for another visit. I do not know what he told that someone back home but he told me he loved me. I said it back to him. We kissed. My memory tells me I had candles lit and that is probably true. I do love candles. I remember his face as he looked at me and told me I was beautiful. I believed him. He was engaged to be married and for the most part I did not care. I definitely had some woman-to-woman guilt since I would had my own heartbreaking experiences with cheating exes. But Bayard and I started seeing each other when I was firmly in what we would now call my hot girl summer phase. I also knew I was not the first woman he cheated on her with. I decided I could not care more about his woman than he did. I refused to take responsibility for his decisions but I had no problem benefiting from them. Those auntie songs I had swayed along with because I appreciated a talented voice and good music appealed differently to me during this time. Now they were pep talks. In Secret Lovers by Atlantic Starr a pair of lovers are both devoted to other people yet unable to stop their attraction. I did not have anyone I was committed to but there was a particular verse I kept going back to while I fancied myself in love with Bayard.  Sitting at home I do nothing all day but think about you and hope that you are OK hoping you will call before anyone gets home. I wait anxiously alone by the phone. This is the stuff of schoolgirl crushes of clumsy rom-com heroines of swooning damsels everywhere. And that is how I felt about Bayard. It just so happened he was committed to someone else. SINGING Secret lovers that is what we are. Tried so hard to hide the way we feel. A few weeks after that candlelit visit I was unexpectedly hospitalized and Bayard was there for me. He called my mother cleaned up my apartment and made sure my cat had a fresh litter box. He stayed with me the entire week even after my family arrived. The care he showed me was a fantasy I would never allowed myself to indulge. He was married a few months later. He emailed me from the honeymoon. And several months after that we made plans to spend a weekend at a hotel together. He left the hotel website up on his laptop and his wife found a book I had inscribed with something sneaky. She eventually reached out to me via email and AIM instant messaging of old. The exact messages have been lost to time and anger but the gist remains. What did he tell you about me? He did not talk much about you. Why you? You would have to ask him. Why did you do it? I wanted to. Do you love him? I think so yes. Do you want him? No. I am not trying to take him from you. I saw your pictures. OK. Does he love you? Ask him. Why did he do it? Ask him. I ping-ponged between a strange loyalty to him the need to defend myself the desire to protect her and the need to be catty. I wanted to tell her to leave that he cheated before that if it had not been me it would have been someone else. Bayard's wife reminded me of the petty girls in school who could not understand why guys would be interested in me. I did not have the things I was supposed to in order to be attractive. I got in a few stingers but I let her have her shots whatever she needed to feel better. In giving myself what I wanted I would hurt another woman. I felt guilty even as I would not allow myself to feel ashamed. When I wanted to brush away any concerns about how he was treating his wife or when I would start to feel bad about not having a man of my own I would put on the SOS Band's Just Be Good To Me to gas myself up and keep me focused on myself.  I do not care about your other girls just be good to me. His wife did not understand how I could be with him and claim to love him but not want to take him from her. I was no fool. I firmly believe in the adage How you got him is how you get got. SINGING I do not care about your other girls. Just be good to me. Oooh. I think I stopped loving him first. He was the only man I was saying I love you to in a romantic sense but he could not say the same so I stopped answering his emails and calls. He wrote me a letter and I burned it unopened. After I made the decision to let my relationship with Bayard go I found myself holding a sweating glass and staring at a blank wall. The auntie songs once gave me strength and now they gave me permission to cry. I missed someone who was never mine even though I had made a good decision in moving on from the affair a decision that had been mine. In most auntie songs we hear the other woman passively waiting for the man to make time for her. But in Everything I Miss At Home the singer Cherrelle tells the story of a woman who initiates her infidelity and lets us know she is the one dissatisfied in her main relationship. She cheats without regrets and is grateful to have found someone who gives her everything she is not getting at home. She was not the object of desire she was in control of it. The song is a groovy slow jam made for a two-step and eye contact perfect for a woman who refuses to feel remorseful about receiving love from unexpected places.  SINGING You give me attention. You are someone who understands my needs. I let these songs guide me through an affair but they did not tell me what happened after I would moved on. I started reading romance novels when I was very young and became addicted to the promise of happily ever after. Forever was found in fiction and fairy tales. But in auntie songs forever was a stolen night. Does the other woman get her happy ending? Maybe it is enough to stay in a loop of borrowed time. I still have not figured that out yet. But I know I can be loved any way I want. SINGING I was just out on the town in search of some fun. I was not looking for love. Nichole Perkins is a writer from Nashville Tennessee. Her memoir from which this essay is adapted is called Sometimes I Trip On How Happy We Could Be and it is out now. Coming up they say a little knowledge is a dangerous thing but it can also make you a beloved rock critic at least in one case. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Sean Cole. Since Ira's was away this week we made you a mixtape. It is called This is Just Some Songs. And it is just some songs. Do not get excited. We are at Track Two Music is Easy. It struck me that most of the songs in the show today are from a long time ago and I wanted to play you like a minute of this one tune. It is a little newer. It is from early last year. And for me it is just one of those earworms that I am like delighted to have in my ear all the time. The artist calls themselves Josephine Network a self-described shapeshifting yenta in drag. It is a song about unburdening yourself getting whatever it is off your chest through music.  Music is easy it is a laugh. Play with a melody make it last. People are crazy. They change every day. What price would you pay to get your way? Oh music is easy. Sing what you dream. What would you feel? Say what you mean oh. Some make you happy. Some leave you scarred. Living is hard. So play your guitar. Oh. Is not that something? I also wanted to play that for you because where they say say what you mean this next track on our mix tape is about saying explicitly indisputably what you mean with music-- although the people in the story might argue that it is not always easy. Part of their job is hunting for exactly the right song for the occasion. So this is Track Three The End of the Road. And I think the only other thing you need to know is that my colleague Chana Joffe Walt is a big fan of those slideshows that schools put together at the end of the year for graduations and that kind of thing. Retrospective slideshows. Loves them. Here's Chana. I got a bonus end of the year slideshow last spring. I was not expecting it because it was for my second grader and he was not graduating anything. Still I was pleased when his teacher wrote the class to say she wanted to mark the end of the year we should all join their morning meeting by Zoom and there was going to be a slideshow. Like Sean said I do love slideshows and not in a normal way I do not think. I always cry every time. And I am really not a crier but these stupid slideshows always work on me. I will cry when it is not my own child graduating. I will cry even if I do not know a single kid in the slideshow. For instance here I was at an elementary school that my kids do not go to. I was there reporting. It would not be a graduation without a slideshow. Enjoy. And it takes 10 seconds. The pictures of the kids at work at their tables out on their field trips in matching t-shirts. I love when they do the photos from the beginning of the year and then the end and you see the kids get teeth and long legs. In the front row there is a grandpa wiping his eyes. I was done. One more and I promise I will get to the point here in a second. This one was the most embarrassing one for me. I went to this graduation at a different school I was reporting on. Oh my god. Now we will have the rose ceremony. Do you guys know about this diabolical thing they now do at some high school graduations where they give each kid a rose? Each graduate will present a rose to one person who helped them on this journey. And then they asked them to bring it to someone in the audience who got them to this moment. Then you see all these kids stumbling over their robes trying to find their mom in the audience and you see mothers just absorb their daughters in hugs both of them sobbing. I watched this one awkward 17-year-old boy walk up to his grandma shove the rose toward her and mumble Thank you. And she grabbed him by the neck and pulled him in. Brutal. The woman from the main office in the school she saw me and came over to pat my arm to tell me it would be OK. Remember I was not related to a single person graduating in this ceremony. Anyway this year I joined my child's class by Zoom and I knew what to expect. We all watched a very sweet slideshow the teacher put together and I felt nothing. Nothing. We saw pictures of the kids reading in beanbag chairs learning math nothing. Making volcanoes nope. I just felt sort of numb. My attention drifted I looked at my phone I looked at everyone in the boxes on Zoom. And a bunch of slides in a kid on Zoom unmuted himself to say something random like my dog smells. And just hearing the sound I realized oh there is no music. That is what is weird about this. There is no song. There was no music in her slideshow? Oh no. That is unacceptable. I have never heard of that before. Bess Massey is a school social worker the maker of many slideshows and the most enthusiastic fan of them too when she is in the audience. Bess cheers for every person in the slideshow every activity. She cheers for the days of the week. That is definitely why you did not cry. 100. You think that is why I did not cry? Yeah I think it is why I did not cry. Yes absolutely. I did talk to the teacher in my son's class. She says she just forgot to put music in. I called Bess and I also called my friend Rachel Lissy. Rachel and Bess combined have probably put together dozens of slideshows over decades of working at summer camps running after school programs and graduations. I asked them both what does it mean that I did not feel anything without the music? Here's Rachel. Yeah I do not-- I cannot-- I mean without music-- first of all like I feel like even though at this point we would not be having slideshows actually using like slides in like an old rotary I still feel like if you are doing it without music you cannot help but hear like a clicking sound. Like just this like sound of just emptiness.  No that is exactly what this slideshow felt like. Yeah it felt like time was moving so slowly and the pictures did not have any of their meaning or at least not the meaning that I wanted. Yeah it is interesting because it is like there is a way in which the slideshows are celebrating the growth like the passage of time like we are a year older. But with music that feels like wondrous and full of possibility. And without music it feels just like the clicking of us all towards-- Just aging.  Yes totally. Exactly. Like I have aged in this slideshow and I have watched aging and I feel connected to my own fragile mortality. Thank you slideshow. The right song it can tell your mind what to think about when you look at a bunch of pictures. Of all the possible things you could be thinking about and feeling the music tells you no no no this is the one to pick. That said imagine the rose ceremony without music. It would just be awkward like watching a bunch of people stumble over chairs trying to find their seats. So I thought I would try. Play the same slideshow but just put a song under it. See if I felt the right things. I was skeptical though because this slideshow had a lot of other things getting in the way. For one we were not all together watching it in a crowded auditorium. And honestly mostly what I saw was not the pictures of the kids being cute. I just noticed their masks and the fact that their desks had plastic partitions. And in some pictures they are wearing winter coats indoors because they have to have the windows open for ventilation. It just felt dystopian. And I could not really imagine a slideshow on Zoom overcoming all that. No no I think it can work. Bess ever faithful in the medium believed this was absolutely fixable. She and Rachel both gave me lots of suggestions of songs they thought could work that I could play during the slideshow to feel the right things. It is not complicated. Bess says basically any song everyone knows can do the job. Pop songs high energy songs those are the best. Rachel thinks it is all about the lyrics. I hope you had the time of your life. As we go on we remember all the times we had together. But then there are also the songs like End of the Road Hard to Say Goodbye to Yesterday or like that Sarah McLaughlin song I Will Remember You whatever. I forgot about End of the Road. End of the Road that is-- Oh yeah End of the Road. Yeah. Where it is just like hitting the nail right on the head.  It is just like let us have some big feelings about something ending. Yeah it is so on the nose. This is a particular kind of art form. Yeah. And it does not call for much subtlety.  SINGING Although we have come to the end of the road still-- There is one song-- Bess and Rachel both mentioned it-- that was the perfect slideshow song in all the ways. It was poppy everyone knew it had the right energy and the lyrics tell you exactly what to feel. The R Kelly song The World's Greatest which for a number of reasons you can no longer really do. But it is a perfect perfect slideshow song. That was in heavy rotation for many years. Right? Like this man who did these terrible things and should not be the hero of any child happened to have written like two of the greatest slideshow songs ever. And I do not know why but it hits me every time. Like the idea-- like I am a marching band I am a mountain. Something about that and seeing the faces of kids I believe I can fly I believe I can touch the sky that sense of just like each of us having this sort of bigness to us. Obviously I am not going to play R Kelly under my second grader's slideshow. But all the other songs Bess and Rachel recommended they all just feel too sentimental. And I do not feel sentimental about the last year. I do not think I want to feel sentimental about the last year of school. Like End of the Road-- I  wish it was the end of the road. But I did give it a try. I sat with the slideshow and tried to put music under it. Bess had suggested a Beatles song and there is a Beatles song that I sing to my kid at bedtime. It is sappy has all the right lyrics but it did not work. It is too much about him and me not his class or his school. I did not believe this slideshow was salvageable. There was one other kind of slideshow song that Bess talked about one she would seen work recently at her mother-in-law's 90th birthday party. And it did not work because it was a song everyone knew or because the lyrics tell you how to feel. She said it works because it makes you think of a particular place. She comes from like this little town and it is like Un Bolero-- you know like just a traditional like small town ballad that was sung about the town that she was from. I started to think about that and what song I associate with this specific group of people and this specific place. There is really only one. Every year since my oldest was in pre-K-- so seven years-- at the end of the year assembly the kids sing a song called This Pretty Planet. I have never loved the song and I did not miss it when a new music teacher came in recently and retired it. But it did seem like it might work for this. And it did.  SINGING This pretty planet spinning through space your garden your harbor your holy place. I know. They do hand motions and everything. It actually felt like watching a slideshow I had never seen before. The masks and the heaviness of the year were still there but my brain did not focus on them. Instead I saw a picture I had totally missed of my kid leading a group of friends in some sort of stomping game in the yard. I saw a girl who could not read last year standing at the board with the pointer stick reading to everyone. Mostly I just saw the incredible resilience of all the people in that classroom and marveled at the teachers smiling and leading and so skillfully masking all the fear and chaos of the entire school year so they could create something that looks like school. SINGING The morning light. It is not easy being with kids all the time. It is tedious and boring and hard even when there is not a global pandemic. But there are these flashes of bigness. The slideshow takes all those flashes and bottles them up so that you can look back over the past year for a few minutes-- ideally no more than six-- with the right song playing and actually see all the things you missed. Chana Joffe Walt is one of the producers of our show. Track Four What is the Frequency Kenneth? So so much musical discovery happens when we are kids like you really find the songs that form your tastes when you are young for the most part or at least that is what happened with me. This last story is about someone discovering music who is much older a guy named Ken Eglin who was actually living in a nursing home in Boston-- the Duplex Nursing Home it was called. This was decades ago by the way. There were 45 residents in the facility all men. My friend David Greenberger was the activities director there in the late '70s and early '80s. So I started the job the beginning of '79 and I would met Ken probably immediately because he walked with a walker and he would sit himself right by-- there was a desk for the activities director and there was like a cabin with stuff in it. And it was in the corner of a room where they also would have lunch and stuff. So Ken was always seated right by it because he is like hey you what are you doing? So whoever was an outsider was like I got to know what is going on out there. He never saw himself as a guy in a nursing home. He is like if it were not for my leg you know and these spells that I get. You know so he-- Pointing to his head he got some sort of spells? He would have seizures so he had had some kind of brain surgery and you could see the scar on his head from that so that affected 