There is this thing that happens in the first episode of the TV show Watchmen which I finally saw last month. I am behind. A woman is driving with her son on a sunny day and suddenly the sky darkens and squids drop from the sky like a hailstorm or something. But they are little squids each one-- I do not know-- the length of your finger. Cars on the road pull over and wait. Squids land on them and on the ground making this soggy layer of squid on the road. And then soon enough-- again like a hailstorm-- it stops. Sun comes back up. Everybody starts their car again heads to wherever they are heading just like the most normal thing in the world. No big deal just another squid drop. And when I saw that I felt like that is exactly how things happen. That is how things feel. That is what everything feels like right now. Inconceivable stuff goes down all the time these days. And it is like you can get used to anything. You know what I mean? Every few days more Americans die from COVID than died in 911. Wildfires are raging and continue to just rage. The president will not disavow white supremacists in a televised debate. I am used to all that. That is just daily life you know? Or there is this example of you can get used to anything. Jay was having a normal stressful day for 2020 meaning he does his job from his apartment on a computer at his kitchen table on Zoom. But he is also got to deal with his children during the workday. So a couple weeks ago he is a college professor and he is preparing a lecture for a class. And he is anxious about that and he wants it to be good. And then at 3 oclock he has to go run get his kids and bring them home. And he and his kids get back to their building at 320. And he is trying to move quickly because his class starts at 330. And he and his two kids get on the elevator to head up to their apartment. And then all of a sudden I feel the elevator start to drop. It is like a half-second feeling like when you are on a roller coaster. And thankfully it stops. How far do you guys drop? I do not know just probably a couple of stories. You dropped a few stories? Yeah and I look and it is stuck at the third floor. They push a button to call for help. And they are told somebody is going to be there to fix things but it is going to take a little while. And they wait. And my kids are starting to bicker with one another. And my daughter starts getting upset. She is eight years old. And part of what is happening Jay says is that her big brother who is 10 years old has actually been stuck in an elevator once before when he was little. So he is being all what is the big deal? He was not rattled at all. And in fact she starts to get upset. He starts to tell her that she is overreacting and that makes her more upset. And so I had to calm her down and tell him to stop teasing her. And then we took a couple selfies. And I tried to make it like a fun thing we are all going to remember and look back on and laugh on. And so that kind of changed the mood in the elevator a little bit at least briefly. So kids momentarily OK Jay gets back to the other urgent matter that is on his mind-- his class. It is over 300 students this big intro psychology class which still has not started. There is still just enough time for him to quickly tap out a message on his phone-- Dear class I am currently trapped in an elevator in my apartment building. So I will join the Zoom call and start teaching once I am safely out of here. Push Send message goes out and then-- nothing right? They just stay put. And Jay starts to worry about his students who are waiting for him on the Zoom call. 10 minutes pass 20. And half an hour in he decides he is going to try to teach the class on his phone from the elevator which takes a little technical wrangling. He has to download Zoom to his phone with barely one bar of service blah blah blah. OK this part is boring. But after a while OK no video voice only he is in! And I join the Zoom class. And I am trying to talk to them. And I can hear their voices. And the students are all chit chatting with themself. And I can hear them kind of speculating about what might be happening to me and they are laughing. And I am trying to get their attention. And they are all talking and they could not hear me. And so I am shouting at this point. It is me it is Jay. I am here. Hi guys.  So in the elevator what is happening is you are a grown man shouting into his phone. Is that right? Yeah. And eventually I can hear someone say Hey wait shh. I think I hear our professor. I think he is back. He has a moment of panic like what am I going to say. And then he launches in. With no notes none of his slides. He gives the lecture that he would planned. And I cannot see them and they cannot see me. But it was working. It was all kind of coming back to me. And I was able to deliver it and I had their attention. So it started to seem normal? Yeah it starts to seem normal. Yeah eventually I had adapted. My kids are being quiet. They are listening. Can I ask you do you remember how long it took? How many minutes did it take before this started to seem normal? I would say about four or five minutes. Four or five minutes! We are very adaptable creatures. Soon enough the elevator jolts and starts to move again. Jay gets back to his apartment sits down at the kitchen table logs onto Zoom and teaches a couple hundred kids from his kitchen which of course is also totally weird but after months of doing that it feels totally normal. Hey did you consider not doing the class? Did you consider canceling? It is funny because that night when I told my partner about this she was like why did not you just cancel? And she is a professor but it is one of those things where it did not cross my mind when I was in the situation. My mind early in that day had been focused on being able to navigate this complex situation that was going to be stressful-- getting my kids and getting home and then getting the lecture ready which I had been prepping all day. And so that had determined each little step I made. And I never really stopped to think that I just should not do it. That is all of us right now. Our lives this year are so strange. And we just do the next task and the next one after that and the next one after that and we do not think about how weird things have gotten. Each little step naturally led to the next step. And then it was not until I left the situation hours later I was looking at it and realizing how absurd it was. Well from WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today on our program people trapped in small spaces stuck in a situation and coping because they have no choice. Jay I think it is pretty clear was not too bothered by his short time in the elevator but in our other stories today it is people who are stuck in a small space for way longer. In the first half of our program we have a story where things get pretty dire. And in the second half it is not nearly so difficult. It is musicians who are confined to a tiny space for years an uncomfortably tiny space. And can I say things get pretty weird there too. Stay with us. Act One The People Up the Stairs. So we start today with a couple who have been penned into a small space for months now hiding in an attic because their lives are on the line surrounded by musty furniture and stacks of old paintings that are collecting dust. Kevin Sieff talked to them about the truly jaw-dropping story of how they got there. The attic has creaky wood floors and one small window but they try not to go close to it. They do not want to be seen. The ceilings are low. Moises who is 6'1 has to crouch but Jessica's fine. They spend their time obsessing over not being heard. They try not to talk above a whisper or walk on the creaking floorboards. Even sleeping is stressful.   When we sleep Moises snores and it scares me. And sometimes I wake him up in the night when I hear that he is snoring. I say Moises try not to snore. But I do not think it is something that is under his control. But it still bothers me because it is something that I do not think he should do.   Do you have to worry about every noise that you guys make? Yeah we have to be like ghosts in this house.   How Moises and Jessica ended up in this attic it goes back to how they met. It was 2016 on an anti-government WhatsApp group. They were both activists against the regime of Daniel Ortega who has ruled Nicaragua on and off for 40 years. Then they started seeing each other at protests and meetings. Jessica saw the nerdy guy unafraid to go on national television wearing a mask with the president's face on it and an x over the mouth demanding freedom of expression. Moises saw the woman with the big brown eyes often the last person to back down when the police showed up. At one protest when 200 police closed in on a group of maybe 20 protesters Moises looked for a place to run. But then he saw Jessica and another woman walk right up to the armed officers and start yelling in their faces. So I kind of got brave also. I went to the frontline and stand with them shoulder to shoulder doing the same thing. It is kind of a crazy moment to start a relationship with someone. You are in the middle of basically a firing line with this girl that you just started dating. Yeah. What I thought was if they are going to kill me I am going to die happy right now at least. They got married and Moises adopted Jessica's daughter Camila. He got a job at a Sprint call center talking to people from the States all day. Jessica worked for a company that made solar panels. But still their relationship was built around their activism. One parent picked up Camila at school while the other organized a rally or held a press conference. At home near the little girl's pile of toys they kept masks for tear gas. But the government's response got harsher. The regime began kidnapping its opponents. Moises was grabbed by four or five men in unmarked cars and taken to El Chipote an infamous prison documented by human rights groups as being a state-run torture site. A warning-- this next bit includes descriptions of violence. They were hitting me in the head in the stomach in the legs and they said we are going to kill you motherfucker. You are never going to get out. Now we got you. Now we got you. And they stripped me naked did some things that they did to me that I will-- that my wife does not even know that they did to me because I do not feel like I want to tell her. They do all horrible things over there. They put electric shocks to your body. They put a-- I do not know if you know what a-- a police stick they use to beat you up. They introduce that into your anal cavity so make sure they make you talk. He was held for two days. Not long after they released him Jessica went to a protest that was broken up by police. Officers kicked her in the stomach and hit her with the butt of a gun. She was pregnant. She lost the baby. Late last year they realized they could not stay anymore. They needed to escape and their plan was to go to the US. And they had a good reason to think they would be welcomed there. Jessica and Moises' brand of activism it was championed by Republicans including the Trump administration for its defiance of a left-wing autocrat. They were called freedom fighters. We stand with you Republican senators said in statements and tweets. In 2018 Ted Cruz gave a whole speech about US support for Nicaraguan activists like them. To the people of Nicaragua the American people stand with you in your fight for freedom and for the rule of law. To the half million protesters who risked your lives I say thank you. Thank you for your courage. And remember truth has power. That support it is part of what made their asylum case seem winnable because it fell under the category of political persecution. It was one sliver of the asylum system left intact after years of dismantling. In all sorts of ways getting asylum in the US has become almost impossible. Asylum seekers are being turned away at the border told Nope we are closed. Cases are incredibly hard to win even when they do get to the courts. But the Trump administration did leave at least one window cracked. One of the few categories of asylum seekers that it purported to accept-- people who were threatened tortured jailed for their politics. Especially when their politics overlapped with US interests-- people like Moises and Jessica. Moises and Jessica were a perfect asylum case for another reason. Their persecution was documented and it was public. As activists they had become famous. Their protests had been televised. They would held nationally-broadcast press conferences. People recognized them in the streets all the time. Even the State Department had tweeted about specific confrontations they would had with the paramilitary. At any other time in recent US history they would likely have been admitted. But instead they are in hiding. I wanted to understand why. I have been covering immigration for the last few years and this to me felt like the last chapter in the disintegration of asylum. So I called Moises and Jessica in the attic to hear about their journey from start to finish to learn what happened. In late 2019 they started to get ready. Moises studied the US government website for the asylum requirements. He read about the importance of supporting your case with evidence. So he bought a black backpack and he filled it with all the evidence he could gather-- videos of their protests and press conferences reports from the Human Rights Commission and the State Department statements from the White House and the Republican senators. Moises also wrote a five-page declaration a long essay enumerating every threat every beating he would received from the government. He included the names of his torturers. He would read online that the details could help his family's asylum case so he was as specific as possible. The backpack took on a kind of sacred role for them. It was their proof that they were deserving of the sliver of asylum that remained available in the US. Then Moises and Jessica talked to Camila their eight-year-old daughter. Camila is outgoing loves LEGOs and TikTok videos. They sat her down and Moises described all of the dangers they would face on their journey across the border. Camila told them she was ready to go. At 3 oclock one morning they left their house outside of Managua and headed 2000 miles north. By early July they were moving through the desert of northern Mexico. It was scorching and COVID cases were spiking. Moises had gamed everything out. He wrapped some of his asylum evidence in plastic in case it got wet. And he picked where they would cross the border-- Texas. Since we heard so many things about the Texas senator Ted Cruz which is a guy that always talk about the Nicaraguan regime and everything. We thought oh my god it was a good place because we are in Texas which he is from. During tough moments on the journey to the border Moises and Jessica had tried to convince Camila that the whole trip was a game. It will get more fun they said. Soon we will be in Disney World. You will eat a McDonald's hamburger. Camila played along at first but by the time they got to the border she was exhausted and scared. Jessica scouted out the Rio Grande. Neither she nor Camila could swim so she nervously looked for the shallowest part.   So as we were walking into the river it was as if fate had intervened. Because every time we took a step in the water there was always a rock that we could see. That is it was as if God had placed stones there so that we could walk and nothing would happen to us. The water never got that high. I do not even think it got above our knees. And so when we got to the other side we saw the people from Border Patrol.   Jessica felt a rush of relief. That is it she thought. The hardest part is over. A Border Patrol agent got out of a truck. Moises had been planning for this moment and he knew exactly what to do. And Moises speaks fluent English which is incredibly unusual for an asylum seeker. He took off his backpack and he spread out the pile of evidence supporting his asylum claim. I say right away we are from Nicaragua. We apply for asylum. We are seeking political asylum. Here are these including we have our passports. And they took notes and everything. The border patrol separated Moises from Jessica and Camila. They took his bag with all the evidence in it. For 12 days they were detained in small crowded tents. They were just sitting on the ground waiting in the same clothes they would worn on the trip north.   When we got there we were wet. When we crossed the river our shoes and our pants got wet and they did dry off but they dried off on our bodies. And the shoes gave me a fungus on my feet because I did not take them off. When we got there we could not bathe. Our clothes were itching us so much my underwear especially. Moises kept repeating himself to janitors guards anyone. When can we apply for asylum he asked. Where is my backpack? Finally some guards came to get them. The guard said Everyone get your stuff. We are taking you on a bus. They handed Moises his backpack. It seemed to Jessica like they were about to be released and allowed to apply for asylum.   We were all happy. We were all hugging each other because the rumor was that when that bus arrived it was going to take us to wherever we were going to be like Miami or wherever the people meeting you were. And so we were happy because we thought that this entire bitter journey was going to come to an end. She looked at Moises to see if he was also feeling hopeful but Moises was more skeptical and Jessica noticed. The US it turns out had used coronavirus as an excuse to shutter what was left of the US asylum system. In March the Centers for Disease Control wrote an order saying that asylum seekers could be expelled because they pose a risk to public health during the pandemic. It later turned out that the order was conceived of by immigration officials at the White House not medical experts. And even though Moises Jessica and Camila tested negative for coronavirus while in custody they could be deported. But they did not know that. They were kept in an information black hole for a few days and then put in a van. No one would tell them where they were going. At what point do you realize that the van is going to the airport? When after-- and when they stop the first time and then continue the trip my wife told me that oh look there is some signs street signs that say Airport Brownsville. Then we realized oh my god we are going to the airport. Then we are going back to Nicaragua. Well I started thinking my god what am I going to do? They are going to put me in jail again in Nicaragua. They are going to arrest me. They are going to shoot me in the head. They are going to disappear myself and my wife. They are going to send me to another Chipote for the rest of my life. Now they really make sure they are going to kill me.   Well Camila was sleeping and Moises was very nervous. I think it is one of the few times I have ever seen him cry. And it is really only a few times that he has because I can tell you that I can count them on one hand and still have fingers left over. But that day I did see him cry. And he was crying a lot because obviously he was very scared. And when you saw Moises crying what did you say? Did you say anything?   Not really. I did not say anything. I just looked at him and he told me What are we going to do? What is going to happen? I am scared that they are going to take me to the Chipote. And I did not say anything. I kept quiet because I also thought that that was going to happen. So I could not tell him that that was not going to happen when deep down I felt that it would. Moises and Jessica first tried not to believe what was happening. In all of their planning they would never considered that this could happen. Never before in the modern history of the US asylum system has the US sent political dissidents back to the country they fled without first allowing them to open asylum applications. Yet there they were being sent back to Nicaragua delivered into the hands of their torturers. Police would be waiting for them at the airport. And they were not alone. Dozens of Nicaraguan asylum seekers were herded onto a charter plane destined for a country whose treatment of political prisoners the State Department said demonstrates the regime's utter disregard for human life and democratic freedoms. Not only is it a break from US policy going back decades it is also a clear violation of international refugee law. I talked to people at the UN and they were like yeah this is definitely illegal. US Customs and Border Protection did not respond to my request for comment. They claim that people seeking asylum still receive credible fear interviews though I did not find any evidence to support that. The pilot comes on the intercom and calmly tells people to put their seatbelts on like it is a normal flight. Meanwhile the passengers are freaking out. They are still not completely sure where they are going. Well this time when we took off the pilot said well the time expected to Nicaragua is three hours something like that. And I say oh my god then we-- oh now we are really going back you know? It is like you feel unsecure and you feel like there is nothing I can do. I cannot jump from the plane. The passengers were whispering to each other. If they take me straight to prison call my mom one man said. Whoever disappears we should all assume he is in Chipote said another. Moises recognized some of the other activists. He told me and my producer Nadia Reiman about it. And everybody was in shackles. Everybody was in handcuffs. We were pretty sure. Oh man this is a-- I remember this movie Con Air. Everybody was running in the plane. Everybody was fighting with the officers about I do not want to go back to Nicaragua. I do not want to be sent to Nicaragua. And-- Wait people are saying that on the plane? Yeah.   Camila was sitting beside the window Moises beside the aisle. And I was in the middle because I am afraid of flying. But I was so scared from the uncertainty from not knowing what was awaiting us that I was not even scared of flying. I told Moises that I could not even feel what the pilot was doing. I did not even feel like I was flying on an airplane. While they are mid-air Moises realizes something-- the backpack. This bag full of evidence he is about to land with it and the police are going to see it. He cannot think about anything else. The US immigration agents put it with the checked luggage so it was somewhere in the belly of the plane. Moises could not even hold it could not look at what was inside and come up with a plan. If the police find it they will see that he listed the names of specific torturers and what they did to him. Maybe they would decide to kill him just for that. Maybe they rape his daughter he thinks. His mind is spiraling out of control. Next to him Jessica is busy trying to soothe Camila feeding her Doritos. When we left that backpack for me was the hope that I had so I can make it to the US and apply for asylum. It was like my savior my ticket to freedom. And when I was coming back to Nicaragua it was the opposite. I was thinking oh my god that is the reason why they are going to shoot me or they are going to kill me. Because that is where I have all the evidence and the proof that I had. So the same backpack that was going to take me to freedom is the one that is going to kill me right now. When the plane lands Moises looks out the window at the fleet of Nicaraguan soldiers and police waiting for them. Everyone gets in line walking down the steps of the plane. Moises and Jessica and all of the others are led into a garage-like office where the government is conducting interrogations. They are patted down their government IDs are confiscated. The whole time Moises is thinking about his backpack. One officer snapped pictures of them. Another addressed them by name and asked what they were doing in the US and why they were deported. Moises tried to avoid answering. They got me in Texas he said shrugging it off. They are led to another area full of police. Jessica and Camila walk hand-in-hand. But Moises' eyes dart around frantically searching for some sign of his backpack. Finally he sees the luggage cart pull up and there it is. Moises grabs his backpack and turns to face the wall of a building. It is the closest he can get to hiding. He reaches into the backpack and feels for the pages. He finds a statement the document that outlines in explicit detail everything that happened to them. And I knew that the first paper that I touched I knew it was that statement. So when I noticed that they were not looking at me I grabbed it and I put it in a fist inside my fist. Then after that I did it like I was wiping my face with the paper like I was sweating because it was a lot of-- it was very hot when we got there. So I was sweating a lot. So what I did is I made them think that I was using the paper to clean my sweat. Then when they were not looking I was going to throw it in the trash can actually. I thought about it. But I said oh my god I am not going to throw it in the trash can. They might see me or they might find it you know? So what I did is the first thing that I thought which was going to start eating it real fast. Oh my god. And it was wet because of the sweat and so it was easy to swallow. Wait so how many pages that you actually eat? There were five pages. How did you eat five pages of this paper? I do not know man. I think it was real scary. I just started swallowing. My wife says that I have a big mouth. I think that helped. So when I realized in a couple of seconds I really had everything and choking through my throat so I started swallowing. And what did the paper taste like? Well because of the sweat it was very very salty. It was terrible. As they walk through the crowd of police he kept waiting for them to take him away. He kept waiting for them to open his bag. They never did. Instead the police drove Moises Jessica and Camila to Jessica's mom's house in a patrol truck. When they got there the police started taking more photos like they were scouting a crime scene.   So when we got out Camila was very skinny. Since we left she had lost weight. So my mom did not recognize her. When she saw the three of us she did not even recognize us. We got out of the van and they said We are going to hand over your family members now and we would like to take a picture so that there is evidence that the people who were deported were handed to their family members. This is how Nicaragua's para-police often work. They make note of where you live and when they want to they go after you. Moises and Jessica had to figure out what to do next. After a few days they noticed that the police were circling the house. The police called it random and asked about Camila. Staying at a known address was too dangerous. They did not think the police would hurt Camila but what if they came for Moises or Jessica while Camila was there? She could be swept up in the violence. So Moises and Jessica relocated to the attic of a safe house and left Camila. They told her We will see you soon but truthfully they had no idea when. It was brutal to say goodbye but what was the alternative they thought. If Camila was attacked on their behalf that would be much worse. Jessica cried when she said goodbye. That was about two months ago. She is cried most days since.  I still do. I still feel guilty. We are in hiding. I cannot always see my daughter. And I cannot keep every promise that I made. I feel like I failed as a mother. Their days are now about hiding. They spent weeks in the attic sleeping on the floor. And now they are a floor below in a tiny mostly empty bedroom. But they are still just as afraid of being found. The landlord warns them when someone is downstairs so they can remain extra quiet. When one of them drops something or accidentally makes a loud noise they are like did anyone hear that? Is that the thing that is going to give us away? Sometimes Jessica wakes up and for an instant has no idea where she is. She has to remind herself I am back in Nicaragua. I am in hiding in my own country. They are back where they were a year ago asking the same questions. Should we leave? And when? This time the answers are harder to agree on.   Sometimes we have very intense arguments because right now we do not know what is going to happen. We do not know how long things are going to be like this. It is like being in jail without the torture. But I think there is torture psychologically emotionally because you cannot be near the people you love. How many times a day do you think about what you are going to do about your plans for what to do next?  I think up until a few days ago it was up to 20 hours a day. But I have decided that I need to wait. One day this month Moises made it very clear that the door was closed that we just needed to wait for the door to open that we just needed to have patience because I do not know what else we can do. We cannot think about leaving if we do not have the economic means. But we cannot think about staying here because I do not know how much longer we can. Most of the people arriving at the US border these days know that the asylum system has been whittled away. Like Moises and Jessica they knew it was not going to be easy that it could take years. But they believed in their case. That pile of papers in Moises' backpack-- anyone who saw them would be convinced they thought. What they did not believe-- and why would they-- was that no one would even look and that the backpack would end up back in a safe house next to Moises' head when he sleeps. Everything's still inside the way it was when they left for the first time. Kevin Sieff is the Mexico and Central America Bureau chief for The Washington Post. A version of this story appeared in The Washington Post and in their daily podcast Post Reports. Coming up people who work in a field where it is really hard to find a good steady job. These people find one and then the only problem is they have to actually come in and do the job every day exactly the way they did it the day before. And I mean like exactly the way they did it. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program The Walls Close In stories of people trapped in small spaces and what that is like. We have arrived at Act Two of our program. Act Two Music of the Night After Night After Night After Night After Night After Night After Night After Night--  We now turn to people who have made a choice a conscious choice to stick themselves into a cramped uncomfortable space for years inside the theater. You know the old saying hell is other people actually comes from the theater. It comes from a play No Exit. That play was not written by a member of a theater orchestra. But Jay Caspian Kang has this story about how many musicians in theatrical orchestras might understand the sentiment. Nick Jemo moved to New York in 2006 to try to make it as a musician. He had just finished up college and had all these dreams of playing the trumpet for a living. But it was a struggle. There just are not many jobs for trumpet players anymore. So he mostly waited by the phone for gigs. Korean megachurch services experimental plays and the occasional substitute job with Mary Poppins on Broadway. And then a spot opened up at his favorite show. This might be TMI but I remember I was in my apartment. I was on the toilet. And  I got a phone call and I did not recognize the number. And I listened to the voicemail saying Hi this is Kristen and freaked out. This was one of the conductors for Phantom of the Opera. She offered him a job playing shows six days a week and twice on Thursdays and Saturdays. I am not sure I probably even let her finish her sentence. Yes I am very interested and available. It was life changing really. Did you feel you would like won the lottery? Oh yes. Actually I remember the next day I had to go grocery shopping. And I remember buying coconut water. I do not know why. That was my treat because I always wanted to buy coconut water but it was always too much of a-- it was like you know what? This is-- I just do not need to spend. And I remember buying coconut water and feeling like such a badass. And I just felt like I can buy anything here. It was not just a steady income Nick was