OK I do not know exactly what this says about Australia but when you win this big literary prize they have there the Melbourne Prize for Literature you are required to spend half the money half of it to get out of Melbourne and travel abroad. Which is sort of weird right? Like they are saying simultaneously let us celebrate the culture of Melbourne and then they are giving you the money to escape it. A few years ago when this great Australian novelist named Gerald Murnane learned that he was nominated he asked that his name be withdrawn from consideration. Because there was no way he was going to leave the country. This is Helen Garner an Australian who is won this prize herself and who wrote about what happened when they wanted to give it to Murnane. He is noted for the fact that he does not like to travel. I do not think he is ever been outside Australia. And he makes a point of saying that he is never going to leave this country. He is never wanted to and he thinks that everything one needs to know could be known just as well here as anywhere else in the world. But he is this deeply original writer and the committee decided to bend the rules for him. Helen was in the auditorium when he received the award. And he was obviously in his rather inward introverted sort of way terribly happy to have won the prize. And he explained to the audience his stand on international travel. But he said in the spirit of the prize he would do something else. He would use some of the prize money to fill his car with gas and drive around to some of the places that he had lived in and around Melbourne. And that was when the speech became really wonderful because he just kind of tilted his head back and closed his eyes and reeled off this list of addresses his former addresses in the suburbs of Melbourne. And they were very undistinguished parts of town. They are the very obscure suburbs that nobody ever talks about and nothing dramatic ever seems to happen there. And he reeled them off like somebody chanting or praying by heart. He had them all by heart in chronological order. Yes all right. We would say The Avenue Coburg Breese Street Brunswick Plenty Road Bundoora. There is no recording of this speech but when I phoned Gerald Murnane at his home he was able to recite for me all 20 locations from memory in the order that he lived in them. And the end of the list is Ray Street Pascoe Vale Bakers Road North Coburg Peter Street South Oakleigh and then Legon Road South Oakley and then Filbert Street South Caulfied. What we knew was that he was really reciting a kind of a poem of such modestly named places that had such meaning to him. Gweno Avenue Frankston Fitzroy Street in Kilda River Street South Yarra. And there was something so wonderful about it. And then when he finished and opened his eyes and looked around the whole place just went up in a roar where everyone was delighted and half laughing and half tearful. It was very moving and wonderful. I am terribly glad that I was there. Gerald Murnane told me even he was moved by it. Place and locality and these things they do matter much to me. I have got this sort of mental geography. In a way it is probably been bred into me by the fact that I move so often. We moved almost every year because my father was a gambler on race horses and also a reckless man who was always looking for-- he just could not sit in one place. We lived at all these different addresses. INTERVIEW IRA GLASS When you list them off like that is the feeling nostalgia or is it even stronger? Is it a feeling of like this is me that in some way you are describing yourself? You nearly got it right then-- I feel a sense of pride-- I am not boasting but I feel a sense of pride that I survived all that. I mean when I say survive we were quite poor. INTERVIEW IRA GLASS I grew up in the suburbs of Baltimore which is a city not far from Washington DC. Baltimore Maryland. INTERVIEW IRA GLASS Yeah yeah. Baltimore Maryland. And when I look back on it I feel like I understand that it shaped me in certain ways. But I also feel like this is just a random place that happened to be the place that I grew up. Like there is nothing special about it. I feel no attachment to it. I have no sentimental feelings about the place. And is your attachment to these places now that they seem special in some way or are they simply familiar? Well they certainly do not feel special and I have said already that I do not go back to visit them. I am not attached to these places. They attached themselves to me in a sense. And I do not want to go back there. I do not want to be the person I was then. But I do want to remember them. I cannot put it any better than that. INTERVIEW IRA GLASS Why? Remember them because they made me. The combination of all the strange experiences that I had or lack of experience or yearnings or unfulfilled wants they made me. Well today on our program we do not choose where we grow up. We do not choose the family we are born into. And when we head out into the bigger world that is the private geography we carry with us. Today we have two stories where we see what that geography reveals about two very different people. One of them current Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act one Vouching towards Bethlehem. So the issue that our Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos has fought hardest for over the years the issue that she hopes to engage as education secretary is school choice in all of its forms. One of those forms? School choice means fostering a system of charter schools as alternatives to the regular public school system. These schools are supposed to be laboratories of great teaching places where some of the rules and regulations of regular public schools do not apply. School choice also means vouchers which of course lets parents pull their kids out of public schools and put them into parochial schools or church schools or private schools of all kinds. And state money that had gone to the public schools would follow the children with a voucher to the private schools they enroll in. DeVos says her interest in all this started when her son was entering Kindergarten. She realized that she had the means to send him to any school she wanted to. She had a lot of money. Why should not every parent be able to do that? So we decided at that time to help some other kids have the same opportunity as our children. We started work with that school and then more broadly in our community funding scholarships and realized very quickly that while we were helping individual children which was important it was not an effort that was particularly scalable. So I really decided to get involved in public policy which I thought was going to make the most difference. Betsy DeVos made it into the President's cabinet with as low a vote as you can get and still squeak by. It was the first time in U.S. history that the Vice President has had to cast a tie-breaking vote to confirm a cabinet secretary. She would been an education advocate for decades pushing for choice and vouchers in Michigan where she is from. Her critics said she was a know-nothing just some rich Republican donor with no qualifications for the job of education secretary and specifically no experience in the public schools. That was the rap against her. One of our producers Susan Burton grew up in the same home town as Betsy DeVos Grand Rapids Michigan and has been aware of the DeVos family since she was a little kid. There are certain things you can learn about Betsy DeVos and her agenda by going to Grand Rapids. Here's Susan. One of the things you would hear over and over in the weeks leading up to Betsy DeVos's confirmation hearings was that she would never set foot in a public school. It was often phrased exactly this way. People said it to news reporters repeated it in speeches. Betsy DeVos has never set foot in a public school. This woman has never stepped foot in a public school. He nominated a woman who had never worked in volunteered in ever stepped foot in a public school until he chose her to be his Secretary of Education. That is the head of one of the two national teachers unions. But when I talked to people in Grand Rapids I heard a different story that she had spent time in a public school volunteering as a mentor. At first nobody could give me details. It was all rumors and secondhand information. Here's Elizabeth Welch a local public school advocate. In just community conversations with people we knew she had not been deeply involved in Grand Rapids Public. And so I was through a few discussions where it was through the grapevine I had heard oh I heard she tutored some kids at Burton Elementary. Well I had heard that she had said she had done that kind of stuff. But I did not know where. This is Mary Bouwense the head of the local teacher's union. Because when she said I tutored in Grand Rapids well she could have been tutoring at one of the Christian elementaries. You know it could have been in the area of Grand Rapids 'ecause sometimes people say Grand Rapids but they mean Kentwood or Wyoming or one of the suburbs too. They just say Grand Rapids as a general term. So I just assumed it was going to be the Christian schools that she tutored in when she showed up because a lot of their money goes into those buildings. So. I am from Grand Rapids so I knew what Mary was talking about the schools associated with the Christian Reformed Church. I have friends who went to these schools. My next door neighbor Jason went to Ada Christian. So did Jenny from swim team. Nicole from acting went to Seymour Christian. Betsy DeVos went to these schools and also sent her own four children there. The Christian Reformed Church has its own history of school choice. Back in the 1850s a group of Dutch settlers in West Michigan split off from their church to form their own denomination. And one of the big reasons-- they did not want their children in public schools. They wanted their children to be formed in the faith in their own schools before sending them out into the world. The idea that parents of all backgrounds should be able to choose a school reflecting their values and beliefs that is part of the theological history of the CRC. At first I had a hard time finding people to talk about Betsy DeVos and the public school she volunteered in partly because the DeVoses are such a prominent family in Grand Rapids. They are major philanthropists. Lots of buildings have the DeVos name on them. At age 10 I performed It is a Hard Knock Life from Annie with seven other girls on the stage in DeVos Hall which is inside DeVos Place which is not so far from the Helen DeVos Children's Hospital the Richard M. DeVos Center and a bit further out the DeVos Center for Arts and Worship at Grand Rapids Christian High School. The DeVos fortune comes from Amway. When I was a little girl I was not exactly sure what Amway did. Sold stuff in a weird way not in stores. Betsy DeVos married the eldest son of Amway's founder but she is also from an iconic local family. Her father Edgar Prince made his millions in West Michigan as an auto parts manufacturer. One of his inventions? The light up mirror visor. I finally did reach someone who'd been at the public school Betsy DeVos volunteered at Burton Elementary. I am Susan Burton but that is not my family's name on the building by the way. The woman I reached I will call her Denise. A lot of teachers were like she is never been in one of our schools. And I said well no she has. I have seen her. What? You know they could not believe that she even set foot in a public school and in a Grand Rapids public school. They could not believe it. Yeah they were shocked. Denise used to be a teacher at Burton the Grand Rapids public school where it turns out Betsy DeVos volunteered for five years. As far as I can tell it is the most sustained encounter with a public school that she is ever had and Betsy DeVos says it affected her deeply. She did not respond to any of the questions or interview requests I sent to the Department of Education but she did talk briefly about the experience at her confirmation hearing in January. I have worked as an in-school mentor for students in the Grand Rapids Public Schools and have had the privilege of interacting with students and their families and teachers in ways that have changed my life and my perspective about education forever. Here's how Betsy DeVos wound up at Burton Elementary back in 2003. She was not a random parent walking in to help out. She was one of the most powerful educational activists in the state a major Republican donor. Since the early '90s she would been advocating for increased choice in Michigan schools. In 1993 she helped the governor make Michigan one of the first states in the nation to allow charter schools. In 2000 she introduced a ballot measure to get vouchers in the state. At the time she was the chair of the state Republican Party. The governor did not support her measure so she quit. It was that important to her. She and her husband spent more than 2 million of their own money to promote the measure. The campaign flew people to see voucher schools in Milwaukee on a private Amway jet. When voters rejected the measure she spent even more to influence legislators. She started lobbying groups at the state and national level. Her former lobbying director told me that when somebody challenged her about what she was going to do to make local public schools better she signed up to mentor students. She did this through a group called Kids Hope USA. It is a national organization that pairs churches with public schools. She was in the first group of mentors from her church. Sharon Olette was in charge of the Kids Hope USA program at their church for years. She says they knew the kind of school they wanted to partner with and set out to find it. I mean we are a very Caucasian white America church and did not have the opportunity to interact with inner city kids and the Hispanic community like we wanted to. And this was such a wonderful avenue for us to do that to really live out our faith. And one of the pastors at the time just drove around the inner city and looked at the different schools and was kind of praying over all of that situation what school we should partner with. And he had actually another school in mind and he happened to go by Burton Elementary and he said it was just clear to him that God was saying this is the one. This is the school. So that is kind of an exciting story. The volunteer mentors were not teaching religion. They were just there to mentor the kids every week for one hour. The kids at Burton are mostly Latino speak Spanish as a first language and they are almost all poor. Denise the former teacher was proud of the work she did that. The school had a great principal and Denise felt like she was part of a dedicated staff a group giving it is all trying to help these students with the limited resources they had. Into that walks Betsy DeVos. And then I still remember the first time I ever saw her walking down the hallway in a really really just old school. Burton Elementary's a really old school and just drinking fountains that did not work and the bathrooms that did not have soap. And there she was in her 1000 suit and her really pretty shoes. And I just thought how odd she looked. She just looked so out of place. She had this beautiful like tan camel hair jacket. And just the visual of her walking through and looking at everything. And I remember the story being told of that her husband would drop her off because she did not want to park her car in the parking lot. Like were the cars at risk of being broken into? Was that the idea that-- I do not know. I really do not know what was running through her head. Three other people who worked at Burton in those years told me Betsy DeVos had a driver who'd drop her off. One said he would park a big black SUV up on the sidewalk near the school's front door and wait there until she came out. Betsy DeVos was assigned to mentor a little girl in third grade. She was a girl who needed extra attention in the classroom and outside school her housing situation was unstable. Again Denise. You know her living situation was really difficult. Many times she just came to school hungry. She came to school tired. It was a sad situation. Denise says when Betsy DeVos came to school with the teachers she was cordial but not overly friendly. Denise was wary of her. But I talked to a counselor at the school a social worker I will call Megan who knew the little girl and interacted with her and who appreciated what Betsy DeVos was trying to do. I thought it was great that she was taking an interest in our lower income school. So I remember the student telling me Miss Betsy was here this week and just feeling special because another adult took interest in her. The little girl would talk to Megan about the mentoring. The attention pleased her made her proud. And then one day the little girl had some other news to share about Betsy DeVos. The student told me that she purchased a car for her mom. Her mom was having a hard time getting to her employer. And so to keep that momentum going with her employment I know she purchased a car and did other things for the family beyond the school. Four different people at the school told me about the car. One said it came up at a staff meeting. Teachers thought it was great news for the family but they also struggled with what to make of this kind of generosity and whether buying the mother a car was setting her up for failure or success. Sharon the church coordinator heard about the car and understood the impulse. We all come to care for our mentees and do things to help the family in need bringing them Thanksgiving dinner or something like that. Sharon remembered that one mentor her husband was a dentist and he fixed a mother's badly decayed teeth for free. This kind of stuff was not part of the Kids Hope USA mission. Sharon describes it as above and beyond the scope of the program. But lots of mentors developed relationships with students and families. Lots of them wanted to do more. Betsy DeVos just happens to be a billionaire and her more is different. And then Betsy DeVos gave the student another gift one that shows her generosity and also reveals a lot about her beliefs and assumptions when it comes to educating children. Burton is a K-5 program so when the student got to be at sixth grade she put her and paid for a private school for her to go into a private school. I could not confirm this directly with Betsy DeVos but five people at Burton and a close friend of Betsy DeVos's said they heard this. The way school funding works when a child leaves a school the school loses the funding for that child. School choice advocates say this encourages competition and innovation. Schools have to compete to attract children and the dollars that go with them. It is the free market applied to education. What makes this complicated is that this money pays not just for that individual child but for salaries and programs and infrastructure for all the costs of keeping the school open. Losing that money has ripple effects. And at Burton Elementary when teachers saw one of the state's most powerful education activists someone widely seen as anti-public school pull a child out of the public school system it did not go over very well with everyone. Again here's Denise the teacher. It is super insulting. It is very insulting. Like what you do-- all the hard work that you put in-- is not good enough for me or for people I know or for people in general. It is just not good enough. And I find it rather ironic that she would tutor a student and then take her out of the school that she was working in. I thought she wanted to make the school better. She could have used her power way differently. Instead of helping fix the school Betsy DeVos paid to place the child elsewhere. That was her solution. It was like vouchers for one. Megan the school social worker says there are lots of things Betsy DeVos could have done. So I mean there were so many great things going on at Burton Elementary. I mean there really were. We had ESL classes for the parents. We had a parent leadership group that would meet once a month and hear kind of what is going on in the community. And so I really feel like even talking to the building leadership about trends or what is keeping our students from reaching those academic milestones that we need them to and really tapping into the pulse of the school and the community I feel like there could have been a lot more there. Does this story of what happened at Burton connect to any of the concerns you have about her appointment as Education Secretary? Yeah I mean I think it kind of illustrates that while she may have supported individual children or causes that were in line with her values I do not think overall she saw the big picture. So while I see there was some great generous acts it was not directly supporting the school building or district. Helping individual children but not supporting the school district as a whole. This is consistent with what Elizabeth Welch the public school advocate in Grand Rapids has observed of Betsy DeVos's policy agenda in Michigan. I actually am probably not as cynical as some in that I believe she probably really does believe the agenda is going to help kids. The problem is as someone for 20 years who has been living here and watching the agenda be implemented I see it as more about helping that one person. Take the West Michigan Aviation Academy which is a charter school founded by the DeVoses. They have given more than 4 million to it. It is out at the airport and kids learn how to fly planes go up in the sky in little Cessnas. Wonderful school. I have friends who send their children there. Aviation's your background your kid's kind of a science kid maybe your kid does not fit in well in the structure of traditional public school. It is a great school. However it is not scalable. It is a great option for those families and those kids and I do not deny that. But again I am looking at the bigger issue of if we create these little microcosms and then eventually bring vouchers with it we are still going to be crumbling our infrastructure which still is going to serve the vast majority of children because frankly there is not enough little schools like that to serve the kids. The vast majority of children 85 that is how many in this country attend traditional public schools. We will help some kids but I do not believe we are going to help most kids. I believe it will actually harm them in the long run. For almost the past 20 years Betsy DeVos and her husband Dick maybe more than anyone have shaped education in Michigan by advocating for policies that increase choice. The results? Both traditional public schools and charter schools are doing worse academically. To give one example in 2003 Michigan fourth graders ranked 28th in the country in reading. A decade later they have fallen to 41st. For all the promises about charter school performance three quarters of all Michigan charter schools are in the bottom half of all schools as measured by standardized tests. Public school funding the money actually available for schools to use has declined. Segregation has increased. Under Michigan choice policies white students transfer to districts or charters that are more white black students go to charters that are more black. Meanwhile a staggering number of Michigan charters are for profit 80 according to researchers at Western Michigan University. Way more than any other state. I have read that 80 of charter schools in Michigan are run by for-profit entities and most of them perform below the state average. At Betsy DeVos's confirmation hearing in January Senator Sheldon Whitehouse asked her to respond to concerns about her record in Michigan. I will be an advocate for all great schools no matter their form their version. I will be an advocate for parents being able to make those choices because they are the primary educator for their children. I get that. But the question is do you understand that when the parent makes that choice and the child moves to the charter school and the funding moves with the child that leaves a funding gap at the previous school that it cannot instantaneously or magically fill that that is a real problem that  respect-- Indeed. And I mean I think this is a good example of an issue that is best addressed at the state level. Again I will-- They went back and forth but this was as much of an answer as she gave. But what public education advocates criticize Betsy DeVos for-- focusing more on the individual than the whole public school system-- DeVos welcomes that criticism. It is not a criticism to her. She says that is exactly what she is trying to do. This is not about school systems. This is about individual students parents and families. Betsy DeVos speaking in July at the ALEC Conference. ALEC is a national group for conservatives who want to privatize all kinds of government services including schools. Betsy DeVos is standing behind a lectern in a bright pink skirt suit. Just the other week the American Federation for Teachers tweeted at me. Can you please put it up on the screen? The tweet reads quote Betsy DeVos says public dollars should invest in individual students. No. We should invest in a system of great public schools for all kids. I could not believe it when I read it but you have to admire their candor. They have made it clear that they care more about a system one that was created in the 1800s than they care about individual students. They are saying education is not an investment in individual students and they are totally wrong.  This is not just semantics. This is right at the heart of Betsy DeVos's argument. The way to improve education is to focus on each individual child. She and her backers say the system is broken. We have tried to fix it for years and it has not worked. The most vulnerable kids are trapped in the worst schools. We have got to address this. We need to try something new. One of the reasons Betsy DeVos might believe in focusing on the individual student is that she is seen it work herself with some of the students she is helped. Take a moment and picture a child whom you have helped get a great education. For me I picture Angie a young girl I have mentored since the first grade who is now entering her senior year in high school. My name is Angie. I am 17 years old. Angie is the second student Betsy DeVos mentored at Burton Elementary. I visited her during summer vacation at her house in Grand Rapids. She would just gotten home from work and she was wearing bleached jeans her hair in a bun. She remembers being pulled out of her classroom in first grade and told you are going to have a mentor. She was shy around Betsy DeVos. I was shy. Like she would have to like ask me over and over again to get things out. And even to this day I still get kind of shy when I am around her and talking to her. Like I know I can talk to her about anything and I know I can trust her for anything but I still get shy. Betsy DeVos became close to Angie and her family right away. On Christmas she came over with presents. She did stuff with them on weekends. First memory the earliest memory I have a way of that of doing something like that is when she took me my mom and my oldest sister to a bookstore. And she helped my mom get a book so that she can learn English. She let me get-- I do not even know what books I got. But she let me and my sisters get books. So after that she would really ask about my mom. And then if I ever told her anything that she would help out my mom and my mom just really like looked up to her. Angie's mother grew up in the Dominican Republic and speaks mostly Spanish. Back then she was working factory jobs. She was always on the night shift keeping her away from Angie and her sister. She has a chronic illness and when it flared up she would missed work. She kept getting fired so the DeVoses hired her. Well she is like the laundry person at all their houses. She is the one that does laundry for them and that is it. Basically she is been doing that ever since. Betsy DeVos's impulse was not to keep Angie and her family at a distance an hour a week meet the program requirements do the minimum. Her impulse was to invite them into her life. John Booy is a close friend of Betsy DeVos one of a handful of people she brought to her confirmation hearing. He runs the Potter's House a private Christian school in Grand Rapids that enrolls a lot of low income kids. Over the years Betsy DeVos has mentored students there and John's seen her help out several families. Betsy would also involve herself in whatever other ways that they could partner with the family. Now they do not believe in the kind of helping that hurts or the kind of helping that keeps somebody just dependent on you. They are very much about work and responsibility. But it is done in a way that is not patronizing. It does not take your dignity away. It is just walking alongside and how can you know together strategize to meet your goals? After two years Betsy DeVos suggested to Angie's mother that Angie transfer out of Burton to the private Christian school that John Booy runs. At first Angie was not on board with the idea. She did not want to leave her friends and the school she knew. Oh I cried. I remember it was the last day of my second grade and I had just came home and they said that I was not going back and I cried. Like I did not want to switch schools. But when she got to Potter's House she understood why her mother and Betsy DeVos had wanted her to go there. Angie loved reading and with more attention she progressed faster. The work was more challenging. You had to want to do well. Betsy DeVos continued to mentor Angie. When she got to middle school sometimes Betsy DeVos would take her out at lunchtime. A few times we went to Biggby's downtown to get hot chocolate. So that was fun. It was nice. She always has nice cars. That was just like-- I was always like amazed because it was always a different car or sometimes even a driver. As Angie got older Betsy DeVos helped her choose a high school to go to suggested tours of three different schools. None are traditional public schools. She ended up at a private Christian high school which she loves. Betsy DeVos pays part of her tuition and her mother pays the other part. This summer Angie's working with her mother for the DeVos family. Oh I am cleaning.  Yeah that is all I do every summer since eighth grade. Clean. She likes working making her own money. She vacuums mops smaller stuff too. We are house detailers. We make sure everything looks nice and good and there is no dust anywhere that the beds are like fixed up pretty that the bathrooms everything like that. Anything you do in a house that is what we do. One of the other kids the DeVos's mentored works with them. He lives in the neighborhood and they give him rides home. They are down at the family's summer compound in Holland most days a lake shore estate with a mansion filled with delicate objects. Everything has to be a certain way in a certain position. So we take pictures of everything so that if we ever have to move something we know exactly how it goes like exactly how it goes. So yeah. Wanda Angie's mother is out on the porch giving Angie privacy while also remaining near. She comes inside to talk. How would your life and Angie's life be different if you had not met Betsy?   Basically it is like a very private kind of very sentimental thing. But she feels like Miss Betsy is someone who after God she feels like God actually put her in our lives at the perfect moment because she just came in when things were just very wrong and very bad for our lives.  As Wanda says this she cups a hand over her heart. But she is very grateful for Miss Betsy and everything she is done because she is somebody who without even asking for anything in return gave my mom a hand and has just been there to help us with whatever it is that we need every step of the way. Angie does not totally follow the news does not totally trust it. But for while she was seeing things online about Betsy DeVos that upset her. It would just make me feel like really like bad in a way. Because it is not how things actually are. I know the actual truth. Like I have a really close relationship with her so I know how things actually are. And it is just-- it is whatev