Jordan did not love the idea of coming into the studio to tell this next story. The very first thing he said to me when he sat down was-- I am curious-- of all the stories why this story? Because it is not my particularly proudest story. In fact the only reason that he agreed to the interview is that he is good friends with the little brother of one of our producers Miki. They all grew up together. And this story happened when he was going into his senior year of high school in small town Utah. Jordan and his buddies all lived together in a house that summer daring each other into Jackass style pranks and stunts. For instance there is this time they drove a car into an orchard. There is the bike accident that gave Jordan one huge swollen testicle. There is the time they peed into a 7 Up can and Miki's mom accidentally drank out of it. I will tell you it was not my pee in the 7 UP can. All right. And I feel like to talk on public radio there is a part of me that would rather tell America at large about my swollen testicles story. But this is the one that I feel I tell the least. The story that he tells the least-- the one that he is about to tell you right now-- is about how he did not become Mr. Genola in the Mr. Genola contest. Genola is a farming town population 1300. And the contest was a pageant for guys. There was no Miss Genola pageant. And it was a brand new tradition only in its second year and it was not a serious contest. Like the winner the first year for the talent competition ate a frozen burrito while it was still frozen. Like that was his talent. Jordan's friend who was also named Jordan had competed that first year wearing a blow up butterfly float during the swimsuit competition and singing Pearl Jam to his dead frog in the talent section. And he is deciding that we are going to enter the Mr. Genola content and volunteers me to be the participant the single participant out of our house. And just so you can picture this-- they did have an audience of a couple hundred people because it was scheduled as part of the annual Genola Day celebration. Which has a rodeo and a greased pig chase and a town dinner and a parade. And in the middle of a public park they took a bunch of wood apple bins and flipped them over and put some plywood across it and made a stage. And then probably eight contestants all high schoolers-- We are honored to be the MCs for the Mr. Genola pageant. We hope you understand this pageant is not a scholarship pageant. In the video of this you can see two teenaged MCs dressed in spoof awards show wear-- a girl in a checkered jacket with a comically wide lapel and a boy in formal tails and a vest no shirt at all bow tie and cowboy hat. Jordan and I went right to the part where he comes on stage. Our fifth contestant is Jordan Alberto Riley son of Alan and Kris Riley. We could not find anything special about him. So they just announced me. And you know it is a small town. They tell me who my parents are. And I come up on the stage and I am wearing a shirt with sleeves cut off and I have got some long hair and a hat. And then I bring up a wheelchair.   Jordan had used a wheelchair for a little while after an injury once. Now he starts showing off the tricks he learned then-- popping wheelies and spinning. I just was spinning faster and faster until me and the wheelchair all spun off to the side tumbling backwards.   After a few more wheelies Jordan gets up from the chair flexes his muscles. Heavy metal music kicks in.  And his buddies carry an old door onstage this door that has a big pane of glass in the top third. Jordan grabs the mike to explain what is going to happen. I am pretty much just breaking a window. That is about it. Now I am pumping myself up by flexing and shaking my head. And I run at it and give it a good punch through the window. And then I stepped back and I looked at this window and there was a triangular piece of glass right in the middle of it. And I looked at that and I thought that is funny. I do not remember that glass having blood on it before I punched through it. And stepped back and I am just looking at the audience and I looked down-- down right at my forearm like almost to my elbow. And there was a hole. And like in that moment in time it was like when things go in slow motion. I remember a severed muscle hanging out. And I am looking at my forearm and I think about this time that we went hiking in the Narrows of Zion's national park. And I was carrying a Rambo knife and I went to go catch a snake. And I cut the side of this snake in his-- you can see some stuff coming out this gash which I immediately regretted. But I stood there and I thought about that snake as I looked at my forearm. Yeah. And then it seemed like bam! Fast motion happens. And I turn around and blood is just splatting on the floor. And the MC steps in. And I am showing her my arm and I am saying call an ambulance! And she says is that real? Oh she thought it was a prank. She thought you were just like-- you have fake blood or something. Oh totally. Everybody did. And then one of my friends tears off his t-shirt and then tourniquets around it. They are like he is turning white. He is turning white. Just lay him down. Kids start rushing the stage to see. We actually talked to one of those kids who is grown now. And he said that he figured it was fake blood and a really cool prank. And then he got near and saw that it was real. And the next thing he knew he was waking up under a tree with an oxygen mask. Jordan and his friends believe a few people fainted. Ladies and gentlemen we are getting as cleaned up as soon as we can. Please that happened totally on accident. I did not know he was doing that and we probably would not have allowed it. So for the judges' information we are going to have Mike Huell go before Clark Davis because Mike's singing and Clark's dancing. So we can let the stage dry for a minute. Jordan says that this girl MC later said how mad she was that he ruined her pageant. But at this moment she and the other teenaged MC had to ad-lib their way through this situation that I think even a very experienced public speaker would find challenging. There is a man on stage with them mopping up blood-- like with a mop there is so much blood. And they have to fill time. All right. Um well how is the show so far?   That goes over surprisingly well. And so to stall for time they run through what apparently is the only standby material they have. The boy onstage pulls out a fistful of pages. All right. Here's something a man named John put on his answering machine. It says hi this is John. If you are the phone company I already sent the money. If you are my parents please send money. If you are my friends you owe me money. If you are a female do not worry. I have plenty of money.   Here's another one. Hi I am probably home. I just-- I am just-- They never did another Mr. Genola contest. This pretty much killed it off. The ambulance came. Jordan did not lose an arm. He is fine. He is in his 30s now. And the phrase that he uses for what he is become now is contributing member of society. He settled down. He is a farmer-- grows apples cherries peaches-- with a family a young daughter. He has not lived in Genola since that summer. But now and then-- this just happened at a farm stand a month ago-- he runs into people who say to him are not you the guy who almost cut off his arm in that pageant? That is what they know him for. Well in the town of Genola that is my badge to wear. Yeah. They know me as the guy who did the Mr. Genola pageant. It is been over a decade and he still does not ever watch this video. Too soon. Still makes him wince. I asked him when he will be able to watch this and not wince and he said he thinks it pretty much always will be too soon for this one. Yeah. Like I said this was not the proudest story. And just seeing us at that time in those teenage-- it is just painful to watch. I am not a fan of that guy. Today on our radio program-- Too Soon. Sometimes it will always be too soon. But sometimes you can imagine a world where the thing that you are remembering really will become much less of a big deal and you will be able to think about it without cringing. If you are lucky maybe it will even start to seem funny. We have two stories for you today. In each of them there is a piece of video that is capturing a moment. And in each of them the past crashes against the present in this way that is really kind of mesmerizing. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. So Jordan's story was about a prank gone wrong. And you say this next story is like that too. Except in this next story it is not just one prank. And wrong does not capture the sheer wrongness of what you are about to hear. Nancy Updike tells the story.  And I should say before we start-- if you are listening to this on our podcast or online we have unbeeped some curse words in the internet version of this story. If you want to listen with your kids in the car or you just do not like curse words there is a beeped version available at our website thisamericanlife.org. OK. Here's Nancy. Harmon Leon is a writer and comedian whose cocktail party story about the weirdest gig I ever did is a more weird by a lot than anyone else's that I have heard. He answered an ad for a job several years ago that called for a comedian who would be the hilarious sidekick to a celebrity on a new hidden camera prank TV show. It was on the Los Angeles Craigslist ad. And I am thinking oh it is a celebrity hidden camera show. I have done a bunch of prank stuff. So I sent him my prank reel. I got the job and they said they could not disclose who the celebrity was. Harmon rolled his eyes. Well just people say that as like oh when we tell you who the celebrity is you are not going to believe it. You are not going to believe it. And your mind just goes you know you are jaded-- Eh I will probably believe it you think. Yeah yeah. It is like is it like the other Hilton sister? Or is it Vanilla Ice? My bar was so low to what it actually turned out to be. Yeah. And they go OK are you ready? Are you ready? Because it is O.J. Simpson. A prank show with O.J. Simpson. Harmon thought that is a terrible idea for a TV show and I am definitely taking this job. So the shooting was in a week. So I drove down from San Francisco to LA. I get out of my car. I go to the production office. And the first thing the producer says to me-- you know Harmon we really cannot mention the murders. OK. Anyone over 30 please bear with me for a minute. And for the under 30s here's the O.J. Simpson recap. Handsome charming famous football player Heisman Trophy winner whose nickname was Juice. After he retired became even more famous doing commercials Monday Night Football movies TV shows Saturday Night Live. And here's the part you probably do know even if you think you know nothing. In 1994 he was accused of killing his ex-wife Nicole Simpson and another person Ron Goldman. You know that because he became a national obsession. 95 million people give or take watched the live broadcast of his white Bronco driving the LA freeways with police cars chasing him. That was more than the Superbowl audience that year. 150 million watched the verdict in the trial where he was acquitted of the murders. This prank show was being filmed about 10 years after that. O.J. Simpson had been mostly out of the public eye for those years. Most Americans at that time 78 believed he either probably or definitely killed his ex-wife and Ron Goldman. He lost a civil suit that had found them liable for the deaths. And so-- This would be the next step in his career-- doing a zany hidden camera prank show entitled Juiced.   Incredibly this exists. It was a one-time special on Pay Per View. Just one episode about an hour long. And I have got the DVD on my desk right now. Here's the description on the cover. Quote witness O.J. Simpson performing hilarious practical jokes and shocking hidden camera stunts on unsuspecting real life people all across America. No one is safe because the juice is loose again. My first question when I saw it was why does this exist? Which is a dumb question. Reality shows exist because they are cheap to make and people watch them. Maybe a better question is why is not this hidden camera prank show from 2006 as well known and scrutinized as every other part of O.J. Simpson's public life? I am here to say I think it is worth a look. Here's a show that was never meant to be taken seriously. And because of that we get these strange revealing glimpses of O.J. Goofing around in front of the camera chatting with strangers riffing. It is an hour with him unlike any hour you have ever seen. I also think it might be the most mystifying celebrity comeback vehicle ever made. The show is a whole bunch of short prank scenarios one after another in different locations-- fast food place golf course bingo parlor. Sometimes O.J. is in disguise. Sometimes he is not. The idea was O.J. Would be someplace doing something and Harmon's job was to help piss off the people around him. Or in prank show lingo-- Try to elevate the action. Exactly. For instance on a golf course. So the gag was O.J. Will keep golfing with his friends. And then I run on the golf course with a video camera pretending I am paparazzi trying to film O.J. There was no script. Also sometimes not even a road map. Sometimes the producer would jump into the scene himself to elevate the action even more. Or mercifully to help conclude it like at the golf course. That just ended with me and the producer of Juiced rolling around on the golf course wrestling. Because we did not know how to end it. Here's the thing. Pranks might be a misleadingly precise term for what happens in the show. It is more like low-level harassment of random civilians. And also O.J. Simpson is here! Let me walk you through one prank to show you how it goes. This one starts like all of them do with O.J. Simpson just dressed as himself sitting in a chair explaining the idea for the upcoming scene. Set up a situation at an open house. I was visiting the house looking for a house with my alleged girlfriend. Then Harmon jumps in to explain his role in the scene. I played disgruntled house owner. And then I played a party guy. And then the prank starts. The scene for this prank like O.J. said is an open house. There is a realtor. She is in on the prank. Hi. Come on in. Tall long blonde hair strapless top. It is all very Southern California. And she is showing it to people including a couple named Kristie and O.J. Hi O.J. It is nice to meet you. It is O.J. Simpson.  I was getting ready to say he looks just like O.J. Simpson. Another woman and a man who are also looking at the house recognize O.J. right away and they shake his hand warmly. They are surprised that he is there but not weirded out. And then they all keep looking at the house. Then the realtor who again is part of the prank knocks over a vase--  --and blames one of the people looking at the house. He broke it. Then Harmon playing the homeowner comes out and gets angry. Why are you coming into my house and breaking my things? I am sorry. Gary-- Then there is an argument or an attempt at one. But a lot of people are just more patient and reasonable than you think they are going to be so it does not go anywhere. She broke it accidentally and people have accidents and you need to calm down. I work with this Realtor and she does not lie to me. Then the camera cuts to a topless woman. Who is topless outside jumping on a trampoline. Which the Realtor works into the sell. The backyard is fabulous for entertaining. And which O.J. jumps in to comment on. Geez. Well it is looking rather entertaining to me.   Then the topless woman enters the house swishes her way through everyone. There is a quick cut to her running through the house in slow motion. Then another broken vase--  Oh Jesus! --another accusation another vase. Then the guy who is in on the prank throws up.  Oh Jesus man.  come on. Jesus man. If this makes no sense to you you are following it perfectly. I have shown this prank to a lot of people. And every time they look at me helplessly like what is going on here? Who is even getting pranked? There are interesting moments in the scene when a few people looking at the house notice O.J. and react to him. One couple is signing in at the kitchen counter and the woman whispers to the man. It is so quiet they had to put subtitles on the screen. She whispers O.J. Simpson just came in. Then she says did you hear me? O.J. Simpson is right behind you. The guy with her glances over and then they just keep looking around. Another guy did a double take when he saw O.J. And then went back to signing in. Like be cool celebrity nearby who is O.J. Simpson. But a lot of people seem oblivious. It is just one more freaky open house with a topless women on a trampoline and a lot of broken vases. Until finally O.J. steps in with the catch phrase. You have been juiced. I am O.J. Simpson. There is a camera. I know you are.  You have been juiced. It is a TV show. It just did not have any payoff of anything. It was just like all set on the whole premise of something happens and O.J. Simpson. They did not think it out further than that. And every gag was just based on that premise. Can you believe this guy is here? Yeah yeah. Because he is that guy. For real. I know. But yet in the producers' mind they were like oh this is great. They kind of got into it. Yeah yeah yeah. So other people on the set they thought oh this is going well. This is funny. Oh yeah. Yeah yeah yeah yeah. I told Harmon that I figured as I was watching the show that the producers had just edited out any moments where people got annoyed or uncomfortable when they got juiced or pulled away when O.J. went to hug them or recoiled. And I was completely wrong about that. Harmon told me that during the two weeks of filming as far as he could remember no one reacted that way. Other people on the set told me the same thing. There were no moments like that to cut out. I thought oh man there is going to be like just outraged people or people freaking out. And that was actually the most mind numbing part about the two-week production was that people just were actually thrilled when they find out they would been juiced by O.J. I got juiced! I have been juiced. SINGING I have been juiced.  You know like we were in Las Vegas filming and people would just swarm in off the streets to get photos with O.J. Like mothers and daughters requesting photos. This kid he started rapping for O.J. And then he high fives his friend and he goes I just rapped for O.J. man. That is as big as it gets! And it was like they would just be laughing. It was like whoa-o-o. Hope he does not kill anyone while we are here! Ha ha ha. Did anyone say anything like that? I would hear people off to the side saying that but they would not say it like angry. They would say it like oh he is just funny O.J. who-- he just like became like-- he is like this funny cartoon character. He is like the Santa Claus of murder. Whatever charisma was working in person does not come across on the screen. In fact let me step briefly outside Harmon's story of what it is like to make Juiced to talk more about what it is like to watch Juiced. I have shown this now to so many people and the sheer scope of the chaos in the show is disorienting. Not just to me. Watching the show feels like being winked at from across the room by someone who may be flirting with you or may be messing with you or may just have a tic. It is not clear what to make of anything that is happening. In between the pranks in Juiced there is a scene-changing package that includes for some reason a gunshot sound effect--  --whatever that is supposed to mean or not mean. And 20 to 30 seconds of music during which O.J. is surrounded by strippers. Sometimes he is rapping dressed as a pimp-- big fuzzy black hat zebra striped lapels. RAPPING A lot of people wonder about my intentions. Why do people ask me so many questions about how I made it to the top about all the times I made those people . There is pole dancing. They give him lap dances. And again this scene is in between nearly every prank. And he is surrounded by dancing women who mostly have long blond hair and do not not resemble his dead ex-wife. And he is mugging to the camera with that expression like how great is this? But before you can decide what that means if anything besides just the demographics of who was available to shoot this scene it is on to the next puzzling moment. For instance in the open house prank. At one point Harmon playing the angry homeowner whose house is being looked at tries to blame O.J. for breaking one of the vases. Did you do this? Can you just pay for my vase please? Can you just pay for my vase? Sir I was not around. I get blamed for nothing else. All right in my life I have been blamed for enough shit.  When O.J. Says I have been blamed for enough shit he sounds genuinely angry. Which means I think he is mad at being fake blamed for breaking a vase in a prank because it reminds him that he was on trial for murder 10 years ago. There is a prank where O.J. pretends to be having an affair with another man's wife and the man gets really angry. There is a prank where O.J. plays himself but a homeless version of himself selling bags of oranges by the side of the road. Oranges from O.J.! OJ right here! Is that an edgy comment on his fallen status or just another look at what this celebrity is willing to do on our reality show moment? No time to think. The show plows onward to smaller moments of just raw unlikableness. In one prank O.J. is dressed as an employee of a fast food place and he is working the drive-through window. A woman pulls up in her 40s maybe early 50s. Large fries large orange juice. You sure you want those large fries? You know what they are saying about fast food making you fat. The women who is ordering is overweight so that is the joke. She is fat. She is ordering fries. In Juiced O.J. has plunged himself into reality TV a genre that has no allegiance to the idea that the star has to come out looking good. But there is something off about this show that goes beyond that. For all the frenzy on the screen all the invitations to gawk or be titillated or outraged or just shake your head in wonder mostly it felt empty. It is tiring to watch strangely tiring. When I talked to Harmon he said that during the filming there were moments unlike any other reality show he would worked on unsurprisingly. For starters as far as he could tell everyone had been told the same thing he had-- do not bring up the murders or anything related to them. And no one did except O.J. Before one prank O.J. was being made up to look like an 81-year-old white man. The makeup took three hours to apply. While he is getting the makeup applied he has the TV turned to Court TV. You know and I was like do not mention O.J. Court TV. Do not mention O.J. He is saying this to the TV? No no. I am saying this to myself. Like oh Court TV please do not mention O.J. Because I do not know how he would react. But he was actually just like-- he kind of wanted them to mention him. He was like how are they going to work me into this you know? You know during my trial my lawyers watched my back. You know? So he would-- OK. So it was sort of reminiscing. Yeah yeah. While the women are putting the makeup on him. Yep. He said he really liked watching Court TV. Again when he was getting the makeup applied he would actually tell O.J. jokes. So we had the pleasure of hearing like O.J. Jokes from O.J. himself. What is an O.J. joke? He actually said this. He goes who is the first Jewish guy to get a Heisman Trophy? Fred Goldman because he is got mine. Because the Goldmans brought a civil suit against him that-- Yeah and took his-- Money. Heisman. And so you know everyone just kind of uncomfortably just shifted around and looked at their shoes and contemplated career choices. The cinematographer of Juiced Luc Nicknair told me there was a split in the crew. Some people thought look this man was a great athlete and a big star. And he was acquitted. And that is that and that is how I see this. And others who thought yeah he was acquitted but I still have other thoughts about what may have happened. Definitely two schools of thought. Uh-huh. Yeah. There are definitely two schools of thought. And would people argue about it? He talked about it privately. Actually at the end of the shoot this was the really messed up thing. They decided to shoot interviews with everyone of the crew about our experiences. And then at the end of the interview they would say guilty or not guilty? Oh my God. That did not get on the DVD. None of that got on the DVD. And what was-- I am on camera myself. What did you say? Guilty. And is that what you thought going in? I did not know what to think. That is why I did the job. You know I secretly want to know. It is like-- and here I was going to be given an opportunity to go and shoot this deranged project and I decided to do the gig. I mean I thought about that when I was involved with it. I thought about that. It is like people are going to study this project. And all of a sudden you called me 10 years later.  You know? Harmon and Luc also said Las Vegas where they did the second week of shooting is where things really turned sour and dark. They just seemed to sort of give up on ideas. And O.J. just got less and less interested in it. He did not show up. And then we showed up he was just like really drunk. Like O.J. was supposed to play a wacky motel clerk. You know? Like look out here comes wacky motel clerk O.J.! You know that is the premise of that gag. But he was just like completely drunk and that was the first time they just sort of propped him up in the corner like on a stool and just let him be sort of near the pranks. Harmon said he Harmon ended up playing the wacky motel clerk. And sometimes he even had to be the one to tell people you have been juiced! Whatever that means when the person doing it is not O.J. Simpson. After I juice a couple O.J.'s in the corner drunk. And he would lean into the couple go hey I am O.J. Hey do you recognize me? O.J. Simpson's lawyer who handles media requests did not respond to my emails and phone calls about Juiced. I did reach the executive producer of Juiced Rick Mahr. We talked on the phone-- after months of unanswered voicemails texts and emails from us then out of the blue a legal document from him just a little heads up. Then a series of very friendly but off the record conversations mixed in with two taped interviews that he only agreed to if he could approve every quote. So here's what he approved. He said I had it all wrong when I called Juiced the worst celebrity comeback vehicle ever made. It was never meant to be a comeback vehicle for O.J. or try to turn him into a mainstream star again. We were tasked with creating a reality show that cut through the clutter that everybody would be talking about really during an era when there was a reality TV boom and there was a lot of one upsmanship in the marketplace. He said the goal was just to let the cameras run whether O.J. looked good or not. He said the show being a pile on of one thing after another that may or may not make sense-- the blond strippers the dead-end pranks the weird little verite moments-- that is not a fumble. It is exactly what they were going for. Their business model was get people talking so pile it on. He said look this was not designed to win Emmys. It is supposed to be a nonstop barrage of craziness. You know I would be the first to say it. It is not everybody's-- it is not everybody's cup of tea. Nielson the ratings organization told me the Juiced DVD sold fewer than 100 copies one of which I own. Rick told me yeah. He buried the project on purpose. We had the blinders on to make one crazy reality TV show. After we did it-- and I think we did that-- after we did it there was a part of me that said what the hell did we just do? Juiced was coming out around the same time that O.J. released a book called If I Did It. Huge outcry. The woman who was publishing the book lost her job. A two-hour Fox special was canceled. And we pulled it. We pulled it from circulation. And it is been gathering dust until now. Yeah. You were surprised when I told you that I had a copy. I was. Rick is now re-releasing the Juiced material with footage that is never been seen and an interview with O.J. From the time. It is called O.J. Ungloved the Lost Tapes. He is got the domain name ojsimpson.com. Makes sense-- the 20th anniversary of the murder trial verdict is coming up this fall. There is a multipart FX miniseries in the works. Cuba Gooding Junior is playing O.J. They filmed the Bronco scene a few weeks ago. Rick did not want to say if Juiced was O.J.'s idea or not. When I asked if O.J. was paid for it he said O.J. did this because he wanted to do it. He said his understanding is that O.J. did see Juiced every frame and approved it before it went out. When I asked Rick if O.J. had ever said look this is how I want to be portrayed in this show Rick said the answers to what O.J. wanted out of Juiced or why he did it in the first place are locked in O.J.'s head. All he Rick could say is how unworried O.J. seemed to him while they were filming like anyway they put the footage together would be great because it was O.J. I think history has shown that O.J. Simpson is his own boss. And O.J. is going to do what O.J. is going to do.   O.J. Simpson is with us. You ever had any trouble-- speeding tickets that kind of thing-- O.J.? I do not know if I should say this. I got stopped-- This is O.J. on The Letterman Show in 1989 five years before Nicole Simpson and Ron Goldman were found murdered. And I am just playing it because listen to how big his world was back then how the audience loves everything he says. And I decided that nobody else was on the road. And I was going like-- I think I got it up-- oh you do not want to hear this do you? Yeah no. Let us just--  I got it up pretty fast. I got it up to about 170 miles an hour.  And uh-- Give me your license. Give me your license right now! 170? Well and then this car is really safer.  Oh man.  It really is  100. You should have been with me this morning. I bet that to a very famous person losing the love of the general public feels the way aging can feel-- an unfair changing of the rules too big to accept. And so maybe it is not that surprising that O.J. put himself in a prank show 10 years after the trial basically saying remember me? Still charming. Watching Juiced sometimes felt like seeing a beautiful older actress trying to reprise the exact role that had made her famous when she was younger as though nothing has changed. Remember earlier I talked about Juiced feeling empty? How the show keeps urging viewers to be scandalized and outraged but mostly I just felt tired watching it? I think I figured out why while I was watching and rewatching this last scene I want to play for you the most stunning one in Juiced. It starts with O.J. explaining the prank that is about to happen which takes place at a used car lot. I actually sold the worst used car ever. And this was a Bronco with a bullet hole in it and seats with holes in it. Watch this. Yes. The Bronco. O.J. Is posing as a used car salesman selling a white Bronco. Not the white Bronco just a white Bronco that for some reason has a bullet hole in the side. And while they are filming O.J. signs his name right above the bullet hole. Now this is a Bronco signed by O.J. Simpson.   bullet hole in it. Oh. The scene is a mishmash of people who seem to have no idea what is going on and others who bring up random parts of the Bronco story or the trial as they remember. And O.J. is just surfing all of it. Is there 10000 in here? Nope. Nope. No 10000--  you were carrying it you know? Naw naw. They say that. I was carrying about 3. 3? Yeah. That is why they never brought it up in court. A woman shows up to look at the Bronco so there is some flirting. And you are gorgeous incidentally. Thank you. I appreciate that. When you see a girl in a car like this-- Yeah? --you say her man as not doing nothing for her.  You figure you got a chance right? And after a little of this a little of that O.J. Seems to settle down into his sales pitch for the Bronco. It was good for me. Yeah? Got me out of harm's way.  OK I will sit in it.  there was a dead body in there. Yeah. Well um hopefully there is no bodies in th