Here's what it is like to hold political office in the current economy. In the last year Jay Nixon the governor of Missouri has done a steady stream of events announcing new jobs in this state a new IBM office with 800 jobs a Sabreliner expansion that'ill create 400 new jobs. And in November he went to a plant in Macon Missouri that makes fishing reels to announce not hundreds of jobs or dozens of jobs but eight jobs. Eight. He did a press event for eight jobs. Well I mean that is not the smallest we have been to either. We actually did one in North Missouri where we created one job. And you showed up? Yeah. Right when I got started I put together a small loan program. The businesses would complain that they did not have access to capital. So we put a program together in which businesses could borrow up to 25000 at 3 interest. And in Bethany Missouri a small town a lady had a printing company printing t-shirts and signs in her basement. This allowed her to get a storefront and hire somebody to help her move forward. This is what it is come to America. You can hire your very first employee and the governor shows up with TV cameras. You cannot be politics in America right now without promising people jobs. Right? You know what I am talking about? You have heard this from like every politician in America? In a tough economy we are working hard to create opportunity. It is still all about jobs. When the President became President we started creating jobs right away. We have a bipartisan bill that will create jobs immediately. We are going to work hard and our whole focus is get this state back to work. A lot of people have been writing in and calling in and tweeting about jobs. They would say Mr. Trump can we have a job? Can you help us get a job? Well the fact is if I run and if I win you will have plenty of jobs. That would be of course Newark Mayor Cory Booker Alaska Senator Lisa Murkowski Democrats Nancy Pelosi and Harry Reid Florida Governor Rick Scott and Donald Trump. In fact if anyone these days brings up any subject besides jobs people complain why are not we talking about jobs? Well they got the photo. What to do about the photo? This is Rush Limbaugh last week when they Obama administration was still deciding whether or not to release photos of the dead Osama bin Laden. And the longer they dangle the photo release decision well then the more people that are distracted from the slow job growth. Or on the opposite side of the political divide on the Rachel Maddow Show Dean Baker of the Center for Economic and Policy Research asks here why are we focusing so much on the deficit? To my mind it really is unconscionable just to sit back and have people go oh we are worried about the deficit 10 15 20 years out when we have 25 million people unemployed underemployed or out of the labor force altogether. So getting jobs in the economy really should be front and center. Or just to show the all-purpose usefulness of this trope here's Republican Congressman David Rivera being questioned about an investigation into his campaign finances. The interviewer tells him Some of this material did not come out during the campaign so the voters did not have a chance to size it up. And now that they see what was going on frankly some of them feel had. Well actually most of the people were concerned about the economy and job creation. They want me to go to Washington and do something about unemployment job creation. That is exactly what I have been doing. See how easy? Well today on our radio show with all these people saying it is time to create jobs and promising that they are going to create jobs and asking why are not we spending more time talking about creating jobs we ask what does it even mean for a politician to create a job? Can they really create many jobs? Is that real? Is that a real thing? Is it possible the whole thing is just a lot of well-meaning hot air? From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. We have been looking into this for months with our colleagues from Planet Money. And we have answers. Stay with us. Act One Can the Government Move My Cheese? All right. One of the big ways that politicians used to create jobs the way that FDR did it back in the '30s-- put more people on the government payroll build dams build roads spend and spend and spend-- nobody nobody with any power anyway seems to be talking about doing that. But there are all sorts of things that politicians are doing to create jobs only they are jobs in the private sector. Chana Joffe-Walt explains how. In this story I am going to be talking about Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker. But I should tell you up front I am not going to be talking about any of the things you know or have heard about him which I am assuming are mostly this. Governor Walker is proposing deep cuts in public employee pension and health care benefits and is called for eliminated collective bargaining rights for everything but pay. We will not be denied our rights to collectively bargain. It is Walker's proposed budget cuts that have the unions now up in arms. Yeah. Yeah all that I am not going there. I will not be saying the words union or collective bargaining in this story-- except for that time and that is it. I want to talk about something else. So before Walker became famous nationwide for taking on Wisconsin's public unions in Wisconsin he was famous for this-- his pledge to create jobs something Walker has never been understated about. Here he is at a campaign event in February of last year. Today I want to make a first of its kind campaign announcement that I think is going to be earth-shattering. Today I announce in front all of you here today and everybody else who is going to be listening on the news and reading in tomorrow's newspaper that if you elect me as your next governor I pledge to you here today and to all the other citizens of the state of Wisconsin that by the end of my first term we will create 250000 new jobs in this state and 10000 new businesses by the end of that first term. Walker's pledge to create jobs was not earth-shattering in and of itself. But what was interesting about it was that he was so specific. If we are going to look at how a politician creates jobs this guy named a number and not just once. No in fact he repeated it over and over and over again. This is Craig Gilbert a political reporter for the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. 250000 jobs. I will create 250000 jobs in my first term as governor. I mean the message was the number. Last February into the spring Scott Walker had two opponents Democrat Tom Barrett and Republican Mark Neumann. For months the two men ridiculed Walker's number his specificity. They called his 250000 jobs number meaningless arbitrary an empty promise. Why 250000? they would say? Because it is a round number? Why not 285000? 300000? This went on and on until around June it quietly stopped. And the next thing that happened was that one by one Walker's opponents named their own numbers. First Barrett. Our immediate goal is to regain the 180000 jobs that we have lost during this economic downturn. That is what I propose today a comprehensive vision to create Wisconsin jobs. Then Neumann. But when you put the package together we are talking about 300000 jobs in the state of Wisconsin by 2020. That is the target. They could not beat Walker at the numbers game. On November 2 Scott Walker the first to name a number won the election for governor. The 250000 jobs man would have his opportunity to job create. So is it working? Are jobs being created in Wisconsin? Sure we are in a recovery from the worst recession since the Great Depression. You may have heard that. So yeah there are new jobs in Wisconsin. All you have to do to see job creation happening is look in the newspaper the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel classifieds. Bed Bath  Beyond has a couple positions as do several fast-paced dentist offices. There are opportunities for self-starters interested in selling Hondas. Titan LED invites sales representatives to join the lighting revolution with a splashy full-pager. It is endless in terms of the opportunities. Because everywhere you look up there is a fixture. This is John Ruscigno performing his job title Titan LED Marketing Director. He told me they are hiring sales agents like crazy right now. And these are newly created jobs. The company is brand new on the LED lighting scene a booming industry. Oh it is phenomenal. There is not a day that goes by that we do not have agents walking the door and the phones are ringing and we have got purchase orders coming in and shipments going out. So it is actively growing and growing very aggressively. Two sections down in the want ads Brookdale Senior Living is hiring 15 people. The ad explains Brookdale Senior Living is growing fast. And in person the Executive Vice President and Treasurer Kristen Ferge explains why. There is just a huge disconnect between the supply and the demand in the later years. Translation there is about to be a lot of old people. There are not enough places to put them. And that is what Brookdale offers places for old people. But-- and this is an important but-- I asked the LED guy if he had heard of Governor Walker's job creating plans. He had not. Nor had the majority of people I called in the classifieds. Kristin at Brookdale had. But she Walker was not the reason Brookdale is building new old age homes and creating jobs. That again is thanks to the supply-demand disconnect. Governor Scott Walker is not behind these jobs. He is not aging people or making them crave LED lighting. These jobs are created on their own. In fact before Walker was elected before he did anything in office the Wisconsin Department of Revenue projected that the state would add about 190000 jobs by 2015 Walker's deadline. So 190000 jobs if Walker stepped into his fancy governor's office day one and proceeded to do exactly nothing all four years. If he played FarmVille on Facebook his entire term jobs would still be created. So another way to think about the 250000 jobs man is that he is got 190000 that are freebies which means he is actually going for 60000 to reach beyond what would happen anyway. Now how is he going to that? The Wisconsin Capitol was sieged by anti-Walker protesters for weeks in February early March. When I arrive it is almost April. And the Capitol looks kind of like the front lawn of a frat house Monday morning. There are a few soppy posters poking out of garbage cans small groups of protesters show up at random hours the drum circle has been reduced to one guy with a pail. Governor Walker sits one floor above that scene. There is no whiteboard in his office with a jobs tally no big red 250000 target just him in a suit with a slogan. Wisconsin's open for business. Scott Walker has a Clark Kent thing going on. He is sort of generically handsome. He blinks in sync with his speech. He is a fan of the word literally. And he begins our interview by telling me about the night he won the election and introducing me to his sign a move I am pretty sure he uses with all the reporters. It is green. Picture a campaign poster. But this one just says Wisconsin's open for business. In fact I put up a sign like that literally the night I won election November 2. From that point forward it is about telling the state what you are going to do. And so it literally just said Wisconsin's open for business. And we said we have a plan to help of people the state create 250000 jobs by the end of our first term so 250000 jobs by 2015. Walker and I talked in circles for a bit. I ask him But how do you do that create jobs? He tells me The private sector create jobs. The government just has to get out of the way. But of course his pledge was that the government led by him would create jobs. I asked for clarification and eventually we come to this. Walker believes government helps create jobs through incentives. He speaks mostly of taxes and exclusively about lowering them something he started working on right away. January 3 took the oath of office literally called a special session. And then handed the next morning the legislature gave them a stack of various pieces of legislation putting things that were specifically targeted towards lowering tax burden for employers based upon jobs created. Under these new laws employers who create jobs now get a tax deduction 2000 to 4000 depending on the company size per head. So 2000 to 4000 deduction for each new hire. Companies that relocate to Wisconsin get two years tax free. And Walker expanded another tax credit program for companies to make capital investments that create jobs. Now all this I should say is an incredibly typical approach. Hand out goodies to entice the private sector to hire. Republicans tend to do it through tax cuts Democrats through spending many do both. But they are all basically after the same thing-- less money for the government more money for the private sector get the jobs numbers to go up. How will you know that you were successful? How will you know they you created 250000 jobs? We track them. We track every month. For example the first month of this year the Department of Workforce Development tracks the number of new jobs that are added in the private sector. In January alone there were 10100 approximately new jobs created in the private sector. We will keep building off of those patterns. But how do you know that is you? Well it is not. You do not have a personal clicker every time you talk to somebody who got a job. This is kind of a weird thing to say. On the one hand Walker is saying he did not create those jobs. Government cannot create jobs. But on the other hand he is saying it is helpful to have all these incentives to encourage businesses to create jobs. I mean for us it is the overall climate. It is creating a job. It is selling the state. If it is an employer that I have never personally talked to but an employer in Rice Lake or La Crosse or Wausau or Green Bay says Things have changed. I feel better about the economy. I feel better about the state. I am going to go out now and hire those five or ten people I was thinking about all of those collectively that is where the real job growth is going to come. Right now Walker is on target. If job growth continues at the current rate he will make his 250000. And in his mind he will have done it in a very subtle specific way. The role Walker has cast for himself is one of professional government seducer in which he makes the idea of hiring-- something you maybe had on the mind already-- look that much more appealing. He is adding some alcohol to a singles mixer maybe dimming the lights a bit. And then let the hiring begin. In a moment I am going to join over here and sign away. But before that I will take questions. Walker signed part of his jobs legislation into law at a company called Saris in Madison. They make bike racks. It is a small business that is growing likely job creator good place to make an announcement like this. So a good place to test his theory too right? To ask if these incentives actually make a difference. The CEO Chris Fortune was in Dallas at the Super Bowl when the governor visited. When I visited Saris he was in the back office with a cold. And he got out a calculator. OK let us say at the end of the year I have hired five people. I get a 4000 deduction for each. So 20000 off my total income that is a deduction which at the end saves me something like 270 per new employee. Whatever-- let us say you hire somebody at 10 an hour. That is 22000 plus benefits. What is it 2080 hours a year times 10? At 2000 I do not know. It does not work. The math does not work for me as the motivator to hire people. It may work for somebody else these financial programs. But it does not work for us. It is strange though because Governor Walker was here to announce these new programs to encourage businesses to hire. And yet you are saying it would do nothing for you. Well we could benefit from that if we do hire people. The thing I am saying is that what that bill does is not going to drive our decision on what we are going to do. Are there employers for who the math does work who could get Walker those extra 60000 jobs? I asked Governor Walker. Are there companies that you can point to right now three months into your term and say these are companies that we have helped create jobs. Yeah. City Brewing in La Crosse Wisconsin has 550 people working there. They have got five lines. They want to add a sixth line. And one of the ways that we are helping them do that-- we announced just on Friday-- was we are giving them 490000 in tax credits. Meaning if they hit those a 100 plus jobs they get 490000 worth of credits off of their corporate income taxes. I called City Brewing. They told me yes the governor's tax incentives played a role-- at one point they even said a large role-- in their decision to hire. They would been wanting to add that sixth line for a while. It was in the plans a year ago. They are making a 13 million investment so 490000 off their income taxes is a small incentive. But they said it did help push them over the edge to do it now to say yes to job creation. So add 100 jobs to Walker's white board. I ask him for more examples. Stoughton Trailer is a good example overall 478 jobs. They met with us. We put a package together. If they do not create the number of jobs they said they do not get as big of an incentive. Stoughton Trailers is 20 miles southeast of Madison. You know the boxes you see trucks pulling around the highways carrying fruit and toys and toasters from one place to another? Stoughton makes them. Keith Wise makes the hires 478 which is a lot of people to hire. It is crazy. It is fun. It is nerve-wracking at times. Stoughton will get a 750000 government loan for investing 11 million in a new plant. I ask if they would have hired the 478 people without these government programs. We probably would but at a much lower rate than what we are. Slower? Yeah much slower much slower. We will be able to a lot of people in here a lot quicker than what we normally would. So out of 478 jobs maybe Walker gets to count half? Keith would not play this game with me. And I can recognize that it is kind of a ridiculous game. Andrew Reschovsky an economist at the University of Wisconsin-Madison basically told me as much. He kept repeating look the decision to hire someone is so complicated. Any employer he told me has a long list of factors to consider. Taxes are one factor but not the most important factor. And they tend not to be at the top of the list. It is kind of a genius political move to say that you the politician are going to create jobs. A job gets created and it could have been you. Or it could have been because people are getting old because we are coming out of a recession or because people are buying more bikes. How will one ever know-- if the economy grows and employment is 250000 jobs higher four years from now than it is now will we know that it has anything to do with government policy or not? And that is one of the very difficult probably unanswerable questions. So we will never know if he was successful or not? I think that is fair to say. Oh we could know that he failed right? Yes. If at the end of four years only 200000 jobs have been created he has failed in terms of his promise. Does that then mean that there is nothing a government can do to help create jobs? I would not go as far as saying there is nothing a government can do. That overstates the case. Governments can make a difference. If you want to get businesses to increase hiring now over the next year or two you have relatively limited power. Which is of course exactly what you want if you are a governor. You have four years. You want the jobs now. Reschovsky says well if you get a governor who is willing to be patient there are things he or she can do that will likely help create jobs. Such as-- I am going to improve the quality of the state university system or I am going to invest in community colleges good roads good bridges-- so physical infrastructure-- to have an educated labor force. There are possible ways in which you can make a difference. But you will not see those results until the end of your second term-- if you are lucky-- or until the next guy is in office. So in the meantime politicians with a jobs number to achieve focus on the short term. Republicans and Democrats hand out tax cuts and other incentives to seduce employers into hiring. And of course those goodies cost something. In Wisconsin they account for 117 million in taxes that will not be collected over Walker's first two years. This in a state where they are fighting over every dollar. So that leaves the government with less money to do the things Reschovsky is talking about to spend on education so that employers can hire smart people to build good roads and internet infrastructure so businesses can transport goods and innovate. If you go with tax cuts you might seduce some employers to hire now. But you will hurt future employers who needed you to spend on schools so they could find educated workers to come up with great new ideas. If you go with long-term spending schools and internet you have to increase taxes to pay for it which can mean businesses on that job creation fence might be pushed to the anti-job-creating territory. In both cases you have zeroed out your efforts. You have had some effect on the one side but canceled it out with what you did on the other side. But that is the choice you have long-term or short-term. Whether the governor is Democrat or Republican someone you love or someone you hate politicians do not have a lot of options. At best they will get a bunch of new jobs for the somersaults it took to get there. At worst they had some impact did something but have no idea how to measure exactly what. Chana Joffe-Walt. She is part of our Plant Money team. Planet Money is a co-production of our program and NPR News. Coming up Oklahoma versus California and Oklahoma wins. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life I am Ira Glass. Each week on our show we choose a theme bring you a variety of different kinds of stories on that team. Today's show how to create a job. Good morning. Hi. Tuesday Holland Michigan. Everybody can come this way please. Deborah Ozga leads five people through a sea of cubicles to be interviewed for call center jobs at Novo 1. People on headsets look up and watch them pass. Not long ago that was them. The facility has gone from 10 employees last summer to 315 as of Tuesday. Novo 1 got a 1 million grant from the federal government and 115000 tax abatement from the city to locate here in Holland to create those jobs. Tuesday they were looking to hire 15 more people which in the current economy seemed like it might be a nice thing to hear. So our producer Lisa Pollack went there to record. In the conference room Deborah explains about the company and the positions that she is filling. They are call center jobs doing roadside assistance. The pay is 9 with full benefits 10 if you do well in your first 90 days. That is 20800 a year. Now I am going to point out these things and they are going to sound negative. But I want to be realistic about the job because I do not want to sugarcoat anything. She is explains that it is a job where you log in and out every time you take a break or go to the bathroom that computers and phones are monitored that you pay an 80 deposit for your headset taken from your paycheck in two installments. That it is a very structured job for people who thrive in a structured environment. And then the interview begins. And it is a group interview all five people at once. What I am going to do I have a series of questions and I am going to go around the room. It is the same question for everybody. But try to have your own answer. When you are working in a contact center it can consist of both intense periods of activity often followed by no activity at all. I would not ever say no activity. But it can go to the other extreme. How do you react in both of these situations? Well because I have a lot of years of call center experience-- This woman was the oldest in the group and the only one in a pantsuit had one of those executive leather notebook folder portfolio things with her and seemed like a shoo-in. It is been my experience in the past to use training materials while I am in idle time just to brush up on some of my skills. A lot of times I like to try to review any notes I have or maybe go back if there is something that I have not finished up on to try to follow up on that. Once that gauntlet of an answer had been hurled-- in her downtime she simply does more work-- what is everyone else supposed to say? I suppose I would do something similar go through notes for training purposes or review my previous phone calls. Just occupying the downtime in any facet that would be constructive for the company is what I would aim for. It does not hurt either that I am OCD and extremely clean and tidy. Touche. Where does anybody go from there? I would always first check to see if there is anything anyone else needed help with. If somebody else was overloaded if there was a way to transfer their next call to my station instead. When Deborah asked the group how they feel about working in a place that is so regimented with strict attendance policies the way Nova 1 has again they are being interviewed. What are they going to say? Honestly I think that is a very good thing. Because having a good attendance policy makes sure that employees are actually serious about wanting to work here and not just there for the paycheck. I do not like calling in because I always feel bad for the other people. I always think of the other people before myself. There are three qualities that I strive for in the workplace-- punctuality kindness and being a team player above all else. And the fact that you guys have a strict attendance policy is a wonderful thing because it weeds out the people who want to be there and who do not. Deborah did two group interviews on Tuesday 13 people in all. And a few hours after they left Deborah sat down at her office  for the moment of truth. Hi John this is Deborah calling from Nova 1. How are you? Good good. Well I wanted to give you a call to offer you a position here. Oh good good. I am so glad. You sound a little excited about this. Oh that is so good to hear. I like when I hear that kind of answer. I told her that it felt like a little weight has been lifted and it definitely feels really good. This of course is John. He is 21 worked at a Pizza Hut sold some vacuum cleaners on commission worked at the mall during holidays. He has never made over 8 an hour. So he was pretty excited. It is just really relieving because I have not really found a good solid job that would pay me decently at least give me the hours that I needed. And I went in and did my best and she called me. It just felt so awesome. It felt really really great. The phone rang and I answered it. And she says You have the position. We want to offer it to you. You almost want to scream Yes I will take it! This is Heather who is 30 worked at the photo studio in a Walmart for five years but was laid off a year and half ago. Collected unemployment which ran out in March. Especially after I lost my unemployment then I just pretty much started going for anything. If I even felt like I was even remotely qualified for it I applied for it. I applied for janitorial I applied at a dentist office because they said that they would train in the different dental procedures that they would actually need help with. I had been let down so much I did not want to get my hopes up. So pretty much as soon as she called me back it was one of those things of all right. I tried to calm myself down a little bit at first so I did not scream at the poor woman. She and John start work May 23. Which brings us to act three Job Fairies. If you think about it who wants to create jobs? Not businesses. Most companies would love to do whatever they do with fewer people and fewer jobs. It would be cheaper. It is us who want more jobs and the politicians we elect. And the people who work for those politicians who are supposed to do the dirty work and make the magic happen make the jobs appear these are the economic development officers. And just about every town or county above a certain size every state has an economic development team going around trying to figure out how to get more jobs for the people who live in that place. Julie Snyder and Planet Money's Adam Davidson spent some time at one of their conventions in San Diego for the International Economic Development Council. When we got to the IEDC leadership conference at that Westin Hotel in San Diego a few months ago the national unemployment rate was at 9.4. The US lost 6 and 12 million jobs in the last few years. I know. And we were thinking god these people are going to be so miserable. These are the people on the front lines. They are counting jobs every day. So we figured the mood here would be really bleak. We were wrong. The nice thing about Texas is we were not as negatively impacted as some of the rest of the states who had serious unemployment. Casper Wyoming things are going very well as a matter of fact. We were very fortunate to not get hit in the recession as hard as many other parts of the country. Nashville is a really interesting economy. It is incredibly diverse. So we have not been has whacked by the recession as a lot of communities. And that is very true at Augusta. We were not affected by the recession as much a lot of communities. This I swear is only a small sample of all of the times Adam and I were assured that not only are Casper Nashville and Augusta doing great but it is boom time in Houston Oklahoma City Jefferson Parish Louisiana Rio Rancho New Mexico. Everybody every single person told us about their great great economy. The moment for me when I realized oh they are lying or at least oh they are spinning was when the economic development person from Saginaw Michigan was telling me how great things are going there. At that moment Saginaw had an unemployment rate well above 13. That is way worse than the national average. The FBI says Saginaw is the number one most violent city in America. We heard so much boosterism at this conference. It turns out getting jobs to your city is a lot like dating. You want to act like the last thing in the world you need are jobs in your town. Your city is so cool so in demand so business friendly that jobs are everywhere. There is a lot of manufacturing in Augusta. There is a huge Procter  Gamble plant there all the Tide and Cheer detergent in the world is made in Augusta. This is this guy Walter Sprouse from Augusta Georgia. He literally talked for a straight minute and a half listing off all of the companies in the Augusta area. E-Z-GO Club Car John Deere all these companies are located in Augusta in addition to the ones I talking about with Proctor  Gamble. And NutraSweet is headquartered there. Yeah he is showing that he is business friendly. That is the key for economic development. If you have a lot of unemployment-- Wait Adam. Yeah? He is not done. Solo Cup all these companies. Automatic Data Processing employs about 1000 people. OK OK I get it. But of course you do not want any business who might be thinking of coming to your town to hear that you have high unemployment the people there are near depression levels. Because that might signal that you are some lame loserville with high taxes tons of regulation or a low skill base meaning people in your town are uneducated or stupid. So how do these people create jobs in their communities? First they do something that they like to call business attraction. Yeah that is what they call it business attraction. I came up with a different word. I call it stealing. They are trying to steal jobs from each other. After a few hours I was thinking this conference is like a convention of incredibly collegial pickpockets. Everyone's politely sharing tricks of the trade telling war stories and all the time they are sizing each other up figuring out hey what has that guy got that I could steal? The economic developers definitely did not like to talk about stealing. When it would come up they would smile awkwardly and try and change the conversation. Let us go back around to listing all the advantages of their