OK so let us begin today with this story about two people. These are two people with two very different perspectives on the world. And the one thing these two people have in common the only thing that connects them is a can of olives that one of them sends to the other. Diane Wu one of the producers of our show she looked into this. Hey Diane. Hello Ira. So? So the first person in the story is named Caroline. She was a year out of college when this package arrived to her parents' house a place she had not lived for many years. Her mom texted her. What do you want me to do with this box from Walmart.com? Which was weird because Caroline had not ordered anything from Walmart like ever so she just texted her mom back to say well just open it up and see what is inside. And then she texts me that it is a can of black olives. It is just like this can of black olives and an empty box. No note no nothing. So Caroline starts texting her friends and asks them did you send me these olives? Is there like an olive inside joke that we have that I forgot about? And people are like I do not know what you are talking about. Like I did not send you any olives. One of her friends wrote oh the classic oliving. So Caroline then goes to urbandictionary.com and types in oliving. Nothing comes up. So her friend was kidding? Yeah. Caroline thinks OK maybe Walmart just made a mistake. This was a random computer glitch. Or maybe her friends were lying and one of them did send it. So she calls Walmart. There is no receipt but the order number was on the box. And? And they told her it was not a random computer glitch. There was a person who ordered it and sent it to her like a real person and he is the other person in the story. And they gave me the name. They said it was this guy named Christopher Fouts and I do not know anyone by that name. She thinks why would a total stranger send me a can of olives? So she Google's Christopher Fouts looks for him on Facebook but she cannot figure out who he is. Who do you think Christopher Fouts is? How do you imagine him? I imagine that maybe he has like-- this is a very specific thing that I am imagining. Go for it. OK so I imagine that I do not know he has a day-to-day office job where he comes in to the cubicle every day and grinds away. And so on the side he likes to pull these pranks and whatnot. Caroline really liked the whole idea that there was this stranger out there somewhere in the world sending random packages to people just to surprise them. I think it means there is hope you know? If some random person is just going to send you olives to make you smile when you open up-- you know? OK so after that conversation you set out to find Christopher Fouts right? Mm-hm. To ask him why he sent her the olives. Was it hard to find him? It was a little bit hard. He is not easily Google-able. I had to write him a letter like in the mail. And it got forwarded to Germany because that is where he lives now. So a couple weeks after I started looking for him he sent me back an email. So did you tell him Caroline's theory that he is out there sending random stuff to strangers to make them smile? I did. I ran that by him. And he told me-- That was not my motivation whatsoever. So it turns out Christopher Fouts sells stuff on Amazon as a side gig. He runs the whole operation out of his basement. He sells household goods. And Caroline was one of his customers. Miss Caroline had placed an order on December 30th for a 12 piece dining ware set. But when he went to his basement to send the dining ware set to her he found out he did not have it in stock. So Christopher went online and bought it from Walmart had them send it to her at the address she gave which was her parents' house. But there was a snag. The dinner ware set was below Walmart's threshold for free shipping. Enter the star of our show the can of olives. Adding the can of black olives put the order at above the threshold for the free shipping. How much did he save? 3.70 by adding the olives. Is there any part of you when you did this that thought about Caroline opening the box and getting the olives? No actually. I was just thinking about minimizing my losses on this order. So basically she has thought about him a lot. He has never given her any thought at all. And the answer to Caroline's question about where her olives came from? It is the least romantic answer you could possibly come up with. Like it is less romantic than just a random computer glitch. A guy trying to save 3.70 in shipping costs. So Diane and I called Caroline and we explained how Christopher Fouts saw their whole transaction. Her reaction to this I think cut to the heart of the matter succinctly. I think we are just very different people. True enough. And the way you see a can of olives depends on your perspective about things in general. Like do you choose to see life as an adventure or do you see it as a guy trying to reduce shipping costs? Caroline of course knows where she stands. Life's an adventure. I mean-- yeah it is like-- I feel like if I had the mentality that life was a guy reducing his shipping costs that would be just so sad. I have to say I am with you. I also think life is an adventure but I do acknowledge the stunning amount of information that we get all the time letting us know that a lot of it is a guy reducing his shipping cost. Yes. Most of the data points are a guy reducing his shipping cost I would say. Well today on our radio show we meet some people who are going into remarkable situations and I mean true adventures. We have a space explorer who went to the moon a professional basketball player people embracing big dreams. Except all these people are Christopher's. They are not Caroline's. They are all about keeping shipping costs low. They are practical people in situations so many of us would find deeply thrilling. How they managed to be who they are in the face of spectacular wonder and the vast unknown-- from WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act 1-- So Over the Moon. So a man takes a trip to a place that a lot of people dream of going. The food's not the best but the scenery is pretty great. Anyway the experience of it for him was not what you usually hear. David Kestenbaum tells the story. I found out about this guy entirely by accident. I was watching this short documentary that just came out about the Apollo 8 mission. This is the 50th anniversary. It was a beautiful film with all this footage from the launch and from space. So I reached out to the filmmaker Emmanuel Vaughan-Lee thinking maybe we could do some version of it here on the radio. Maybe we would do a show about space. And it turns out Emmanuel had done these very long multi-day interviews with each of the three astronauts. He sent me raw recordings. And listening through I heard something I was not expecting at all. One of the astronauts Frank Borman was saying things I had just never heard an astronaut say. Like this-- Space science fiction still bores me. I have never seen-- what is the name of that-- that very popular-- 2001? Yeah all that crap. I have never seen any of that. Emmanuel the filmmaker also seemed amused. He pressed on. What about when you were a kid? And what about the stars or astronomy? No. None of that? Airplanes. Airplanes and airplanes only. Airplanes and airplanes only. Wow. Wow. And a certain particular girl. Susan. Yeah. So-- Susan is Borman's wife. They fell in love in high school. Borman was game to answer any question Emmanuel put to him though he particularly seemed to like the ones he could easily dispatch answers to like a little problem he had solved. In 1945-- He was very matter of fact. When Emanuel asked if being in the cramped spaceship was like being in a submarine Borman said I do not know. I have never been in a submarine. My sense reading press accounts from back in the day is that Borman was not this blunt about it all back in the '60s when astronauts were supposed to be playing the part of America's heroes. But now time has passed. He is 90 years old. He says he does not give a damn. I never knowingly altered it but it was very difficult for me to be as candid now I think as I was then-- I just did not cover some things as in-depth as you are doing here today. And when you have been this candid and honest as you are now what is been people's reactions? I have not had any reaction because I am just being it with you.  When I was a science reporter I covered NASA for years. So I have interviewed my share of astronauts. But I always felt like I was not really getting it what it was like to be in space. Do not get me wrong. They were polite and smart. But there was a sameness to it all. They talk about how amazing it was to be weightless about how it was humankind's destiny to leave the planet and explore. But I always felt like of course they would say that. They want to get picked by their bosses to go into space again and it is the polite thing to say. It is what people want to hear. And I imagine it is what they felt. After all that is exactly the kind of person who ends up becoming an astronaut. I have always wondered what someone else might make of going up there experiencing the vastness of the universe and coming home again. Borman seemed different. He was the astronaut I had always wanted to hear from. Borman lives in Billings Montana. He agreed to block out a couple of hours so we could talk. I flew out there. We met in the lobby of the hotel with no real plan for how to recognize each other. There were a lot of retirees around and I kept wondering is that the guy who is been to outer space? Maybe that guy? We eventually found each other. He was walking slowly shirt tucked in. I would read that when he was an astronaut they would had to spend 45000 to make a special helmet for him because his head was larger than others. But I do not know it seemed normal to me. We sat down in a little conference room. I would half wondered if we should use our time together to watch 2001-- A Space Odyssey. I thought if he actually saw it he might like it. But it is a long film. I went with something shorter. Can I show you something and see if it speaks to you at all? Star Trek. Yeah that is what I was-- I have never seen that. Space the final frontier. These are the voyages of the Starship Enterprise-- I looked at Borman as he watched but I could not read his expression. --to seek out new life and new civilizations to boldly go where no one has gone before. Nonsense to me. I-- it does not interest me. I am sorry. To go where no man has gone before that does not do anything for you? No. But you did it.  He really did. When Borman became an astronaut only eight people had ever been into space. Apollo 8-- the mission he was commander of-- it was the very first time humans had ever left Earth's orbit. Borman and the two other crew members in this tiny spacecraft went all the way to the moon. They did not land. It was kind of a dry run for the moon landing. But in some ways it actually seems more exciting to me and terrifying. It was the first time anyone had gone that far from the earth really ventured out into space seeing the moon so close up. This other celestial body right there outside the window. He was 40 years old. How did Borman-- the guy who did not really care about space-- end up being one of the first people to go to the moon? It is true. This was the beginning of the space program and a lot of the early astronauts were test pilots. But still the other two guys Borman flew with-- they were the type of people who might have gone to space camp as kids. If space camp had existed back then. One of them Bill Anders loved geology. As a kid he had decided he wanted to own a piece of every rock in the world. The other Jim Lovell while in high school had tried to build a model rocket one powered by liquid oxygen. Lovell was mesmerized by space and exploration and wanted desperately to explore the moon. I was there because it was a battle in the Cold War. I wanted to participate in this American adventure of beating the Soviets. But that is the only thing that motivated me-- beat the damn Russians. I have always known we were in a race to beat the Russians but I did not realize how intense it could have felt back then. The Russians had launched the first satellite Sputnik. They were also the first to put a man in space the first to put a woman in space. The Russians did the first spacewalk. They landed a probe on the moon before we did. The US always seemed a step behind. As Borman saw it a freedom loving democracy was being beaten by a dictatorship. And whoever put a person on the moon first that was going to be in the history books forever. Borman was an Air Force pilot who'd gone to West Point. He had a reputation for being blunt and also kind of serious. He did not like anyone messing around. He would never been in battle but he thought this is where the real fight is now. So he applied to be an astronaut. The psychiatrist who evaluated him later said Borman was the least complicated man he had ever met. What do you think he meant by that? I do not-- I have no idea. I have no idea. I do not-- whether I am complicated or uncomplicated. What would Susan say? Susan says this. I was the most uncomplicated man she ever knew. Are you a romantic person? I think in some ways I am. I get emotional at good movies at times and things like that. What movies do you watch? Probably the best movie that I have ever seen is Casablanca. I love Casablanca. Why do you like Casablanca? Casablanca was a wonderful wartime story of the recognition that a good cause is more important than the human being relationship. Oh. Win the war and lose the woman was what that was all about. That is the opposite of romantic. No it is very romantic. I asked Borman to walk me through the mission what it was like for him at each stage. T-minus seven minutes 30 seconds-- On the morning of the Apollo 8 launch December 21 1968 Borman and the two other astronauts sat atop the Saturn 5 rocket which had only been tested twice not with anyone on it. The Apollo 1 had caught fire on the launch pad killing three astronauts. Borman's left hand was on an abort switch. He told me he was not scared. But Susan his wife-- she was. She and their two kids had come to watch the other time Borman had gone into space for the Gemini 7 launch. But this rocket the Saturn 5 rocket was way way way bigger-- 36 stories high. So with this one they did not come. Rockets-- you know it is a very loud and frightening thing. And to have your husband and father in the nose of the thing is-- I think it was difficult for them. --and the pressure's still building up-- She said it was. That is why she stayed home. --45 seconds. Final reports coming from Frank Borman at this time. I was not going to play you the 5 4 3 2 1 tape but then I listened back to it. It is pretty good. It is like you can hear how big the thing is. One of the astronauts said it felt like being a rat in the jaws of a big terrier. We have ignition sequence start. The engines are on. 4 3 2 1 0-- we have connect. We have-- Lift off. The clock is running. We have lift off.  looking good. OK so after the launch-- and please do not feel compelled to answer yes to any of these questions you know. Oh I will not. I amma tell you the truth. OK. Was it cool to float around weightless?  No. I think everyone thinks it would be amazing to be weightless and floating. He said his main observation about being in zero g was just the obvious thing. When you let go of something in midair it would stay there. Turn loose of this and it would stay there. Except when turning loose of it you would probably impart a little motion to it so it would float around. But-- Was that interesting to observe? Maybe for the first 30 seconds then it became accepted. I think of explorers as the people who push into new territory bring back exotic experiences to the rest of us in the ordinary world. But I like the idea the opposite might also be true. That after a while somewhere new it starts to feel familiar even outer space.  coming up on 20 seconds to ignition. After they reached orbit Borman and the two others fired the rocket engine again and did what had never been done before. They headed away from the safety of the planet and out toward the moon. It was going to take them two days to get there. Two days in the middle of nothingness. Borman says interviewers always ask if it felt lonely. He feels like everyone wants him to say yes. But the answer was no. I cannot tell if you are the best person or the worst person to have gone to the moon in terms of describing what it is like. I am probably the worst. Did you say at some point they should have sent a poet? No I did not-- if I did I did not-- the last thing I would have wanted on our crew was a poet.  The trip seemed like it was this weird combination of something intense and romantic and otherworldly but also a little like a long car ride. At one point in the transcripts one of them says I am warm now. How about you? Borman says. I am hot. The other guy says Man I am still cold. And this happens on long car rides. People sometimes get sick. In this case it was Borman. How does throwing up work in space? Same as it does on Earth. Uncomfortable and I tried to capture it in a disposal bag but I did not get all of it. Still I just could not swallow the idea that none of this had moved him. You are in space going over 20000 miles an hour stars everywhere. The first people to really leave the Earth.  is coming to you approximately half-way between the moon and the Earth. We have been 31 hours about 20 minutes into the flight we have about less than 40 hours left to go to the moon. Borman says there was really just one moment where he felt something stir in his uncomplicated self. It happened while they were circling the moon which as a destination he says did not look like a place you would ever want to live or work. Oh devastation. Meteor craters no color at all. Just different shades of gray. And then peering out the small windows over the gray landscape of the moon they saw something coming up over the horizon. It was the earth and it was beautiful. This blue and white marble the only thing that had any color. Here's how he described it to Emmanuel the filmmaker. It is 240000 miles away. It was small enough you could cover it with your thumbnail. The dearest things in life that were back on the Earth-- my family my wife my parents. They were still alive then. That was for me the high point of the flight from an emotional standpoint. It is like the high point of being in space was the Earth. The contrast between our memories of the Earth and the color on the Earth and the totally bleak and dead moon was striking. They would been taking hundreds of photos of the surface of the moon because you know no one had ever been there. NASA wanted to pick out a future landing site. They took so many photos of the moon that Bill Anders the astronaut who was doing it said it got boring. There was nothing in the mission plan to take pictures of the Earth. It is like it had not even occurred to anyone it might look interesting. But Borman and the crew when they saw the Earth rising over the moon they were like whoa that is a photo. There is actually audio of this moment. Oh my god. Look at that picture over there. There is the Earth coming up. Wow that is pretty! Hey do not take that. It is not scheduled. That is Borman there saying do not take that. It is not scheduled. He was joking. Hand me a roll of color quick would you? Oh man this . It ended up being one of the most famous photos of all time. If you Google Earth rise you would be like oh yeah. That one. It is like the first selfie of us all the whole planet and it is remarkable. It is exactly other worldly. Humans have been watching the moon rise from the earth for hundreds of thousands of years. This was the first time someone had seen the reverse-- us our planet rising over the moon's horizon. The other thing that strikes me about this photo is just how truly dark space can get. Only half the Earth is lit up. The other half is in complete blackness like it is been consumed by something. I asked Borman if that was just the exposure of the photo. He said no it is exactly how it looked. It took a couple of days for Borman and the others to travel a quarter of a million miles back here. It was mostly uneventful. At some point Jim Lovell punched some wrong buttons on the computer which reset the guidance system. The spacecraft had no idea where it was. Lovell had to measure the position of stars by hand just like sailors used to do at sea. They eventually splashed down in the ocean. They were elated. The mission was over. Everything had worked. Borman says it felt like he imagines winning the World Series might. He had a quick phone call from the president while on board an aircraft carrier. And then he went home to his kids and his wife Susan. How did you describe the mission to her? Like what you would seen. I mean you would just been on this incredible-- I really did not talk about it very much. As a matter of fact I cannot remember talking to her at all about it. You do not remember saying you will not believe what the moon looks like. I was up there? No we did not talk a lot about it. No. Why not? It was more important to see the boys and see her. And what have you be doing? We are back. It was a wonderful time of reunion and emotion and the last thing from my mind was to tell them what the moon looked like. Did not they want to know? No. Nobody asked.  What do you think you did talk about? How glad I was to be home how glad they were to have me back and how the boys are doing in school and why the dog's dish was still full. We got right back to the nitty-gritty's. Just seven months later Buzz Aldrin and Neil Armstrong set foot on the moon. The Russians gave up which for Borman had been the point of the whole thing. So he did something that today seems kind of amazing. He quit. He left the job so many kids dream about. If you had stayed could you have walked on the moon? Oh yeah. I could have. Probably. I probably could have walked on the moon. Yeah. Did you want to? No. Why? Look the answer to your question-- I would have not accepted the risk involved to go pick up rocks. It does not mean that much to me. Somebody else wanted to do it. Let them take my place. I love my family more than anything in the world. I would have never subjected them to the dangers simply for me to be an explorer. How often do you think of the Apollo 8 mission? Just when you are on your own doing your normal stuff. It never occurred in our lives much at all really. I was looking up at the moon the other night and it still feels crazy to me that you were there. If you do think back to it is there a particular part that you tend to remember? The thing that reminds me that I recall till the day I die was the Earth looking back at the Earth. I would not say Borman hated space. He was just indifferent to it. Or put another way he has a strong preference for the Earth. I have written a bunch of endings for this story. About yes it is in our nature to explore. It is also in our nature to want to be home. But I am very aware of the fact that so many historians and journalists and thinkers have tried to read particular meanings into that time that we went to the moon. I am just going to end this the way the world's most uncomplicated man might-- the facts of the present what he is doing now. It is as earthbound as it gets. Here it is. His wife Susan has Alzheimer's for nine years now. I am with her every day and she cannot walk or talk or feed herself. So that is where I come in. So that is very very difficult-- very. And that is it. Which is either the least romantic thing you can think of or just the opposite. David Kestenbaum. He is one of the producers of our show. The documentary he mentioned about Apollo 8 is called Earthrise. The film is opening this weekend in New York at the Maysles Documentary Center New Yorkers and will be released on the TV show POV and the New York Times' Op-Docs website in October. Coming up when in doubt when your life's out of whack there is always Switzerland. Some pros and cons of that solution in a minute from WBEZ Chicago when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our show of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show-- The Not-So-Great Unknown. We have stories today of unromantic unadventurous people in deeply adventurous situations. We have arrived at Act 2 of our program Act 2-- Traveling Violation. Jared Marcelle knows a guy a friend of his who-- this very week that we are making this show-- is heading out into the unknown embarking on the kind of trip that for most people would be a great adventure. And this guy is doing it for entirely practical reasons. Or anyway that is how he sees it. He is sure this is the right choice that it is what he needs to do. Jared however-- he is not so sure. Quick warning that there is a curse word in this story that is not beeped here on the podcast of the program. If you prefer a beeped version of our show-- maybe listening with kids-- it is at our website. Here's Jared. Joel Wright and I are close. We grew up together in Crown Heights in Brooklyn. Back then Joel was a small and goofy kid. We got together recently talking about those days. We were always trying to figure out how to make money. Making 0.50 stretch. You know making 0.85 stretch. Taking care of each other making sure we ate. Bro I remember there were times where we would meet in front of my house or your building. And we would say OK I am going go in and look for change I got. I will come back with like 0.50 0.75. You come back with whatever you have-- a dollar 0.75. I looked for the change in the couch. You come back. And now we got to eat. Yeah I remember-- I was going to a pizza shop and splitting that pizza down the middle. We would always divide stuff in half. One time we only had enough to buy a single chicken wing. We split it down the middle. It was a rule. We had to make sure each other was fed. Joel was an average student and did not really excel at anything except maybe video games. Love you man but it is true. I was more of a hustler and always found new ways to get paid like shoveling snow. Because I did it he gave it a try but ultimately he was just too lazy to follow through. I ended up shoveling for him when he got tired. Joel meant well but he just needed to find himself find his thing. And then it was like overnight he did. We would always play basketball together but he was not good. Then I went away to school for the ninth grade and when I came back Joel stood about 6'5. Frankly I was jealous. And he would become a local star. People were now calling him Air Jamaica-- he is Jamaican. Joel was now practicing twice a day-- at 630 AM before class and as well as after school ended. Basketball had changed him. Joel played all four years in college and eventually the pros. He went undrafted but played in the NBA D League. That is the NBA's version of the minor leagues. Joel Wright Number 15. One article called him the D league's most underrated player. In one game he scored 41 points. Ahead to Covington. All alone-- right. He is now 18 for 18. It did not pay very much-- 13000 a year a penny to an NBA star. Then he got an offer to play overseas. The money was great. One team paid him 25000 a month for two months. He asked me if I would go with him all expenses paid. It was a foreign land and he wanted someone to make him feel comfortable. But I was trying to make my own life. I could not do that following him. He went to the Philippines.   Also Malaysia and Saudi Arabia. You remember times where I was calling you from Saudi Arabia? Like ah damn me. I had goat bro. Like goat-- I am eating-- I am Jamaican. So often time I eat curry goat. But I never had the real goat like-- you see what I am saying? Bro yo-- What is real goat? Yo I had the whole goat. Like I had the whole goat in front of me bro. Like the tongue the eye the teeth everything. It was just weird over there. Sometimes in the middle of the game you got to stop because it is praying time. But I like it though. The people is nice. It is genuine people you know? Everyone on the team had to pray even if they were not Muslim? No only basically like Saudis. When I went I started praying with them. I started learning the first prayer. I started studying and it was very interesting. You know because I got so equipped with the people over there man. Like I am a people's guy. You know me well-- OK that is how he talks about it now. I remember that story a bit differently. And his time in Saudi Arabia was especially tough on him. Joel was home sick. He would call me almost every night saying he missed his family. Eventually he did come home the following March and spent the summer playing in basketball tournaments as he prepared for his next job. A team in Belgium was interested. The deal came just in time as Joel's funds were low because he was too generous with his money something I would always warned him about. But he felt it was his job to help everyone. And this is when Joel really entered the great unknown. There is something I have not told you about him and it is something he did not even know until he was in high school. Joel is not a US citizen. His mom brought him here illegally when he was little. He is one of the DACA kids. Right now under DACA people like him could stay here work and go to school. So Joel got the opportunity to play in Belgium which he was going to take. But then on TV one night he saw that President Trump was trying to cancel DACA. He talked to his lawyer who said leaving the country now would be a bad idea. He might have a hard time getting back in again. So it is like you leave now it is like you just leaving the country. You just leaving America and that is it. You see what I am saying? Once you leave it is nothing for you to come back. Nothing at all for you to come back. So that is when it got to me. That is when I took a step back. I am like yo I amma have to really evaluate this. And then that is when I got out the contract. Joel told the Belgian team he was not coming which ruined his reputation with them. His agent dropped him as a client. Joel ran out of money slept on friend's couches and floors. He got irritable and stopped training for a bit. Everyone was asking why Air Jamaica is still home. It must have been because he could not get a job right? Shame and embarrassment kept him from ever telling people he was out of money and living out of his suitcase. It kind of broke him. Here he went from being a made man to living at the mercy of others. It had almost been two years since he played professionally which can kill a career. Younger fresher athletes are streamed into the talent pool every year. Then one day this spring I got a call from him. He would signed a new contract. Joel was going to play for a team in Switzerland. It seemed like a terrible idea. The courts for the moment have kept DACA alive but the government has stopped giving DACA recipients permission to travel abroad. So if he left it was now totally unclear how he would be able to get back in. I am basically in other words taking my own deportation from my family from my loved ones from America period. And I am basically going to start a new life somewhere else not knowing how I will be able to get back in the country not knowing if I will ever see America again. One Thursday night I went to go see Joel play at a tournament at West 4th. An older guy called the game on a megaphone. Gentleman do not get hurt. Gentleman do not get hurt. This is a game with a bunch of guys who make a living playing basketball. I had not seen Joel play in a while. How you feel right now? Good as shit. I just finished a great game. He finished the game with about 25 points but he looked a little rusty. At least to me he did. He is still working his way back and I worry what if he has a bad season? The Swiss team has only guaranteed him a contract for a year. If he gets hurt then what? They could drop him. Then where would he be? He probably cannot come home. But whenever we talk about this he does not want to hear it. He stands by his decision. You cannot-- I cannot name 10 people on my finger that would make that decision but I am happy with my decision. I am comfortable with my decision. But do you understand why I am not that comfort