From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. My profession that I was in as a conservation officer state and federal was not a job. It was a vision quest. Ladies and gentlemen meet Terry Grosz retired California state fish and game warden retired special agent from 1981 to 1998 with the US Fish and Wildlife Service. I was in charge of North and South Dakota Nebraska Kansas Montana Wyoming Colorado and Utah. Author of a dozen books he has heard of the Terry Gross on Public Radio but does not listen to her. Not his thing. He has personally nabbed thousands of people who were killing birds and fish and game illegally taking wildlife illegally smuggling wildlife illegally selling wildlife parts and products and committing other violations. He takes it to heart that whole populations of animals can get killed off. His philosophy-- Wildlife dies without making a sound. So the only voice it is got is yours. And as a law enforcement officer if you are not squalling like a smashed cat-- and my pardon to the cat lovers out there-- then you are not doing your job. In fact as he says what this mean to him was total dedication. Do whatever had to be done. One time he laid in the marsh for 58 hours to catch one particularly egregious duck hunter. Another time he got a tip that a poacher was after this one herd of elk. He slept with the elk to protect them night after night. But my favorite story of his involves deceit and ingenuity. It was when Terry was still in his 20s a fish and game warden in Eureka California. He was what they called the floating game warden which meant that he would cover for three other officers when they were sick or on leave. And in those days we had salmon like you could not believe in Northern California. They do not so much anymore. An awful lot of the species have dwindled away due to a lot of environmental problems and illegal take. But gosh we had salmon everywhere. If you were not careful when you drank a glass of water you would find a salmon in it. I mean they were really plentiful. And it was part of my job to check the salmon fishermen because we had an awful lot of outlaws that would snag them dynamite them gillnet them just people shooting them in the shallows when they were going up through the riffles. I mean it was just unbelievable. He says it was especially a problem on the Eel River near Fortuna California where men were illegally fishing in the middle of the night. The law said they had to stop a half hour after sunset. But they would be there at 200 or 300 in the morning. And they were able to haul in usually huge catches because the fish there were resting in pools in the river like-- OK like sitting ducks if I could just mix animal metaphors for a second. And these fishermen used this special glow-in-dark lure that was just unstoppable. They would shine a flashlight on this lure. And it would glow called a Glo Pup. In the middle of the night-- That bright lure would be going through a dark pool. These King salmon would just instinctively strike at it. And these guys were catching fish like crazy. And these were 35 up to 60 pound King salmon that were heading upstream to spawn. And it was a terrible bit of destruction on the fish population. Because they would not get a chance to spawn? Yeah. They would not. I mean they just flat did not get out of that pool. But these illegal fishermen were hard to catch because they set up lookouts on the road they would see Terry and the other wardens coming. Then one day Terry got an idea. It came to him when his dog brought him an old leather welder's glove that it had found. And then he borrowed a wetsuit from his buddy who was-- Pretty much my size. I was 6' 4 300 in those days. And that night around 900 oclock Terry says he went to the Eel River about a mile downstream from this pool that he knew the guys would be illegally fishing. It is called Singley Pool. And I am dressed and got into the wetsuit. And then inside the wetsuit I had a citation book in a plastic bag and a three-cell flashlight zipped it up. And I walked into the river. And like a damn dummy there all by myself 30 foot of water colder than the dickens. Oh so now you really were the floating game warden. Well I do not if I was floating. I was doing as sinking as I was doing floating because I was trying to be quiet. And could you see much? Well no. But I knew which way the river was flowing. And I knew when my feet touched I would be in shallow water. So I was swimming against the current. And I knew in my mind what Singley Pool looked like. At the headwaters of Singley Pool I could see Glo Pups flying through the air. He is maybe 30 yards offshore he says. He can see four people backlit. There is a little light coming from a ranch house that is there. And he can the glow of their cigarettes. But it is really dark. Three of them were fishing. One guy was just standing there. So I just kept swimming towards them and trying to get to their lures. And I would move my hand back out of the leather glove to where just my fingers are inside the palm part of the glove. And the leather glove fingers are just kind of dangling out there with no fingers in them. This is the idea that he got when the dog brought him this glove. And when finally a lure came by kind of close I slapped at it. And I missed the first one. And I heard one of the guys say god did you hear that salmon roll out there? Of course you cannot see anything. And I am out there in the river in a dark wetsuit with no light on. And the next one came by and it was close enough. And I grabbed it. And it hooked onto the glove the finger part of the glove. And I gave a big jerk. And I heard zhrrz. And he said fish on. Fish on. I am flopping and splashing hanging onto this guy's lure as he is pulling. And I am slapping my left hand in the water like the fish is fighting. And he kept saying gosh it is a big one. It is huge. I kept pulling and tugging. And you are floating too. Oh yeah. So he is getting the feeling of like this is what it is like to reel in-- Yep. --a fish. Yep. I am pulling against his line. And I am jerking it. And then I am jerking line out. Because I know if they see me once I get close to shore they are going to run. So I got to keep them kind of close at hand. So the guy that is got me is getting really excited. And finally he said god this the biggest salmon I ever got. I bet it weighs a hundred pounds. Well he was 200 pounds off. And finally I heard somebody say get the net. Get the net. And another voice said get the net heck-- get a gun. Terry says he was too young and dumb to get scared about that. And they did not get a gun. Anyway finally I felt my feet hit the bottom where I could walk. So I kept tugging and pulling and tugging and pulling. And he is groaning. And it was hard to keep from laughing because I knew this guy was going to be surprised. Anyway I finally got right up on them. And like I said it is dark as the dickens. And then I turned on my little three-cell flashlight. And I said good morning gentleman. State fish and game warden you are under arrest. The guy that had me he is got the pole almost doubled he is pulling so hard. And he goes oh oh oh. He dropped to the ground. Terry thought he gave him a heart attack. But he came to. He was fine. The guys on either side of him two of them were attorneys. They just stood there. They did not even move. And I think it was just out of shock. So I walked up on the bank and then I had them because I was within grabbing distance. And when I got all through I had them sign the citations. I put the cite book back in my plastic bag. Put that back inside the wetsuit. Said do you have any more questions gentlemen? And they are still in shock. So I gather up all their fishing rods because I seized it. It was illegal gear. And into the river I walked and quietly swam away. I should say we checked with the public affairs officer at the Fish and Wildlife office where Terry worked. And he confirmed that yes this was a thing for a while back in the day game wardens emerging out of the rivers to catch illegal fishing. Terry tells the story in his memoir Wildlife Wars. Terry says unconventional methods that is just what is called for sometimes. Later today on our radio program That is One Way to Do It we have two stories of people who make choices that are very different from what is expected of them including a woman who cozied up to one of America's enemies looking to fix a problem here at home. I am talking about people who come to the fork in the river of salmon and they swim down the path less traveled. And that makes all the difference. Stay with us. So this is of course a perfect election year for the theme That is One Way to Do it. The That is One Way to Do It candidate Donald Trump is crushing his adversaries with unconventional politicking Bernie Sanders a very similar story. One our producers Zoe Chace was in South Carolina this last month and was surprised by some of the voters as well one in particular. I was traveling around the state talking to groups like Students for Trump-- Yeah. --a group of high schoolers. That is how I happened to talk to Alex Chalgren. He is one of the most oddly formal 18-year-olds I have ever met. My name is Alex Chalgren. I am the South Carolina director for Students for Trump. And I live in Columbia South Carolina. So put together he made me nervous. After he told me where he was from I asked him where he was from. We are in Columbia South Carolina.   We are at the Blue Marlin more specifically sort of a seafood restaurant local yeah restaurant. Do you come here often? I do with my father. I could tell right away that Alex is one of those kids that adults adore. He is like a little old person. I was sitting around this outside table with the high schoolers for Trump. And Alex stood out in a million ways from the group. He is the only black kid the only one in a tie biggest smile loudest laugh super friendly and charismatic. He is just striking. So it was not that surprising when he mentioned offhand that he would been chosen to ask a question at the first Republican debate. I really want to get to a Facebook questioner. His name is Alex Chalgren. And he has the following question. My question is how would the candidates stop the treacherous actions of ISIS ISIL and it is growing influence in the US if they were to become president? Oh. And then my Instagram my Twitter my phone just started ringing off the hook. It is amazing. It was amazing. It was a huge-- it was a huge thing.  That really changed my life for the better. It changed his life because not long after that a group called Students for Trump reached out to Alex on Instagram. They asked Alex if he would get involved in the Trump campaign. And that quick Alex became an active Trump supporter. Now Alex was already a conservative for all the reasons that Republicans like Republicans more than Democrats. I have had to work to where I am today education and things like that. And I was adopted. I have had work to where I am. Because I was born to a very destitute family. And so seeing someone like Bernie Sanders saying that he is going to redistribute the wealth and sort of give free college and free education and all that sort of humbug. Then I say to myself he does not appreciate those that have nothing and have had to work so diligently to have a future. Because I plan on going to law school and all that sort good jazz. And when I asked him the question I was asking everybody I was meeting down there why Trump Alex gave me a reason I did not expect. I was like wait did I hear right? Your main concern is what? Yeah. Trump is fine with gay marriage thank goodness. And he is a realist. He knows that as society moves on we must move on. That is a part of it. Gay marriage that is not even an issue anymore I thought. This was mid-January when I met Alex pre-Iowa pre-New Hampshire. It had not come up in the debates much. The candidates were not talking about it. And it is Alex's biggest issue? That is why I picked him really. That is why I picked him. Because my biggest concern is gay marriage and the economy. For example if it comes down to Ted Cruz or Bernie Sanders I might not vote or I might vote for Bernie Sanders. That is how big gay marriage is to you? Yeah. Honestly. I mean I will tell you why. I will tell you why. I am gay. And so it is big for me. And everyone knows I am gay. Everyone knows I am gay. My parents know. Everyone knows. But yeah that is-- where are you all going? The other students for Trump kids scurry off to a corner to consult after this remark. And I find out it is because they are worried I will lump them in with Alex and peg them as Sanders supporters over Cruz. Trump's record on gay marriage at that point scant at best. Not one of his applause lines not getting much mention at all. I guess Alex can believe what he wants. Ted Cruz proudly evangelical proudly against gay marriage. So that is how Alex made his choice. Then Alex tells me he is managed to alienate and confuse lots of people with his peculiar brand of politics. Trump haters turned against him on social media. Social media-wise you know I post a lot about Trump since I am active in this organization and somewhat in the campaign. I have lost a ton of followers a ton of followers. On Snapchat a couple hundred. I know that is pretty substantial. I know I have lost about a hundred people on Instagram. Alex is big into Trump. Like he is making sacrifices. He says he is lost friends. Other black kids at school make fun of him. He is gotten into big fights with his Muslim friends too like after he posted some anti-Muslim comments from Trump on his Snapchat. Last week one of my Islamic friends asked me why do you support Trump? And I said I am not against Islam. I am not against Muslims. I am against Islamic extremism. So I am not against you at all. And she does not feel that. She feels like I am against her. And she said well Trump wants to keep out all the Muslims. And I said first off you are an American citizen. So you have nothing to fear in that regard. We are not going to kick you out of the country. You are an American citizen. You were born here. And then also your parents who yes are not American citizens they have given so much to this society. And we do not have to worry about you potentially being part of ISIS or ISIL. There is a very slight chance of that happening. She was annoyed. But they are still friends. Was he afraid of hurting her feelings? Yeah. Yes. I do not want to do that. Yeah. I try to be-- it is like I am walking on shells because I do not want to break the shells. Alex jumps feet first into Trump-related awkward situations. Like later that day we walk over to the USC campus. And he flags down college kids walking down the street. He is very formal like at his most presentational. He is inviting them to this debate watch party he is hosting. It is on the 28th. It is the seventh Republican debate. It is going to be huge as Donald Trump says. So you are more than welcome to come. What is your stance politically? I would not be comfortable having Donald Trump as president. Everything that I have seen through the media it just comes off he is just full of hate. And I just do not think Donald Trump is very accepting of all people from different backgrounds. And diversity is a huge thing for me personally. But we have to go. But thanks for talking. Thank you ladies. How do you think about how that went? Tell me what you think. I think it went very civilly. But is it a hard when people your age say to you like I do not feel comfortable having him as the president because I think he is being racist? Especially when like you are black and she is white and she is kind of looking at you like hello. I do not know. For me I think they think I am probably mentally off. That is true. Because I am black and I am supporting someone that they think is xenophobic or racist. So what does it feel like to feel like somebody's looking at you like you are insane? Really I just say to myself well opinions are opinions. And when Donald J. Trump is president and he reforms this country I think they will think differently of him. If Donald Trump was like actually I do not think that gay marriage is OK and I do not support it would you still vote for him? He would not do that. That is a make or break thing for you. He would not do that yeah. He would not do that. This is officially the strangest reason I would heard from a Republican about how they would picked their candidate. The question is there is a whole party right the Democratic Party. They are pretty much cool with gay people. Could you just be a Democrat? My goodness no.  I mean-- Like are you out of your mind? The choices are between a soon to be indicted liar Alex says and a socialist. I mean come on. I spent two hours with Alex that day. That was it. We were not scheduled to meet again. Afterward I went and interviewed other voters a conservative South Carolina blogger. I drove to Greenville to meet with some morning radio show hosts. But the whole time I was still wondering about Alex. He seemed like he was in the weirdest position of anyone I was meeting voting for the first time so young and intense about his beliefs which just like did not match. If gay marriage is your issue why Trump? Alex told me that church is the center of his family life. And he is in a very conservative evangelical Christian family. He is surrounded by people he loves and respects. I came up with a theory. He was using Trump to reconcile two very irreconcilable things about himself-- deeply conservative super-gay. Trump for some reason is Alex's safe place. I made another appointment with Alex. I had no idea the conversation would lead where it did which was way beyond Trump. OK. So we want to ask you a whole bunch of questions. OK. Some of them are going to be personal. I meet him in this conference room at the end of his school day. And every question I ask him it is like a trap door opens to some deep and dramatic part of his story that I did not see coming. Like first thing we are still making small talk settling in. There is this rainbow poster on the wall. He points it out. It is the rainbow. So I ask him do you have any rainbow stuff? Like what stuff? Last year I was a little bit more bold. Last year was my first year in a public school a public high school. And it was like-- what was it-- show your character day or something like that. We have these weeks. And so I wore a sign that said guys only apply. Sorry girls in parentheses down at the bottom. And it had the rainbow on both sides. And I wore that around the entire school all day long.  And then people wanted to take pictures with me. Did you leave the house in that shirt? Yes. I did. Because you see actually at the time I was not with my parents at the time. So they did not know about that. He was staying with a friend's family for about a month. Things were not so great at home. Um just some family issues some problems with my dad and stuff. This was two minutes into our conversation. But it kept happening. Like I just kept stumbling into these surprising details. Have you ever been to a Pride parade? No. Well yes I have. I have once. It was to protest though. My dad went and took me to protest. Then I asked I know your mom adopted you when she was on her own. So how did she meet your dad? Well basically what happened is that I needed a manly influence or that is what some of the elders in our church at the time thought. And so he came into the picture through a connection in our church. And then they fell in love. It was my choice. How was it your choice? She said if I did not want him as a dad yeah she would not make me have someone that would not be good especially after adopting me. Alex's parents are not OK with him being gay. They are evangelical Christians. They believe in the literal word of the Bible and raised Alex that way. But it is also clear that it is a loving home with this big extended family who all adore Alex. Before he was adopted his life was rough-- foster home to back with his biological parents to group home to foster home. He was really unhappy. But what could he do? He was a kid. And then he met his mom. Alex and his adopted mom are incredibly close. Alex's face just lights up when he talks about her. When he was in third grade she was his teacher. And then she adopted him. It is almost romantic sounding like they yearned to be a family as soon as they met. But I would been asking her for about a year are going to adopt me? How did you think to ask that? I do not know. I have been praying for years to have a mom and a dad. I just connected. It is inaffable. Ineffable. Ineffable. Thank you. I am trying to use my new words ineffable. Yeah sort of the unspeakable. When Alex's parents found out he was gay it was as dramatic as things can get in those sort of situations. Alex says they suspected it and read his journal where he had written about boys. This was in eighth grade. He had to leave school immediately and his parents started homeschooling him. And they brought in their church. And they wanted to nip this in the bud. Snap cut it make sure I was straight. And I was like a-- yeah. So the clergy came down sat with me the elders and people. And they read from scripture and everything. And I was just sitting there quietly. At first I saw it as like oh my goodness. This is a sin. I cannot believe this. I am going to go hell. Oh my god I am going to burn in hell for all eternity. And so they are reading from scripture. And they are saying this is what the scripture says man shall not lie with another man whatever. And the more that happened the harder I became. I was less soft. And then my mom got a therapist for me another one a different one for me being gay. Was this one of those therapists who is like I am going to help you be not gay? Yeah. He was a preacher  with the Presbyterian therapists' organization. He did not do anything. I just told him I am gay. I said this is what is going to happen. I am gay. But you can talk about how I can have a better relationship with my parents. I have a theory sort of. It is not really a theory. But I am wondering it. OK. I am wondering if a major reason that you are supporting Donald Trump so hard that you are going in so hard for Trump is because it is a way to express that you are gay that that matters to you and still keep your tie with being a Republican? Because you have grown up around all Republicans and being a conservative is a big part of your upbringing. Yeah. I would not 100 percent disagree with that. I guess you would say that. It is a way for me to still accept me for being gay. However I can still hold to my Republican principles some of my Republican principles without hurting my own people. That is why I could not support Cruz. Alex's parents are big Cruz supporters. I asked if they would talk to me about Alex. They agreed. This his mom Jan Chalgren. I do not see his participating in a gay life as God's plan for his life. I firmly believe that. Jane did not want to get into detail about what happened when she and her husband figured out Alex was gay. But she did talk about what it was like for her. Heartbreaking when that is not what I wanted for him. And I do not believe that is what God desires for him either. I love him. I love him to death and will always always. And my husband and I have both told him that. We will always love you. We do not agree. You do not agree with which? With gay marriage. Yeah. She has the same feeling Alex has. It hurts to be disagreeing about anything because they are so connected. She has the same feelings about meeting Alex that he does about meeting her. Well one day in November it was '07 the Secretary of the school knocked on my door and said I have a new student for you a total surprise. And it was Alex with his foster mom. And I brought him in and got him a desk. And a cute little thing with his little glasses. And as time went on he just captured my heart. He can carry on a conversation easily with any age person. And he always wanted to talk with me. Did you ever anticipate adopting some kid from your class? I never anticipated never planned for it never thought. No. But really he had my heart. And I went through the adoption process. And then we started visits. They would never spent time together outside of the classroom. So Alex proposed going to church together. And we did that several times. And then I was able to bring him to my house for a visit. And I remember him standing in the kitchen looking at me and saying do you think about adopting me? And I pretty much had to say well we are going to pray about that. You and I together cannot talk about that. But I am talking to your social worker. And we will just pray and see what the Lord does. And the Lord led our hearts together. He put our family together. And it is been wonderful. It is been difficult. Alex in his coming out process I think did not want to lose his connection to Christianity. Eventually in a way that I now think of as typically Alex this eternal optimist way he figured out a way to be gay and be a born again Christian. He reconciled these two things that seemed irreconcilable. He looked up this alternative interpretation of the story of Sodom and Gomorrah and found a way that the scripture itself legitimized gay relationships. And he felt better. He could be both gay and Christian. Jan says despite everything they have tried the therapy the homeschooling the ministering-- He has continued with being very pleased over the political climate. When states approve gay marriage he will post yay. How do you feel about that? Oh. My hope is in the Lord. There is nothing that the Lord cannot recover. Nothing he cannot redeem. You know he is 18 now. He is of age. The first thing he did when turned 18 the day he turned 18 he went out and registered to vote. That is something. I mean that is something. It is Alex's dad though Ted Chalgren that is the major Cruz supporter in the family. Alex told me he sees Cruz as the most hardline against gay marriage and the most dangerous because he has experience arguing in front of the Supreme Court. So Cruz is the one guy who makes Alex the maddest. And Alex's dad knows that. What Cruz says is he is for the traditional family. And I guess that is enough of a red flag for the people who embrace the other position that he is out and the fact that we embrace that. But he knows that. I mean we embrace a man and a woman. And yeah I am sure he feels some rejection. And then that probably solidified it. What was it like if you can give me one example when you found out he was gay? Oh. It made me so angry because I am vehemently opposed to that. Now I have gay acquaintances even in my work. I mean I just love them. I try to reach out to them and I fail. It just really angered me. It broke my heart. It broke my heart for him because I think he has opened up a Pandora's box of real trouble for himself. One of the concerns not the primary concern is sexually transmitted diseases. And what are they called STDs. That really is a concern. Another concern for Ted is suicide rates for gay men. So he confronted Alex with his stats. And he could counter every one. He had done his research. He could counter all those. Well in the general population you know yada yada. And so none of that worked. And I was really angry. I would get angry with him quicker about other things just because I would had this brooding anger at him about that. And he ran away. He is run away three or four times. One time he stayed away for some weeks. And actually he jumped out of the car when I was driving and ran. He said let me out of here. What were you guys talking about? Do you remember? He was going-- he wanted to apply for this job. This was a year and a half ago. Things were so tense between them anything could become a big fight. Alex had been offered a job at Hollister a clothing store at the mall his dad describes as wild. And I did not want him work at that place because I wanted him-- because it was over at the mall. I said I am not taking you to interview over there. You need to go over here and get a bag boy job at Publix or go down here to Babham's Feed and Seed and get a job down there toting feed and seed if they will hire you. Because you need to get a job for which you do not require transportation. Do you see what I am saying? It needs to be walkable. But he had-- high-falutin'. So anyway he jumped out of the car because I said no I am not taking you there. And he said something else. So that is way it is going to be? I said absolutely. He said I want out. Pull over. And I was not going to let him order me to pull over. You do not order your dad to do something. He said I want out. And he started-- so I slowed down. He bailed. So there is been some of that combat at home the real intense sort of combative you could cut the environment with a knife. It really started with that coming out is not that what they call it? And Jan and I prayed about it. We wept about it. I just sort of-- I think the Lord just jumped over my heart. I said let us just have peace at home. So we have peace at home. Right now with the election season in the Chalgren household there is something new to talk about. Now he and his parents debate over Cruz versus Trump instead of gay not gay. Though the conversation sounds kind of similar it is less painful. I delight in the victories and the things that Ted Cruz says the principles and standards he has. So Alex knows that. And I know he is supporting Trump. I have sort of had the hope that this is just a fantasy for him or maybe a fancy however you want to say that. And he is very gracious with regard to not rubbing in to me the fact that Donald Trump is 800 points ahead of Ted Cruz in all the polls. He is not in my face. He is not. And so I do not get too thrilled in front of him about what he is doing. But I am really proud of him. And I am really sort of dazzled by how successfully he engages his endeavors and so often accomplishes his goals. So detente. Alex's dad had a strong Christian candidate. Alex had a candidate whom he believed supported gay marriage. Everyone was getting along. And then right as we were having these conversations this happened. Trump went on TV and talked about the Supreme Court ruling on gay marriage. But I would have much preferred that they ruled at a state level and allowed the states to make those rulings themselves. But just to button up this up very quickly sir. Are you saying that if you become president you might try to appoint justices to overrule the decision on same sex marriage? I would strongly consider that. Yes. It was too obvious now. This thing Alex said would never happen this thing he would said mattered so much to him the reason he would staked himself on Trump in the first place it just did not seem true. So I sat Alex down and asked about it. What does it feel like when he says something like that? It does not feel anything to me. He is saying those sort of things to get the votes. And I understand that. And gay marriage it is done. It is done. There is no reversing it. But Donald Trump he is just saying it to say it because he needs to get the votes. He is saying that if he could appoint justices to fix this ruling he would. I support Trump fully. I support Trump fully. So maybe is it possible that I sort of overestimated how important the gay rights stance was for you with the Republican candidate you had picked? Here's the thing. I am not selfish. At least I do not think I am selfish. And so it would be selfish for me to risk the entire survival of our country off of gay marriage. There was something else I noticed talking to Alex this time around something a little different with him. He was so much more into Trump even than he had been two weeks ago. It was like his favorite football team was in the Super Bowl or something. He was just googly-eyed for him. His reasons for supporting Trump no longer came from reasoning out one position to the next. It was more chemical emotional. I like his persona. I like his stance on domestic policy in regard to building the wall and building up our security and his financial policy. I like it. I agree with it. That we need to crush ISIS. We need to deal with the problem. We need to get rid of the problem. You see how I do my hands here? Yeah. That is like Trump. He does this. Alex you have probably figured out by now fits into no known category of voter. All the ways th