Here's the story the way we usually like it. There is this guy. And he is behind enemy lines. Maybe he is dropped in there in the middle of the night. Maybe he sneaks under barbwire at the border. Whatever. He is there. He is been there awhile. Months. Years maybe. He is in disguise. Working on our behalf. Nobody suspects. No one can tell. He looks and acts just like them. And then living there in their midst for so long speaking their language eating their food breathing their air watching their TV shows something happens. He starts to change. He starts to become more like them. And then when it is time for him to strike to launch his mission against them he hesitates. He is not sure who he sympathizes with anymore. It is a very romantic idea this particular vision of what it means to live inside the enemy camp. And you lose your bearings and you will forget how to fight because some other impulse inside you would take over. But sometimes this is actually how it happens. There are lots of ways that people get confused about who their enemy is and how to fight them. Today on our radio show we have that story happening to several different people in several different places in several different ways. True stories. WBEZ Chicago. This is American Life. distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program we choose some subject. Bring you documentaries interviews short fiction found tapes found writing. Anything we can think of on that subject. Today on our program life behind enemy lines. Our program today in four acts. Act One Confession. In that Act the true story of a fixer for the Catholic Church. And now he came to sympathize with people who he was sent by the church to deceive. Act Two Blood Agent. How microscopic beings inside you and me can control our thoughts and minds. No kidding. Act Three As The Worm Turns. The story of a man who invites the enemy inside. And I mean really inside. Act Four Sleeping With The Enemy in which we ask who is side is your girlfriend on anyway. Act One Confession. It is Easter week. Pope Benedict has been facing a lot of criticism with allegations that he did not adequately discipline priests who were accused of sexual abuse back before Pope Benedict was a Pope back when he was an Archbishop and a Cardinal. So we have decided to revisit a story that we first broadcast in 2003 about a young American priest who was sent out on a series of jobs by church administrators to squelch some scandals. Scandals not too different from the ones that are surfacing in the news right now. But spending time out among the people who he is supposed to be deceiving the priest finds it harder and harder to keep doing his job. Carl Marziali tells the story from Los Angeles. Patrick Wall was just where he wanted to be at 26. He was a monk studying theology at St. John's Monastery in rural Minnesota. He lived in a quiet room facing the lake. He looked forward to a life of study and prayer. It was late summer 1991. The first day that school started out pretty uneventful winter morning prayer at 700 oclock like normal. I went down for breakfast like normal. Went back up to my room. Was literally brushing my teeth when there was a knock on my door which is extremely out of the ordinary. And it was Abbot Jerome Tyson. Well the abbot's a very quiet guy. And he usually never went up on that floor of the monastery. So he says May I come in? I said Yes Father Abbot. No problem. So he comes in and sits down. And I have got my books out. I have got class in 10 minutes. What is up? And he said Well Father Dan Ward has told me that you would be a good person for this particular job. And we have a situation over in St. Mary's Hall that we need to be a faculty resident. The faculty resident is a live-in counselor at the college dorm. The campus at St. John's includes a university. I said Well I would love to be a faculty resident someday. I think that is a great idea. And he said No today. And when I asked Abbot Jerome specifically what it was for what was going on he said Well I cannot tell you that. We had numerous sexual abuse cases that had been popping up. So ultimately there is only one conclusion that can be drawn that there was an allegation that they must have thought somewhat credible or probable. And they needed to pull that particular monk. And off I went.  That afternoon Wall moved his stuff out of his room and into the freshman dorm. His instructions were simple. Put the kids at ease. And do not say anything about the monk you are replacing. He organized a pizza party for the students. He told them he was taking over as faculty resident but that he could not say why. There were no questions. Wall did not know it then but he was being tested. Unfortunately for him he passed. His dream was to be a monk as he understood monks to be. Devout and learned men who live in monasteries. By showing a knack for damage control he put himself on a less spiritual path. Before long the abbot appointed him to a sexual abuse response team. And sent him to the church of St. Elizabeth's in the town of Hastings. He was replacing a pastor who had been withdrawn for what the monastery called a incredible allocation. Wall arrived at St. Elizabeth's on February 2 1993.  Replacing a pastor is not easy. People in a parish tend to get attached to the priest. Replacing a disgraced pastor is harder. A lot of people believe their priest can do no wrong. And they are not shy about telling his replacement. They were very forward and forthright and angry. And they said Father I am really sad that you are here. I am really sorry that you had to come because we really liked the other monk. And we do not think he should have been removed. And that was it. And I said I am really sorry that that particular monk had to be removed. And I am here because my abbot asked me to be here. I am tried to be as candid and simple as possible. But I felt taken back. And I felt sad from the very beginning. And I did not enjoy that experience.  At first Wall was trying to raise morale. He told parishioners what he himself had been told. That the alleged abuse took place a some time ago. And b somewhere else. But it was not long before victims at St. Elizabeth's began coming forward. They would show up unannounced at the rectory or in the church after mass and ask to speak to him in private. Then they would start with a tiny revelation. It is unforgettable. It is absolutely unforgettable when they start to tell you. And they only tell you very small cryptic little things. There are code words for everything. And they have kind of broached the subject to see what you are going to do with it. And to see if you are going to actually believe them. Obviously I am 27 years old. I am not exactly sure what to do with it. Emotionally I really have no idea what to do it. So how did you deal with it when the victim or victims came forward and told you about what had happened? Do you try to comfort them? Do you try to tell them that-- I mean what do you do? Do you try to restore their faith in the church? Or do you just listen and write up a complaint and send it on? You do not even write up a complaint basically. You get a few of the facts. And then you pass that on to the diocese. And honestly unfortunately it is easy to deal with because these people never go to church again. Because they really view that person as representing God. So it is hard for them to publicly ever celebrate or to practice their faith again. So they just disappear honestly. Did you ever wonder whether you should make a special effort when they came to you beyond the effort that you might make to convince somebody else to come back to the church? To do something more for these victims. Or to offer them counseling or something to try to make up for what had happened? It is a difficult situation because you really need to remain neutral. And your natural inclination especially as priests is to be sympathetic and to heal. But there is no way that you are going to be allowed to be part of the healing process because ultimately you are part of the defendant. You are the institution that brought about the hurt. And so you really have to put your professional hat on and keep an arm's distance. Wall survived the scandal at St. Elizabeth's. And he helped a superior survive it too. He never told parishioners about the allegations in their parish. And the stories he was hearing in private never became problem.  After serving a year at St. Elizabeth's Wall thought he would come back to the monastery. But the end of this term he received a letter from the abbot instructing him to report to another parish St. Bernard's. The monk there have been having an affair and paying for it with church money. This was not the assignment Wall had in mind but part of him was flattered. I felt pretty good about it because all of a sudden-- I am 20 years old and I am an administrator of a parish. I am being turned loose as the boss. That is a compliment as far as I am concerned. And I really felt I was doing the right thing. Not long after Wall arrived at St. Bernard's an agent from the IRS knocked on his door. The agent presented a bill payable immediately for 600000 in back taxes interest and penalties for undeclared profits from a church run lottery. The business manager was not available to answer questions because he had been the other person in the affair. And had been removed along with the monk. Wall had to take a crash course in bookkeeping to pay the IRS. The rest of his time at St. Bernard's Wall did what every priest does. He celebrated mass performed weddings and funerals baptized babies. And he heard confessions including those of other priests.  Despite the headlines the percentage of priests who have abused minors is relatively low. Celibacy is another story. In a recent Los Angeles Times poll only one third of priests said they do not waiver from a celibate life. After awhile Wall stopped thinking of broken vows as something foreign to his world. You know once you seen enough people fall and once you hear enough confessions of different priests you look at yourself in the mirror and you say Am I really any different? And the chances of me maintaining a celibate way of life without failure along the way are so low that ultimately either I have to change or the system needs to change. What about-- there must be a lot of priests who believe in being priests. And have decided that the rule of celibacy is nonsense. And so are willing to lead a double life of sorts. Was that-- that was not something that you considered? No that is really not my personality. I am a terrible liar. Oh. I turn red. I am really bad. And I had seen priests who maintained heterosexual relationships with women. And I saw the effects of it. Because it is a life of contradiction. Because the relationship is there. It is exclusive. But you cannot profess it. And everyone around you knows it is going on. And that is not happiness. That is not a true coming together. I just could not see myself doing that. That is just not me. After St. Bernard's the assignments kept coming. The next one was an affair between a priest and a nun. After that a new parish where a teacher had abused a student and the priest was living with his housekeeper. Four years. Four parishes. Four scandals. There are good dedicated priests out there. But they are not the ones who get replaced. By the very nature of his job Wall was acquiring a skewed and depressing view of the priesthood. Did you ever ask not to be given those assignments? Yeah. I did. And I specifically asked to be able to come back to the prep school and teach. But the needs of the monastery were so great at that point that again it was only going to be another year. I was only going to have to go to St. Bernard's for another year. So it sounds like a bad construction deal. Two more weeks. Give me two more weeks and we will be done. And it just kept going on. And it kept going on. Meanwhile the monks he replaced were getting exactly what Wall himself had asked for. They were going back to the monastary permanently. I would run across them at community meetings. And whenever we had chapter votes and all that. And it is hard not to be judgmental. The other thing I found hard was that my whole career path was driven by other people's mistakes. And that is the last thing I ever expected in monastic life. I really expected to work in a parish for a year to go off to grad school come back teach coach football at the university. And to live a pretty darn good life-- a balance between prayer and teaching and working as a teacher. So-- They changed my career path. They changed my whole trajectory in life. Without fully realizing it Wall have been initiated into a brotherhood of priests known informally as fixers or cleaners. They replaced problem priests. They hide things in the archives. They reassure the faithful. In short they make it all go away. Visually he was perfect for the job. He is was barrel-chested a former offensive lineman on the St. John's football team. He was young and friendly. He was the anti-stereotype of a troubled monk. The abbot could not have found a better prospect if he had picked a model out of a catalogue. But Wall did more than just PR. He became familiar with the law of the church called cannon law. Specifically with the different archives cannon law sets up for storing and hiding information. The first is the historical archives which is just the names states people those kinds of things. Then you have the secret archives. The secret archives-- is that literally what they are called-- the secret archives? I mean why were they set up? They are set up for the protection of individuals. So the bishop has the responsibility to take things that would be considered scandalous things that might hurt individuals' reputations and to be able place them there so they would not easily be exposed. OK When you call it the secret archives though it makes it sound sinister. It makes it sound like it is there for the protection-- to really protect the church. I am not saying that is what it is. But that is how it sounds. I mean what really is the purpose of these so-called secrets? Why cannot everything be in the personnel records. And then some items just be labelled confidential or whatever? Well you have got to give Rome credit. I mean they have wonderful procedure. This is things that have worked out for centuries. And that has always been the secret to one of the defenses of the church. If you do not know what you are asking for they do not have to produce it.  Did you ever-- when you were working for the church cleaning up these situations of abuse and having to tell parishioners some of the facts but not all of the facts about what was going on did you ever feel complicit in the cover-up of all of this? I have some regrets. But I think I did it in good faith. Because as I was taught and as I believed that was my role to help the church in the long run. And to be obedient to what I was asked to do. And it is only later on as I had greater experience that I could not support it any longer. And I felt that if I was going to stay I was going to not only support it but I was going to get deeper into it. I was going to be asked to do other assignments to follow pedophiles. I was going to be asked to be on the finance council to try to figure out ways to mitigate the huge financial costs of childhood sexual abuse by priests and the religious. And I remember having an epiphany. And sitting on the porch at St. Mary's in Stillwater. And that is when I came to the conclusion that this is pretty much going to be my career path. I would be there for another year or two as the administrator. And then I would go on to another assignment. And I just could not do it any longer.  After four years of deceiving the faithful about the extent of priests and misconduct of protecting the institution over the health and welfare of the victims of covering for the perpetrators and letting the problem fester Patrick Wall decided he was on the wrong side. On July 31 1998 Wall quit the priesthood. He was 33 years old.  Leaving was difficult. If you want to leave honorably you need permission which does not come easily or quickly. It took more than a year in Wall's case. Then once you are out there are practical challenges like trying to get a job with a Master of Theology on your resume. In the end it was his experience as a fixer that translated best to the real world. Wall read an op-ed in the LA Times by John Manley an attorney who sues the church on behalf of sexual abuse victims. He essentially separated himself amongst all the different attorneys in saying that we need to protect the sheep and not the shepherd. It is not the problem of the victims. It is not the problem of the particular perpetrators per se or some particular issue like homosexuality or whatever. The problem is within the institution itself. By this point Wall was convinced that lawsuits where the only way to reform the church. He called Manley and offered to help. Soon they were on the phone constantly. Wall took him step by step through church bureaucracy. Manley was amazed. John did not know all the different documents that are out there. And then John will be working on things and he would call me up and said Dude what do I do with this? What does this mean? What am I supposed to do with it? What are other things can I-- where else can I look? And I remember-- I think he was quite surprised when I showed him the penal code of canon law and exactly what we need to ask for. He just could not believe that it was there. That they would have that level of sophistication.  Wall started working for Manley's law firm full-time in October of 2002. Using his knowledge of Latin and Italian he translates and interprets church records. He helps the firm identify and request key documents like psychological assessment of priests from the secret archives. The fact that he switched sides that is he is fighting the church does not seem to trouble him. He believes he is doing what God wants them to do which is what he is always believed.  There is another part to Wall's job at the firm which does not have anything to do with case law. Last week he stayed on the phone with a man for an hour and a half listening to him talk about the priest who abused him and who might still be hurting other people. Wall finds himself talking to victims about all kinds of things. Everything he was not allowed to talk about before back when he was a priest. I feel I really do pastoral work when I am working was victims every day on every single issue. Before you were part of a holy order. And now you are working with a bunch of lawyers. And it is hard to know-- it is hard to know these days where priests belong on the ethical ladder but most people know exactly what a lawyer is. So it is odd to hear you talk about this work being more fulfilling in some ways that what you were doing before. Well we are dealing with people at the lowest ebb of where they are at. They are dealing with the greatest pain they have ever experienced. And one of the greatest things that we find is that they can no longer participate in the sacramental life of the church because of the seven sacraments. The one thing that is really clear is that it takes a priest to administer the sacrament. And every sacrament is either through touching or it is through breath through words. It is in close proximity to the priest. And that is the symbol of their abuse. So we are dealing with some of the most damaged people within the church. And it is a very fulfilling ministry I find in being pastoral to be with them. Because honestly we are one of the few symbols of hope that they have.  Patrick Wall is married now. He and his wife have a two-year-old daughter who they plan to send to Catholic school. They all go to mass every Sunday. Carl Marziali attends mass with his family in Los Angeles. Patrick Wall however no longer does. Since we first aired this story in 2003 Patrick has worked on nearly a thousand sexual abuse cases involving priests and co-authored a book called Sex Priests and Secret Codes The Catholic Church's 2000 Year Paper Trail of Sexual Abuse. He says after all this he no longer believes that the Catholic Church has the capacity to change. His daughter now eight years old is not enrolled in Catholic school.  Coming up enemies on our turf-- controlling the minds of ants of rats of you and me. This is not some whacked out conspiracy theory my friends. This is science. In a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. This is American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose some theme bring you a variety of different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's program Enemy Camp-- stories of what it means to work behind enemy lines. We have arrived at Act Two of our program. Act Two Blood Agent. Nature it turns out is full of enemy agents living behind enemy lines doing their work. Parasites-- they are literally parasites. Carl Zimmer has written a book about the different strategies that these parasites use to survive. And it makes for weirdly compelling reading. For one thing who knew how prevalent they were? Most creatures are living inside an enemy. And they are trying to fight that enemy trying to survive trying to outwit-- Just to give people a sense of the range of things that different parasites do could you tell the story of the parasite that gets into ants the lancet fluke? Sure. Well the lancet fluke is kind of a flatworm. It starts out as AN egg on the ground. And a snail comes along and eats the egg. And it kind of irritates the snail's system. So eventually it kind of coughs it up. And so there you have this sort of clump of kind OF nail goo with a parasite in it. And while it is disgusting to us to an ant there is nothing more delicious than snail goo. So the ant comes along. And he it eats the snail goo and the parasite along with it. So now you have these flukes inside the ant. And once they recognize that they are inside the ant they start doing some strange things. Sort of as the sun is starting to go down while the other ants are probably heading back to the nest it gets this uncontrollable urge to climb upwards. It wants to climb up. And what it generally does is it climbs up a blade of grass. And what is the advantage to the parasite for the ant to be up there? Well it is not too obvious at first. I mean it is not like the parasite wants to take in a better view. The thing is that there are these grazing mammals-- sheep cows. And that is one their favorite grazing times towards the end of the day. So the ant goes up there. The sheep comes along. Chews on the grass. The ant gets eaten. Chewed up. Dies. But the flukes inside the ant they can survive the digestive acids in the sheep's stomach. And actually sheep are where they like to live. They are their final host. What is so amazing that is it is not just the control that the parasite is having over the ant. That life cycle that you are describing is so complicated. It is having to go through three different animals over the course of its normal life cycle. Yeah. There actually are some parasites that go through six or seven different animals to get through their life cycle. It is mind boggling. It is really hard to talk about without kind of ascribing a kind of intentionality to them. They do not have consciousness. They do not have brains in any way. And its hard for us to even understand what they are doing without kind of like putting that on them. Yeah. Because in a sense they are using us or are using other animals or other hosts in such an intentional way. And they seem to know so much. How does a tapeworm inside a fish know that if it makes it flick and flail a certain way that it will be easier for a bird to see it. So they can get inside that bird where it wants to be. It is amazing. And not only to not have brains-- a lot of them do not even have nerves. So it is just this sinister chemical wisdom they have. And it seems like all the parasites break down into two different groups. There the kinds that actually get inside a host and then kill it off in their drive to survive. And then there are others which actually just kind of live inside and are happily living inside forever. They want the host to survive. Could you just tell the example of the creature that eats the fish's tongue? Yeah. This is a particularly creepy one. The parasite in question is called an isopod which is a kind of crustacean. It looks like a little pill bug or something. But it lives in the water. And what it does is it swims into the mouth of a snapper a fish. And when it is in there it is eats that fish's tongue. It just devours the tongue completely. But just the tongue. It stops there. But now this isopod this parasite does something very weird. It sort of turns around so it is facing front. And kind of hunkers down exactly where the tongue used to be. So if you look in one of these fish's mouths you see this tongue that has these little eyes in it. It is amazing. And what scientists think then happens is that the fish can then sort of use the parasite as its tongue. It will go out and it will catch some food. And it will catch a fish. And will crush up the food on the back of this parasite. The fish I guess does not mind too if it can still get its meal I guess. And the fish can then kind of get back to its life. So many of these stories just are such gross-out stories on a visceral level. Well it is funny because it disturbs us when we talk about that when it comes to parasites. But I mean why does not it disturb us when we talk about a lion? We name football teams after lions. Yeah. But we do not name football teams after tapeworms. You do not have the Tapeworms or something like that. We do not want to think about it. But we admire these predators. But what are these predators doing? These predators are taking advantage of these other life forms. They are just sort of eating them from the outside I guess you could say. I mean to my mind it is just a lot more cool when they are on the inside trying to figure out how to make this work. Thinking about this as much as you have do you start to see everything as being parasites? I see a lot of things as being parasites. Parasites are the most successful life form on Earth. And it could be as many as three parasites for every one free living species. It is hard to say. Huh. And if you are not a species that is living inside another thing then you are a species with something living inside of you. Is one side winning? I would say the parasites have the upper hand because they are just doing so very well. The parasites have the upper hand? Sure. Yeah. I mean they have the most species. They are getting around all these defenses. I mean there are things they do that either we do not know how they do it or if we know how they do it we cannot reproduce it. We just stand in awe of it. I know. But we know about them. They do not know about us. Like we are the ones with the brains and the thinking and the consciousness. Well then maybe you are overselling your brain you know. I mean the brain's a wonderful thing. But these parasites are able to pull the strings in those brains in a lot of cases. Say for example a rat. Rats are very smart animals. I mean they know how to learn. They know how to figure out their surroundings. But there is a parasite called toxoplasma that is a single-celled parasite. And they pick it up on the ground. And when it gets into them they suddenly lose their fear of the smell of cats. Otherwise they are totally the same. Then the cat eats them. And then toxoplasma gets into its final host which is the cat. So even though you have got a brain you are still being pushed towards your doom by this single-celled parasite. Mr. Zimmer whose side are you on? I think I am on the parasite's side when it comes to getting a bad rap. I am their PR man. Because Mr. Zimmer at some point we are all going to have to choose sides in this war. Speaking for the other humans I want to say you are either with us or against us. Well it is funny. I have not gotten seriously sick in my life. Knock on wood. And I have actually gone to places where there are a lot of parasites around in order to report on how people are dealing with them. And I did not get sick. I was really scared. But I did not get sick. I did not get malaria. I did not get river blindness. I did not get sleeping sickness. What is this? Are you saying this because they could sense that you are in league with them? Who knows? Well maybe they think I am here to serve their purpose. Carl Zimmer. His book the perfect reading material if you ever whenever long talk with an eight-year-old boy is Parasite Rex.  Act Three. As The Worm Turns. Well as long as we are on the subject of apologists for parasites let us hear this story from the staff of Radiolab. Here's Radiolab's host Robert Krulwich and reporter Patrick Walters. So Patrick are you there? Yeah I am here Robert. So just tell us a little bit about this fellow what is his name exactly? His name is Jasper Lawrence. He actually grew up in England. He grew up in this little farm in the southwest corner of England. And it is important to know before hearing any part of his story that Jasper has had allergies for pretty much his whole life. On really bad days my eyes would swell up so much from pollen or air borne allergens that they would feel like they were swelling shut. I could feel my eyes squeaking in my sockets. It was an enormously uncomfortable feeling. But it was nothing debilitating. They were just allergies. And so he is just like most other people who have allergies. You just learn to deal with it. You know you live with it. But what changed for me in my late 20s early 30s was my asthma. And at that time I was living in Santa Cruz. I was relatively recently married. We had three cats that had been grandfathered in with the relationship. And I started a landscaping business. I really did not work for someone else. I think someone with allergies a landscaping business that seems kind of unexpected. Stupid is actually the word for it. And within six months or a year-- He starts to notice-- --this really weird barking cough. Was there anything in particular that brought this on? No. It was just sitting and breathing. Cats certainly did not help. Right. And during that period my asthma got much worse very very quickly. By the time it was 1996 1997 I was seeing specialists having skin allergen tests and cycling through emergency inhalers trying Singulair and all these other drugs that were coming on the market. I was being hospitalized at least couple of times a year. I mean I looked terrible. I had dark eyes and pale waxy skin. I had that allergic look. It was a really bad time. And he decides in the summer of 2004 to take a vacation. He made this visit to England. Yeah. I took my two daughters back to see my aunt who had raised me. Very early in the visit I was sitting at her kitchen table. And she asked me if I would seen a BBC documentary about parasites and their connection with things like asthma and allergies and multiple sclerosis. And of course I had not. But I went upstairs and got on the internet after lunch. And I stayed on the internet until perhaps 200 in the morning. I did not stop. I was reading and reading the work of all these researchers. One study after the next. And Japan. And epidemiological studies in Africa. Animal models of multiple sclerosis. This enormous weight of evidence that in the developing world people do not really have asthma or allergies. And what he discovers is that behind all of this to his shock is hookworms. Hookworm? Yeah. Hookworms. Yeah. I learned that asthma was 50 less likely in someone who had a hookworm infection. So this sort of just like hits you. Oh yeah. What did you think when you read that? Oh I immediately was determined to obtain hookworm. Immediately. I could not wait. So hookworms are these very tiny worms the size of a little hair. But if you take a microscope in you zoom way in they have this big circular mouth mouth brimming full of pointy teeth. very. Scary to look at. They have these toothy mouths so that they can borough up through your feet ride through your blood and eventually end up down in your gut and start chewing on the inside of your intestines. This guy wants hookworms in his intestines? Absolutely. And so did you just Google it