There is not much to the story of how Chase got injured. He was invited to a New Year's party in Philadelphia. He flies in goes to the party goes back to an apartment where he is staying with three other people gets up around 700 in the morning. Lack of sleep still hungover maybe a little drunk from the night before. And I went to the bathroom and I tripped. And next thing I know I am on the ground. All three of them are around me. They are freaking out. He is concussed does not know where he is or what is happening. They are like get up. And I was so confused. I was like OK I am trying. And I was just like face down on the ground. My arm was like this and I was pushing. And they were shaking-- the moment I realized I was paralyzed was they were shaking my leg. And I kind of knew something was happening to my leg. I was like are you touching me? And they are like yeah we are shaking your leg. You do not feel that? And I was like no. At the hospital he learns that there is trauma and internal bleeding in his spinal cord around the C4 vertebra. They tell him he may never walk again. He cannot stand or control his arms or use his hands. It is not clear he ever will. Somebody has to feed him. He is all alone no visitors. He is basically immobile in front of a television that is set to Comedy Central which those particular weeks he says was reruns of The Office most of the day. He said he watched from season one all the way up through the finale of season nine and then season one began again. And one day early in the ICU he is in a group chat with his buddies-- which means since he cannot pick up his phone a nurse reads to him what they are saying and then he dictates what to write back. And they are trying to cheer him up. And they come up with a project for him a goal a heroic goal an unusual goal a goal that is the reason that I wanted to talk to Chase this goal that really started as a joke. My one friend Julian said get better. Dan said he would let you kick him in the  when you get home. Oh wait a second. Let me just stop the story right there. I actually checked with our lawyers. It is not actually forbidden to say that word on the radio in the United States but it falls into a gray area. And rather than beep it over and over as you tell the story we thought we might just substitute a word when you and I are talking. And here are the phrases our lawyers approved to replace that word with-- manliness man parts nether region loins twins.  Sorry. That is so-- what was the first one? Manliness man parts nether region loins twins. You cannot say ? Cannot say . Cannot say . We specifically asked about  and .  Sorry. This is such a funny part of this conversation. Well what do you think is best? I will just go with whatever you prefer. I like nether region just because it sounds the funniest to me. OK we can do that. I like it the nethers. The nethers. Before long Chase got physical therapy where they planned what kind of electric wheelchair they would get him because there was a chance his arms and legs would never recover. But of course he knew exactly where he was headed a goal so pure that even a small child could understand it a goal set specifically because his friends believed he never could reach it. Dan would let me kick him in the nethers. I kept that in the back of my head the entire time. The entire time I was getting better I was like Dan's going to have it. Dan's going to have it. You had a goal. I had a goal. I had a lot of goals. And on a more serious note that was-- having multiple goals was so important to the recovery. In fact he had three goals. Kicking Dan in the nethers was the most ambitious and pie in the sky but the other two were no cakewalk either and also pretty idiosyncratic. Take this next goal. To flip people off to give the middle finger. And I worked so hard on my hands. How old are you? 25. OK. But come on. Come on. I could not move my fingers at all until about two and 12 weeks in. I had a breakdown with the therapist there. I was crying. It was one of my first big mental breakdowns. He thought he would never use his fingers again. She is like let us see and told him to try to move his thumb. He could not do it but he could move his index finger like just a quiver like a millimeter. And he set this goal which he actually achieved a month and a half later with incredible effort. He was finally able to get his middle finger fully straight. And I freaked out. I was like look I did it. All the therapists look at me and I just start flipping all of them off. And they are like yay yay!   His next goal-- well Chase actually lives in California but he would flown to Philadelphia for the New Year's party and injured himself in Philadelphia and was now recovering in Philadelphia. And for him as an out-of-towner one of the things that Philadelphia means is those steps Sylvester Stallone runs up in the movie Rocky in front of the Philadelphia Museum of Art. Chase wanted to climb them all 72 steps. I told my therapist about it. And even though in the beginning she thought it was going to be impossible we just kept practicing steps as much as we could. That is the thing about the therapy is they take your goals and they work at it no matter how ridiculous they are whether it is kicking someone in the nethers or climbing up some steps. They really try to gear it towards what you want. To give you a sense of why the therapist thought it would be impossible or ridiculous-- when Chase came up with this goal he could not stand. He could not walk. Later they would suspend him above a treadmill with ropes and two therapists would move his legs to get the muscles to remember what walking is. Then he would learn to walk with a cane and then without a cane. But before he did any of that back when he was still just learning to get around in a wheelchair they started him going upstairs to make this goal. And two and 12 months after he entered the hospital he went to the steps where Rocky trained rode in a wheelchair up to the first step stood and started climbing slowly watching each foot as he planted it-- one then the other a physical therapist steadying him from behind. And balance is difficult. I have to look down. So the whole time I am looking down at my legs. And I can hear a bunch of people clapping but I am so focused. I go up the first little flight go up the second little flight. I look up-- hundreds of people. Nice.   He actually posted a thing online saying he was going to climb the Rocky steps and livestream it and he did not expect that lots of people would actually show up in person to see him climb to the top. Almost there. One more! One more! One more!  So a triumph. But there was one goal left the final goal the most difficult goal for a bunch of reasons that we will get to in a minute-- kicking Dan in the nethers. Dr. Emily Beus is one of Chase's physical therapists. She says most of her patients had spinal cord injuries and they had all kinds of goals. But when Chase first told her about this one she was like wait you want to work on your kicking why? That was definitely a first for me. I am not sure I have ever had anybody request that. And as a physical therapist just like with doctors or anybody else our general motto is do no harm. Oh it had not occurred to me that you helping him kick Dan in the nethers could actually be a violation of your Hippocratic oath. I know. Yeah. Well it just made me hesitate because we talk about ethics a lot and we never want to harm anybody else. And so I was a little hesitant at first but the more we talked about it and I understood that it was not like he was just going to try to go out and harm somebody without their consent. Yeah. And so I said OK well let us break it down. We practiced kicking. We warmed up with some kicking a soccer ball because it was soft. It was easy. Kicking a soccer ball-- a lot of kicking is not just the leg you are kicking with. It is being able to have your balance standing on one leg which for Chase was a challenge. It is a lot more difficult for me to stand on my right leg even today. And then it was a little bit higher kicks to a standing-up kind of bolster. And we practiced each leg and figured out which leg would produce the most force which one he had the best balance on and all of that. The left side of my body is in better condition so we thought is it better to balance on my left leg and kick with the right? Turned out no it was better to just try to balance on my right and kick with the left because it was a lot stronger. So it was kind of strategic and fun just to sort of figure out which one would get the task done make it so it was not just like he was tapping him or--  Which leg would really do some damage. Yeah I mean which would make him feel like he would really recovered. Chase did recover much more quickly and completely than most of the patients Emily saw she says. His particular injury just ended up working out like that. And so just a month after the Rocky steps he reached his final goal and made a little video. Hey guys. I am Dan. I am about to be kicked in the . In the video Dan seems like the most good-natured person who has ever lived. He smiles. And let me tell you when the day did come when we were actually doing it the first time I went for the kick I thought I got him but I hit him in the thigh and not the nethers. And he could have faked it. He could have laid on the floor and pretended to be in pain. Immediately he was like Chase you missed. Do it again. I am like all right here we go. In the video Dan stands there legs spread awkwardly one hand covering his eyes but laughing which I think summarizes all the feelings you could have in that moment. Chase quietly says sorry. He told me he felt bad for Dan but he also felt like he would come so far. When the text got sent initially they thought it was never going to happen. They thought it was going to be impossible. Instead I slammed him in his nethers. I slammed him Ira. Oh!  He was on the ground. He was not OK. He was OK after. And also he says in the video Chase slammed me in the nethers and it felt so good. Because he at the same time was so proud of me for being able to get to a point where that was even possible. He still has a way to go. He is not all recovered still devoting his days to physical therapy. His latest goal says a lot about where he is right now. He wants to walk well enough that people cannot tell he ever had an injury. He wants to seem how he used to be. It is still hard for him to open a water bottle or change a light bulb. Chest down he does not feel temperature at all. So he can feel the water from the shower hit him but cannot tell how hot it is. And then my fingers I can feel when they are touching things but I cannot always feel the texture. So when I am reaching for something in my pocket I do not always know if I am grabbing my wallet or my keys or just the pants. It is kind of difficult. But I do have sensation everywhere. It just varies the level. But it is interesting that you are so recovered but you are not totally there. You have come so far but you are not totally there. You are in this weird limbo. It is weird. I am not sure how much I like it. I just want all this to be done. I just want the recovery to be done. Whether I fully recover or not I just want to be at the point where I do not have to dedicate my entire life to getting better. The point I am super excited to get to is when I am not thinking about it. Because right now every time I move my hand it is just in my head-- oh I have this injury. Every time I move my leg oh I have this injury. He wants to get to the point where he is used to what his body can do at whatever level that turns out to be. He does not want this dominating his thoughts and his whole day. But this is the thing-- recovery means something different for everybody. Each person sets their own goals. Part of recovering is actually defining for yourself what your own recovery means. Today on our program we have people coming back from some very different things. They are in the same limbo Chase is in where they are partly there but not all the way. They are in the middle which is this moment of enormous hope but also a lot of other stuff too. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One Naked Lunch. So today's show really came out of a question that one of our longtime producers Susan Burton had about something that is happening in her own life. You may remember a few months ago Susan told a story on our show about her eating disorder. And that was something she had kept secret for most of her life from everyone in her life and then she revealed the secret in a book she wrote this memoir that came out last summer. And the book is about what it is like to have an eating disorder not about how to get over one. Because when Susan wrote it she was not over it. She still is not. And over the two and 12 years that she is been working toward recovery she started to wonder what does recovery from an eating disorder even mean? A heads-up that if hearing stories about eating disorders aggravates your own eating disorder symptoms this may affect you. Here's Susan. At the beginning of recovery I never thought about recovery. What I thought about was telling my secret. The secret was the eating disorder I would had for 30 years. What was this eating disorder? It had been so many things-- starving bingeing. It is not like you pick an eating disorder as a teenage girl and you have that one for the rest of your life. The  up relationship with food is what you have for the rest of your life-- or what it felt like to me I was going to have when at age 45 I stepped into my therapist's office for the first time. I am preoccupied with food and I do not want to be I told her. That was the beginning. Now I am in the middle two and 12 years in. And what that looks like it is not easy to summarize. Easy would be I now do X behavior instead of Y. I do not have that kind of sentence but I do have examples like this one. One afternoon this spring my husband made cookies. I took one from the cooling rack and I ate it with him and our 16-year-old son. Maybe that sounds like a small thing. Maybe that sounds like nothing. I have to curb that impulse to tell you how small these things are how nothing they are because with an eating disorder how you relate to food connects to and disrupts how you relate to everyone in your life. And eating something sweet at that time of day-- for me that is not nothing. That happens alone in secret because the pleasure is so intense. It cannot be seen. It cannot be shared. There will be no pleasure if it is shared. But that day I leaned against the counter and ate the cookie and it felt good. It was one of so many things I did not realize about recovery. It is not just eating intuitively. It is making food something shared instead of something secret. Another day my other son age 13 came into the kitchen. He wanted me to come out to the garden so he could show me how the vines of his cucumbers were hardening as they twined. He wanted to show me now and it could not be now. How could anyone be asking me to do anything now? I could not. No. In a second. And he went back outside. But the reason I could not was that I just pitted cherries that I was going to put on ice cream. The food was incoming on the way. It could not be stopped. I could not be intruded on. When I finished I went straight to the garden and my son showed me the vines. I stood there hating myself reflecting on how many such moments there have been over the years. I cannot right now not right now. I have done a lot of that like a lot of mothers. And a lot of it has had to do with work. But work-- come on really? There is no shame in that admission. There is all this hand wringing about guilt and work and motherhood but hard work is the most culturally sanctioned thing in America. Try revealing that you have turned your child away because of food. Do you detect anger? Most of us with eating disorders-- volcanically angry. Also most of us-- placid or even fun girl disguised. That is part of recovery too expressing anger not hiding. My body-- my body is recovering too. It is changing. My body's like those sponges my children always wanted when they were young and we were in line at the grocery store. The sponges are thin like sticks of gum the color of Manila envelopes. When you put them in water they expand. That is what my body has done. It is like one of those flat sponges that expanded. I told this to my therapist. That is an interesting word flat she said. It is the word I mean I emphasized-- flat not thin. Yes she said. And you were flat inside too emotionally. And that was true. That is what the eating disorder does to you. That is part of why you have it so you will not feel. That is maybe the whole point. Clothes-- a blue linen dress with buttons down the front. There came a day in May when it was the right weather for it. I put on the dress which used to be loose but no longer was. But the difference was that I did not want it to be loose. In the kitchen my husband reached for me. He put his hands on my waist rounded them over my hips. And I wanted it. I wanted to be touched. That was new too. But the way I have gained the weight-- OK so this is mixed. Some of it-- it is not the bingeing I did for years but there is been a lot of reaching for food all day. I long to eat in an orderly way like meals on plates at consistent times but I struggle to do so. There is a specific meal that comes to mind when I think about not only where I am in recovery but what I want from it. I want to be normal about lunch. Want to know the scene I associate with lunch? Our This American Life staff meeting which happens in person once a week when there is not a pandemic. Every week food is ordered in and laid out on a table in takeout containers. I have never once taken the food we order in for this meeting. For years I have watched people pick up plates and just put food on those plates and then sit down at the meeting and eat that food while we are talking. Every part of this is a marvel to me. But actually what happens even before they get to the food that is probably the most important part that they stood from their desks and came to get the food neither hating themselves for already having eaten at the wrong time nor brittle and empty because they have been too scared to put anything in. I imagine hunger rising in a normal way in their bodies a kind of rising hunger that is so unfamiliar. It is like I crave it in the way people maybe crave love or touch or something. It happens so rarely for me. This is what I am thinking about when I sit in a circle of coworkers with plates on their laps. I am looking at these people and imagining what they feel in their bodies. It makes me feel very distant from them in a way that is kind of far reaching and it extends out to other ways I relate to my coworkers and everyone in my life. So yeah in recovery I want to be normal about lunch. Normal-- we all know there is no normal that normal is being phased out. But normal stays in my head when it comes to food. Normal about food-- is that recovery? When my book came out and I was first doing interviews about it people would ask me where are you with food now? I would say I am working toward recovery but I felt so uneasy whenever I said this. Felt like I was throwing around a phrase I did not understand and that my ignorance was clear to everyone who actually knew about eating disorder recovery. I just felt so out of my depth just so new to this to every part of it to the working toward it part to recovery-- which just to say was that the process or the end? Was there an end? What does recovery from an eating disorder even mean? Square one-- I went looking for the official clinical definition of eating disorder recovery. I wanted this as context as a baseline but it turned out there was no baseline. There is no consensus about what recovery means. Most definitions include physical criteria like are you at a healthy weight and behavioral like have you stopped bingeing? But there is also how much you are thinking about food your ability to express emotions all the stuff that has nothing to do with eating. This is where the lack of consensus comes in over what other stuff belongs in the definition. Intellectually I was interested in all of this. But emotionally what I really wanted was to talk about recovery with people who'd been through it people further along in it than me. I wanted to talk about what recovery felt like to them maybe as a way of imagining myself into my own version of it. And I had two people in mind. The first one was someone who'd said a single word to me about recovery that captured how I wanted to feel there a word that I would been returning to for months. The word was sturdy. I am very happy to be talking to you again. OK good. Me too. If you are-- I do not know-- under 30 and you grew up watching Nickelodeon you probably know who Jennette McCurdy is. She was a star of teen comedies-- iCarly Sam  Cat. In her early 20s she quit acting. It was actually part of her eating disorder recovery. And now she has a podcast called Empty Inside. She interviewed me for it last summer which is when she said that word sturdy that stayed with me ever since. First and most importantly I felt sturdy enough in my recovery that I could share my story. When we spoke you use this word to describe your recovery. You said you waited to tell your story until you were sturdy. As soon as you said that word something about it grabbed me. And then when I responded to you I even repeated the word kind of trying it out. It just shows a lot of self-knowledge too that you waited to a point where you were sturdy. Because of course it opens you up to all kinds of stuff. And it stayed with me after the interview. And I think it had so much significance because it described to me both an emotional and a physical place. I had for so long privileged and tried for frailness and fragility and so the idea of being sturdy was suddenly appealing to me. Like a sturdy body but also sturdiness in the way that you could be buffeted by bad  by the hard experiences come out OK. You could withstand it. You might get blown about but you would not get broken. You would be OK. And I think as far as thinking about my recovery it is been an interesting word to return to because it is not as woo-woo as some other stuff like phoenix rising or-- the tiger --yeah you know what I mean? Yeah. There is something really real about it. Anyway. Oh my god. OK so I want to hear what sturdy means to you. Well I mean I just have to say anytime somebody starts comparing people to animals-- the lioness prowls and the night sky-- I am like you lost me. There is nothing real that I can grab onto. So for me it is really important to use language that reflects reality. What sturdy meant to Jennette was that she felt strong enough in her recovery to speak publicly about her eating disorder without falling back into it. And to give you a sense of what she had to recover from her eating disorder started when she was 11. And being a child actor I always played roles that were younger than my actual age. And it was very beneficial to be able to play roles that were younger than my age because you could work longer hours. So they were much more inclined to cast you if you were 12 playing eight than if you were eight playing eight. But when I was 11 I sort of started developing a little tiny-- I will call it a nipple bud. I do not know what else to call it like just a little-- like the littlest peep of a breast. And my mom had actually had cancer when I was two years old so I thought-- the only thing I knew about lumps in breasts was that that meant cancer. So I thought oh no she had cancer. Now I have cancer. I showed my mom this lump. She felt it and she said oh Nettie no. You do not have cancer. You are just getting breasts. And in my 11-year-old mind breasts were just about as bad as cancer truly. I did not want to be older. I knew that that would be really really not good for my acting career. And I was largely the financial support for my family. So I knew that meant bad things for my family. I just wanted to stay young. So I said well how can I keep the boobs from coming? And my mom said well there is this thing called calorie restriction. Jennette actually wrote a song about this conversation. It is from a one-woman show she is been performing. SINGING It might be time for me to teach you a thing called calorie restriction yay.  I am 11 years old. I do not know what that is. Well 11 years old is the perfect age to find out. And from that point on she not only coached me but really-- she had had eating disorders of her own for quite a long time so we were sort of this-- I call it a mommy and me eating disorder team. And we were just-- we would help each other out every single night-- meal planning for the next day calorie counting for the day that we just experienced and swapping tips and tricks and reading Woman's World magazine diet pages together. And we were just-- I thought it was this fabulous thing where we were just this little duo. And I thought wow I am so lucky my mom's helping me with this thing. I am helping her. Look at us go. SINGING Life's better when you are empty inside. It is harder when you are full. Trust me I have tried. The idea of going over the calories for your day with your mother-- I mean how many times in my life have I made little lists of 200 plus 150 plus-- but it was so alone. I mean my god that you were doing it with your mother. Yeah yeah absolutely. I mean I think definitely the experience of eating disorders so often is something that is so lonely. And while it became that for me after my mom died and the eating disorder switched to bulimia for almost the entire time that I had anorexia it was very much a team sport. Now you try sweetheart. OK Mommy. SINGING Life's better when you are empty inside. I will stay empty to fill you with pride. Nice.   Was there like a moment or like a stage where you started using the word recovery to describe your experience to yourself? Well I am glad we talked a little bit about woo-woo words earlier because there was something actually in recovery that I did not like. When I thought of the word recovery I thought it is somebody in head-to-toe linen just beach waves grinning ear to ear laughing about how easy their life is picking up a seashell and tossing it into the sea. That was not how I felt about life or was sure I would ever ever feel about life. So I was very wary of using the word recovery for quite some time. And I would say I-- I just try to bypass that and use other words. I am trying to think of what I said. I would just be-- I would say it is something I am working on. Midway through she got to a point that sounds a lot like where I am now. She describes the feeling this way. I have been in recovery for a few years and I am not where I want to be. This has been very stop and go. It is been a very good week bad week. I am not satisfied with that. I want to wake up tomorrow and work toward being fully recovered. I think it is time and I felt ready. Yeah. So at that point I mean because-- among the reasons I wanted to talk to you is because you are-- as somebody who dislikes the phrase recovery journey as much as you-- but you are further along that beach-- along the beach in your linen dress than I am. And I feel really ready to be on the other side of this. So for somebody like me who is listening to you tell this story and is like I have that thought too I want to put it behind me so like how are you able-- what did you do next that got you to where you are now? Jeanette's answer to my question about what she did next was essentially it was not what she did next that mattered. It was all the work she would already done. In therapy she would grappled with a lot of the underlying reasons for her eating disorder felt rage toward her mother grieved her mother. Yes she was still purging and still restricting but way way less. She just knew that she did not need those behaviors as coping strategies anymore. She developed others. She started writing finding her own voice. That was a few years ago. She describes where she is now as recovered. How does the reality of feeling recovered-- how does it compare with what you imagined? Oh my god. It feels like there is not that weight constantly. And while I would say I am definitely a far distance from peace-- it is another one of the woo-woo words for me-- but I feel good. I feel-- She feels more present more able to focus more able to feel her feelings and to tolerate the uncomfortable ones. These are all things I hope for like precisely. I asked her about something that might sound weird if you have never had an eating disorder but I feel food in my body just intensely. Jennette said she understood 1000 what I meant by this. And she said that is gone now too. It is like I am more in tune with my body-- Yeah. --but less aware of those types of things. Talking to Jennette it made me think of a term I would come across in the research I would done about the definition of recovery-- indistinguishable as in a person can recover so fully from an eating disorder that they become indistinguishable from someone who is never had one. It sounded almost sci-fi like we erase your eating disorder but also your old identity-- not even something I would want but also something I instantly wanted. I thought I would try out indistinguishable on Jennette see if it resonated. There is no difference from them and somebody who is never had an eating disorder. Their brain is indistinguishable-- I love that. I love that. But so does that-- so it sounds like that is appealing to you. Is that what you feel like? Do you feel indistinguishable from somebody who is never had an eating disorder? That is hugely appealing. I think I would be lying if I said there was not always some awareness of that being my past. But I would say that I definitely notice when somebody does not have any sort of eating disorder. I feel like I can spot them quite easily like oh wow they just are normal is my thought. And I would say I am as close to that as I can possibly be. I have zero food rules. I eat whatever I want-- breakfast lunch dinner snacks-- and I do not think at all about it. It is almost odd to me when I think about my past. I have said several times to my partner-- I will say I cannot believe that there was a time in my life when that was who I was. Yeah. It is so wild to me. It feels like a different person. It feels like-- I mean it does feel like my brain was wired differently then. I felt hopeful after talking to Jennette like the freedom she feels that it was possible for me. Here was someone who'd thought thoughts like mine who'd felt feelings in her body like mine who now had new thoughts and a new experience of her body. But I have had these thoughts and feelings for a lot longer time. I am 47. Jennette just turned 29. One of the realities of my recovery is just that I have lived with an eating disorder for so many years. And I really wanted to talk to someone my own age who'd started recovery in middle age talk about what it had been like for them. I had someone in mind-- Anissa Gray. Anissa wrote a novel called The Care and Feeding of Ravenously Hungry Girls which I read last summer and was really affected by. The novel's protagonist is a Black lesbian in her 40s with an eating disorder a description that explodes all kinds of stereotypes about who has eating disorders and who gets to tell stories about them. Anissa is in her 50s. Her bingeing and purging started in college. Like me she hid her eating disorder from everyone in her life for years. I used to be very careful about not doing certain behaviors at home when someone could hear. But my wife heard me in the bathroom at one point and that was when the shoe dropped. Anissa agreed to get help but only because her wife wanted her to. They live outside Atlanta. Anissa found an eating disorder center there. She showed up for her first group therapy session straight from a three-hour workout and a binge and purge. And one of the things I noticed immediately upon walking in was that A I was the only Black person in the room. I am not unfamiliar with that scenario. That is essentially been the case for me most if not all of my life. So that was fine. But I was really struck by how young the women were in the group. Mostly college 