I spoke with Julia Lurie the day that she tried something new with her students. She teaches English at an all-girls high school in South Korea in the city of Gwangju. I reached her on Skype. And she told me that ever since she arrived in South Korea she would been really surprised by a bunch of things at her school. There is a full-length mirror and a scale on every single floor of the school in the main hallway. And do girls use them? Yeah they use them all the time. A lot of them do not really think twice about it. And then I asked some of the girls about it and they said yeah our principal wants them there because it is an all-girls high school and he wants us to be skinny. And he made a joke that if we lose a certain amount of weight then we can get a cafe. And my first response was like OK that is really messed up. My second response was just that is really mixed messages. Plastic surgery is super super common. Like one in five women in Seoul have it. A lot of my students want to get it after they finish their college entrance exams as like a rewards of sorts. Is this plastic surgery to look more Western? Yeah exactly. So the most common is the-- it is called double eyelid surgery. But it is basically to put a crease in your eyelids so it looks like more Western eyelids. Other common ones are cutting down your jaw bones so that you have more a V-shaped face as opposed to a circular face. In class and on the bus young women carry these hand mirrors Julia says big hand mirrors like the size of a small dinner plate. And they are always pulling them out and checking themselves. Julia says the pressure on them to look a certain way is worse than in the United States. When you are applying for university or you are applying for a job here you put a picture of yourself on your resume or your application. And it is sort of taken for granted that how you look will often go into the decision of if you get into that university or if you get that job. Really? If you get into university they will decide based on how pretty you are? Well so I have had it explained to me as if they have two equal candidates like otherwise equal candidates then the prettier person will get the job. And her students just see this is as normal like there is nothing weird or disturbing about that at all. And so she wanted to talk to them about it though she wanted to be careful how she did this. It would be easy to come off as condescending or preachy or like oh this is so terrible. And she did not want to do that. She just wanted them to know it is not like this everywhere. You could see all this differently. She recorded the class on her iPhone for us. She started with the basics. Not ugly. OK so raise your hand. Tell me how does a beautiful woman look? White. White skin. White skin. What else? Me. Big eyes. Big eyes. It is me. You! I do not know if you could hear it one of the girls said me when asked what a beautiful woman looks like. So I got thin tall V-shaped face. We had this funny moment where they did not know the word for breasts so I was teaching them the word for breast. . No breast. A breast. Breast. A breast. OK so-- So I am drawing one on the board. B cup? C cup.  A cup. They talked about how these ideas of beauty are subjective which definitely was not news to these students. And then Julia explained some of the things that just surprised her as an American living in South Korea. That is how she put it. She wanted to sound as neutral as possible. This is just different than what she would seen in America. We usually do not have scales and mirrors in high school hallways. We do not use photos on university and job applications the way Koreans do. Photo OK. In the USA it is illegal against the law-- The law. --to discriminate to say no to a person because of how they look.  So I cannot say  you cannot work for me because you are ugly.  Technically actually this is not true. Ugly people are not a protected group under United States law. But you get her point. Ugliness is not going to keep you out of Harvard. Julia showed them a graph so they could see how much plastic surgery women in South Korea get compared to women in other countries. They are number one more per capita than anywhere. And they discussed all this. One girl said that that statistic made her feel ashamed as a South Korean. And toward the end of the class Julia asked them to write a couple sentences about self-improvement through plastic surgery or scales in school hallways or pictures on resumes about why they were good or why they were bad. And about half of them thought good and half thought bad. Two of Julia's students surprised her by saying that they would already had plastic surgery themselves. One of them wrote that it was good for her because it gave her confidence. And the thing is this is coming from my smartest class. And it was kind of hard to hear-- like for scales for example. Now that they are in high school they are basically like I like being able to check my weight and seeing if I should eat less or not. And they made the point-- and it is a really valid one-- that they want to make sure they are on track and not be stressing about it. It is interesting how much of their argument is I want to be a success and this is the way to success. Mm-hm. It is very utilitarian. It just makes a lot of sense. I can imagine being here growing up here and just if this was one of the things that you had to do to succeed and do well I am sure I would consider it too. Who learned more today you or them? I do not know. I was just gonna say I think I went into this lesson being like OK just really really try to be objective or seem objective and walked out of it being like OK they have very legit reasons for doing these things. Did you learn anything today? Yes. What did you learn? We are beautiful girls. I think you are beautiful girls. I agree. Well today on our radio show it is the start of a new year. People are making resolutions. We have stories of people's self-improvement schemes-- yes starting with the defense of teenage girls getting plastic surgery. I know typical public radio political correctness a defense of Asian teenagers getting plastic surgery to look white. Some of these schemes on today's show you may agree with some you may not agree with. We have one that is about an entire nation going on a self-improvement kick. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. Get off that treadmill put down that celery stick stop reorganizing your budget for the year and stay with us. Act One Is that a Compass a Map a Toothbrush and a Bottle of Purell in Your Pocket or Are You Just Happy To See Me? Elna Baker has this story of somebody taking the reins and daring to start over to change his own life. I went to NYU with a guy named Daryl Watson. Unlike a lot of the other students Daryl did not come from money. He was there on a scholarship. And instead of partying or doing drugs he spent his time writing plays good plays. We kept in touch after college but I had not heard from him in a little while when in August 2009 I got the kind of email that is generally a cause for concern. It said Hello everyone I am writing to let you know that tomorrow I will be undertaking a pilgrimage for peace walking across the country from Cape Henlopen State Park in Delaware to San Francisco California. I will no longer be using this email address or the name 'Daryl Watson.' For the duration of this pilgrimage I will carry the title carried by my predecessor 'Peace Pilgrim.' My peace and love go out to you all. Daryl's walk for peace across the entire country was supposed to take at least six months. Three days later he posted an update on his blog. All it said was Peace Pilgrim down. Repeat Peace Pilgrim down. I remember thinking three days? That is it? What happened? I would never gotten the story so a month ago I called him and we met up. Oh I have not seen you in years. And now all of a sudden we are in a radio station. I know. It is like the most official way to see someone. He told me the back story. In 2007 Daryl was living in New York City and working at a children's TV show. That part I knew. His career was going well. What I did not know is that he was also sort of falling apart. He would been a devout Christian as a teenager. He would even considered becoming a minister. But he would left the church and now five years later every night he was having these vivid dreams where people would talk to him about who we was what his purpose was on earth the meaning of life. He would wake up confused and upset and exhausted. The dreams started to preoccupy him during the day. They seemed more important than his waking life to the point where he almost could not function. Because I was wrestling with so much fear and so much doubt I would wanted an end to the ambiguity. I wanted my mission statement. You know how every business has a mission statement? You know what I mean? That is what I wanted. Like you are Daryl Watson you were born on this day this is your purpose this is how you are going to do it. All the dreams made him wonder if he had a spiritual calling that he was avoiding. Daryl wanted to feel a connection to God a clear unshakable answer. So he threw his career aside left New York and tried all the classics-- silent meditation and fasting for 40 days a trip to Peru to study under a shaman a holy trip to Jerusalem. He did this for a year. Nothing helped. Finally when he was just about to give up he came across the story of Peace Pilgrim. Peace Pilgrim was a woman named Mildred Norman who became famous in the 1960s in certain circles for walking across the United States and Canada and Mexico with no money or possessions just a shirt that said Peace Pilgrim. She followed Jesus' advice to be like the lilies of the field to trust that God would provide. She walked for 28 years. Here she is being interviewed in Pensacola in 1977. I have not got any money and I do not even accept any money and I do not belong to any organization and I do not own anything except what you see. This is me and my only earthly possessions sitting in this chair. I walk until given shelter fast until given food. I do not even ask. It is given without asking. I did not know why other people were not doing it. Peace Pilgrim's story had all the answers Daryl was looking for. She trusted God and it worked. God did provide for her for almost 30 years. She had the unambiguous connection to God that Daryl desperately wanted. She had no doubt or fear and her fearlessness inspired others. I thought why are not more people giving away everything that they own and walking across the country? Of course this is what you do. When you live in this world as crazy as it is this is what you do. So in August of 2009 Daryl decided to become today's Peace Pilgrim. He bought a blue t-shirt and spray-painted Peace Pilgrim across the front and Walking Coast to Coast for Peace on the back. Then he shaved his hair and his beard. After that he cleared out his bank accounts and credit cards putting all the money into an envelope he planned to give to charity. Lastly he tore up his driver's license. Just 10 days after first getting the idea Daryl caught a bus to Delaware. That night from a motel in Cape Henlopen he sent the infamous mass email and then wiped his computer clean of files including shockingly all the plays he would written over the last eight years. He left his computer phone and iPod in the motel room with a note for the cleaning staff to keep them. The next morning August 30 Daryl began his walk. He would do what the original Peace Pilgrim did trust that people would be moved by his faith in God and provide for him. So the only things in his pockets were a compass a map a toothbrush and a bottle of Purell. No food no sleeping bag not even a coat. The first thing he wanted to do was give away the envelope with all his money roughly 2000. That first night I walked by a church and I thought well maybe I can give the money to whoever's at this church. And so there is a pastor there. And he and I start talking. And I try to give him this envelope full of money and he gets a really suspicious look on his face. And he does not come right out and say it but I think he probably thought that I stole it because it is a good deal of money in an envelope. And he looked at it. I kind of laughed. I was like oh no I did not steal this. I withdrew it. Like I withdrew all the money from my bank account. That is where I got the money. Do you want it? Something to know the original Peace Pilgrim was a sweet-faced older white lady who started walking in the 1950s. Daryl is a tall athletic 30-year-old black man walking in 2009. The pastor's reaction surprised him but did not shock him. I was not like oh my goodness why would he think that I stole this? I think it was a reasonable suspicion regardless of what color I was but I do not think being black helped. I was annoyed. But then I was like well maybe this is a chance for me to spread the message. You know what I mean? So then he and I started talking. And I told him why I was doing what I was doing. And he said well you know the only way to peace is really through Jesus. And I was like I understand what you are saying. I used to believe that myself. I disagree. And he was like you are wrong. And I got into a sort of heated theological debate. And then finally I was like well maybe I should just be on my way. And he is like you know what I am not gonna take your money. I think he was going to take the money. He actually was holding the envelope as he was debating with me. And then at a certain point he was like you know what I am not gonna take this money because I feel like to take it from you who is not a believer would be sending the wrong message. And then he said Jesus said to the disciples if you go into a town and you try to spread the gospel and they do not hear you leave that town and then wipe the dirt off your feet. And let that be a testimony to that place. And he said so I wipe my feet off at you. And that really bothered me. But Daryl could not dwell on it. He still had to get rid of the money and find a place to sleep. So he wrote for charity on the envelope and dropped it in the first mailbox he saw. Without any offers to stay inside Daryl slept on the steps of the Catholic Church that night. You know it was just starting to get cold out. I did not have a coat. I did not have a sleeping bag. I did not have really anything. And it was just concrete. And concrete is really cold. So that first night I barely slept at all. And the second day I walked into this college town. And I made it to some sort of fast food restaurant place. I stopped a lot at fast food places because they let you have water for free. And then I would just sit there and just try to recover. And this college kid saw my Peace Pilgrim shirt and so he came over and started talking to me. And he is like that is really crazy that you are doing this. Have you done anything like this before? And I was like no. He is like have you ever hiked long distance or walked long distance like this? I was like no. He was like hmm. He is like you do not have any supplies or any food anything like that? And I said I am not worried about it. I think I am just sort of trusting in God's providence to get me through. And he is like well you are definitely going to freeze. And he is like I do not know what God's gonna help you do in the cold because it is starting to drop. He is like and once you hit the Midwest there is gonna be snow. He is like and you do not have anything. And he was wearing a sweatshirt this red sweatshirt. And he took it off and he gave it to me. Wow. And he was like here. He is like you are going to need this more than I am. And he was right because that night I think it was even colder than the night before. And there was a definite wind. By the end of day two in a college town of all places Daryl still had not been offered a crash pad. So he found a baseball field on campus with a dugout and rolled himself like a burrito into a slab of AstroTurf. It was still cold but he managed to get some rest. On day three approximately 40 miles in Daryl crossed his first state line into Maryland. It was a triumph. He would walked across an entire state. Granted it was Delaware but still. Now his route took him into a rural area which meant fewer cars and fewer people to stop and talk with. Feeling incredibly alone he tried to keep his mind on God like Peace Pilgrim had and to give up his fear. But oddly things were working the other way around for him. He would entered the journey fearlessly and only along the way was he beginning to understand how many things there were to fear. I finally got to a point where I just could not walk anymore. And there was still daylight out. And I would wanted to walk all day but I just did not have the strength. Too tired to go any further Daryl found another church but it was locked. So he laid down in a covered concrete area behind it. And I drift off to sleep for like a moment and then suddenly I feel this warmth enter my body. And all of a sudden I have all this energy. And I hear a voice inside of me say you gotta get up and you need to start walking right now or you are going to freeze to death. And I got up and I started walking. And after I got that second wind and I got to a playground there was a slide that had a little house at the top. So I was like ah shelter. And I climbed in and it was metal and wet inside. But I still tried anyway just because it was at least protecting me from the wind. And it looked like a tiny house. And it looked like a tiny house. And I start to drift off a little bit and I felt that same voice kind of kick in and say you got to get out of here. Leave. And sure I had a moment where I was like oh is this God? Is this an angel? In the moment I was like whatever it is it might have a point. I may need to get up and start walking. And maybe I can work out the psychological theological questions later. So I got up and I was just walking and walking and walking trying to make it to the next town. And at one point a police car pulled up behind me and started flashing his lights. And I got so happy because I thought maybe he will take me to jail and I will get to sleep inside of a warm place. And the cop got out because I was walking on the highway. And he was like what are you doing? He is like it is kind of late to be out for a walk is not it? It was in the middle of the night. It was like 100 or 200 in the morning. I told him what I was doing that I was on a pilgrimage for peace. And he was like OK do you mind if I take a look inside your bag? I had a bag that a woman had given me and I was using it to carry what little food I had. So I gave it to him. He looked through it. He gave it back to me. And he was like OK you are free to go. And I said do you mind if I sit in the back of your car and just get warm for a little bit? Because man when he opened the car door I could feel the warmth inside of the car and I wanted to be in there so badly. And I asked him. And he had a police dog in the back that was looking at me. And he said I do not mind but I think he would. And he pointed to the dog. So the cop drives off and I walk for probably another 30 minutes. And I am tired I am hungry my feet are killing me I am really thirsty I am freezing. And I saw this billboard. And it said it is OK to make mistakes as long as they are new ones. And I was like hmm I wonder if I made a mistake. And it did not quite sink in yet which is funny because maybe I like to think that for someone who'd been wanting messages about what to do and what not to do that God was like let me give him a billboard. What is that billboard even for? It makes me wonder now if that billboard even existed and it was not just a hallucination. I am pretty sure that it existed. But who knows. Who knows man. From the highway Daryl could see the lights of a Best Western. He took the next exit and walked to the hotel. He got lucky. The woman working in the night shift was nice and let him sit in the lobby and warm up for a few hours. But then her manager showed up. He is looking at me and he does not know who I am. He knows I am not a guest. He knows that I have eaten food that I have used the bathroom. He is got his eye on me. Daryl did not want any trouble from the manager so he left and went across the street to a fast food place where he sat with his usual cup of water. He thought about the original Peace Pilgrim and felt embarrassed. She would walked 25 miles a day in three different countries for 28 years. He would made it to Denton Maryland and was done in after three days. Daryl saw that he had not had anywhere near enough respect for what she would accomplished. He could not walk anymore and he knew it. And with no money no phone no ID he realized that he had only one option in the vicinity for getting rescued. So he went back to the Best Western and the suspicious manager. I opened with I have made a huge mistake. And then I just started telling him everything that had happened. I was crying. I told him I was like this is my shirt that I have made. It says Peace Pilgrim on it. And I showed him the back which had Walking Coast to Coast for Peace. I started in Delaware I made it here and I am completely exhausted and hungry. And I do not think I can walk another step. And he was like well do you need me to call Social Services or something like that? And I was like no I think I need to-- if I could just-- can I make a phone call? Daryl called his mother who got him a room for the night. Over the phone she told him I am glad you are safe get some rest take a nice hot bath. Then he called a friend who rented a car and started driving down from New York to come get him. Upstairs in his room Daryl noticed that all the urgency all the questioning that had driven him for the last couple of years it was gone. Probably the culminating moment in all of this was probably sitting in that bathtub and just being so exhausted that I just did not care anymore if I had the answer. It just was not important. He would left New York more than a year ago. He would been on this journey most of it alone and suffering and trying to figure out the meaning of life. He would been obsessing over his dreams a year before that. And three days in the cold made him realize he was doing this to himself. He was making himself suffer. And he could stop. Which landed him in the same messy place so many of us are in not having any answers. So we just ignore the questions and get on with our lives. Daryl's back to writing plays now. It took him a year and a half of heavy lifting to rebuild the life he would given up. And of all the writing that he worked so hard on and then erased the one thing that remained was that email. An email as we all know lives forever. It may have gone to some executives at Disney. I think it went to my agent at the time. I think it went to a publishing company that had published some of my plays. It went to everybody. And so it is been one of those things that helps remind me that I never want to do that ever again. So if things ever get tough I never think to myself well I could always just give everything away and try to walk across the country. I know not to have that thought because I have done that and it did not work for me. Yeah. Someone once said it is OK to make mistakes as long as they are new ones. . That should be on a billboard. It should be. I think. It is that good. That story by Elna Baker. She is the author of a book The New York Regional Mormon Singles Halloween Dance. A theater company in Los Angeles is doing a reading of Daryl Watson's latest play Unbound in February. Coming up Tempest in a TED Talk. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. The very first time that I ever met my wife-- ever our first conversation-- she told me that at the time she would just started doing yoga and she had just signed up for an adult education French class. And so I said so you are on a real self-improvement kick which I thought was just me listening to what she was saying and making conversation. She thought it was the most condescending possible thing I could have said at that moment. She actually went to her best friend Debbie afterwards and they had a whole conversation apparently about what an ass I was to have said that. So I have learned that when you add the word kick to the phrase self-improvement you just make it sound ridiculous. Though truthfully the phrase self-improvement is always on the verge of sounding ridiculous. Any plan to change your look or to start a new career or reinvent yourself in a new place the clumsy first steps that you take toward any big goal are inherently awkward and stumbly. Today on our show for the new year with people everywhere making resolutions it is all about people bravely heading out on one self-improvement kick or another. We have arrived at act two of our show. Act Two Some Like it Dot. In this act we head to a country that tried for a while to build a perfect world to solve all of their national problems in one swoop. The country is Honduras. Jacob Goldstein and Chana Joffe-Walt tell more. We went to Honduras in the fall about a month before their presidential primary. And it felt weirdly a lot like home. The election was everywhere on news stories billboards and of course campaign ads which were just like the ads we were hearing in the US.  This candidate is focused on the future not the past.  This guy wants to put the country on the road to unity. And this last candidate he is a family man who wants you to know that he believes not only in principles but also in values.  And like candidates all over the world the candidates in Honduras were giving out free stuff to win votes. But here's where the Honduras election started to seem very very different. The schwag was not just bumper stickers and lawn signs. Alberto Arce a reporter with the Associated Press based in Honduras says the presidential campaigns showed up at the morgue to give stuff away. If you go to the morgue any day at 800 in the morning you will see that there are three cars like pick-ups in the door with coffins. But then if you get a closer look you will see that these cars these pick-ups with coffins have banners from political candidates. Political candidates in Honduras are giving away coffins. Honduras has the highest murder rate in the world. And a lot of Hondurans cannot afford coffins. So the point is that if you are poor you go to the morgue and you ask one of these cars please can you give me a coffin for my dad or for my brother that has been killed and they will give it. So everybody knows that they owe the favor to the politician that is giving this favor. That is how you win votes in the world's murder capital give people a way to bury their loved ones. It is just one weird dark sign of how bad things are in Honduras. And the leaders of the country know this. Everybody knows this. And everybody knows basically what problems need to be fixed but it is really hard to figure out where to start. Say you want to start with the education system. The education system is terrible because teachers are always on strike. Teachers are always on strike because they do not get paid. They do not get paid because the government does a terrible job collecting taxes. Oh and also because the government does not collect taxes it cannot hire a proper police force. And there is a huge backlog in the courts. And Hondurans think their cops and for that matter lots of other government workers can be bought and sold. So you have corruption and chaos and violence. How can you fix this? Where do you start? There is this one radical idea floating around. What if you could just get rid of everything and start from scratch? In Honduras there is one man who really owns this idea Octavio Sanchez. He is the chief of staff to the current Honduran president. He has an office in the presidential palace. And Octavio has a habit of staring longingly out of the windows of that office. He looks so much the part of a national dreamer it can feel fabricated. It is not. There is something that I do not have here which is a book that I published when I was 16 years old. You published a book when you were 16? Yes. The book is set in the year 2050. And it is in the form of these imagined bulletins from the Honduran government about how the country solved all its problems. It is this incredibly nerdy book full of youthful idealism. In his 20s Octavio spent hours trying to actually figure out why are some countries rich and some countries poor. He showed us this giant spreadsheet he made with his friends. Wow. So you looked at hundreds of countries? Yes. Can you just read through a little bit of the book? Basically it gives you an idea of what is the form of government of every country in the world how that form of government impacts per capita income. Shows measures of inequality of corruption. So this is the kind of thing that you put together with your friends when you are hanging out? Yes. Basically I do not drink so it was basically just sitting around to drink a Diet Coke and talk about what we could do. What were you looking for? Answers basically to how we can become a developed nation. There is no reason why 50 years from now Honduras cannot become a developed country. We were dreaming about this. Octavio finally got his chance to make big changes for his country in 2002. He became an adviser to the president of Honduras. I thought that we could change everything. What was the picture that you had in mind? I had a whole list of all the things that we were gonna do. And I was part of this government that was run by really honest and competent people. And it was incredibly hard to get anything done. That list that Octavio had it had about 20 big reforms on it that all had to happen to really change Honduras. But in the four-year presidential term Octavio and his colleagues only got two of those things done. They failed at 18. So when Octavio heard about this new big idea for huge change to start from scratch he thought it might be the only real solution for Honduras. The idea was this. You take one little corner of the country and you say right here we are going to try an experiment-- get rid of our laws our police force all of it. And in this little corner we are going to start over. Octavio first heard about the idea from a colleague who sat him down and scrawled it out on a piece of paper. He drew the map of Honduras. And he used to put a period in the middle of that map. So that is Honduras. That is Honduras. And its a really tiny spot in the middle of the map. So you just made a dot in the middle of this? Yes. He kept telling her no it is just taking a small space a really tiny space and doing all the reforms there. Instead of fighting to do two three or four reforms during the life of a government why do not you just do all of those reforms at once in a really small space? And that is why this idea was appealing. It is really the possibility of turning everything around. For Octavio this was it. You could deal with everything right there in the dot. Clean slate. New laws new schools everything. And when the rest of Honduras saw how well things were going inside the dot you would bring those big reforms to the rest of the country. The only problem is this idea is completely crazy. What government of any country looks around and says you know what the problem is here? Us. Let us just create a new mini-government that looks nothing like us. So Octavio was stuck. No one was interested in his big idea until a famous economist from a rich country started saying you know what would be a really good idea? We should seriously consider building hundreds of brand-new cities pick a totally uninhabited site and to say we are going to create another alternative. This is Paul Romer. He is another big thinker in a very different country the United States. But he basically came to the same conclusion as Octavio. Poor countries need a clean slate. Paul did not call it a dot. He called it a charter city kind of like a charter school which gets to make its own rules and does not have to do what every other school in town is doing. And in Paul's model a poor country would actually invite a rich country-- a Canada say or a Norway-- to come in with new laws new courts and help run the cha