From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Nancy Updike and I am filling in for Ira Glass who is working on a great action-heavy live stage show. He will be back next week. And in the meantime I wanted to share this story. It is a little personal. I was at MAC-- the makeup store not the computer store-- and I was buying foundation which I almost never wear. That is the makeup you put all over your face to give yourself pretend perfect skin. And I asked the salesman for help finding the right color. And he looked at me and said-- almost like he was thinking out loud-- he said your neck it is so much more yellow than your face. And then he turned away to start looking for the impossible color that would solve this problem of the yellow right next to the so much more yellow. And if you are thinking oh this was just a sales technique to invent a problem and then offer to fix it with more products I wish that that had been the case. But this was not an upsell. This was a cri de couer. The man really just seemed to be expressing his frustration at this stumper of my mismatched face and neck. This sort of out-of-the-blue perfectly sharpened comment stops you cold because it is not an insult. It is an observation that is true. You just had not thought of it before. It is shocking because you think I know myself. I know what I have got what I have not got. No one's going to spot something about me that I have not already seen. Not true. You can be among friends doing something you love feeling great-- We were backstage you know getting ready to go on preparing. This is Dee Watson. She was in a play a few weeks ago. And it was all black women. Most of us were a little bit bigger than the average you know. And it was a supportive atmosphere. And the subject of big behinds came up. And me having one I know all about it. And one of the younger cast members-- she was about 25-- said my mother thought your butt was so big it had to be a prop. Oh my god. And at that moment I did not hear anything else anybody said. I just was-- that was echoing through my head and I could hear everybody laughing. And oh my gosh that is so funny. And I am standing there. I wanted to cry. I really wanted to cry. And I really do not think this young girl really meant to hurt me. Well and maybe it is like you know we are all women so it is safe here to say anything. Yeah. I think she thought I would think that was funny and I did not. These are not statements that a human being forgets. The moment you hear the observation it becomes part of how you see yourself seemingly forever. Even something tiny if it hits you right can turn into this chirpy little voicemail that your brain is never able to erase. And it does not have to be about looks. It can be a comment on how you run or laugh or drive how much money you make what books you have read or have not read-- any outside assessment of you that you never saw coming and could not shake once it was uttered. One of our former producers Jane Feltes-- she is actually now Jane Marie-- years ago dated a man who she later decided was a jerk. He wanted to make her feel insecure. But one night they were watching TV and her feet were sticking up out of the blanket. And he turned to me and he said oh you have juice box toes. And I was like what? And he said yeah like Fred Flintstone feet. He is a caveman-- literally a caveman. A cartoon of a caveman-- a chubby squat cartoon of a caveman. And I know it sounds so stupid because who cares what shape my toes are? But you do want the person that you are in love with to just think that every part of you is amazing and beautiful-- or shut up about it. Or shut up about it. Maybe they are ugly. I do not know. Now that I am looking at them-- I do not know. My big toe is definitely square. When I get shy kids one of the things I do with them is I try to give them permission to make fun of me. This is a fifth grade teacher named Matthew Dicks who is either the bravest or the most foolhardy man in America. And they often come out of their shells by becoming the person who can taunt the teacher. That sounds very dangerous. It is. I mean you have to teach them where the line is. And sometimes I do not know where the line is either. A few years ago there was a girl in his class very shy. And she got the nod that it was OK for her to make fun of Matthew if she wanted. So one day she came in and she just walked in very casually. And she looked at me and she said hi Jerry. And I looked at her and I said Jerry? And she said never mind. And she just walked away. And I knew she was setting me up for some joke. And it went on for days. Every time she would walk by me she would say hey Jerry how is it going? And so finally after about a week I could not take it anymore. And she came in one morning and she said how you doing Jerry? And I said fine who is Jerry? And she said Jerry's your bald spot. Yikes. And I tried to play it off like I do not have a bald spot. Go sit down. Give me a break. Ha ha. That was like the most ridiculous week-long joke I have ever heard in my life. But as soon as my kids left the room to go to gym I ran to the bathroom and I leaned over the sink. And at the very top of my head I had a bald spot that I had no idea about. Can I ask a logistical question? How does a fifth grader spot the top of your head? Oh. So in my classroom I teach some Shakespeare to my students. And we have a stage in my classroom. I built a stage with curtains and lighting and everything. So if you are standing on my stage in my classroom you can look down on me. Now you can say that Matthew brought this on himself. He gives some students permission to make fun of him and he built a stage where students can peer down at him in judgment. But even if he did none of that he is still a sitting duck for this exact kind of critical gaze. You have 20 people-- you have 20 students would you say? Yeah between 20 and 30 every year. OK so between 20 and 30 people looking at you all day every work day and just taking stock of you. Yes it is constant. I had pinkeye a couple of weeks ago. The kids knew I had pinkeye before I did you know because they just stare at you all day. And they see any sort of minute change in you. You know you are really the only thing they look at for a great majority of the day. So they notice these little things. If I get a new shirt they immediately notice. Everything that changes about me they notice right away. Today on the radio show I Nancy Yellow Neck Updike bring you stories about people facing the unexpected moment of realizing how other people see them what that means and what in God's name to do about it. Today's show Is That What I Look Like? Prepare to learn the truth. Plus a special guest appearance that will surprise and delight you. Stay with us. Act One Blunt Force. Domingo Martinez has this story about a vision in Brownsville Texas. Here's Domingo. When I was 16 I realized as far as my family went school was considered my time which meant I could not be pressed into labor by my father or grandmother. They were farm workers and they made no claim on my time when I was supposed to be in school. So I learned to take advantage of this. I would make it to school before 730 AM either by school bus or my mother's Taurus and then wait out options for escape. By my sophomore year this kid named Tony Garcia had become my primary friend. Tony was nearly 19 and only a junior but he did not seem all that bad because he had good parents and an even better little brother who was about to lap him at graduation. Together Tony and I would find ways to while away the hours by doing anything other than attending class before we had to report home again. We were big fans of Huckleberry Finn and Tom Sawyer and we believed we were continuing a long celebrated American tradition by ditching class and getting stoned a fantasy combination of Mark Twain and Hunter S. Thompson. But really we were just lazy and looking for a good time. The skipping itself was not a problem. The problem was taking care of our grades and absences on our report cards before they reached our parents. And it was actually Tony who initiated me into the trade that I would eventually pursue graphic design. But in this early stage in high school it was plain and simple forgery. There was no design in what we were doing. It was Tony who placed the first X-Acto knife I ever held in my hands and immediately I felt an overwhelming sense of possibility holding that little penknife. We would intercept the report cards when they came in the mail. And then Tony took careful pains to explain this whole process to me his flunky-- a term that came uncomfortably close to becoming literal-- over the photocopier in the library feeding dimes into the machine like he was playing slots in search of a copy that did not blur or show the incisions in the original. Look man he said through his trendy and tinted John Lennon glasses a wanker style even then you have just got to remove the two from the 23 absences and then lighten the reproduction and now you have got three absences in first period instead of 23. Now take the eight from the 48 move the four over and put the eight in front of that and now you have a B in Spanish instead of an F. Oh I said in total understanding a big smile growing on my face. Give a man a ride he skips for a day. Teach him how to forge-- It was ridiculously shortsighted sure. But at that age I never thought further than the immediate threat. Simply convincing my mother everything was quiet at school was enough for me. Dealing with school records and the larger consequences of robbing myself of even a substandard education all that I would face at a later date-- and certainly have. Tony would usually borrow his mother's car for our expeditions a blue Oldsmobile Delta 88. We would leave school and drive to South Padre Island a resort town at the end of a 28 mile highway that felt much more cosmopolitan than Brownsville Texas ever could. We did that drive back and forth three or four times a day listening to Led Zeppelin nodding our heads in unison with whomever else was stoned or drunk in the car. My junior year and his senior year Tony's parents bought him a Dodge Daytona. It was the year he would most assuredly graduate they felt and it was a chance for him to develop responsibility. In the mornings the minute my mother would drop me off at school and disappear around the corner Tony would drive around and park right in front of the school to pick me up right in front of everybody. Dude you gotta come skipping with me today he would say. But on one particular morning late in 1988 I balk. Nah Tony. I gotta go back to class today I protest. It is Thursday and I have not been since last week. Look he says I got two signed reentry slips. I can get you back in tomorrow or next week. It is not a problem. And I found a new place to get killer weed. Finding pot was always a problem so when Tony said he found someone new and it was not one of the morons who hung out by the tennis courts before school I was intrigued. We first drive to a housing project east of school where a woman sold 2 quarts of Budweiser out of her living room from a cooler to anyone with money no questions asked. We buy a couple of quarts and smoke the last half-joint Tony has on the way to his new killer weed supplier. I was getting a bit high when I began to recognize the route he was taking and was then thoroughly taken aback when he drove right into my grandmother's driveway. I could not understand why. It just did not make sense. This was the same driveway my family Pontiac would regularly pull into after church on Sundays when I was growing up in the late 1970s-- my mother's mother's house in downtown Brownsville. I was I think the term is unnerved. My two uncles Johnny and Abel were working on a '79 Camaro when Tony drives up and parks hood to hood with their car. The hood was up and they were both leaning into the guts of the engine their heads popped up like bearded biker prairie dogs. I sat frozen in the passenger seat uncertain what to do next. Tony noticing that I was startled tells me to be cool to chill out. These guys look mean but they are all right. Anyways he says as he is getting out of the driver's side they are kind of dumb but they got great weed. Did not I know it. Abel and Johnny had a long history with local biker gangs even a rumored affiliation with the Hell's Angels. They could get drugs nobody else could in this town. And as a result they were total burnouts hardly capable of cogent speech patterns in either English or Spanish. They landed in jail as often as other people attended church. But what they lacked in brains they certainly made up in brawn-- not that they would tear apart a teenager like Tony or me not in the daylight anyway. They had a code about that sort of thing. But if they felt cheated they would have taken a tire iron to my head long before they recognized me as their nephew. They were that burned out. So I sit there paralyzed in the front seat side B of Houses of the Holy playing on Tony's cassette deck. And because it is hot the AC is blasting. So once Tony closes the door I cannot hear anything. I just watch as this terrifying pantomime plays out before me. Tony half-shaven in his preppy clothes closes a door and hails his greeting. My uncle Abel already brain dead from years of sniffing paint narrows his eyes in suspicion and then noiselessly responds with a nodding. Hey. Tony averts eye contact looking anywhere but directly at Abel for fear that Abel might charge like a gorilla. Abel gives him a suspicious quick upward jut of the chin that says did I sell to you before? Who told you I got weed? Tony lowers his head in quiet confidence talking to Abel. Then my uncle Johnny nods towards me in the car says something to Tony. They all turn to look at me. My eyes go wide a big smile on my face nodding. Tony says something and then they all laugh together. Led Zeppelin still plays loudly in the car. Then my uncle Abel slaps Tony on the back and leads him around to the back of the car right where I am. Johnny stands there too looking at me and smiling makes his index finger and thumb into a mock roach and laughs. I mimic the roach back. Even now he does not recognize me. Then Tony and Abel emerge around the other side of the car with Tony's hand in his pocket and both of them are laughing like they are suddenly old friends. Tony turns and waves and both Johnny and Abel wave back. The door opens and Tony says dude we got a big joint for 2 as he gets in the driver's seat. This has freaked me out to no end. Abel and Johnny are both waving making the universal roach-smoking signal as we drive off and it leaves me feeling really really conflicted. The car slips up the southernmost terminus of Highway 77 and we head north from urban Brownsville to drive around as we smoke the joint. Tony lights it and it starts burning purple. Purple Haze he says and then follows it with his characteristic ahh! Hey man I say I am kind of scared about smoking this. I have never seen one burn this color. Aw dude says Tony do not worry about it. Those guys got killer weed man. They are like bikers or something. It is probably laced with something. That is why it was 2. This idea sounds appealing to Tony. It scares the  out of me. We are both getting incredibly high. Hey man says Tony would not it be messed up if like when you were high your hair went into like a huge orange Afro and the higher you were the bigger your Afro got? You could not go anywhere because people would be like man that guy's stoned. I sit there in Tony's car and think about my uncles Johnny and Abel. Johnny had been stabbed in the back with a flat-headed screwdriver about a month earlier in a street fight. His lung had been punctured and my grandmother said you could hear whistling every time he inhaled. He would not go to the hospital to get it treated for three days. We are halfway done with the joint when I say to Tony hey man I do not want to get stoned anymore. All right well put it out Tony says nodding his head back and forth to Zeppelin. Tony's left hand is fingering chords into the neck of an imaginary guitar as he is driving. I watch his fingers move for a few seconds suspended and twisting around like they are an overturned King crab and I can find no correlation with the chords in the song. Man I mean I do not want to smoke pot anymore I say to him. I do not want to skip class anymore. I want to get back to school. Not today but like in general. I do not want to feel like this anymore like I am doing something bad. I feel like this all the time now dirty. Look at that really  small house over there. We were on an overpass and I just noticed a house beneath us in the Brownsville Country Club about a quarter of the size of the houses surrounding it. Tony starts laughing so hard I have to make him focus back on the driving but then I laugh along with him. You are stoned he tells me. Yeah I say. I am way stoned. Hey man I say a little later-- we are driving back to South Padre Island now-- you know those guys we bought weed from earlier today? The bikers Tony says. That was my grandmother's house man. Those are my uncles I say even though I am really embarrassed by it. Tony finds this befuddling. He cannot figure out what the bikers were doing at my grandmother's house. Those dudes were my mom's brothers man my uncles I explain. Tony is laughing so hard he has to pull over to the side of the road. His laughing is infectious and I find myself laughing right along with him laughing harder than I have laughed in a really really long time. But I am feeling utterly beyond redemption on the inside like I had just done something today that I could not take back like my course was now set. Domingo Martinez reading a story from his memoir The Boy Kings of Texas. He is got a new book coming out this fall called My Heart is a Drunken Compass.   Act Two One Life to Live. Having a blind spot about yourself is not the end of the world depending on what it is and how big it is. Sometimes that is all hard to tell though without outside eyes. This next story we changed some of the names. It is a complicated situation that is still unfolding. Sarah got into a bad car accident last year. She was in a coma with a traumatic brain injury and her doctors thought she might die. But after 52 days in the coma she woke up. Our producer Miki Meek tells the story of what happened next. Waking up from a coma does not happen all at once. It is a slow process like coming awake over months sometimes even years. For Sarah it took almost three months before she could talk well enough to have a simple conversation and another four months for her to get out of the hospital and go home to live with her parents. She still needed a lot of care but she was really excited to spend time with her husband Billy. He had a birthday party. And that is when I just said will you give me a kiss please? And he was like mm-- maybe I can give you one of these. And he turned my head and kissed me on the cheek. So I was hurt and kind of frustrated and annoyed. Sarah thought maybe Billy was just worried about getting her sick so she made a comment about it to her stepmom Alice when they got in the car to go home. I said I think that Billy is worried he will get me sick because he will not kiss me. And that is when she said-- We need to talk. And that is when I had the impression she was ready. I said it feels different. Being with Billy it feels different. She is like yeah it does. I was like well that is because you guys are not married anymore. You are divorced. Sarah had forgotten the entire two years before her accident. She would forgotten the fact that during those two years she had fallen out of love with her husband and divorced him. Here's what she did remember-- she remembered her wedding day in 1998. She was 17 and Billy was 20. She had just found out she was pregnant with twins. Sarah remembered the house where their family grew from two kids to four. It was in a small town out west just down the street from her parents. She remembered family camping trips on the weekends baseball games and dinner together every night-- 13 years of memories like that. It was not always perfect. Billy joined the National Guard and was gone a lot. He served in Iraq. Sometimes he had a bad temper. But they loved each other. There was a lot more to the story and her family really wanted to sit her down and fill all those memories back in for her. But the doctors told them they had to be cautious. Let things come up naturally for Sarah. Let her brain set the pace. That was the best way for her to recover. So when her stepmom told her about her divorce Sarah was shocked and confused. And for her there was only one question. Do you think it is too late? Do you think I can get him back? The next day Sarah called up Billy and asked him to come over. And I just flat out said my stepmom says that we got divorced and I am hoping that you will take me back. And when I first said it then he did smile. But then he got kind of stern and more serious. And I told her well I need to take my time. When one person loses two years it forces everyone else around them to go back in time too. Billy had never wanted the divorce but he understood why Sarah left him. She had come to despise him during those two years she had forgotten. And now here was the old Sarah again the one who still loved him calling him regularly. Like hey Billy you know it is really good to hear your voice. And I was like well that is awesome. It is really good to hear you too you know? She was like Billy I love you so much. The so was always-- that stood out. Yeah it was weird. I am not going to lie to you it was like oh my goodness. This was tough. I was in a spot where I am like oh why? Why are you telling me this? This is not what I want to hear you know. And then the other part of me is telling me like yes this is what I want to hear. As much as Billy wanted to hear it the rest of Sarah's family did not. She was falling back in love with a guy she wanted nothing to do with before her accident. Her sister Jessica remembers watching all of this with alarm. She would get this little schoolgirl look on her face and like bat her eyes like a little teenager looking at their crush. And she is like hi Billy! And so I would just look at her so disgusted just sitting there zipping my mouth closed so that I do not say you are divorced. You are divorced for a reason. Like stop batting your eyes at him. You do not like him. Sarah's family remembered very clearly what Sarah herself did not the many reasons why she had left Billy why she was living with them now not him. Her daughter Kristen recalled getting into an argument with her dad. The situation escalated like it always did. As Kristen was telling me the story she pointed to a patched up hole in the basement wall. That hole in the wall was my mom's breaking point. My dad tried to swing at me and he barely missed my head. And I just remember my mom was so quiet that night. Like she did not want to go upstairs. She did not want to go find my dad. She was scared. And she looked at the wall and she was looking at me. And I was sitting on the ground crying. I yelled at her that night divorce him. And one day she wrote him a letter and when he came home from work he found the letter that said you need to pack up your stuff and leave. My mom had had it. Sarah did not remember this moment of Billy punching a hole in the wall until she had a conversation with her bishop at church. She and Billy had gone to this bishop for counseling when they were married. Now she was going back to him on a detective mission of sorts. She knew she had left Billy but maybe the bishop could help her remember why. And he was like you were tired. You were so tired of the emotional abuse. He punched a hole in the wall. And I remembered it instantly. And I thought oh yeah I can remember that. And it makes sense as to why I would have divorced him with all the things we were dealing with. So this is what Sarah's life is like right now. Memories of her and Billy's bad times are starting to pop back into her mind. Some are big like the time he threw scissors at her and cut her under her eye. Others are small. There is no particular order to them. She says she gets a new memory every two weeks or so. When it comes to me it is just like a light gets switched on in my head. So it goes from darkness and nothing being there to all of a sudden something is there. Like a recent one is that he would take my phone and read through my phone all the time because he thought that the only reason I wanted a divorce was because I wanted to date other men. While we were talking another memory appeared right in front of me. This one was about how by the end of their marriage they were going out of their way just to be mean to each other. Sarah would tell Billy all the time that she liked her friends better than him. I think I used to tell him that my friends were number one and that he was number two. And so I was definitely hurting his feelings. That was a memory that just barely came-- like just now while we were talking. Sarah's biggest problem is that she knows her marriage got bad. She knows those facts. But she just cannot remember the feelings-- the feelings of being so fed up that she stopped wanting to work it out with Billy. Not being able to access those feelings is one reason it is so hard to accept the decision she made back then. But there is another layer to the story. That guy she wanted to divorce has by all accounts changed. The before and after in Sarah's life was the accident. In Billy's it was the divorce. He was devastated by their break-up. He started reading self-help books going to church and for a while he was seeing three different counselors. Everything was just angry. It was just-- I was always mad. So I would just react to everything. You know some of the stuff that just sort of came up is you know grabbing your daughter and putting her up against the wall and punching a hole. I will tell you this-- I will take full responsibility for that. I should not have punched a wall. I should not have and I did. Of course that makes me regret it. I feel bad. I feel horrible. I feel-- I wish I would have listened more. I wish I would have got the help I needed and admitted. And after I lost everything that is the only time I really refocused and thought wait a minute I lost it all. Now I have got to start over. Billy did start over mainly by repairing his relationship with his kids. They have been living with Billy full-time since Sarah's accident and it is going well. Their daughter Kristen says Billy's like a different person. He listens more now and wants to talk problems out. Me and my dad are really close. Throughout time after him and my mom got divorced he figured out ways to control his anger. I mean my dad's really good at keeping calm-- now. Now he is. And he is really good at handling situations with us. And so I am not saying I am glad my mom wrecked. But I would not trade anything because I like where we are now because my dad would not be living with us right now if she did not wreck. And so I feel like I got to know my dad so much better. Is there any part of you that sometimes thinks oh maybe if they could stay this way then maybe it would work? So everything's really good between them right now. But I do not think that they would be good as a married couple. And I probably will not ever think that because I have seen the worst of them and I have seen the best of them. And I still think that the worst of them has more control. Because what if they do go back to old habits and my dad does start to get mean again? I feel like it would ruin what we built while she was gone. A few nights a week Sarah and Billy go for these little drives around town in his truck and just talk about what it might be like if they got back together. They pass the church they went to when they were married and the park where they took their kids to play. These drives are like dates for them. Kinda nice how things have gone. So it is like we get to start over you know? It would be better for the kids if we could learn how to be a team. And I was not very good at being a team with you. Neither was I. Sarah's 33. Billy's 36. And they know everyone else thinks it would be crazy for them to get back together again. And it is crazy-- soap opera crazy. Sarah gets amnesia and forgets that she hated her husband so much that she divorced him. Meanwhile the husband her daughter begged her to divorce has taken Sarah's place in the house. He is now the person who takes care of the children. He is even someone they trust. Kind of feels like I was supposed to get in the wreck because we learned a lot. Because I woke up not even remembering I was divorced. And so I had all those months in the hospital just thinking of how much I love you and how much I miss you and-- I was trying so hard to always work on not loving you. It did not work. Couples who split up are usually facing a pile of bad memories so huge that there is no hope of digging their way out. Trying to talk about one wrongdoing sets off this chain reaction of anger and bitterness about all the other wrongdoings. But Sarah's accident lets her and Billy deal with one memory at a time as they bubble up usually in the mornings when she first wakes up. Sometimes I just lay in bed. And then the first person I talk to-- because I always decide when I have a memory I have decided to bring it up to Billy every time. And then how has he been responding to those? He is been good about it just admitting what happened and apologizing and telling me that he will be better. And one thing I was wondering when you guys were married did you ever bring this up to him? Not when we were married. Uh-uh. He used to would have never apologized for anything that he had done. And the good thing about me losing my memory is that we are able to talk about everything that comes up in a better way. It is less hurt and less powerful you know what I mean? Sarah's changed too. She says she gets irritated easier now and can throw these tantrums she never had before. She is still learning to get around without a walker and to do small things like organize her pills for the day. It is not clear when she can move out of her parents' house. They have legal guardianship over her. And she goes back and forth about Billy. One day she told me I would marry that guy tomorrow if he asked. And other times she is less sure. She knows divorcing Billy was the right decision back then. She just wants to make the right decision now. Miki Meek is one of the producers of our show. Coming up what the movie The Breakfast Club can teach you about parenting if you were in The Breakfast Club. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Nancy Updike sitting in for Ira Glass who will be back next week. Every week we choose a theme-- you know that-- and we present various stories on that theme. Today's show Is That What I Look Like? Stories of seeing yourself through other people's eyes whether you want to or not. And we are here at Act Three which I think is going to be kind of a two-parter. Act Three-- Ben do you want to do that part? Sure. Act Three The Blunder Years. I am talking to Ben Calhoun one of the producers here. And he is got a small story. He is embarrassed to tell it but I am making him. So Ben. Yeah? Take us back. It is eight grade? Eighth grade. And I should just say like I played tuba. I was small. That was me. And definitely like zero attention from the girls in Roosevelt Middle School. I had this teacher though who-- her name was Miss Savage. She was the cool teacher. I bet. Yeah. She was younger than pretty much every teacher in the school. She was like into Jane's Addiction. And she was the rock and roll teacher and all of the kids sort of like idolized her. And we are going in a G PG direction with this right? Just checking. Yeah. OK continue. So there was just this one day when I am just like standing in the classroom. And there was a crowd of girls that were standing around Miss Savage. And I have no idea what they were talking about. And Miss Savage is saying something. And then out of the blue she points to me. I am standing on the other side of the room. And she says look out for that Ben Calhoun. He is going to be