Hey everybody Ira Glass here. Today on the radio show we have stories about people who are very very amazingly slow to react in life-changing situations. And to kick off the show we considered all kinds of ideas but in the end I think there was really only one real possibility. Like the rest of America we at This American Life are not tired yet of those stories of women who have no idea that they are pregnant and then poof! One day a baby pops out. We are not over that. And yes the TV I Did not Know I Was Pregnant is in production for its fourth season right now. We still have questions. And that is what a lot of people they look at me like no way. You really did not know? And I am like no really. I really had no idea. And I had no thought of it. I mean I am a bright girl. I have two degrees. I work full-time. I am not like some dummy. Meet Jennifer Lyne. Or maybe you have already met her on I Did not Know I Was Pregnant. Or this week on The View. She was 28 working two jobs-- one as a lab technician one in a clothing store-- when she discovered that she was pregnant. Turned out to be nine months pregnant. She had a baby three days later. She said she did not suspect for a bunch of reasons. For one she was on the pill the entire pregnancy. And I had taken two pregnancy tests over the course of the nine months and both tests came back negative. So near the end of the pregnancy in almost the ninth month I finally complained to the doctor and he sent me up for an ultrasound. He questioned if I could be pregnant. And I explained that no I was on the pill and that I had not had a period for almost a year. Because when I switched from the previous birth control which was the depro shot and went onto the birth control pill the period stopped. And what was the thing when you went to the doctor like what did you think was going on? I honestly thought I had a tumor. I could not sleep on my stomach. That was my complaint for going to the doctor was because I could not sleep comfortably anymore. And I kind of felt around on my stomach because I was an EMT previously. So I kind of felt something was not right but I did not know what exactly. So you thought like you had like cancer or something? Yes absolutely. Now when we talked about having you come in for an interview in our story meeting at our radio show the women on the radio show staff said we have questions for her. And so four of them are with me here and I want to introduce you. There is Julie Snyder and Jane Feltes and Robyn Semien and Alissa Shipp.  And Alissa you are huge right now. How many months are you? I am 38 weeks pregnant. Yeah like eight and a half nine months pregnant. So they all have a bunch of questions for you. Is it OK that they throw those at you? Of course. Yeah absolutely. The first question that I had and maybe it is because I am so pregnant right now but the thing that I cannot understand not feeling is the kicking. And it is not just kicking it is like you can see an arm or you can feel something and it moves. Did you feel any of that? I do not think my daughter moved a lot. I think she stayed very stationary. Now mind you my daughter was 4 pounds 13 ounces. So she was very very tiny. So I think that has a lot to do with how much I may have felt because she was so small. Jennifer are you kind of big? I do not know how else to ask that. I am not big now. I was actually a 2224 when I did have my daughter. So I was quite big. I actually worked in a plus size women's store called Lane Bryant. I was always large like that. Now I have actually lost a lot of weight and I am down to a size four or a six.  And she was my reason for losing that weight. The surprise of having a baby and now I am like oh my God. I am this huge woman. How am I going to take care of my kid? I need to be around for my daughter. But then basically in the end you were kind of only aware of being pregnant-- your pregnancy lasted like three days. Three whole days. Exactly. Is not that the greatest?  Everyone says well you had the best pregnancy. You knew for three days. And I said exactly. You know what I did those three days? I milked it. There were many more questions and to summarize the answers-- no she was never nauseated. No her hair did not fall out. No her breasts did not seem to get bigger. Yes her ankles did swell up. And yes she was incredibly exhausted. And the exhaustion in fact made her wonder if she was pregnant. But then the pregnancy test told her no she was not. So she dropped the idea. Wait were you aware of like the I Did not Know I Was Pregnant phenomenon. But like before you became part of it? I actually used to watch the show. Oh you did? I actually used to watch the show. And then when it happened to me I would discuss it with my girlfriends at work. They said oh you should apply for the show. And I said really? they are like yeah. But when you saw that TV show before it happened to you did you feel the same way that most people feel when they hear about you? Like oh come on you must have known? Some of those stories I feel like come on how could you have not known. Especially women that have already had kids. I know. Those are where I feel like come on how could you have not known you have already gone through this. I believe you. Thank you. Did friends of yours after you had the baby did they say like oh we thought you might be pregnant? The only people that actually mentioned a little something along those lines were the women that I worked with at the plus size store. And they said well you know we kind of noticed you were kind of getting a little rounder around the middle. And I was like oh. And I kind of looked at them and I said well why did not you say anything? And you know how most women look at you like well I am not going to say that to you. Come on. You are like in the future just ask every woman who you might suspect. Exactly. In case she does not know. Yes America if you take just one thing away from today's radio program I hope that that is it. If you see a woman who gets a little heavier always always be sure to ask her if she is pregnant. Because she might not know. Jennifer is not apparently typical of most women who discover they are pregnant at the very end of their pregnancies. I talked to a psychiatrist who specializes in cases related to OBGYN issues named Nehama Dresner. She is in Chicago. She says she sees three or four women every year who give birth to a baby and then claim they had no idea they were pregnant. She says generally it is not women who suspect it and took pregnancy tests like Jennifer. She said usually it is adolescents who just do not want to believe they are pregnant for all the reasons that you pretty much expect. And that people are interested in these stories because in the end a baby pops out. It is pretty dramatic. Dr. Dresner says this kind of thing happens all the time in medicine. People choose to ignore they rationalize all kinds of changes happening in their bodies. Even big ones. The things that I think strike us as physicians are the masses the tumors that are so obvious or the sore that will not heal or that mole that looks like the state of Arkansas. You know things that are obviously not right that either the patient thinks it will go away or minimizes what it might mean or is so afraid of what it might mean that they avoid diagnosis and treatment. People who get a call back from their gynecologists office that they have an abnormal pap smear and do not ever call back to follow up. Wait wait wait. But that cannot happen very often. About 30 of the time. About 30 of the time do not call back. Wait the doctor's calling to say that the pap smear-- You have an abnormal pap smear you need to come back in for me to-- Because you might have cancer? Right. But the people took the test to find out this result. Yes. I mean it is sort of like an annual exam that you have. It is hard to believe. You are asking me how to understand something that is irrational. I cannot answer that question for you. And if people are this way with their own bodies with things that are sometimes so dangerous to them what other things are they putting off way too long? Well today on our show we have three very dramatic examples of what else including a guy who ends up waiting 17 years before finally marrying the woman he loves. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. We have amazing stories today of people sidestepping huge life-changing experiences that they just are not ready to deal with. Until finally they are. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One When I Grow Up. Back in 2004 a reporter named David Holthouse published this remarkable story in the weekly paper that he worked for back then called Westword. It is about something that he had waited his entire life to do since childhood. But I want to warn anybody listening now with children we actually do not believe this story is suitable for children. There is nothing graphic in it but the things that it is about are not right for kids we think. So this is going to take about 20 minutes. We are putting this on the radio because David take us inside the head of somebody himself actually who is contemplating things that he admits later are completely reprehensible and wrong. And he explains how he got to that point. And then even more unusual how he was able to snap out of it. So kids good bye. And here's David Holthouse. This time last year I was plotting to kill a man. This time last year I had a gun and a silencer and a plan. I had staked out the man's tract home in the Denver suburbs. I had followed him to and from his job in a high tech office park. I was confident I would get away with murder because there was nothing in recent history to connect me to him. Homicide investigators look for motive and mine was buried 25 years in the past. The man I was going to kill was the one who raped me in 1978 when I was 7 years old. When I was 7 I had a crush on Princess Leia and wanted to be a member of the rock band Kiss when I grew up. I was in the second grade and a cop dressed up like a bloodhound wearing a trench coat and calling himself McGruff came to my school and warned us all to watch out for strange men in cars offering candy. But McGruff did not say anything about watching out for the son of my mom and dad's best friends. He was 15 and a star high school athlete. He wrestled and played football. The paper ran a profile of him in the sports section and my mom cut it out and stuck it on our refrigerator. I looked up to him. I thought he was super cool. One night his parents had my parents over for dinner and he asked me if I wanted to go to his bedroom in the basement and play with his karate stuff. We snuck off together and once he had me alone inside his room the door closed he got out his karate stuff throwing stars and nunchucks and a curved sword. And we started playing. He did not play nice. He spun the nunchucks inches from my face and hurled the throwing stars into the wall next to me. I did not know what was going on but I knew it was bad so I started crying. And he told me to shut up. Then he started chasing me around the room waving the sword. He put the blade to my throat and backed me into a corner where I dropped into a crouch and cowered. The term child molestation does not begin to describe what happened next. When I think child molestation I think inappropriate touching. I think fondling. What happened next was not fondling. It was rape. He started off by telling me he would cut my face with the sword if I did not do what he wanted. I had no words for what was happening no concept of rape or sex. I just knew that I was terrified and in pain. When he was done with me he said that if I told my parents or his parents or anyone else that my mom and dad would be very angry with me because I would done a bad thing. He said if I told on him he would come to my house in the middle of the night and gut me like a salmon. Then he opened his door. He told me not to go back upstairs right away and sat me down in front of a TV in the downstairs family room and had me play Atari until my tears dried and I was more presentable. When I was seven I no longer believed in the Easter Bunny or the Tooth Fairy. But from that night on I had no such doubts about the bogeyman. He only got me that once or at least only once when I was conscious. There was one night two or three months later when my parents were hosting a holiday party and they took me to his house so he could babysit me and his little sister. He put on the Saturday Night Fever soundtrack and we played disco which consisted of all of us getting drunk on straight warm hard booze while he watched his little sister and me gyrate to Stayin' Alive thereby securing my lifelong hatred of the Bee Gees. I do not remember the rest of that night just waking up the next morning with my first hangover. I made sure he never got me alone again for more than a few minutes which was not easy because our parents socialized almost every weekend at either their house or ours. And he did not move out or go to college after high school. He turned into one of those guys who still dates high school chicks and lives with his parents well into his 20s. I kept our little secret throughout my childhood. At first I was scared and ashamed and believed his threats. By the time I was a teenager and understood what he would done to me in his room it just seemed easier to keep my mouth shut. Why make a fuss? Why traumatize my parents? And why risk being viewed as damaged goods? My memories of him in those early years are scattershot. One 4 of July he told me how much fun he would just had torturing a cat with a firecracker. And I remember for years after the rape whenever he and I were in the same room and no one was looking he would make an obscene gesture and give me a bogeyman smile. A smile that said I got more of this for you you little 8 9 10 year old punk. The last time I ran into him was 12 years ago when I was 21. I was back home from college between my sophomore and junior years and I needed a cheap suit for a job interview. And there he was. A 31-year-old cheap suit salesman and rapist of children. I had not seen him in six or seven years and I immediately realized two things. The first was that he was no longer bigger than me. I had 6 inches and at least 30 pounds on him. The second thing I realized was that I wanted to kill him. I wanted to grab a coatrack and bash in his head. Snatch that metal ball point pen out of his cheap suit jacket and stab him in the eye over and over again. But I did nothing. My mother was with me and even more than I wanted revenge I want to prevent her and my father from finding out that he had raped me when I was seven years old while they were upstairs with his parents drinking wine and playing board games. I did not want to burden them with that. I did not want to tarnish their memories of my childhood. The bogeyman gave a weak smile and made small talk with my mom while I was pretending to look at cuff links on the other side of the store. Then he vanished into a break room after passing us off to another salesman. He wanted no part of me anymore. The memory of being raped when I was seven was never repressed. It was not recovered under hypnosis. It has always been with me festering. When I was a teenager I began researching how being raped as a child might affect the development of my personality and I recoiled in horror. Every study I read supported the vicious cycle theory that victims of pedophilia are more likely to become pedophiles themselves. I felt like a werewolf had bitten me and it was only a matter of time before the full moon rose. Throughout my early adolescence I was constantly tortuously checking myself for evil impulses. I made a blood oath with myself that if I started feeling the desire to rape children I would kill myself and make it look like a mountaineering accident. I was already in the habit of solo rock climbing. No partners no ropes despite my parents' repeated warnings against such a dangerous activity. Had I throw myself down a mountain they would have believed it. And better a son who died climbing than one who lived and rape kids. The next death I plotted was his the boogeyman's. After I moved to Denver three years ago I learned from my parents that he also lived in the area. I became fixated on the idea that he was raping children nearby and that it was up to me to stop him. I had no evidence but authorities agree that most pedophiles begin molesting when they are teenagers and most of them never stop. Not even after they are caught. If they are caught. My guy has never been caught. According to a 1998 Colorado Bureau of Investigation polygraph study of convicted child molesters the mean number of victims per molester at least in this state is 184. And that is only for the molesters who have been arrested. All my adult life I would been aware that he was in all likelihood still raping children. But as long as he was doing it far away I had felt no compulsion to do anything about it. But once I found out he was here and living nearby I began to agonize over my failure to stop him. I considered going to the police but I had no evidence except my memories and the statute of limitations has long run out for the crime he committed with me. I thought about placing subtle advertisements in newspapers. I thought about sending anonymous letters to everyone he knows his ex-wives and everyone in this new neighborhood in Colorado warning them and begging them to please come forward if they knew or suspected anything. But I was afraid such measures would somehow lead to my parents finding out. And the cold hard truth is that I just did not want them to know. My parents are retired and in their 60s and they did not need that. I wanted to protect them more than I wanted to protect children I would never met. The more I obsessed on it the more I came to the seemingly inescapable conclusion that the best way to make sure he never raped another child to make sure I had my revenge was to kill him. To just walk right up to him in a secluded place and scrape him from this world like a piece of dog  off my shoe. I bought the gun last April. I had a few firearms in my closet already but they would all been purchased legally in my name from a licensed firearm's dealer. I make my living as a reporter. My assignments at the time routinely brought me into contact and sometimes friendship with unsavory characters including the leaders of a street gang. So I went to their barrio where I bought a Beretta 9 millimeter with a homemade silencer and the serial number removed. I took this gun to the local garage gunsmith and had him put dozens of deep nicks and grooves in the Beretta's barrel to corrupt ballistics tests. After testing the gun and silencer in the desert I put them in storage and kept scheming. It seemed insane to me now that I was actually going to kill a man instead of just bringing out in the open what he had done to me. But that is how kiddie rapers get away with it. They depend upon shame and embarrassment to keep their victims quiet. By the time I was an adult I feared that if my friends knew my secret they would not trust me around their children. And parents need to be watchful. The commonly accepted estimate among law enforcement and sexual abuse treatment specialists in Colorado is that 1 in 4 women and 1 in 6 men who live in this state were either molested or raped before the age of 18. Most of them by men or teenage boys they knew. By coaches scout masters priests family friends sons of family friends. So this time last year I was plotting to kill a man and I was telling myself that it was noble. I was doing it to protect the children. But really more than anything else I think I just wanted to shoot the son of a bitch. And I believe I would have taking a second deep and dirty secret with me to the grave. But then my parents found out just in time to prevent me from committing first degree murder. If you have a secret you want to keep never write it down. I know that now but I did not when I was 10 the summer between fourth and fifth grade when I sat down with a pen and my Garfield the cat diary. The entry is dated June 1981. And while I have no memory of writing it the penmanship is unmistakably my own. There between accounts of my grandfather dying and a game winning double I hit in little league is an account of my being raped three years before. I concluded the entry by wondering what I would do if I ever met the man who had raped me on the street once I myself was a grown man. Will I smile and shake his hand and pretend nothing happened? I wrote. Or will I punch him in the face? Last September my mom and dad decided to spend part of Labor Day weekend going through the cabinets in my old bedroom and box up all my childhood stuff for attic storage. My mom found the diary and read it. She told my dad. I received a frantic message from her on my voice mail saying I needed to call home right away. They told me about finding the diary. Then my mom asked in a shaking voice if it was true. Had I had any warning I would have lied. But I was not prepared and so I told the truth. My mom started crying and I said I would fly home as soon as I could. I would scheduled the murder by then giving myself a 72-hour window immediately before I was to leave on a two-week trip to Mexico in late December. My plan was to shoot him ditch the gun then fly out of the country and keep my ear to the ground from afar just in case. There is an ill-kept baseball field near his house where I was going to stalk him on a late-night walk. It is a good place for a killing in the suburbs. Quiet usually empty and hundreds of yards from the closest house on its far side. But now because of my parents I called off my plan. The truth was now out. It was my mother who let it out. She called the boogeyman's parents who now live in the Midwest. She started off by saying that what she was about to tell them would be difficult for them to hear but for the sake of their grandchildren they should listen. The bogeyman has children of his own now as well as stepchildren. She told them that their son had violently raped me in the fall of 1978. She told him that he had used a knife. She told them that the typical number of victims for a pedophile his age is well over a hundred. She told them that she regretted finding out what their son had done to me but now that she had she felt that they had to know as well. She told them that she wished them to have good lives but to never contact her or my father again. No Christmas cards nothing. She told them she hoped their son eventually got caught and spent the rest of his life getting raped in prison. Then she hung up. By then I would begun writing about how I was sexually assaulted as a child all the while knowing that I would never get to the bottom of it and really understand what had happened if I did not at least try to confront the bogeyman. I was a lot more comfortable with the concept of shooting him in the head than I was with talking to him on the phone let alone in person. On May 5 I finally sent two copies of the same letter to his house. One by overnight Airborne Express one by registered mail. It began Remember me? Our parents were good friends. I remember my childhood years very very well. Especially a certain night when I was seven when your parents had my family over for dinner and you and I went down to your bedroom to play with your karate stuff. I kept what you did to me a secret for 25 years. It is time for you and I to talk this over. I suggest a meeting in public anywhere in the Denver metro as soon as possible. If seeing me face-to-face is too uncomfortable for you then at least call me. Simply ignoring this letter is not going to work. If I do not hear from you by Friday late afternoon I will start calling your house and then knocking on your front door. I want to be perfectly clear here I am not threatening you with any physical harm and I am not hinting at blackmail. I do not want your blood or your money just one uncomfortable conversation. He received the letters and phoned me all in the same day. I told him that I appreciated his calling me and that I was surprised he had. Well he said it is a call I should have made a long time ago. I was stunned because from his words and tone of voice it sounded like he was going to actually admit what he would done when I knew that almost all pedophiles deny deny deny until the day they die. We arranged to meet at 200 pm the following afternoon at a Cracker Barrel near his house. Is there anything you want to say to me now? I asked. Just that I am deeply sorry he said. I have thought a hundred times about contacting you in the last 20 years to tell you that but I just never had the courage to pick up the phone. I am sorry for the pain I have caused you and my parents and your parents. He sounded sincere well rehearsed. The next day an hour before we were supposed to meet I changed the location from a chain restaurant in suburbia to the intersection of the 16th Street Mall and Market Street in downtown Denver. He showed up wearing jeans a grey t-shirt and a Colorado Avalanche cap. When I saw him standing on the corner anxiously trying to pick me out of the crowd I realized the moment I had written about in my diary in 1981 had arrived. We were both grown men and I was meeting him on the street. I did not punch him in the face. I did shake his hand. But neither of us pretended that nothing had happened. We were afraid of one another. I was so jacked up on adrenaline I was shaking. He was sweating like he would just run a mile. Nervous he said. I nodded. Me too he said. We walked around the block and he started by telling me that he would been waiting for me to contact him for several weeks. Soon after my mom had called his parents in March he said they would flown to Colorado and confronted him. He told me that he would admitted he had raped me to both his parents and his wife. My mom got extremely emotional and did not handle it well at all. And my dad just went quiet and became very stoic he said. They have sort of written me off since then. They used to call me every week but they do not call me anymore. Even though I told them it had only happened with you that once. He made this claim repeatedly during our conversation working it into his response to nearly every question I asked. He only had one victim-- me. He had not sexually assaulted any other child before or since. We sat on the mall's stone stools and kept talking our voices low. Both of us looking around to make sure no one was in ear shot. I asked him how his wife had reacted. She was concerned obviously he said. She wanted to know right away if our son was safe and I told her yes he is. Then I hit him with the question I would always wanted to ask. Why did you do it? He shook his head and tears welled in his eyes. I have asked myself that question over and over and over again David. And I just do not have a good answer for you. I wish I did but I just do not know. I know that until I was in my 30s I did not really believe other people's feelings were real. I did not think anyone really mattered but me. Maybe that was it. Maybe if I would gone to therapy I could have come up with the answer. All I can say is that I would never done it before and I never did it again. And if there was one thing I could go back in my life and change that would be it. I asked if his attack on me was spontaneous or planned. It was not planned he said I just acted on this one weird impulse. As soon it was over I was thinking oh my God. That is my little sister's friend. How could I have just done that? He said he would wanted to apologize to me for many years but had not sought me out because he did not want to reopen old wounds and because he hoped I would forgotten it had ever happened. My biggest fear was that I had ruined your life he said. I was afraid that you would turn out to be a homeless drug addict or something and it would all be my fault. I told him that while I was not I street junkie I did have a tremendous fear of becoming a father. Because I did not believe I would be able to protect my child from people like him. Becoming a father had changed his life he told me. I found what love really means he said. I used to think that love meant you just really liked somebody a whole lot. But when you become a father you really understand what love is. I asked what he would do if he found out that someone had raped his son. He said I would probably rip their head off. There is a scene in The Good the Bad and the Ugly where the gunfighter played by Eli Wallach righteously blows away a guy and then drops this pearl of murderous wisdom. If you going to shoot shoot. Do not talk. Because if you let them talk you may not shoot. And sure enough as soon as I exchanged a few sentences with him I did not want to shoot him at all. Because I saw him as a frightened damaged man. He was not the bogeyman any more he was real. He begged my forgiveness. He swore I was the only one. All the experts say he was almost certainly lying. But then all the experts say it was extremely unusual for him to admit his crime to me let alone his wife and parents. And he did at least make the admission to his parents. I checked. I did not grow up in a religious household but he did. Talking to him on the mall I thought of this passage from Romans. Do not take revenge my friends but leave room for God's wrath. for it is written It is mine to avenge. I will repay. When I had nothing else to say to the man who had raped me when I was seven we parted ways. He blended into the crowd. David Holthouse is a reporter now living in Alaska. After his story was first published in 2004 his newspaper Westword was inundated with letters from people who had been molested as children themselves thanking him. Grateful especially for the part of the story where he shows that it is possible to let go of your anger. So coming up the most unromantic guy imaginable puts the rest of us to shame in the romance department. That is in a minute. From Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. This American Life I am Ira Glass. Each week on our show of course we choose a theme and bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show Slow to React. Stories of people taking a very very long time to deal with life-changing situations of one sort or another. We have arrived at Act Two of our show. Act Two Is not it Slow-mantic? In this act we turn to love. And in Sean Lewis' family there was a legendarily romantic love story. It is famous in his family partly because the story unfolded over decades and across continents. But also because nobody can quit believe even now that out of everybody in the family-- there are four siblings-- out of everyone in the family the one with the epic swoon-inducing love story is Mark. Mark the one sibling who was never wild or boisterous the one who never tried to sneak into bars at 14. Sean Lewis tells the story. I asked my family how they would describe my uncle Mark. The word romantic did not come up. Spontaneous? I do not think-- hmm. Not really. If you have spoke to anybody Mark and his plans. There is a time we have to meet. There is a time we have to leave. There is a time we have to eat. My brother stands at attention on a regular basis. When we were younger and at a family event you did not even know he was there. Because no parent ever yelled his name ever. None of the aunts or uncles ever had to speak to him about do not say that or do not stand that way or run that way because he always was the perfect child. He never said no. He never went and yelled at his parents. He was always very adult. Always very adult. This is a love story of my Uncle Mark and the women he is now married to named Ha. Right out of high school Mark joins the military. He loves it. He is stationed in Korea as an MP. And one day by chance he meets a beautiful girl in a coffee shop Ha. She is in college waiting at the cafe with her cousin for an English tutor. Mark asks her out they date they fall in love. He is 20 years old. She is 23. He wants to marry her. And like a good son he writes home about it to his mom. He wrote to me shortly after he was in Korea and he said to me I met a girl a beautiful girl and I love her. And I did not think he was long enough there to be in love with anybody. And he said I am going to try bring her back to Ameri