During Bill Jerke's years as a state legislator the Colorado Union of Taxpayers rated him as one of the biggest enemies of taxes in the state. I think three years out of eight I was either the outright winner or tied for most conservative legislator. He helped organize the Tea Party chapter in Greeley. And he was proud to let me know-- I am a big supporter of Juan Williams. Go on. The politics this year are so strange that this anti-tax Republican has found himself spending the fall stumping the state doing something he is never done. Did you ever picture that you would be somebody going out talking to Republican groups arguing against tax cuts? It is hard to picture frankly that that is a position I would find myself in. Jerke is trying to defeat three ballot initiatives that come before Colorado voters next week. Initiatives 60 61 and 101 together would strangle most of the ways a government brings in money. They would cut Colorado's personal income taxes by a fourth limit the ability of state and local governments to issue bonds and force the state government to take over 2 billion in education funding that is now covered by local governments but without the means to pay for that new cost. And so you start to add it up and you figure out pretty quickly that the state will be short 3 to 4 billion out of a 7 billion general fund. And it is hard to understand how we are going to have a prison system social services system and higher education would be all but gone. It would have to virtually be all privatized at that point. He believes the initiatives would throw Colorado into such an ongoing fiscal crisis that business would leave the state. What do you think of the people who are trying to get these three initiatives passed? I think that they are desperate patriots. I think that they sincerely believe that government has gotten too big and I cannot disagree with them there. I just think that there are more measured ways of doing it. And they say back to me Yeah but we have heard that for 20 years from you and we are tired of waiting. Do you think that the politics this year are just very strange where Republicans who in the past saw eye-to-eye and worked together now are opponents on issues just like this? I have good friends that are on the other side. They are a little bit surprised to see me on this side I think. But when I point out the fatal flaws within these three questions they do not have much to say to go ahead and defend themselves either on it. They kind of get back to just muttering again that something's got to be done to go ahead and slow down government. This year we have Republicans impatient with the Republican party and Democrats frustrated with the Democratic party. There is a lot of African Americans that are very disheartened with the Democratic party. And they see the abandonment of Barack as the abandonment of black people. That is Greg Shropshire of Rome Georgia a past president of the local chapter of a service organization called The 100 Black Men of America. He feels that the Democratic party as a whole has not stood by Barack Obama. The fact that we are still discussing 20 something months into the presidency whether Barack is a Muslim or not is just asinine. And the fact that it is allowed the fact that Democrats even allow people out there to even bring stuff like that up. And it is not we are going to sling mud but the fact that you are not even speaking up for truth. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Today on our show on the eve of this mid-term election people looking at their own political parties and declaring This party sucks. Our show today in two acts. Act one the conservatives. Act two the liberals. Stay with us. Act one Patriot Games. With Tea Parties springing up around the country so many new people are involved in politics for the first time this election and they are getting into situations that sometimes they do not know how to handle it is all so new. Ben Calhoun has this story of one congressional race and two friends. The day Congressman Bart Stupak's seat came up for grabs was March 21 2010 a little after 400. Stupak is a Democrat from Michigan. He would been leading a group of pro-life Democrats who were holding out their votes on the health care bill until there was something in it that prevented federal money from going to abortions. They held out and held out and then at 406 Stupak announced that President Obama had agreed to issued an executive order giving in to their demands. And because of that Stupak's group would provide the rest of the 216 votes needed to pass the health care bill through the House. I am please to announce that we have an agreement and it is with the help of the President and the Speaker we were able to come with an agreement to protect the sanctity of life in the health care reform. This puts you guys over the top? Are you now past 216? We are well past 216 yes. People started calling me on the phone even as Mr. Stupak was at the podium. That is Dan Benishek a surgeon who just a couple months before all this had decided to run against Stupak. The day of the health care announcement the day that Bart Stupak officially became the congressman who gave the nation Obamacare Benishek was the only Republican challenger on the books. And there was a good reason for that. Because after 18 years Stupak was pretty much considered unbeatable. Essentially you ran against him if you did not mind losing or if you were a total political novice like Dan Benishek. You know he is still there talking answering questions and blah blah blah and the phone started to ring. And it did not stop for I do not know days. It rang all day and all night. And what were people saying to you? They were saying like How do we send you money?  Because we did not even have a website out. You know what I mean? I ended up raising a couple hundred thousand dollars in a matter of weeks. Did that catch you off guard? Yeah. I will say. Unbelievably. Pretty much overnight Dan Benishek went from being a political nobody to being a political contender. And Bart Stupak went from being the guy who was unbeatable to being the guy who was under 24 hour police protection. Then 19 days after he announced the health care deal Stupak announced that he would not be running again. At that moment Michigan's first district a conservative place we are both Democrats and Republicans are often pro-life and pro-gun suddenly became one of the hottest commodities you can get in congressional politics-- an open seat in a swing district. On the Democratic side a state assemblyman named Gary McDowell jumped in to replace Stupak and ran unopposed in the Democratic primary. On the Republican side Dan Benishek's early good luck had given him a head start but other people climbed in and things got nasty and contentious. And on election night it was close. Dan Benishek stayed up late with his family watching the votes come in. It was definitely an amazing night. And I ended up winning the primary by 15 votes. That is a squeaker. You think?  We call it a Dan slide. I know. The math for this race seems pretty easy. Swing district in a Republican year. You would figure after the primary Dan Benishek would have it made. But it has not worked out that way for pretty much one reason-- Tea Party groups. Tea Party groups have been popping up all over northern Michigan for more than a year. And just like in other parts of the country they have been making Republican politics more complicated. Talking to Tea Party activists you will find out that most of them went to their first rally in spring of 2009. Though they are so sensitive about people saying this is really about Obama and the fact that he is black that almost always without fail they will tell you that they were upset well before Obama even took office. We started talking about forming a Tea Party even during George Bush's tenure with the first TARP bail out. Rich Carlson lives in Petoskey Michigan. Which if you imagine Michigan as the back of your left hand Petoskey would be the tip of your ring finger. Rich is a tower of a human being a bulky six foot four. Though because he is so good natured he manages to be huge without ever seeming threatening. Rich who is pushing 50 was born and raised in Petoskey and for years he made his living there selling construction supplies. Though in 2009 with the recession business had gotten really bad. It was around that time that Rich started talking to his friend a guy named Tom about starting a Tea Party. Tom and I had been friends since kindergarten. And so how long of a friendship is that? It is certainly a long time. Many many fishing stories and deer hunting stories and Boy Scout campfire stories and everything else together. So the first guy I called was Rich. This is Tom Swenor. So sometime in March I said We have got to do something. Even if it is just three guys you know go do something. Protest something. Something. Because I was tired of yelling at my TV. You have probably heard that a lot. Like Rich before the Tea Party Tom had never really been involved in politics. Unlike Rich Tom's on the short side with a lean stocky build and the mannerisms and personality of a vice grip. From the moment you meet him he seems honest and practical. Tom's a land surveyor and when construction slowed down during the recession his business just like Rich's was drying up. So Tom and Rich got together with some people from Petoskey and started planning a Tea Party rally. At some point someone said Look we need a headliner. They consider Sarah Palin Ted Nugent but both charge too much money. Eventually someone thought What about Joe the Plumber? And then one day Tom says Rich was reading about a Tea Party rally in the state capital on tax day and Joe the Plumber would be there. We felt as a group that is the guy. Nobody has any way of knowing how to get a hold of him but Rick come up with the idea we could possibly meet him in Lansing. Rich Carlson you know Rich he is a lot bigger follow than I so he could not get through the crowd like I could. I am a little guy went through there like a-- I mean ch-ch. And I went up the stairs and I looked back on that crowd and I snapped some really cool pictures. And that really gave me a sense of power that this is a movement. Something is going on here. It was exciting to be there but then it was also exciting because I went up into where Joe the Plumber was at. I asked a security guard. He says Well he is over here. So I went and I waited for him to get done speaking. I forget if he was talking to television people or whatever. And as soon as he come towards me I had to say it as quick as possible because he is just going to shuffle through the crowd. I said We are having a Tea Party on May 1 in Petoskey and we want you to come to our event. And he goes Oh I like Petoskey. Joe the Plumber spoke on May 1 on a sunny Friday afternoon in Petoskey. For having just started up the Petoskey Tea Party had hundreds of people at the rally which is kind of remarkable considering that the city only has 6000 people in it. Like other Tea Party rallies the event was not about any candidates or elections. The speakers that day focused on what Tea Party people call core values or core principles which we should talk about for just a second. The core values are usually a few very basic things. Generally they are small government free markets natural rights-- meaning life liberty and the pursuit of happiness-- and this belief that the Constitution should be very narrowly interpreted. Talking to Tea Party people these come up constantly because Tea Partiers again and again go back to the idea that these values are more important than anything more important than party politics. A lot of times Tea Partiers tell each other that they should only support candidates who really truly represent conservative values. An expression that gets used all the time is principle over party. So late this summer the race for Michigan's first district was chugging along and one day Rich Carlson gets a phone call. One day I am the back deck of my condo beautiful summer day. Cell phone rings. I answer the phone and I end up listening to about 20 minutes of somebody selling me on the fact of their core values and principles and what is wrong with the country et cetera et cetera et cetera. The guy on the phone was a guy named Glenn Wilson. Wilson is a self-made millionaire who owns a telephone and internet company. Basically Wilson was telling Rich he was thinking about getting in the race as an Independent running on a lot of Tea Party type ideas. He was also saying he would be willing to throw his own money into the campaign so he would not be some marginal third party guy. At this point Rich had been appointed President of the Petoskey Tea Party. Not only that he would co-founded an umbrella group for Tea Party groups all across northern Michigan which was called the Northern Michigan Liberty Alliance. That day Wilson was trying to persuade Rich to join his campaign. And Rich was up for it. I had a candidate that was viable that had the financial horsepower to do it could raise money and had good core ideals. And so I thought well game on potentially. Which was fine. And then Dan Benishek won the Republican primary. Which meant that Benishek would be the leading contender to beat the Democrat in November. And most of Rich's Tea Party friends were excited to support Benishek. They were psyched to have someone who could take back Stupak's seat for the conservatives. At the same time they were worried that Glenn Wilson was going to enter the race split the conservative vote and spoil everything. But Rich says he was convinced. Wilson was just a better embodiment of Tea Party ideals so he went with the Tea Party philosophy. Principal over party. Forget who is the most electable. He was not worried about losing the seat. There is a tremendous amount of fear of putting a Democrat in this seat. Not looking through the perspective that there is 435 seats in the US Congress and this is just one of 435 races that are happening November 2. Secondly I believe it is going to be a landslide for the Republicans. I think that no matter how this race turns out Independent Republican or Democrat that it is still going to be a Republican-run house and more than likely a Republican-run Senate. Essentially Rich said if Wilson split the vote and the Democrats won the race it might even be a good thing. Because Republicans would have to cater more to Tea Partiers the next time around. This is one of the ways to return one of the parties closer to Tea Party ideals. Putting the ideals first. Definitely principles above party. Rich signed on as Wilson's campaign manager but he did not tell anyone in the Petoskey Tea Party. He knew none of his friends would like it. They would all talked about Wilson being a spoiler. But Rich also knew his secret could only last for so long. Tom Rich's best friend says it all came out in the open during the group's first meeting after the primary. That first meeting after the preliminary election and I went to the Tea Party. Rich was there and you know it was quite a number of people. But Rich Carlson got up and walked out of the room and this other gentleman that is there with his wife followed him. That is when I went that is Glenn Wilson and they are going out to coach him how to talk to us. Lateron I overheard Rich say to him Now do not ever do this or do not ever do that. This is Karen LaCross vice president of the Petoskey Tea Party who says that night at first she did not even know why Rich was giving Wilson advice. And then it dawned on me oh my god he is grooming him for candidacy. And then he introduced Glenn Wilson. He would speak and Rich would cringe because he is saying something he is not supposed to say. And because Rich is my buddy I knew what he was up to. And I thought but just two days ago we had this discussion about we hoped he did not enter the race. And I am like hm. And then later on within days we knew that he was working for him. And we were all shocked. For days after that meeting Tom and Karen and others in the Petoskey Tea Party say they tried to get in touch with Rich. Tom called him at his house on his cell at the campaign. He texted him. One day he even called a radio show and publicly went after Rich and Glenn Wilson. Karen LaCross says everyone felt betrayed. But Tom took it especially hard. Tommy being the emotional person that is I think he took it personal. It is hard to detach yourself especially when you have a friend like that. I think that because they are like brothers and because they took different paths and they think that each one has got you know consequences that they cannot support they took it too personal. Tom's made it very vocal how disappointed he is been. And how how hurt he is been. Rick and Tom went from talking five times a day to not speaking at all. Without an explanation from Rich Tom now thinks the worst-- that Rich did not take the campaign manager job because he believed in it. At this point he says Rich was unemployed and he took the job for the money. Essentially his theory is now that his best friend is a sellout. I guess Rich feels he is doing good in the money game. I hope to hell it was a lot. I hope it was a king's ransom dude I hope it was not just some chump change. Because I would hope that my friendship is worth 10 grand. A guy that is known him for 40 freaking years. We did pull an emergency meeting together. Petoskey Tea Party Vice President Karen LaCross says after a week of trying to get a hold of Rich and talk him out of what he was doing she and the other board members decided enough was enough. So they called a meeting without him. And it was just like we all called each other and said Can you be there? Can you be there? And we all went into a room at one of the people's offices and we said OK here's the deal. Rich has been a great leader. And so we said all right we do not want to just blow him out of water here because he is been an integral part of this. And so we symbolically pulled a chair up to the table that was empty and said OK that is Rich's chair. And all we are going to do is we are going to swap him out temporarily with one of the regular board members and that board member will become president pro tem. Tom was there that day. I was kind of emotionally torn. Because how much Rick was involved but we kind of took a stand. I mean I do not remember who made the motion and seconded it. I think there was only five of us there six of us there. I think I was the last to vote. It was unanimous. Even if Tom does not remember who it was that seconded the motion to push out Rich records from the meeting show who it was and it was Tom himself. For Rich this meant he would just been voted out of the Tea Party group he would helped create. I was notified by just standard minutes of a special meeting that was held. That I was going to be-- that an interim president was being appointed until I came off the campaign trail. And at that moment do you remember what you thought and felt when you when you read that? My initial thoughts were the GOP has taken over this Tea Party too. That was my initial thought. Because it is happening all over the place. One of the most confusing things about the Tea Party-- and this gets talked about so much now-- is it is relationship with the GOP. Is the Tea Party just part of the Republican party? Do they want to change the Republican party? Is the Tea Party rebelling against the Republican party? In all of this it seems like the thing that you can really say about the relationship between the Republican party and the Tea Party is that it is really really awkward. And it is awkward because there is a split in the Tea Party about how to see Republicans. There is Rich's view which is that the Republican party has been paying lip service to conservative values. They have gone soft and should be viewed with suspicion. And Tea Partiers should be willing to walk away. Principle over party. If you get lousy service at a restaurant or a store and you continue to go there all the time do you think that that store or restaurant is ever going to change their level of service? No. If we just keep on voting the same way and just going with those two choices are the parties ever going to change? No they are not. The other Tea Party view is much more pragmatic and it is the one that Tom has taken. It is pretty much the William F. Buckley approach-- that if you want to serve conservative ideals you find the most electable conservative and you gather everyone behind that candidate. And when it comes to the issues that any congressman is likely to vote on in the next two years the Republican Benishek is pretty much the same as Wilson the Independent. For Rich and Tom the split has been so severe that Tom cannot even understand where Rich is coming from. And without an explanation from Rich his theories have gotten pretty harsh. At this point his theory is that Glenn Wilson is being bribed with stimulus money to spoil the race and Rich got duped. Never once did our Tea Party say we are going to be the spoiler and we are going to help the Democrat win. That was never in our discussion. Shame on you guys. How come he could not see through Glenn Wilson like everybody did the first time we met him? You are a spoiler. You are a spoiler and you are a spoiler. Glenn Wilson you are a spoiler. You have been put here for a reason and not all good reason. I told Tom what Rich said that there is 435 seats in Congress and it might be a wake-up call if the Tea Party costs the Republicans a seat or two. Tom said Michigan's first congressional district race it is not just any seat. It is a symbol. Because it was Stupak that allowed the health care bill to pass. Tom says he has fantasies about Dan Benishek taking a seat and then someday casting the vote that repeals the health care bill. Would not that just be so beautiful? he said. And all Glenn Wilson can do is ruin that. According to the latest poll the race between the Republican Dan Benishek and the Democrat Gary McDowell now a dead heat each of them holding about 40 of the vote. Rich's candidate Glenn Wilson is getting 8 of the vote. Meaning he could actually be a spoiler and throw the race to the Democrat. That fact has become super stressful for a lot of Tea Party type voters who account for many of the people supporting him. At the beginning of the month the Tea Party umbrella group that Rich Carlson co-founded the Northern Michigan Liberty Alliance got together to talk about all this. About how people were divided divided over the question about what exactly they should do. They met on a Saturday afternoon at a Quality Inn next to a freeway ramp. OK. Thank you for coming. This place still cost us money. Anybody would like to donate a couple of bucks in our can we would appreciate that. About 40 people from Tea Party groups from all around northern Michigan were there that day. Within the first half an hour one guy stood up and stated the whole dilemma pretty plainly. He said recently he would read a book about Libertarianism and in the back of the book there was a quiz. So he took it. I was surprised to find out that I am 100 Libertarian in philosophy. My question is even though I might like to be a Libertarian I would also like to have an influence. And it seems like we have got a problem to really make something happen. And so as such I do not know anything better I can do at the a moment than to vote Republican. I do not like that but what do we do? Again and again the room felt like a bunch of independent-minded idealists coming up against the hard political reality that the Republican party the one so many of them resent is there only real viable way to be relevant. Through all this Rich Carlson sat at the front of the room so quiet you would not have known he was there. Then at one point Karen LaCross the Vice President of the Petoskey Tea Party Rich's old group spoke up. Karen said it was possible for the Tea Party to take sides with the Republicans without being co-opted. She singled out Chad Stevens this really thoughtful Libertarian guy who had co-founded the Northern Michigan Liberty Alliance with Rich. Do not implode on each other. That is my concern is we are all sitting here trying to poke each other and say You are wrong. No you are wrong. No you are wrong. We cannot do that any more. And Chad if you want to vote for a third-party candidate you know what? That is your zen. You know that is what you are-- But the bottom line is do not sit there and poke each other in the eyes. We are not making any ground. I would say this and I agree with what you said. The attacks on people people like Rich Carlson have been tarred and feathered for advancing liberty the way he best sees fit. If we all want to vote for Dan Benishek the Republican great. But if 10 15 want to advance liberty and they are sick of the two party system? Fine that is their call. The GOP has only itself to blame for people looking elsewhere. For years they have thrown liberty under the bus.  After about five hours if this someone from the Glenn Wilson campaign-- that is Rich's guy-- they whispered to me that Glenn was outside and he wanted to talk to me. I walked out and around the corner to the parking lot where Glenn's campaign bus was idling. It is this big silver deal with a huge photo of Glenn's face and a big bald eagle on the side. A couple days before all this I would spent a day on the bus. And just to give you a little sense of him Glenn is in his 40s but he looks 30. And he drinks Mountain Dew relentlessly. I saw him drink seven or eight cans in an afternoon. What is up you guys? How you been? Hey Ben long time no see. Yeah hey how are you? So the Tea Party break up? So what is up? Are we on the air? Yeah. I thought that is what you wanted. I know. Shut it off for a minute. OK. In 10 years of covering politics I have never had any politician do something quite as bizarre as what Glenn Wilson did next. He told me he wanted to fire Rich. Then he asked me what I thought of it. I told him that I did not have an opinion and even if I did it would not be appropriate for me to share it. And then I told him that if this is why he called me out there I would need him to say it on tape. If that is what you wanted to tell me then we are rolling. I think I need to relieve Rich of his position as campaign manager and install a new campaign manager. We need to find a campaign manager that is able to organize and manage in a much more efficient way than Rich can. Or has. Well when are you going to tell him? As soon as he comes out of this meeting. After the meeting Wilson grabbed Rich and he led him down a hallway past the hotel bar into a small conference room. I waited in the hall. Back on the bus Glenn had shown me the campaign calendar and said he was going to fire Rich because he had not set up enough events. What I did not say to him then was that I had spent time with the other campaigns and their schedules were not very different though maybe Glenn was just too inexperienced to know that. After about 10 minutes Glenn walked out. As he passed me he winked and said Thanks have a good one. So I went to talk to Rich. Yes sir. Hey. Yes. How is it going? Wonderful. Am I on tape? OK good. Glenn had taken away Rich's briefcase computer and his phone which all belonged to the campaign and Rich stood there packing his things into a plastic shopping bag. Total surprise to me so. It has nothing to do with politics just organization. So that is the way it goes. So can you tell me about the conversation that you just had? No. Why not? Maybe in a day or two I can sure. It just happened moments ago so I am tired. I have had a long day and I am looking forward to going home. I have to say I feel really bad for you. No do not feel bad for me at all. No. Rich had lost the Tea Party group he would started the year before. He lost his best friend. And now he would just lost the job he would given it all up for. I mean you seem like you have given up a lot to be doing what you are doing right now. More than what most people realize. But I still believe in the cause. What do you mean? Well I believe that it is very important to push forth an independent candidate. Am I crushed or disappointed? Yeah I am disappointed I could not see it to the end but I will still be involved. I am still supportive of it. I am still supportive of the campaign. I think it is great to give people a viable option besides the normal two party system. For once they have got somebody that is running that can actually win this thing. A couple days after he got fired I met with Rich one more time before leaving Michigan just to talk about how he was feeling and what was happening now. Then while we were sitting there Rich got a phone call. Local Tea Party--  Sorry. The call was from a guy named Tony Cutler a campaign staffer for the Republican candidate Dan Benishek. Tony how you doing? Richard what are you doing? You do not want to know. I heard you were released from the Glenn Wilson campaign. Oh douche bag. How have you been? Well good how are you? I am doing great. Released. We had a difference of opinions. How about if I leave it at that? So let us get you out on the side of bashing him by saying you left him and are against his campaign. And we will make you look good for leaving and we will spin it. Tony gave me permission to broadcast this conversation though he asked that I say that he was not calling Rich on behalf of the Benishek campaign. Which seemed like a strange request because in the call it was pretty clear that he was. He was telling Rich that Rich should put out a press release and he should lie. He should say that he had not been fired. Instead he would quit out of principal because Wilson was going to be a spoiler. Yeah. That is something that you and I probably need to talk about. Huh? That is probably something you and I need to talk about. Well we need to talk about it right this second because I have got people writing two stories. We have got Benishek people writing the story saying you were fired to make it look like Glenn Wilson does not know what he is doing. Or we can make it look like you realized that this guy is no good he has no vision he is only in it for himself. And you were supporting him on principal and now that he is abandoned his principals let us get the GOP elected and the party back on track. I want to try to save your image as much as we can here. Right. The article will be written by the news. It will read that Wilson fires his top aide and he will get to control the story by saying you know the guy did not know what he was doing-- Yes. Or you come out-- I can get you in contact with the press people and you can come out as the guy saying you know this is not what it is about. Slowly over the course of the next 15 minutes Rich caved. He said he did not want to be part of anything that criticized Glenn Wilson but he would go along with Tony's plan to put out something saying Wilson was a spoiler for conservatives and he should drop out. You can craft that and then are you going to say that the Benishek campaign talked to me? Yeah. OK. All right I will keep in touch with you today. Please do thank you. See you bye. After he hung up I asked Rich about what he would said to me before all the things about principal over party. We went back and forth again and again because he was saying these totally contradictory things. One minute he would say the thing he would been telling me all along. Tea Party people need to be independent even if that means spoiling races for Republicans. Then the next minute he would say the thing he would agree to with Tony that Wilson would be a spoiler and he should get out. First and foremost I do not want to see the Democrats take this seat. But essentially what you had said to me before was if an independent candidate with better core values stopped the GOP from winning this race that by the numbers by the math they should win they would have incentive to listen to folks in the Liberty movement. Unfortunately that-- I am not being given that opportunity anymore by the Wilson campaign. Wait. I do not understand what you are saying. Well we have reached a decision that I am no longer with the campaign. So that is not an option for me anymore on a personal level. But that does not affect how you feel about it right? Maybe you and I s