So Lilly you are here to tell me a story? Yes. And I should say you are Lilly Sullivan. You are one of the producers of our show. Mm-hm I am. So what is the story? OK so this is a story that I heard growing up. It was one of those things I was told as like a scary story when you are a kid. Like an urban legend. And then I have been thinking about it a lot recently because I read a book recently that I really loved. It is called Her Body and Other Parties by this writer Carmen Maria Machado. It is a finalist for the National Book Award and she retells the story in one of the short stories in her book. And it just stuck in my head. And it is just something that I have been thinking about a lot recently. And so what happens? How does it go? OK so a girl and her mom are on vacation in Paris. And they are just traveling and they have been there for a few days. And the mom she gets sick. And so the girl gets a doctor. And the doctor comes to the hotel. He spends a while examining her and he is like she is really sick. We need to deal with this immediately. And he tells the daughter you need to go across the city. I have medicine. It can save her. You have to go get it while I tend to her sends her downstairs. And the guy at the front desk the hotel manager takes her out and he puts her in a cab. And he goes to the taxi driver and in French tells him directions to where she is supposed to go. And it is on the other side of the city. So the girl is in the back of the cab. And it is just taking forever. The taxi driver is making all these loops and getting lost. . And she is kind of frantic in the back needing to get back. But she finally gets there. She gets the pills. She jumps back in the cab. And they drive back to the hotel. She runs into the building. And she is running past the hotel manager. And he stops her. And he says miss can I help you? And she says yeah I have it. I found the medicine. I am just going back up. He is like I am sorry. I have never seen you before. And she is like no you just put me in a cab. I am staying here with my mother. She is upstairs. And she is sick and the doctor is with her. And he is like we do not have any guests staying here right now. And so she runs past him. She runs upstairs. She goes to the room. And she opens the door. And the room where her mother was it is empty. The furniture is all different. The walls are a different color. Everything is rearranged. And the hotel manager kind of chases her up. And he is like seriously miss you need to leave. You cannot just be in here. And so she is really confused. She starts running down the halls looking for them. Them being the doctor and her mom. Yeah and so she runs out of the hotel. She runs into the street. And she just starts asking everybody. You know I am looking for my mom. Have you seen her? So what happens to her? Well she just keeps looking. Years pass. Oh it is a fable. Right. Right. This is not a real story. Right. And you know she is young. She is in Paris. She does not know anybody. And she just keeps wandering and looking. And in the eyes of everyone in Paris she kind of becomes this madwoman wandering the streets of Paris saying where is my mother where is my mother. And sometimes she wonders it too. Did I invent all of this in my head? She wonders if it happened at all. But at the same time she knows that it happened. Like she was staying there with her mother. Lilly you said that this story has been stuck in your head for a while. And I know it has because I know that it was your impetus for putting together today's show. And you have been thinking about it for months actually. Talk about why. She goes through something in that story that I feel like I have gone through I think that a lot of women go through all the time. And it can happen in these really small ways. They do not get talked about because they are so small. So here's an example. So years ago when I was just first getting into radio you know I had just graduated from this radio program. I got this little scholarship thing to go to this conference with a lot of people who have been in radio forever. Yeah. And it was also you know one of those scholarships where we are all people of color. We are all young in a new career. And it was all people who are older. And you know public radio is mostly-- White. Yeah. Yeah. So you are there and you are like the young person of color who does not know anything about radio. Right yeah. It was a little awkward or uncomfortable. And there was this older person who was a pretty big deal in radio. And he was doing this thing where he would kind of come up and talk to me like a normal person and you know say professional things about radio. And then he would-- you know it is a conference. So you see people and you walk away and you mingle. And then he would kind of walk away. And then he would be on the other side of the room and he would just kind of like leer at me from a distance kind of all the time. It felt like constantly and he would just-- you know he would be waggling his eyebrows pursing his lips. You know like squinting eyes. So corny. I know. So every time I would turn he would you know catch my eye and like raise his eyebrows again like still here. He was messing with me. I mean but it was weird because then a few minutes later he would just walk up to me and then start acting totally normal as if he had not been doing that. Oh wow. He would just oh you are here with this program. It is a really interesting program. And it is important to cultivate new people of color in radio. And then as part of the conference there was an event one night. And you know there was alcohol and people were drinking. And he was standing with a group of men. They are looking at me and they are whispering. It felt like they were talking about me. I mean they were. I could tell that they were talking about me. Someone would look at me saying something and then someone would laugh. Did you have a feeling about what they were probably saying? I mean I think they were just talking about like me as a woman how I look. Things like that. And I think that he was telling them that he was going to sleep with me or something like that. That is the way they were looking at me. They were like whispering to each other and squinting their eyes. And they were laughing at me. And then he comes up to me and just acts totally normal and tells me that I should come over and come meet them. You know he would be happy to make some introductions. They are good people to know in radio. And so I go over with him. And I like put out my hand to meet them. And no one shook my hand. And they all just kind of laughed and looked at each other. And I just-- Whoa. Yeah it was not great. It was really embarrassing. But it was so subtle. It just felt humiliating in a way that I knew would sound silly if I tried to tell someone. And then later I talked to people about it. And they were a little skeptical. You know they were like those people they would not have done that the people who make the decisions in radio. But I was like I just I know that it happened. And then in your mind you are basically doing what the woman is doing in the story which is like this is definitely true. But wait is this true? Kind of. Because yeah I mean a little bit. Because like on the one hand you know what it is like when people are kind of laughing at you when you put out your hand and no one shakes it. Yeah that seems pretty blatant. That seems like hard to make a mistake about. It does seem blatant right? Right. But then when people say you must have misread everything. And the guy himself is acting like everything is totally fine. You are kind of like is it possible that I misread everything? Am I overreacting? Did I just read all of that wrong? OK so the show that you have put together today Lilly was kind of inspired by that Paris story right? Yeah yeah. And then we just explained to the audience that it has two stories about women. And in each of the stories something kind of weird and unsettling happens to these women. And the world does not acknowledge how weird and wrong these things are. But in addition unlike the woman in the Paris story and unlike you at the conference the women in these stories they do not think anything has gone wrong. Not at first. At first they think everything is fine because everyone around them acts like everything is fine. And only later do they start to realize wait something bad did happen. And so that is going to be our show today two stories that I have to say are eye-opening. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. Stay with us. Act 1-- The Old Man on My Shoulder. This first story when the producers were working on it started doing interviews for the story it seemed like every single interview they came back so surprised at what they were learning. They really set out having no idea what they would find. A warning-- this story has sexual content. It is probably not right for children. And it begins with something that happened to our producer Elna Baker. A few months ago I was talking to a guy I know Rory when Mormonism came up. You grew up Mormon? You have to meet my fiancee Reagan he told me. She was Mormon too. You guys will have so much in common. I know that is like saying you are black meet my other black friend. But in this case he was right. Within an hour of meeting Reagan we were singing church songs together like SINGING When I grow up I want to be a mother and have a family. One little two little three little babies of my own. Of all the jobs for me I will choose no other. I will have a family. Four little five little six little babies in my home. All this while Rory looked on in horror. Reagan says that Rory is constantly bowled over by the things she tells him. You know it started out kind of fun and cute. And I would be like you know when you are singing around a piano with your family? And he is like no nobody does that. That is not a normal thing for people's childhoods. So it started out kind of cute like that. And then one day I am like you know when you are in an office with an old man and the doors shut and you are talking about sex things? Reagan's referring to the Mormon practice of confessing your sexual sins to the bishop. This usually starts when you are 12 for boys and girls. Reagan told Rory about a time she was confessing and the bishop rose from his desk and put his hand on her knee. Even as an adult in her 30s telling the story she did not totally understand how shocking this was but Rory did. And what was his response? Well he repeated the whole thing like you mean to tell me that you were in an office alone with a man with the door shut and he was asking sexual questions and then he came out from behind his desk and put his hand on your knee? That kind of thing. And then and your parents allowed that? Your parents were not mad about that? How did that make you feel? Well it made me feel everything all over again. It really made me feel the shame and humiliation that I felt when I was 12. 12 to 18. It was nice to talk to someone else about this. From the ages of 12 to 27 I was supposed to walk into my bishop's office and confess anytime I did anything sexual. But unlike old-fashioned Catholic confession there was no curtain or anonymity. And Mormon bishops they are not paid or trained clergy. They do not wear robes. They are men who are chosen by the church to volunteer their time and serve as basically pastors for a two-to-five-year period. They keep their regular jobs. One of my bishops a good one was a food scientist who helped invent Pop Rocks. Another was an investment banker named Chad. I would sit across from Chad in a little office at church and admit to a sexual encounter. And Chad would ask follow-up questions. Did you go to first base or second? He put his hands where? Was it under the bra or over the bra? Did you like it? To be forgiven of sexual sin I was required to tell the bishop. So while I often felt ashamed or humiliated in the room I never questioned the process itself. It was routine like going to the dentist. You turned yourself in whenever there was anything to report. And on top of that once or twice a year you were required to go to this thing called a worthiness interview. Everyone did this no exception from the ages of 12 to 18. These were like checkups for your spirituality. The bishop would ask you a series of questions like do you believe in God? Are you a full tithe payer? Are you honest in your dealings with your fellow man? In the midst of these questions about your faith he would ask if you obey the law of chastity. Reagan's first worthiness interview was pretty confusing. They sort of graze over everything until you get to chastity. And he said are you obeying the law of chastity? And I did not know what that word meant. And so I asked him to explain it more and he said are you engaging in sexual things like petting and necking? And I also did not know what petting and necking was. I mean I was about as innocent as a 12-year-old can be. I was home-schooled and everything. So I was not even around language like-- you know any kind of sexual or lewd language of any kind. Especially not language from the 1950s. Yeah exactly. Yeah so I did not know what necking or petting was. And so I think I said like I do not think so. And I remember the feeling of my heart beating in my ears. You know I felt my whole body was so hot. And even though I did not know what it was and I did not think I had done it I felt like I had done it. You know I felt like I was really guilty. And it seemed like every question up until that point was really not important and then this was the big question. This was like the whole-- you know climax of the interview. And then I also became bad after that. I became completely obsessed with necking and petting and finding out what it meant. Anytime anything would happen in a movie anything sexual at all I would be like I think that is petting. The interviews kick-started something with me. I made my Barbies do everything that you can possibly imagine. It was like a bloodbath. My Barbies went from just playing house to like doing angel dust and having like orgies within a matter of weeks. When Reagan was 16 she said she finally got a boyfriend to experiment with. And she did neck and pet with him. But whatever fun she had was gone the second it was over. Did you immediately like right after think like oh no now I have to tell the bishop. Yes. Yes instantly. I went home and I remember feeling really excited that I had necked and petted. And then the next day I was just guilt ridden. The whole day I was like-- it was like I had a hangover or something. Like a-- I do not know. I was laying in bed like thinking about it and worrying about it all day. And I did not tell him or talk about it until I was asked to go in for an interview. And the door was shut. I was sitting there. I was 16. And he asked me all the questions. And then he asked me if I was keeping the law of chastity. And I said no. I said no. And he came out from behind his desk and pulled up a chair close to me and put his hand on my knee. This is the story she told her fiancee Rory. And then said did you do this more than once? And I said no I only did it once. And then he said did you have intercourse? And I said no. And then he said did you like it? And I said no. Have you thought about doing it again? And did he define what it was? Well it was all kind of vague things. Like you know intercourse was probably the most specific. But I remember him asking me things like did you impersonate sex? Which I did not totally understand. That is a really weird way to put it too. Yeah. Yeah. Hey it is me sex.  Yeah. For penance you put together a plan that requires frequent check-ins and you do assignments like reading church literature about not having sex. For a while you cannot take the sacrament our version of communion. This can feel like public shaming like everyone notices. It is incredibly embarrassing because if you are a young woman the assumption is it is sex related. Reagan's bishop set up more meetings with her. And then he called my house about twice a month to check on me. I felt really humiliated. I felt-- I felt like evil almost you know? I felt like everything-- I felt like I was just such a disappointment and I made my family look bad and all of that. One morning last December I opened up Facebook and saw this petition going around by a Mormon named Sam Young. He used to be a bishop and he was calling on the church to stop these sexually explicit interviews. This was the first time I would ever heard them referred to as sexually explicit. He posted a list of 29 questions different church members said that they would been asked in their interviews with their bishops. As I read down the list I realized that I had been asked 13 of them. Questions like do you masturbate? Where and how did your boyfriend touch you? Where were his fingers? Were your nipples hard? Were you wet? It took seeing them all together for me to realize how bad it actually was. There were stories of abuse on Sam's website. Some are extreme like bishops who convinced children that if they masturbated with them the desire to do it would go away. I was never physically abused just asked questions. As a bishop Sam said he never asked these questions and he was never asked them as a kid. He found out about them from a friend whose son was asked about masturbation. Sam could not believe it. He posted about it on Facebook and the stories came flooding in. Of his six daughters four told him that they would been asked if they masturbated. One of his youngest said she did not know what the word meant. She was 12. So she looked it up on the internet and this introduced her to porn. Sam thought if he brought all this to the attention of the church they would stop these explicit questions. The church response was that bishops are not supposed to be quote unnecessarily probing or invasive in their questions. But what is necessary and unnecessary is left up to each individual bishop to decide. The church does not define exactly where the line is. As the story got more heat the church issued new guidelines this spring saying kids could have a parent or an adult in the room when meeting with the bishop. The church claims this had nothing to do with Sam's petition but clearly he had touched a nerve. He was excommunicated from the church in September for acting quote in clear open and deliberate public opposition to the church. And a lot of Mormons online resisted his claims. They defended their bishops saying they had not been asked inappropriate or disturbing questions. That these incidents were isolated and unusual or that Sam was making these stories up. That they had not happened at all. But I knew they would happened because they would happened to me. And they stuck with me. I had rarely talked about it with any friends and never my family. Even all these years later I feel like it is my fault. That I somehow deserved these humiliating encounters. And talking to Reagan and reading the stories on Sam's website I wondered how widespread is this? It just so happens that we have another person on staff who grew up Mormon. So together we just started calling people some we knew some we did not some were practicing Mormons others had left the church. And people definitely remembered their bishop interviews. They would be like well how long did it last? Or did he put his fingers in you or did you put your fingers on him? And I think he asked me if I had made her orgasm. I remember going really red in the face an extreme amount of anxiety. I felt like my throat was closing. And I was only 11 and I would never had a boyfriend. I told him yes I am keeping the law of chastity. He said are you lying to me? I said no. And he said are you sure you are not lying to me? And I thought does the bishop know something about me that I do not know? We reached 10 people. And to our surprise all 10 said that they had had at least one experience with a bishop where they felt the line of questioning went too far or became overly explicit. These interactions left them feeling deeply uncomfortable and ashamed to the point that most of them had never shared their stories with anyone. This led me to ask my siblings and of the five of us four had had bad experiences. I do not want to say every Mormon feels this way about their bishops. The therapist I contacted who specializes in sex and relationships and works with current and former church members estimated that bishop interviews only come up with one out of eight of her clients. And talking about chastity is just a small part of what bishops do. Lots of people have positive experiences with their bishops including me and the people we talked to. Yes some bishops went too far but we had others who did not. You get a new one every few years. But bishop interviews can be hugely consequential for your life. To attend any Mormon-run college you need your bishop to give you what is called an ecclesiastical endorsement which is basically a letter stating that you are a faithful Mormon obeying the church's teachings. I talked to a woman named Alisha. She is from Utah in her early 40s. When she was 20 she went to get her ecclesiastical endorsement to go to BYU Brigham Young University. Alisha had previously had sex with her boyfriend but says she stopped and had been abstinent for a while. She had not confessed it yet though. And her feeling was that if she was going to a church school she wanted to do it the right way. She wanted to be on the up and up. She figured the interview would go OK if she just told the truth because she would only had positive experiences with bishops before. And so she made an appointment with her bishop. He asked me about masturbation which I had never been asked before. So that was a little bit surprising. And I said yes. But then he proceeded to ask me did you use your hands or did you use a device? And immediately like every cell in my body was on alert. Like when you are walking down an alley and all of a sudden you feel extremely uncomfortable. That is how I felt. Like right out of the get go. So I said well why does it matter? And he said well I just want to get a sense so I can advise you on triggers and what to avoid. He asked her a bunch of other sexual questions. She said yes to all of them and confessed she had sex with her boyfriend. He proceeded to ask me where were you? Were you in your bed in a car? Did you climax? Did he climax? I said does it make it less of a sin if I climaxed or does it make it more of a sin? I was confused. I do not know what the rules are. Like I did not know. Definitely it was like he sat forward in his chair. And I felt like he was watching porn that was my life and not his business. That was my take that he was using my story and his power to create pictures in his head that he could take pleasure from. I mean that is how it felt. At some point he said So all you guys do is have sex? You guys do not do anything else? And I am thinking no this is a boyfriend that we do a lot. Like he is in a band. We go do all these shows. Like I help roadie for him. Our relationship is not the sex. It is just what you are asking about. And now you are making it sound like that is the only thing we do. It was bizarre. But I needed that signature. And eventually got it but not without paying a price. She was too scared to report him. She thought it could backfire. And she had to keep meeting with him once a week. She said she always felt sick beforehand and tried to think of excuses not to go. It is hard because it is not like I could have said this man is molesting me or raping me or-- And I have had other experiences that were sexual pressure put on me you know with hands that were less traumatic than this. I grew up watching this church video that primed me for the role I was supposed to play in the bishop's office. It is called Godly Sorrow Leads to Repentance. And our teachers would show it to us when they slacked on preparing a lesson. In the video a young woman named Kim visits her bishop because she is going to get married and in order to enter the temple she needs a signed document. A temple recommend that says she is worthy. Kim sits across the desk from her bishop and he asks-- Is there anything in your life Kim that has not been resolved with the proper priesthood authority? Well before Matt returned from his mission I was involved with another boy. We probably spent a little too much time together alone. The bishop waits for her to say more. When Kim does not he nods his head and gestures. Go on. I guess things sort of got out of hand. Kim I know how hard it is to talk about things like this but I need to know how serious the problem was if I am going to help resolve it. I guess we were getting a little too comfortable together. And that is when the problems started. The screen fades and cuts back to the bishop implying that time has passed and Kim has spilled her story. What you have told me Kim is very serious. Yeah but I am not involved with that guy anymore. It is not a problem now. The bishop tells her that this is much more severe than she thinks. I cannot have a temple recommend? But the wedding is coming up. The announcements have been sent out. My dress is paid for. We saw this film a lot and the cutaway really made an impression. My classmates and I would be like what do you think she said? So when my bishop first asked me about masturbating when I was 14 it seemed appropriate for us to have an explicit conversation. We were just living in the cutaway. So I told all. I could not lie to the bishop. That would be like lying to God. And I was taught that any sexual act I committed before marriage was the second most serious sin next to murder. It was terrifying. I masturbated once when I was 12. I was not even aware of what I was doing. I just knew something unusual happened. Two years later I learned the church's position on masturbation which is that it is almost as bad as sex. And I knew sex was almost as bad as murder. When I connected the dots I was devastated. Unless I repented I was told I would be separated from my family in the afterlife because no unclean thing is allowed in heaven. So I go tell the bishop. But of course I would masturbate again. And each time I would immediately be hit with the thought that I was being so selfish. Why would I choose this feeling over my family? The only way to undo it to get my family back was to confess. My dad was a bishop for five years. When I told him recently about the questions my siblings and I were asked it upset him. He told me he would never asked anyone those questions and did not remember being asked them as a kid. So when exactly did bishops start asking these detailed and embarrassing questions? I talked to three different historians all Mormon but independent of the church. And they said the answer was simple. The shift started happening in the '70s. It was the church's reaction to the sexual revolution. They were worried about promiscuity. Someone at MormonLeaks our version of WikiLeaks put me in touch with a historian who has a collection of old church manuals that are written specifically for bishops. Before the 1970s the manuals told bishops to search for quote immoral or un-Christianlike practices. They do not spell it out with a lot of details. But then in 1975 explicit questions first appear in a bishop's guide which tells bishops to ask prospective missionaries and other young adults whether they have been involved in quote any of the following-- pre or extramarital sexual intercourse homosexual practices sexual deviations petting-- then in parentheses the fondling of another's body and masturbation. Hesitation or uneasiness may suggests that a question needs to be pursued further. End quote. When I read this I was blown away. I felt like here it is the blueprint for the system I grew up in. That was 1975. Worthiness interviews with young people officially began in the 1980s. And in the '90s a pamphlet came out which bishops were told to use in those interviews. It was called For the Strength of Youth. On the cover there was a black and white drawing of a bunch of teenagers girls with perms and shoulder pads boys who looked popular. You got one when you turned 12. I loved mine. Anyway the pamphlet included a list of forbidden sexual acts like petting masturbation and also just thinking too much about sex. The church encouraged bishops to discuss the specific acts listed in the pamphlet during their interviews with young people. And they were free to ask whatever follow-ups they felt they needed to. This is how the system still works today. I had a feeling of love for my bishops. I still do. They were seen as the father of our congregation. You felt like you knew them and they knew you. They would ask about your classes at college or follow up on your daily life. When my father was a bishop I watched him volunteer his time in between a hectic work schedule and home life to help people find apartments pay for groceries be their grief counselor visit them when they were sick. He genuinely loved and helped these people because he cared about them. And my bishops cared about me. I felt relieved when I left the office. Repenting to them lifted the weight of the guilt I would been carrying. And often it felt like they were just as uncomfortable asking the questions as I was answering them. But regardless of the intention or behavior of any one bishop bishop interviews followed me into every sexual encounter. All the women I spoke to had this same problem. For example I learned that my bishops were more lenient if I was not the person initiating. So when I was with guys I would strategically make sure they made every move which meant I was constantly leaning against walls pressing my boobs out and telepathically communicating please sir just touch one boob. But even now in my 30s I have a really hard time with sex. Shocker. I am no longer Mormon. I have not been for eight years. And still when I fool around with someone there is a voice in my head that keeps track of what I am doing like a ref docking points for each progressive move. The only way to get this voice to shut up is to leave my body. So I am there but not there. The following morning I wake up to this voice telling me all the things I have done wrong. This leads to panic and anxiety. And it is not like I just feel bad for a minute. The feeling lingers for days. Writing this story I have realized something I never put together until now. I still feel bad for losing my virginity before I got married. I was 28. I wanted to do it the right way. I would made promises to God and to the people in my life that I would wait for marriage. I wanted so badly to live up to their expectations. And when I made the choice to have sex I knew what it meant. I made it knowing I would lose my family for eternity my community and my religion. And in spite of all that I still did it. And what kind of a person does that make me? This is what I feel every time I have sex. I have wondered how much of this is related to these bishop interviews. And I asked a few people how they thought it impacted them. A couple women said it was easier to have sex if they did not feel pleasure. The guilt was directly linked to enjoying it. This woman Courtney said something I related to a lot. Having wine before you have sex or even smoking weed is the only way to get around it-- is if you alter your mind. And how much of that directly ties to that interview at 18? 100. And this is Kate. I think constantly having to account to an extraordinarily judgmental outsider about your sex life leaves an external voice. Like you know how there is like an angel and a devil in cartoons who are always on your shoulder? I think there is always like an old man on our shoulders as Mormon women. This has consequences. Dr. Jennifer Finlayson-Fife is the sex therapist I talked to. She is a practicing Mormon and has had hundreds of patients who are current or former members of the church. She said some Mormon women not all learned from their bishop interviews to defer to an authority figure when it comes to sex. Of course other parts of the religion reinforce that lesson too. And these women during sex they think about what the man they are with wants or what their bishop would think. They do not think about what they want. This shuts their sexuality down. I mean some LDS women really see it as a dangerous