Julia's 13. Jane and Ella are 14. And when they came to our studio for an interview they did this thing they do all the time when they hang out. They take pictures of themselves. And-- no surprise-- they post them to Instagram. There you go. No retake it. It is really bad. Jane calm down. It does not matter OK? This is what happens every time. I am just gonna post it and we will see-- We will see what happens. --how quickly everything comes in. So what is your prediction on what is going to happen? Usually there is at least-- usually there is two likes in a minute. But I do not know because people might not be up yet. People are not-- there is-- It was 1100 in the morning on a day with no school not prime time for posting photos at all. Nighttime is usually when you get the most likes and comments. But you know 1100 AM. A minute passes. No response on the photo they took in the studio. And then? Oh wait three likes. Oh three likes. From Ro-- From three people. No one's commented yet. One of these is my best friend. OK another person liked it. Two people. Two people. OK we are getting a lot of likes now. Three. Another person. How many likes do we have now? Six I think. OK we have one two three four five six likes in a minute. That is actually good Ella. What they are waiting for is not just likes and comments but a specific kind of comment. This is probably not going to be news to any of you who have teenage girls in your lives but I bet lots of you do not know about this. They want comments from other girls and they say the wording is pretty much always the same. Gorgeous. Pretty. Stunning. Stunning? Yeah. You kill it. You are so pretty. So beautiful. OK just to be clear they say this about everybody's selfies whether or not the selfies are in fact stunning or beautiful. This is super-affirming language that is applied equally to every girl universally. You have heard of bullying online? This is the opposite. A lot of people do not just say pretty. You either say like Pretty WTF? Gorgeous WTF? Perfect. Like all caps sometimes. Um some people say like model. You can add OMG after anything. Cutest like-- Yeah. Something -est. The one word you do not say? Sexy. They explained you could say hot but never sexy. They are-- there is a different-- They are the same thing actually. There is a different connotation to sexy than there is to hot. 'ecause like it has the word sex in it. Sex. Yeah I think it is the word. Like intercourse. Ella!  This is not about sex. It is not about boys. It is about girls and friendship. And it is very repetitive-- the same phrases over and over. I asked them each to pick a selfie that they would posted and read the comments. So I have gorgeous pretty. You are so pretty OMG. So pretty. This is so pretty OMG. Heart eyes. So pretty. Heart eyes. Gorgeous. Gorge. You are so pretty bye. Cutest. They say their parents do not understand this. Ella's mom has Instagram so she sees the pictures and the comments. She is just like why? Why? Why is everyone doing this? Like why are 50 people feeling the need to tell you that you are pretty? Julia's mom? Same thing. She is like why? Why are all these people saying like oh you are so perfect? And my dad just thinks it is funny. He is like why are these people doing this? Like it does not-- it is kind of stupid. They think it is like stupid. So what is it about? Well the answer to that question is complicated and it involves going deep into an intricate language that is going on in the comments. Welcome to WBEZ Chicago. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program is about status updates of various kinds-- the literal kind like on Instagram. But most of our show today is about the kind of slow changes in status that happen to adults that happen usually when people get money or they get recognition where what happens is you know quiet and slow and really is sometimes kind of rude to talk about. Like when do you say to anybody Hey you are making a lot more money than you used to. Or Hey you are making a lot less money. Or You are making a lot more money than me. And that is why I wanted to talk to Jane and Ella and Julia. Because for them this stuff is not gradual or vague or shameful to talk about. It is happening out in the open online. They are online all the time constantly getting updates on the social standing of everybody they know in detail and at incredible speed. And that is what these Instagram comments are all about if you know how to read them. So let us just start right there with Act 1. Act 1. Finding the Self in Selfie. So these comments-- you know you are so beautiful you are gorgeous you are cutest-- which look utterly interchangeable to Julia and Ella and Jane's parents they are in fact a very specific language that tells the girls all kinds of things. And a lot of the meaning in the comments actually has nothing to do with the actual words whether they say gorgeous or pretty or OMG or whatever. It is about who is doing the commenting and whether that person likes a photo or comments on the photo-- liking a photo means something totally different than commenting. You comment with somebody you are close to or who you are trying to get close to. And with a close friend you kind of have to comment. It is definitely a social obligation because you want to let them know and also let people who are seeing those that I have a close relationship with this person so close that I can comment on their pictures like this is so cute or you look so great here. Then of course when you do post a comment about a picture there is the whole politics of whether your friend is going to comment back to your comment. And subtle differences in the wording when they comment back could mean something even though to an outsider the words basically look the same. Julia says that she will comment back oh my god I love you so much to a close friend who compliments a picture of hers. But she says with somebody you do not know so well it goes differently. If they say like oh my god like you are so pretty you say OMG but that is you. You know like-- like you are the pretty one? I feel like that is something that I say to someone who is like-- who I am not super close with but I feel like-- like I have to say something back. Especially because we like just started high school so we are meeting a lot of new people. So you would comment on someone's photo who you are not really super close with or that you do not know really well. And it is sort of a statement like I want to be friends with you or I want to get to know you or like I think you are cool. If someone that you do not know very well commented on your photo you-- it is sort of like an unspoken agreement that you have to comment back on their photo. Like when you are making new friends if they comment on your photo you comment on their photo. It is like a chain reaction. Another thing you do not see if you do not know this language of comments and commenting back-- let us say that you comment on somebody's photo. When they comment back do they comment to you individually? Or do they group you in with 20 or 30 other people and send just one big group comment back to all of you? That tells you where you stand with the person. Then there are all those situations where somebody choosing not to comment is a really big deal. Like for example if you post a picture of yourself with a friend and then the friend does not comment on that picture that is just cold. That is leaving you dangling. Or if you post a selfie close friends are expected to chime in with support. When they do not? You definitely feel insecure. Because like you expect them to comment and they do not and you are like why? This is not even good enough for like my best friend. Yeah. Then you are like oh wait. Like what if they have seen it and they are just not liking it on purpose or like what if everybody who is seeing it thinks that we are not actually friends because they are not commenting on it. They have not commented yet. It is been X amount of time and they still have not liked it. It is this kind of shallow-- like why are you not responding to something that I never said you had to respond to in the first place?  And tell me about how quickly people have to respond. Like what is the normal amount of time? Within 10 minutes I think. Yeah usually. People are always on Instagram. Everyone's always on Instagram. There is definitely a weird psychology to it. Yeah. Definitely. It is just sort of the way it is. It is like unspoken rules that everybody knows and follows. But can I ask you have you gotten caught up in weird mind games where somebody commented or liked or did not comment or did not like and then you are just like I do not-- what does this-- what does this one means? Yeah. Someone like-- Ella has an example. I mean these girls that went to our middle school they-- Yeah this is not my picture but someone said what even? You are perfect. I hate you. Eff you. You suck. And then like someone else like-- WTF? You are perfect. I hate you. Because people-- what they are trying to say is like you are so perfect and you are so beautiful that I like hate you for it and I wish I was like you so much that I dislike you for it. And how do you respond to that? Like I am sorry? Because you do not say like-- you do not say like thank you because it is not really a compliment. You do not really know. We have all gotten those comments of-- last year like this girl even said it to my face. She was like you are so pretty like I am going to throw you into the train tracks. Like things that-- like it does not even make sense. Like it is-- Like on my photo right now-- I am looking at it-- this girl commented I hate you. Um I have also like been like caught in the situation where someone's like you are so pretty and I am like oh thank you. You are really pretty too. And then we have gotten into this whole thing and I remember like magical mirrors came up like potions. And I was just like wait this is way too deep. Like you must be looking in a mirror then because you must be talking to yourself because you are so pretty. She was like we should switch bodies with like a potion. I was like what? Ella and Julia and Jane say that usually they will get 130 to 150 likes for any selfie they put up and anywhere between 30 and 50 comments which is a good response. And overwhelmingly these comments are these super-positive you are so pretty OMG you are so cute kind. And a lot of it is heartfelt girls just trying to be good friends to each other. When you see your friend put herself out there it is nice to tell her she is pretty. Can I ask like does it work? Because you know when you are getting over 100 likes and comments and things like that like you know a lot of it is just rote right? A lot of people are just like they see a thing and they just automatically-- Yeah you are scrolling through. It is mindless. That is how-- It is mindless. And so since it is mindless does it still work? Does it make you feel good? Yes. Um actually if I get a comment from someone I care about I think it makes me feel good like it lifts me up. A lot of it is just scrolling too. But a lot of it is just like I literally just scroll through my Instagram feed and I just like click like double-tap. Yeah. And like it does not-- I like everything on my feed. You know like it just does not-- and that is what people are doing to your photo. But like it still makes you feel good because you are getting all these likes. Yeah but when you think about it it is so strange. Because you know how superficial it is. It is. And yet-- You know but yeah. Yeah. You know that you are doing it to other people but-- And yet it is still-- Then other people are doing it to you. And it still feels like something though. Like it does make you feel good. You are like oh I am getting all these comments. Like people like my photo. They think I am pretty. Like they are saying that you are pretty. And if someone comes up to you and says you are pretty like you are obviously going to be like thank you if it makes you feel good. Because it just does. Like that is like human nature. Like you are going to feel good. This is really not so different from anybody's life on social media. When I tweet something and a friend favorites it and another friend retweets with a funny comment that is totally them saying to me you are so pretty-- just in a more adult kind of way. And it feels nice. All three of these girls told me they do not need 50 people telling them that they are pretty all the time. But you know it is there for the taking. It is like free candy. Why not? Do you feel like this is a situation where like girls are so judged all the time on how they look and this is a way to counteract that by you guys saying to each other like you are pretty you are pretty? Well no. It just gives more opportunities for people to judge. They are not going to-- Yeah posting a photo of yourself is putting yourself out there. They are not going to do it on social media obviously because you will see it. But they will do it behind your back. When a girl posts an unflattering selfie or just a selfie that makes her look uncool other girls will take screenshots to save the image and gossip about it later. Happens all the time. And so even though they are old hands at posting selfies-- they have been posting since sixth grade-- it can be nervous-making to post one. So they take precautions. We all ask people before we post it like send in like a group chat or like send to your friends like should I post this? Do I look pretty? And they say like all the same stuff that they would say in a comment. Like oh my god yes post it. Like you are so pretty. You are so perfect. So like-- And so it would be like you run it by like four or five friends. Yeah. If I send it to my friends I am not nervous about it because then I have-- OK. Jane looks at her phone. There is a message. Like someone just texted in a giant group chat go like my photo on Instagram. It just shows that it happens every-- It happens every second. It happens all the time. Yep. I got it too. Yeah. I have to say like oh my god this is such a job. Yeah. It is like I am-- I am a brand and I am like-- You are trying to promote yourself. The brand. I am the director of the-- And you are the product. You are definitely trying to promote yourself. To stay relevant you have to-- You have to work hard. Relevance is a big term right now. Are you guys relevant? Um I am so relevant. In middle school. In middle school we were definitely really relevant. SARCASTICALLY We were so relevant. Because everything was established. But now in the beginning of high school you cannot really tell who is relevant. Yeah. And what does relevant mean? Relevant means that people care about what you are posting on Instagram. People-- Care about you. --want to know what you are doing. People will open your Snapchat stories. They are only three months into high school so there is a lot at stake right now. One of my like best friends posts a selfie. Maybe this is not like healthy. But I might go through the comments and see who she is like really good friends with just 'ecause we are in high school and there is that sense of jealousy between everyone. Do you have people who you are jealous of? Yeah. Yeah. I definitely would. I go through like the comments that people see-- like that people say and like I see what other people have said to other people. Yeah. Just to see like the whole-- like the whole social like map. Looking mapping out your social world seeing who is with who who is hanging out with who who is best friends with who. If you did not have it like I feel like I would be missing so much. And it would just-- Because you would not see what other people were saying. A lot goes on. Well no that is I feel like the thing that I am understanding from this conversation is like-- it is actually like you are getting a picture of your entire social world and who is up and who is down and who is close to who and it is like you are getting a diagram of where everybody stands with everybody else. Yeah. Yeah. Definitely. Definitely. As it changes in real time every day every 10 minutes. Yeah. Yeah. Everyone can see it. It is crazy. You see these comments. You screenshot them. You show them to your friends at school. Yeah I will screenshot things and be like look what she said look what she said. Like even if it is funny. I did not know that these people were close. When did this happen? This is the main thing they get from Instagram they say. After all each of them only post a couple pictures a week. Not that much of their time on Instagram is being told they are pretty. Most of it is this dissecting and calibrating the minutiae of the social diagram.   Act 2. Mon Ami Ta-Nehisi. Well our show today is about status updates. And you know it is weird when a sudden change of status happens to somebody who you are close with. And that is true whether their status goes up or their status goes down. One of our producers Neil Drumming is best friends with the writer Ta-Nehisi Coates who I think a lot of people heard of for the first time a couple years ago when he wrote this article arguing the case for reparations for black Americans. That article was nothing compared to the attention that Ta-Nehisi got when his latest book was published this summer. The book has been on the New York Times Bestseller List ever since. He is been interviewed all over the place. He is been called the next James Baldwin. Ta-Nehisi Coates was suddenly famous and rich and Neil our co-worker definitely was not. He does fine but you know. Anyway it got Neil thinking. Quick warning-- there is some cursing in this story that we bleeped on the radio version of our show. Here on the podcast and the internet we are unbleeping it. If you are somebody who prefers the bleeped version-- maybe you listen to the show with kids-- you can find it at our website. One of the weird things about having a famous friend is that even when he is too busy to hang out he is sort of around all the time. I had not seen Ta-Nehisi in a few months. But in the last year or two it seemed like everyone was reading his work and talking about it-- everyone on the subway the President of the United States my ex who texted me out of the blue to see if I could get her into one of his speaking engagements-- everyone. But by July I was cat-sitting just 15 blocks from Ta-Nehisi's apartment and he and I still had not connected. We tried but it just did not work out. I was walking past a newsstand on Broadway thinking I should try texting him again that I had so much to tell him. And when I looked up he was right in front of me his big-ass disembodied head staring at me from the cover of New York Magazine. By the end of the summer Ta-Nehisi had turned 40 and moved his family to Paris. He won the MacArthur Genius Award. He was across the ocean and coworkers were congratulating me for him. It is wild having the world talk so much about someone you know and with whom you share so much history. It is exciting and oddly kind of gratifying. I am happy for him. The thing I am having trouble with is harder to explain. I know Ta-Nehisi's the same guy-- warm funny curious loves comic books. But he is also a famous writer who lives in Paris accepts prestigious awards in a tuxedo that he owns and gets shout-outs from Toni Morrison and Jay Z. He is changing in ways that I am not. And when people change they grow apart. And it makes me worry about our friendship. Like when we are making plans. A couple of months ago Ta-Nehisi our other buddy Rick and I were supposed to meet for Sunday brunch at our old West Side haunt The Half King. The Half King is a pub not a dive a respectable pub with good service good beer and decent food. The morning of the scheduled meeting he texted to ask if we can meet at the swanky Hotel Marlton instead. His explanation? I am becoming that dude. Rick was understanding. He joked that since eating in Paris everything back home must taste like dog food. Ta-Nehisi's response? It is close. Sometimes he ends emails with unnecessary French interpolations of everyday phrases. In this country we have a word for such behavior and it is the same word in Ta-Nehisi's newly adopted language. Je suis snob. That is how you say I am a snob in French? Je suis snob. Snob. I gotta get my accent right. Je suis snob. I tease him about becoming a snob but we have never really talked about it. And so cautiously and nervously a couple weeks ago I asked him if we could. We texted back and forth to set a time when we could sit down. At one point he suggested that I go through his assistant. Ta-Nehisi was tired from a long day of meetings and signing books so he and I ended up at the bar of the hotel where he was staying. It is a lavish joint with a rooftop pool deck and big cushioned banquettes in the lounge. We sat up on the mezzanine overlooking the low-lit bar. Is this the best hotel you ever stayed in? No.  This as not that good of a hotel. But it is perfectly decent. I got a nice room here. Yeah. How is this feel to you? Does this feel like a nice hotel to you? Ta-Nehisi knew we were here to talk about his snobbery and he wasted zero time getting into character. He told me a story about the other night when he would had dinner in the restaurant of this very hotel. And I was sitting at the bar. And the food was OK. It is like one of these OK food restaurants. But it was decent. I was having a good time. And there was a couple like down the bar and they had ordered this big-ass thing of oysters. It might have been 24 oysters. It was huge. Ta-Nehisi was fine with that. He loves oysters. It was what happened next that offended him. Then the bartender started making drinks right? And he makes the woman a sangria and the other dude some sweet something some red sweet something-or-other that no one should ever drink. And he took it over there and I was like you are going to drink sangria and eat oysters? Like we are doing this now? Like this is a thing you are going to do? Oh come on.  Come on. Just order a Hi-C. Get the Capri Sun. Just get the Capri Sun with your oysters. See this is what I am talking about.  I met Ta-Nehisi in the late '90s when we were both working at an alternative weekly newspaper in DC. He was still a student at Howard. I had recently graduated from college. I am pretty sure neither of us had ever even tasted an oyster back then. Instead we bonded over hip hop two-for-one happy hours the enduring craziness of white people and wanting to be better writers than the ones in our favorite rap magazine. We bopped around U Street drinking rail liquor and debating the merits of Ghostface Buckshot and Brother J. We did growing-up stuff too. We paid rent. We met girls. I remember the day Ta-Nehisi came by the cubicle where I worked to tell me his girlfriend was pregnant. I thought at 24 his life is over. But soon I would have a godson. We also got pretty serious about writing. Eventually we both ended up in New York. We got jobs. We got married. Our wives became best friends as well. We stayed close. During all those years I honestly do not recall fine dining being a big part of our lives so it is kind of bizarre to hear Ta-Nehisi go on about it now. The guy talks about food with almost as much passion and conviction as he writes scathing critiques of American institutionalized racism. There is this joint in Chicago called the Girl  the Goat and they made this asparagus last time I was there and I think about it. Like I actually think about the vegetables.  I mean what is this?  Like sex or something. Like I think about it. Like god that was awesome. That was great. I cannot imagine feeling so strongly about vegetables. But we are laughing and drinking adult beverages. This is fun and kind of familiar. You know what this makes me think of? What? The New Year's Eve parties at the place you used to live in-- Yeah yeah yeah in Brooklyn. In Brooklyn yeah. Was it Flatbush? Yeah. Yeah yeah. Lefferts Garden. Lefferts Garden which is a completely different place now. Yeah. But I remember we used to have those-- remember we would have those wine parties and you had to bring a bottle of wine. Yeah I did not like that. You remember this? You did not like that? Why? Why did not you like that? That felt status-y to me. Really? I mean what are we doing? We are tasting wine and doing-- I mean what is this? But remember it was like you could bring-- everybody brought kind of cheap wine. People were just-- I mean  now we are getting to why one would not like it. So we are like swapping cheap wine?  Like what are we doing? Are we just-- I think like my read on that was are we doing this just to say we are the kind of Negroes that eat cheese and drink wine? There was a point where we did not go like really nice places right? Yeah of course not. I mean remember-- We used to go to like Lucky Burger. Yeah. And we just-- Is not it call Lucky's? Is not that who it is called? Yeah the joint on the-- Like 50-something? It is like Hell's Kitchen. Yeah we used to go there a lot. We used to get burgers. I mean what is-- OK listen. I have known you what 19 years? 20 years? Long time. The majority of that time we ate wings and burgers. Right. Pretty much the majority of that time. And I did eat that stuff then and I was fine. Yeah all the time. So what happened? This is the reason that you are sitting here as I am asking you. OK well this is the question. Well I made more money right? Yes. That is all it is. I mean but-- I mean how much would you attribute it to that? A lot. Yeah? Was that ever uncomfortable for you? The money's uncomfortable. Yeah. The money's uncomfortable. Um-- why is the money uncomfortable? Because you have the money but like in your mind you have not changed. Like you still rock a hoodie. Yeah yeah. The food is not uncomfortable. The food feels like some bringing to fruition of something that was always there. Mm. Maybe it is bringing to fruition something that was already there. Ta-Nehisi was always a little picky about what kind of beer he drank. And he would get anxious whenever his hair got a little bushy even back in the broke DC days when a regular haircut was an extravagance. I started to wonder if maybe there had been snobbiness under the surface all along and I just missed it. Still those are small things right? He appreciates a nice meal and a trim. So what? Well I go to a really nice gym. OK. You would go or you do? I do. You do. I go to a really nice gym. How nice is your gym? What gym could be that nice? I do not want to name the gym. But I can tell you about the gym. Is it not like a consumer gym? It is but it is like really nice.  I mean when I am in America. Which-- OK. I mean that was the ultimate snob statement right there. I go to a nice gym in Paris too. But they are different gyms obviously. Yeah different gyms. They are not the same brand. No no no. But it is just like very nice. OK. I have personal training.  say you know a bougie's a person who is snob looks down. But see bougie people want to be part of a crowd. OK. Like they want to be part of the right crowd. So for instance I do not want to put my son in some exclusive club or something literally like some sort of societal something or other. Do you know what I mean? So bougie is a status thing. It is about-- Yeah I do not care about any of that. I actually do not care about my status. OK. All right all right. Yeah I do not go to a nice gym so that I can then tell you I go to a nice gym. I do not have any concern about being seen with the right people. You know what I am saying? Like I do not have that. I do not need to be at the right parties. OK. Like I do not need any of that. OK. And I do not really look down on people who are not like around the right people. Like I do not have that. That is bougie. OK. Snobbery to me is about like things.  And not about people at all. In fact it is much worse than bougie. 'ecause it is-- Maybe Ta-Nehisi does not care about being with the right people. I have seen him blow off invitations to hang out with TV stars and dodge the attention of world-famous rappers. But he does move in elite circles these days hanging out with Michael Chabon collaborating with David Simon lunches with David Remnick. For the record that is a Pulitzer Prize-winning author the creator of The Wire and the editor of The New Yorker. Me I work at home. I cut my own hair. And I definitely prefer burgers to oysters. And that is cool. This is not about envy for me. I do not feel jealous. I have thought about it and it is not that. But it does feel weird and I am not sure why. And I just kind of wanted to understand that. I guess in some ways I have like fretted that like maybe we were losing pace with each other. Like I was kind of like-- SHOCKED For food? No. I mean-- but the food goes with a lot of other things. It is like you know it is not just the food. But it is like thinking that-- you know it is like maybe like lifestyle stuff. What else was I doing? I do not know like-- Going to France? Staying at Chabon's house stuff like that just having these experiences that seem like-- I mean these are people but it just-- I do not think I have changed actually. So I just want-- like how does this go? I stay at Chabon's house and then I do what? Nothing. That-- it is just--  Like who do I come back as ? But here-- OK but see-- I think that-- What happens? The embarrassing part about it is that it actually has more to do with like me. I do not know if I can communicate or like relate anymore. But we never had that problem did we? No we never did. You just-- How much of that is the divorce though? I do not know. Why-- explain. How do you mean? Well you had this huge rupture in your life right? Yeah. And your lifestyle changed. I mean your lifestyle changes. That is true. I mean you are out dating and doing you know whatever you are doing. Yeah. Things did get a little crazy for me after my divorce a couple years ago more so than I would like to admit. But it had not occurred to me that he would think I was the one who had changed that that might be the reason for the distance between us. And after the divorce Ta-Nehisi did keep reaching out. He would call to talk about writing or to get feedback on what he was working on which was always kind of confusing to me. I have to admit I am kind of like well you could also call David Simon or any of these people who you have on speed dial-- Yeah but my friends have not really changed you know that? Why would I call them? First of all they are not smarter than you. I mean I am not trying to flatter-- like there is no evidence that they are smarter than you. Like the fact that they have gotten more or had more accolades it does not mean they are smarter than you. In anyone else's perception in the world right they are. You know what I am saying? They are. They would be. Those people would be. Those are-- But I do not think-- I have not talked to them. Out of respect for them I do not think they think they are. But I do not think that is their perception of themselves. And I am gonna-- I am sensitive to this right now like right now because of what is going on. People put shit on you man. They put shit on you. What do you mean? Well the world talks about you in a certain way and it becomes very easy to confuse what everyone says about you with how you actually think of yourself. M.. I think it was wanting to feel like we are still on the same level which has not-- it is not an intellectual thing as much as it is like-- it is an intellectual thing because our friendship is intellectual. Right right right. That friendship is heartfelt and true but also like the way we come up is ideas. Like you and I have a kinship of ideas you me and Rick. Right. And we have always had that. And so when I feel-- so like having an intellectual disparity makes that friendship feel tenuous to me. I think I was afraid to say that to you because I was afraid that would actually upset the friendship. I do not know man. You know like the other part of that is it is just not-- I am happy to be at The Atlantic. I am happy that this book got published. I gotta tell you all the other shit do not make me very happy. OK now this is probably not for the tape. But this is some shit I thought of and it really hit me this weekend or last weekend. Because I realized that I was doing a lot of intellectual gymnastics in my head about how I felt about us and I realized I have seen you a bunch of times since then and you are going th