I think at this point even the most casual news consumer has run across a lot of stories like this-- The focus of the European debt crisis move today-- Time is running out. Here's what would happen if the Eurozone fails-- Tomorrow there will be a unified statement of support for these European countries to come up with-- The crisis ongoing in Europe setting the stage for investing-- So I am joined now here in the studio with somebody who actually understands economics and knows about this kind of thing-- Alex Blumberg with the Planet Money team and our staff. Hi Alex. Hey how is it going? Good. So Alex I think I speak for all Americans when I ask you this question and that is do I have to care about this? I am so glad you asked. I am so glad you asked that question. Because we at Planet Money have been obsessed with Europe for the last couple of-- Yes or no. The short answer is yes you have to care. It is going to affect your life in some way. It might actually even cause the global economy to collapse in which case you will really want to know the story. But even if that does not happen it is just a fascinating tale. You hear a report on the news it is all interest rates blah blah blah European leaders blah blah blah. But underneath all that there is passion drama soaring hopes crushed dreams. It is all there hidden in the news that you are hearing. Really? You do not need to care. You want to care. Well that is very good news because we have set aside the entire hour of the program today for you to tell that story. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. Alex I am just going to hand they show over to you. All right and I say like from WBEZ Chicago that thing? No I just said that. So you do not have to say that. So I do not have to say that? So you can just proceed. Have you heard this show before? No you did not say today's program. All right I will say-- you can say today's program. Today's program Continental Breakup. This hour we are going to hear the surprising dramatic story behind the crisis currently unfolding in Europe. I am sorry. Do I say stay with us? You say with us at some point before you go-- I say it right there. So say it. Say it! Stay with us. Act One Currency of Dreams. The story of the crisis in Europe is really the story of the euro that currency that almost all the countries in Europe share. But think about that for a second. Why did they ever do that? All these different countries with all these different cultures all deciding to share a currency. Imagine if the United States if Mexico and Canada all agreed hey you know what? We are going to get rid of our own money and start a new money that we will all share. Think about all the meetings that you would have to have all the coordination and for what? We have our own money now. It works fine. Why would we ever do that? Various Planet Money reporters have been making trips to Europe all year. And you are going to be hearing from them over the course of this hour. Planet Money's Chana Joffe-Walt will be telling the bulk of this story. And we are going to start at the beginning. We spent a lot of time talking to all sorts of people who were present at the creation of the euro who dreamed and worked for years decades to make it happen. Planet Money's Chana Joffe-Walt and our colleague Zoe Chace tell the story of why they wanted it to happen and what they chose to ignore along the way. History takes a long time to unfold in Europe. And the euro was that way. There were no euro coins or bills until 2002. But the dream of the euro had been around for 150 years. But that is all it was-- a dream. The territory of artists intellectuals poets. Yeah Zoe read that thing from Victor Hugo one of the very first calls for a united Europe. OK Victor Hugo Les Mis Hunchback of Notre Dame here's an excerpt from a speech he gave in 1871. And keep in mind the actual Europe at this time is fighting a brutal war tearing itself to pieces. OK here it is. And we shall hear France cry out it is my turn Germany here I am. Am I your enemy? No. I am your sister. And then he goes on to say Let us be the same republic let us be the United States of Europe let us be the continental federation. Let us be European liberty. Let us be universal peace. It is nice right? I keep thinking that the euro for all these years is kind of like Esperanto. You remember Esperanto the international language? It would be really easy to learn. We would all pick it up and speak one tongue across borders and then there would be international peace and understanding. The dream of the euro was kind of like that. But let me ask you do you speak Esperanto today? No. Do nearly 332 million people carry euros in their pockets? Yes. So what happened? World War II was such a catastrophe. This is Pascale Lamy the right-hand man to the father of the euro Jacques Delors. Delors is old now. He is too old to give interviews. But Lamy was there at the key turning point when the euro stopped being a quixotic dream and started looking like a real necessity. It is just after the Second World War that the notion of integrating Europe politically became a serious political idea. Before that it had been dreams. But after World War II it was being talked about in two of Europe's most powerful nations-- in France by people like Lamy-- he went on to head the World Trade Organization. And in Germany by people like Helmut Schlesinger former president of the German Central Bank. One cannot forget that the whole strength of having a European Union is based on the fact that we never want to have war between our countries which we have had so much and so terrible. Germany no longer wanted to dominate Europe. It wanted the opposite actually. It wanted to be a team player a peacemaker. Germany wanted to be the nicest guy at the European table. Of course France did not want Germany to dominate either. Germany would always be bigger more powerful. So France wanted to link its economy to the German economy. That way Germany's strength would be France's strength. And also a united Europe would be big enough and rich enough to become the world's other superpower and rival the United States which both countries liked. All this was making a once-poetic dream much more appealing. But of course there were problems. Two main problems-- one German one French. For the Germans the whole sharing a currency thing made them very nervous. They worried it would lead to inflation. And Germans are really scared of inflation. It calls up a bad memory-- the hyperinflation of the 1920s the worst bout of hyperinflation in recent history. You may have heard about Germans carting their money around in wheelbarrows or using worthless German Marks to wallpaper their homes. Many people in Germany feel like it was this experience that opened the door for the Nazis to come to power. I was reporting on the euro crisis in Berlin a couple months ago and it shocked me how readily Germans would bring up the hyperinflation of the '20s when talking about their problems today. Klaus Frankenberger is an editor at the German newspaper the FAZ. I mean Germany is always stability minded as you know. Order stability that is part of our collective DNA I would say. But these historical experience tell every policy maker you do not mess around with inflation. Never. You do not do this. So Germany's position in the decades-long conversation that led to the euro was this-- if Europe wants to have a single currency then we cannot have all these separate governments out there. We need to become what Victor Hugo dreamed of a United States of Europe. But the Germans wanted this not for poetry but to keep inflation in check. They wanted an overarching authority that can say to individual countries here is how to run your economy. Can you imagine France no longer its own country but a member state in a united federation of Europe? Yeah the French could not either. Again here's Pascal Lamy. The French like Europe if Europe is a big France. That is something that they drive something that does not bite too much into the French sovereignty. It took 30 years of discussion. So for 30 years the French and the German were saying to each other the Germans were saying well what about our Deutsche Mark and the French were saying well what about our national identity? They were not always saying this. Because diplomats and governments do not always say what they have in mind. But that is what they had in mind. And it could have gone on like this haggling back and forth over these issues until this happened-- From the Berlin Wall take a look at them. They have been there since last night. They are here in the thousands. They are here in the 10s of thousands. Occasionally they shout Die Mauer muss weg the wall must go. In 1989 the wall separating East and West Germany was about to fall and the Germans wanted French support for their reunification. The rest of Europe was still a bit wary of Germany. When you plunge the world into one of the bloodiest wars in history it is kind of hard to live that down. And here Germany was about to grow even larger. So France said OK you can have our support if we all go on the euro. And the French got their way. There would be a common currency but no United States of Europe as the Germans wanted. What the Germans got were promises promises that all the countries that used the same money would play by German rules. They would guard against inflation. If a country wanted in on this common currency the euro they would have to borrow responsibly be careful about their deficits. In other words to use the euro the rest of Europe would need to make itself more German. The rest of Europe seemed very happy to do just that even if for many countries in Europe becoming more German was a completely unrealistic dream. Nowhere more unrealistic than in Greece. Our inflation rate was much higher than what was accepted our budget deficit was much higher than what was accepted. This is Loukas Tsoukalis with the Hellenic Foundation for European and Foreign Policy in Athens. If you asked somebody in Europe whether Greece would join in the Eurozone and you asked that question let us say in early mid-1990s the answer would have been you are mad. Because all Greek indicators were far off. No chance in your lifetime. When the European Statistical service produced graphs which showed all the different countries in terms of inflation rates in terms of interest rates very often Greece appeared in an insert because it could not fit in the graph. Because if your inflation rate is 20 it does not fit in a normal graph. So you either have a big graph but it does not show anything or you have a reasonable graph and then you have inserts. Greece is over here? Yeah but Greece was not the only country but it was one of the worst and usually the worst. Still Greece began a national campaign to make it in. And other countries were doing the same. Willingly even if it means pain. For instance Italy. Their deficit was too high so the Italian prime minister at the time Romano Prodi said we need a new tax to cut it down. If we want into the euro we have to pay. Beppe Severgnini the Italian journalist who was there at the time. And he talked to our colleague Alex Blumberg. The mood was so enthusiastic that when Romano Prodi proposed a tax in order to sort out our public finances people-- would you believe that-- sort of put up the money. And did not-- not only did not moan-- they said well that is something we have to do. We will do it. And it was a kind of hefty tax. I remember that. And what was the dream? What were they paying for? In the minds of the average Italian what did it represent being part of the euro? Well to be in this sort premiere league of Europe number one. Second to have a stable currency to be anchored the Deutsche Mark because it was obvious at the time-- and it still is obvious now-- that the engine for this all was Germany. So to have the same currency as Germany is good for everybody. So we want to be in that league and not in this sort of other league with weak local currencies. For Greece and Italy and Portugal and even for France the euro meant a more stable more prosperous more German existence. And so in the years leading up to the euro countries cut spending reduced deficits. The numbers started to look at least on paper a lot more German. So much so that in some cases it was a little hard to believe. Cases like Greece. In the late '90s all across Europe finance ministers and their deputies would meet. They would gather around tables in Brussels and Paris and Berlin with their rules in hand. And the Greeks were there reporting their data that they would made it. They would met the criteria for euro membership. According to several people in these meetings typically here is how it would go-- The Germans or the French would say we have these rules. Every country has to meet the criteria. Yes we do the Greeks would respond. There would be glances around the table. It sure is a good thing we have these rules someone would say. More glances. Jacob Kirkegaard is at with the Peterson Institute for International Economics and he followed these meetings closely. The leaders of France and Germany and others could not really stand up and say look our data are superior. You are lying basically about these data. And that is why we will not let you join the euro. We all knew and we all know now and we all knew at the time that Greece was fudging its statistics. Pascal Lamy right-hand man to the father of the euro says it was not just the Greeks. People had questions about the Italians other countries too. But nobody actually said that. Because that would have been too un-nice to some of their colleagues in the country. There remains a level of diplomatic correctness and politeness. So nobody challenged the Greeks because they were trying to be polite? Exactly it. That is so crazy. It just sounds so crazy now. I mean I understand at the time that might have made sense but it sounds crazy now. Quite. That is the definition. You just gave a very good definition of a mistake. Something you believe is not a problem and then you realize whooo I should not have done that. There was one other thing keeping all these countries around the table from voicing their objections-- money. Remember the poorer countries in Europe wanted the benefit of a strong stable German currency. And Germany wanted customers. Germany makes cars appliances high-tech precision machines lots of stuff. And hundreds of millions of Europeans with the same currency a strong currency meant hundreds of millions of customers that just got a lot richer. The more regular people in Greece who could buy a Mercedes the better for Germany. It would be better for everyone. Together the feeling was they would all be more prosperous than they would be on their own. And so a new currency was born. This brings us to Act Two Eurotopia. On January 1 2002 the euro arrived. The culmination of a 150-year-old dream. The most ambitious financial and political change since money began. Or as the BBC put it-- The most ambitious financial and political change since money began. This is a BBC report from January 1 2002 when for the first time in modern history a huge chunk of the continent of Europe would be using a single currency. You definitely get the sense that for most Europeans when they finally got the euro it felt like something to celebrate. Midnight in Brussels the moment a new currency was truly born. Plenty were out to celebrate its arrival. I think that it brings the countries-- the euro brings them closer together. I think at the beginning there were many problems. But of course I think it is a good thing. Tomorrow in Holland we are going to use money we picked up in Belgium today. And then we will be in France again the day after and again it will be the same money. It is magic. It is just got to be the way to go. People in the US if we remember the debut of the euro at all it is with this oh yeah that happened sort of feeling. It is hard to understand what the excitement was all about. But as Chana Joffe-Walt explains in large parts of Europe the euro did not just change the money it transformed the way people lived. A few months before the euro arrived in Greece Theophilus Papakostakus was called into a meeting. Theophilus is a bank teller. And this was not unusual. The manager was often calling meetings usually to talk about the overtime policy or some new paperwork requirements but this was different. So one day after work he got us together and among other things he said you should forget what you know. Soon enough you will forget everything you know about banking. Everything is going to be all new. Soon it is going to be like a supermarket. People will come in and buy all kind of different things. Banking is not going to be only deposit saving money. It is going to be retail. I specifically remember that expression retail banking. And when he said that what did you think? Well we laughed. I said yeah sure. I am sure yeah. Well it did happen. Every morning after that Theophilus would come into work turn on his computer and the interest rate on consumer loans would be lower. 18 then 15 12 6 4. Now the reasons why this was happening we will get to in a minute. I first just want to talk about the sheer fact that it was happening and what that fact meant. Imagine if your mortgage rate went from 18 to 4. Or the rate that you could get on a car loan. Most people in Greece never borrowed money to pay for anything before and now they had people essentially throwing money at them. Theophilus bought two cars. His neighbors bought a vacation home. The neighbors on the other side of the street took out a loan for their vacation and then refinanced that loan. Really everyone I met in Greece has a story like this. My cab driver Adonis Barkolis in Athens. I used to own a Toyota and in 2004 I bought this. What is this? A Mercedes. A black Mercedes. The bar that I went to used to have just two restaurants. In 2003 it became an industrial brewery too. Well for us this is fantastic. 2002 when we started the building our industrial brewery in total we have invested about 7 million euro which is close to 10 million which is a big amount of money for our company. And this is when we get out of the banks and the interest is very good. We were able to borrow money at 4.5 which is excellent. And it was not just private citizens taking advantage of the low rates. Loukas Tsoukalis at the Hellenic Foundation says most importantly the Greek government got in on the action. Mainly by returning to a favorite practice of Greek politicians addressing unemployment by hiring people. In the last two years they employed a large number of people in the Greek public sector. So they added to the salary bill. Doing what? Being fireman and police? Yes. Or you create mythical jobs. What is the craziest thing you remember hearing of? I think there is for example an organization which was set up for the drying up of a lake. I think the lake has been dried up for the last 30 years but the organization is still there. So there are a few employees who are paid for something that is not even remembered in a history book. The euro had arrived. And cheap money was flowing into countries all over Europe-- Ireland Portugal Spain. There was money for projects which never would have gotten funded before. Luis Garicano is a Spanish economist and he told me about this tiny little bank that funded a big project in La Mancha Spain. Your listeners will know La Mancha as the area where Don Quixote lived. And it is as empty as it was in the time of Don Quixote. It is a big plain. Imagine it as completely empty. And in the middle of that plane there is an airport to which nobody wants to fly. Is that airport open now? It is a potato field. I mean it is really only suitable for growing potatoes. That terrain is really never going to be a commercial airport. And yet there is an airport. The local people wanted one and the euro gave it to them. It was like the manna from heaven. This is Claudia Farmier back in Greece. I met her at a brunch up north actually at the bank teller's house Theophilus. Remember the guy was called into the meeting pre-euro? He invited me to his house. And there nearly a decade after the euro had arrived his friends are sitting around just reviewing how everything did really change. One day everybody thinks this is paradise let us go get everything. That is what happened. But why now? But why one year do you not have any money to buy cars and vacations and homes and then the next year you have everything you could possibly want? Maybe he knows. He was working in the bank. I do not know where the money comes from. Do you know? Ehhh-- from I do not know. I do not know. Hey Chana? So this is Adam Davidson with Planet Money. I think I can help you. Because I actually do know who lent all that money to Greece and all the other people in Europe. I actually was in the room where they did it. The room is in Southern California in Newport Beach. It is this huge room. And it is all these hundreds of people sitting at these long tables each of them is looking at three or four computer screens-- one guy had six computer screens-- with all these numbers flashing on them. Although when you are there if you closed your eyes you would have no idea that there were that many people there. This is the quietest room of 200 people I have ever been in. It is a little noisier than usual right now. This is the trading floor of a company called PIMCO. And I would guess most of our listeners have not heard of PIMCO but I can guarantee that every finance minister of every country in the world definitely has. Because PIMCO is one of the largest bond fund managers in the world. That means they are one of the biggest lenders of money to governments all over the world. And Adam let me just jump in for people who need a refresher. Buying a bond is the same as lending someone money. You buy a bond for 1 million from someone with the promise that they are going to pay you back in full with interest over some period of time. So buying a Greek bond for 1 million that is the same exact thing as loaning 1 million to the Greek government. Yeah it is like an IOU. And all these people with all their computer screens spend their time figuring out well which bonds should we buy? Which governments and also companies should we lend money to? Now the people at PIMCO the people at these desks it is not their money. They are watching over it for a while. They are money managers managing the money for insurance companies pension funds. If you have a retirement account they might be managing your money. They manage savings for central banks universities basically anybody with a huge amount of cash sitting around. And if you add up all the money they manage it is over a trillion dollars. And they do not want to lose any of it. They are looking for safe sensible governments to lend money to. And for several years after the turn of the millennium one of the countries PIMCO decided oh now they are safe they are sensible was Greece. Scott Mather is the guy who runs the global portfolio for PIMCO and he says basically overnight Greece went from a bad bet to a sure thing. And the reason was the euro. Because of the euro Scott and all the other money managers for other companies all over the world completely changed how they looked at Greece. It was no longer just one small poor dysfunctional country in a corner of Europe. It was now a full member in good standing of one of the largest economies in the world. The Eurozone. The market was basically giving Greece a benefit of the doubt because they were a Eurozone member part of the club for the better part of a decade. Going on the euro for a lot of countries was like getting a rich uncle to cosign a mortgage or a credit card application. Greece Spain Italy Ireland Portugal all were allowed to borrow a lot more money at much lower interest rates than they had been before. And that Chana that is why your cab driver could get a cheap loan to buy a Mercedes. It is why a sleepy bank in La Mancha Spain could build an airport. And it is why Irish banks grew several times larger than the entire economy of Ireland. And then quite suddenly everything changed. Yes. It all changed one day when Chana your people in Greece made a shocking announcement. Well Adam your people in Newport Beach that was quite a dramatic reaction do not you think? We will get to that. Actually guys this is a good place for me to step in and say we have arrived at Act Three. And I will let Pascal Lamy-- remember the right-hand man to the father of the euro? He is going to give you the act name. Act Three-- Ooh I should not have done that! All right take it away. OK first back to Athens 2009 to the exact moment the crisis in Europe began. What happens is in 2009 we have an election in October. This is Loukas Tsoukalis again with the Hellenic Foundation in Athens. So Greece had been borrowing money from PIMCO in Newport Beach and from others. And then there is an election in Athens a new socialist government comes to power and says Greek people PIMCO world we have something to tell you. The people's government was claiming that the deficit of that year was running at something like 6. The socialists come to power and they announce a few days later what they have discovered is that the deficit is actually closer to 13 and not 6. Adam that is double what they had previously reported. And all those bond traders staring at those computer screens at PIMCO's headquarters in Newport Beach California they had lent all this money to Greece based on very specific information. And suddenly that information turned out to be very very wrong. And they wanted to know how did this happen? Yeah and see the thing is it is a little hard to answer that question. The Greek politicians explained the last guys they lied to you. The deficit was never 6. We are telling you the truth. The truth is 13. But when you ask people ask at the Government Statistics Office the very people who come up with the numbers people like Konstantinos Skordas they say things like this. Everyone here in Greece said what number is this? It is outrageous. Instead of the Greek Statistics Office workers saying we messed up. Here's what went wrong. Here exactly is how we are going to win back your trust make sure it never happens again. No. Instead the workers just kind of shrugged their shoulders. Nobody knows. But you you guys work in the Statistics Office. Yes. So I mean it just seems like why would you-- you are the first people I would expect would know that would not be surprised by that. Because you work here. The people here who were worked above this model said we did our job very correctly. Everybody said look these guys clearly cannot be trusted. This again is Jacob Kirkegaard with the Peterson Institute for International Economics. And he says at this moment the people who had lent money to the Greek government were shocked. The situation is much much worse than what they said just a few days ago. The reality is much worse than I thought and therefore I am out of here. I am out of here. Chana that is exactly what happened in Newport Beach around this time. The bond guys at PIMPCO took action. Bond action. In the end of last year we sold all our Greek Portuguese and Spanish exposure. This is Mohamed El-Erian. He is the CEO of PIMCO and one of the most influential people in the world of bonds. When he starts selling all his Greek bonds people all over the world pay attention. El-Erian must know something. He is really smart. And then everywhere people are selling their Greek bonds. And what really struck me is how imbalanced things are. For PIMCO it is just not that big a deal to sell all their Greek Portuguese and Spanish bonds. It is a few clicks on a keyboard moving around a relatively small amount of their overall money. But for the countries whose bonds they are selling it feels a lot more like the end of the world. Soon the Greek government had some new bonds they wanted to sell. And they came to PIMCO hoping they would buy. The Greek government came with lots of offerings. Did they come to you directly? They did come to us directly via our offices in Germany and London. And we said thank you but no thank you. What did they ask? What did they say? They said we are issuing 5 billion 7 billion. Lots of people are participating. Look at how attractive these bonds are and we said-- You mean the interest rates are higher than the rest of Europe? The interest rates are higher not only than the rest of Europe but they were higher than what they were before. And we said thank you very much. We appreciate it. But our analysis shows that sovereign risk is an issue. Sovereign risk is an issue. That is one of those phrases that sounds pretty innocuous and boring but it hides something really dramatic. It means that for PIMCO Greece went from being one of the countries that you do not have to worry about to one that might not be able to pay its bills. When money managers worry about a country not paying its bills things get very weird. Back in Greece after several years of cheap money there was no money. Everybody was talking about it. This is Katarina Margaritu a Greek chemist in Athens. Suddenly all they were talking about the Greek crisis. We are in the crisis. We have no money. We are going broke. And I was shocked. I did not know anything. Katerina spent a few weeks after this just feeling winded. She remembers she would sit on her couch and think about everything that just happened and wonder how it could be that her government overspent so dramatically. She thought about it and she thought oh yeah I guess that unemployed friend of mine finally got a job. We all thought that was never going to happen. Actually a lot of people got jobs. Oh and we got that new subway system. Stadiums roads a bridge-- a very expensive bridge. Also we had the Olympic Games in Greece. We must have spent a lot of money there. Money we could not have. I think that was the time I realized that we borrowed an enormous amount of money that we could not possibly pay back. Here again is Jacob Kirkegaard with the economics think tank. This is the moment in time in which Greece is no longer a solvent country. So the sovereign debt crisis that is when it started? That is when it starts yes. Coming up facing life in prison for doing math. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. HOST IRA GLASS It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program Continental Breakup the epic story behind what is boringly referred to most of the time as the European debt crisis. It is really the story of the euro the rise and fall of the euro. How it transformed life for people all over Europe. We have turned over the entire episode today to the Planet Money team. And as your host your guide for the hour is Alex Blumberg. Hi Alex. Hey. So we were in the middle of Act Three which began remember with fireworks commemorating the euro's debut January 1 2002. There were people all over Europe celebrating saying this new currency's like magic. We all now know of course that the euro has not been working out so great. But there is this amazing moment in that BBC story from 2002 the reporter Justin Webb finishes his report and the anchor asks him one follow-up question. And Justin Webb proceeds to almost perfectly predict the future. Justin when will it be possible to judge whether the changeover has been a success? Well the short answer is not today and not in a few days to come either. Although there is a positive mood it really us nothing about the long-term future. We will only know whether this currency is a success when there is a severe economic shock in one Eurozone nation and the other nations rally round and the currency survives. That is some time in the future. So a positive mood today and that is helpful but the jury is still out. Truer words were never spoken Justin. The economic shock has arrived in Europe. And it is spreading. Here's Adam Davidson and Chana Joffe-Walt to pick the story back up. When the Greek government made its shocking announcement about its huge deficit numbers in 2009 that is when the euro turns from a blessing to a curse. When times are good the strongest country can make everybody stronger. But when times are bad the weakest country can bring everybody down. Remember what Mo