In the midterm elections Democrats of course are gunning to retake the House of Representatives. And the 19th congressional district in New York is one of the spots they think they have got a great shot at. Demographically it is one of the rare districts in the country that is actually a true tossup. It went for Donald Trump by seven points but before that it went for Barack Obama. It is pretty much evenly split between Democrats and Republicans. And to make it even more attractive to Democrats the Republican on the seat right now-- his name is John Faso. He is the kind of opponent the Democrats dream of getting. He is only been in office for one term. He is a former lobbyist. His clients include payday loan companies and energy companies. Supporting Faso you have got all the right wing funders the Democrats love to hate-- the Koch brothers the Mercers Paul Singer. Add to that Faso as done a decent job of spending his first term in Congress handing out ammunition to Democrats. One of our producers Ben Calhoun has spent months visiting the district covering this race. Ben? Yeah. So the best example of what you are talking about is this video. And I will say I was so surprised at how often this video has come up when I have been reporting in the district over the last three months. People just mention this thing all the time. So in this video Faso as completely surrounded by these protesters who are all opposing the Republican repeal of the Affordable Care Act-- the repeal of Obamacare. And this woman comes up to him. I grew up right down the road. What is your name? The woman's name here is Andrea Mitchell. And she explains to Faso she is not just like any constituent. She went to school with Faso as kids. Like Faso as wife was her school nurse. And she tells Faso that she has a brain tumor and Obamacare saved her health insurance. And then she pleads with Faso for him not to support the Republican repeal of Obamacare. I need you as a human being to say I promise that we will not take this away from you. I can tell you this-- Until-- I promise. I promise. It is hard to hear in there but Faso says to Andrea Mitchell I can tell you that. I promise I promise I promise. He promises her three times. And then in the video he hugs her. And he seems kind of moved. So Faso promises he is not going to support the Republican bill that is going to kill Obamacare. And then we can just cut to Faso on the floor of the House a few months later voting for the bill to kill Obamacare. Mr. Speaker my colleagues I urge support for the bill. It is something that is long overdue. And then he voted for the bill? Yeah. Faso as spokesperson said later that Andrea Mitchell would not have lost her coverage because of the vote but that is unclear. So that vote the one to gut Obamacare it is one of the votes that puts Republicans at greater risk when they are trying to get elected this year. And Democrats are totally coming after him. Greetings from the Resistance in front of John Faso as Kingston office. OK where are we now? This is sound from protests that have been happening outside of Faso as district offices every Friday. They call them Faso Fridays. And this one is from Kingston New York. And it has a house band called the Tin Horn Uprising.  That is not a good version of that song. Yeah. It was actually kind of hard to pick which song to play for you.  I feel like the band from the Star Wars cantina is trying to overturn this Congressman. Yeah no. Let me do one more. We are going to go Seasonal.  No comment. So these kinds of protests have been kind of a genre for democratic activists all around the country. You have got Tuesdays with Toomey Fridays with Frelinghuysen. These are just in different districts around the country? Yeah all over the place. So all of that means New York 19 it is just like one of the hottest targets for Democrats across the whole country. It is one of the seats that Democrats really believe they can flip and that they need to flip if they are going to retake the House-- like top 15 easily. That is according to somebody who I talked to at the Democratic Party. OK so the Democrats are dying to take the House and they are full of energy they are full of enthusiasm. But at the same time they do not agree how to take the House. And there is this big messy fight over ideas and strategy between different groups in the party. And Ben you have reported on this before here on our show. Mm-hm. And one of the reasons it is so contentious is that each faction thinks that the other faction could totally blow the Democrat's chances to win this fall. And New York 19 this congressional district we have been talking about this is a district where that kind of fight is going on. And Ben you have been following one of the candidates in that race. Yeah his name is Jeff Beals. Hi how are you doing? Just wanted to say hi. I am Jeff Beals. Do not be alarmed. I am running for Congress. That is Beals knocking on doors right there. And I got interested in him because he is emblematic of this whole political moment. The way he became politically active some of the things that he believes but also maybe most important he was just willing to talk in this super honest way about things that were going on behind the scenes as Democrats are fighting with each other. And he just told me about conversations that you do not normally get to hear about in politics until maybe after an election is over. You know I have been covering people running for Congress for maybe 15 years and I have just never had somebody talk to me this way. OK so that is our show today. We are going to watch this big soupy fight that is going on at the Democratic Party play out through the experience that this one candidate Jeff Beals has had. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. And Ben Calhoun takes a story from here. Jeff Beals remembers the day that he decided to run for Congress. He was a high school teacher. He teaches history and civics and he was killing time between classes. I am sitting in-- we have a little room kind of a break room they will let us use off the library where you could grab a cup of coffee. And I am sitting there reading the news. And I see a blog post that people have declared their run for Congress in New York 19. And I say oh OK. Who is that? That is good. We got to beat-- got to beat Faso. And then I read about who it is. And one of them is an attorney from the largest lobbying law firm in the United States. Another one of them is a medical devices CEO who off a link in that very article is running a factory that is off shored American jobs. Beals is like whoa hold up. Wait a minute. This is not matching what I think needs to happen right now. In 2016 he watched Hillary Clinton deploy the strategy Democrats have used for years. She raised tons of money from big donors and lobbyists and pushed moderate positions designed to offend as few people as possible. Beals and other Democrats the ones on the Bernie side of things thought that the party had lost its credibility with Americans. It was too cozy with Wall Street too corporate too insider and out of touch. They saw Clinton as the pinnacle of what had become a losing strategy. I have total contempt for it because they are-- we just lost the presidency and outraised Donald Trump. So I am just totally-- I have totally fed up with the concept that money is the answer to how you win an election because it self-evidently did not win an election. It lost an election. After Clinton's defeat Beals was upset and worried. And like a lot of Democrats he started signing up for all kinds of stuff-- protest voter registration stuff. He became a member of his local Democratic Committee. And he noticed how excited Democrats were to stand up to the new President. Beals signed up with a group to host a house party. Tons of strangers RSVP'd-- over 100 people too many for his little apartment. He ended up having to hold it in a coffee shop. It shaped his view of what is possible this year and of what the party should be doing. So Beals is in the teacher's lounge sipping coffee reading about these candidates. One is a corporate executive whose company does its manufacturing overseas. Another is a lawyer from a big lobbying firm a lawyer whose job is defending Wall Street guys. And he thought you have got to be joking. We cannot seriously be doing this again especially in New York 19. Beals thought that New York 19 was the kind of place that was ripe for a different kind of campaign because Bernie Sanders had won big there-- crushed Clinton 58 to 41. This is in her home state. Beals thought he understood why. New York 19 is an enormous district about an hour north of New York City. It is speckled with second homes of well-heeled New Yorkers. But it is also rural and working class with big swaths of poverty. Beals thought this place has a populist streak which is partly why Trump took it in the general election he thought. It is the kind of place where you can win back some of those Trump voters with a kind of surly stick up for the little guy drain the swamp sort of pitch and drive up democratic turnout with loud progressive ideas to get Democrats pumped. Beals thought that is the right plan especially right now. It is not all stupid naivety. It is an awareness of the extraordinary moment we are at. If I in 2016 OK? If in 2016 I had ventured to run for Congress all off of volunteer energy it would not have materialized period. There is not volunteer energy of sufficient magnitude. 100 people are not going to show up outside the Ulster County Courthouse to see you give some speech about the moral of American history and your life in it. That is a speech he actually gave. But all that is possible right now. Beals was about to spend the next 12 months betting everything he had on that idea. Like dozens of progressive candidates all over the country Beals felt certain. Democrats could win with a progressive message a call to overhaul their own party. He wanted to put that vision head-to-head up against the old strategy he hated so much. He was about to discover just how much the Democratic Party's current philosophy fundraising and strategy is stacked against a plan like his. Come on up here Jeff Beals. Beals declared his candidacy on June 16th 2017 on the steps of this old courthouse. In front of him he had a podium he just bought on the internet and a crowd of what looks like 100 people spilling out into the street cheering for all the progressive stuff-- free college tuition break up the big banks green New Deal income inequality. We are not just protesting anymore. We are not just asking for our congressman's ear. We want his seat! My name is Jeff Beals. I am running for Congress to win back our voice in this district. And give yourselves a round of applause because we just started! Thank you. Before Beals taught high school history and civics he had the kind of biography that would make you think that guy could run for Congress. He graduated Harvard where he studied Arabic and political science. Then he became an analyst at the CIA. After that he was a diplomat at the State Department. He went to Iraq where he worked on the transitional government and the Iraqi constitution. When he was in training at the State Department his colleagues voted him most likely to write a dissent cable which is a kind of memo where someone essentially pulls the fire alarm to say something is terribly wrong. He is not shy about taking a contrary position. And by the time Beals left Iraq and the State Department he was really disillusioned with how it had gone. He wanted to get away from government. Tried grad school and academia drifted a little and then started substitute teaching high school. He found that he loved it. He took a job at a private school the job he has now. One thing about running for Congress-- you do not actually have to ask anyone for permission. You just start saying you are running for Congress and people are like oh that person is running for Congress. And then something like this happens. Very quickly I got a phone call from the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee can we talk? And I am like so who is this? OK. For people outside Washington the Democratic Party is the Democratic Party right? But it is made up of smaller subgroups. The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee is the political arm of Democrats in the House of Representatives. In Washington it goes by the acronym DCCC  or just The D Trip. They help Democrats win seats in Congress by recruiting candidates training people helping with strategy and fundraising. And last spring when the DCCC reached out to Jeff Beals he thought maybe it was to talk about how they might help him. So they planned a phone call 400 PM after Beals finishes teaching. So the day arrives Jeff's ready. But before the clock hits 400 PM-- My phone rings at about 350? It is a woman he knows. She is like answer your next call. So they hang up and then that call comes in. And it is a political guy I have never met on the phone. And he says you are about to have a conversation with the DCCC at 400. I think you are a strong candidate. But you have to be ready for this conversation. They are going to ask you two questions. And I said what? He said they are going to ask you two questions. Question number one is how much money can you raise in the first quarter? And I said oh OK that is the first question? He said yes. So I go what is the answer? He goes 300000. And I said so what is question number two? He goes question number two is how much do you think you need to raise overall to win this race? What is the answer to that? He said 2 million. The guy tells Beals give those answers let us talk later. 400 bing! Like OK I have got to get off the phone. I have got to take that 400 phone call. I hopped in my car. Jeff dials up the guy from The D Trip. And he says hi Jeff. I have a couple questions for you. How much money do you think you can raise in the first quarter? And I said 300000? He goes sounds good. How much do you think you will need to raise in order to win this race? And I am like two-- two million? Is that-- good answer. Well sounds like things are off to a good start there. Keep in touch. We will be in touch. Conversation basically ends. A DCCC spokesperson told me there was more to this conversation but Beals maintains it was very very focused on money. When he hung up he was surprised by what was not in the conversation. What kind of organization have you set up? What activists and groups are connected to? Or even more just what do you stand for? But so Beals gets back on the phone with the democratic insider advisor guy. That guy did want to talk about what Jeff stood for. And said you know so what is your platform? You are probably not going to want to go single payer. It is not a winner. OK not a winning issue. There is a lot of problems there. Single payer government run nationalized health care-- everyone gets health insurance from the government. Back when the Republicans were trying to repeal Obamacare Bernie Sanders launched a big push for this under the label Medicare For All. He chose that name because polls show that people love Medicare. And when he did this Sanders sort of put a dividing line in the Democratic Party. On one side you had the moderate and establishment wing of the party that was all single payer health care? Hold your horses there Che Guevara. Do you remember the epic political beating we took over Obamacare for crying out loud? And then on the Sanders side of the line you had the progressive wing of the party who were all radical. Most Americans support it. Right now it is like 60-- plus it is exciting. You want to make a comeback how about we run on something people are excited about you timid bastards. Jeff's on that side of the line. And I said but I do support single payer. That is one of the crucial crucial elements of my candidacy. I do not have health insurance through my job. It is one of the most awful parts of my life. Not to mention how much more awful it is for people that are worse off than me in our district. So you said that in that conversation? Yeah I said absolutely I am for single payer. That is the whole campaign. I mean look there is a lot of issues. But if there is one thing we could do right now to make life better in America for the vast majority of Americans it would be passing Medicare for All now and enacting it. At some point the guy on the phone turned to fundraising how to hit the DCCC fundraising numbers. He said I know it sounds like a lot but you can do it. Make a list of everyone you know and how much money you can get from each of them. I should say this is conventional advice for new candidates. People call it rolodexing. It is often done by political operatives to test whether candidates can raise the kind of money that politics often requires these days. Consider that in 2016 the average winning congressional campaign had to raise 1.5 million. Party operatives like to figure out if people can do that and this is a shortcut. But it is a shortcut that ignores other things that are often tougher to measure-- grassroots involvement activism. Even more it is obviously a screening process that discriminates heavily in favor of rich candidates with rich friends and rich colleagues and against well most Americans. How did you feel when you got off of that second phone call? I think that I just felt like I was talking to people who did not have any idea what I was doing or what I cared about. And it was disconcerting. And it made me sad momentarily. But I was surrounded in real life by so many people who were excited about the things that I was excited about and doing it for the reason that I was doing it that I just decided those people were irrelevant. And if they were not irrelevant then I would have to make them irrelevant. The DCCC usually is less relevant during a primary. In the general election though if they think you are a winner they will tell people to give you money. They will supply polling data introduce you to consultants. They will buy TV commercials for you. So Beals got to work. With or without the DCCC he knew he was going to need money. Hopefully he thought not as much money as the DCCC had told him on that call. But he was sure he was going to need some. So he set out to raise it. And when Beals started he was optimistic. Sure he knew progressive politics are not every Democrats' bag. But he thought surely there is some deep pocketed progressive types out there-- you know Warren Buffett types who are all I am crazy rich! Tax me more. It is going to be good for America. People started trying to hook Beals up. A friend of mine who was with the Clinton campaign had a birthday party. This was a buddy from the State Department politically connected and he wanted to help Beals. He was like come to my birthday. There is going to be influential people there. You can give a speech and you can raise some money. It is going to be great. So I come. This is a swank party-- private room in a nice restaurant where the meal is already paid for and you just choose your entree. It is a couple of dozen people at this long wooden table. And at one point the friend introduces Beals. And Beals does the stump speech just lets it rip. He is feeling it. Why am I running? I am running because we have lost control over the economy income inequality has reached a terrible point where it threatens the basis of our democracy. We failed to take action sufficient to after the 2008 financial crisis and it is only gotten worse. We need Medicare for All now. It is a medley of progressive politics in the backroom of a fancy New York restaurant. And you know he is giving a political speech at a birthday party which feels weird. Hard to read a room in a dinner party in a nice restaurant. Like it is not the break into applause kind of crowd. So when they are silent you are not necessarily thinking I am flopping. But Jeff wraps it up. Dessert comes and then his friend flags him down. And my friend says to me he goes what the heck are you doing man? You gotta tone that down. Do you understand who is in this room? You just alienated everybody here. He goes that guy is the head of-- and he had some bizarre name Xanthum Atlas Capitol-- you know something Capitol. You know he is like that is head of it! You know and he is pointing at this guy and that guy. He is like this is not going to work. You should have talked about LGBT. That is what he told me. Did it surprise you when he came up to you and said that? Yes. I mean it did. I love him for it. Only your friends will be that straight to you you know? But Jeff was also kind of shaken up. He respected his friend respected his friend's political savvy. So Beals called another buddy from the State Department somebody who knew them both. It did cause me confusion. What am I supposed to be doing here? Because he was really upset. He thought you really blew a chance. You have no idea how much money was in that room. There was a lot of money in that room and you left it on the table. And I called a friend of mine who knows a lot about politics and is on this campaign. And I said to him this is what our buddy said that I should have talked LGBT or I should not have addressed those things. And he said that way lieth the Goldman Sachs speech Jeff. That way leith the Goldman Sachs speech. Do not. Do not. This was a reference to these private events Hillary Clinton got paid to do with Goldman Sachs saying one thing to them and something different to the public-- catering to rich people which was one of the very things Beals was running against. So he steeled himself and he continued calling up major democratic donors to find the progressive ones. He says often these conversations started out friendly enough. People liked Beals' resume his background qualifications. But often things would take a turn. One major democratic donor a former Goldman Sachs guy actually he told Beals Medicare for All is a handout. And it is a political loser. Lots of big donors saw it as this lefty thing that could sandbag the party in general elections. They remember the backlash to Obamacare. Another guy an investment banker type he says sure. I will contribute. I will contribute to your campaign. But you have to change your website because it says rigged economy. And you need to change rigged economy on your website. I do not like that. And it is just a distortion. And I said well I cannot change that. He could not change that because that would mean giving up the main argument he thinks Democrats should be making right now. I think that a lot of democratic politics has been about trying to find the least offensive cause to the donor class to rally people around while stepping on the fewest toes. And there are worthy causes you can rally people around. Guns-- you can rally people around that. And you could maybe get to 51-49 and win. Abortion rights he says same thing. You could also there too get to 51-49 or better and win. But I do believe that there is a way bigger axis out there that people with a lot of money do not want us organizing on and it is the economic axis. That is in axis where you got 1 on one side and you have got more than 90 on the other side. And you really change politics in America because you are built on the axis against income inequality in a rigged economy. Then you build a very big movement. The more major democratic donors Beals called the more amazed he became and how explicit the conversations got how direct they were in telling him to change what he was saying and campaigning on. Of course like anybody Beals figured politics was like this. But it was different to see it in real life to be in the conversations to be the person getting his arm twisted. He came to the conclusion that most of the Democratic Party's major donors are against progressive ideas. Research published by the Washington Post backs this up-- major donors do skew moderate. Beals felt confident that there were people out there who agreed with him. He just had to connect with them. His plan was to run out and shout this progressive battle cry and hope than an army filled in behind him. And for Beals the battle cry was Medicare for All. This was June of last year exactly when Bernie Sanders was stumping for Medicare for All pressuring Democrats into picking a side. Everyone had to declare which team they were on or they had to dodge. It became the national border between progressives and establishment Democrats. It was exactly the thing Beals would talk about to try to find voters. Good evening everyone. One of the races first candidate forums was on August 23rd 2017 at an old church. Around 600 PM Beals walked in the front with about half a dozen other candidates past pews of people fanning themselves. He walked in with a plan that night. I wanted to be extremely specific. Beals plan as he sat down on his stool up front was to declare his support for what Sanders was doing as forcefully as he possibly could. Like he did not want to just say Medicare for All. He was like I do not want to leave any room for doubt. I want to pledge support for the Medicare for All bill that is sitting in the house right now House Bill 676. So health care comes up. And I said we have a health crisis in the district. We have a health care crisis in this country. The solution of the crisis Medicare for All and I support House Resolution 676. And I hear this scream in the audience. You can actually hear this on the recording of the forum. When I get to Congress it is called House Resolution 676-- Woo! Medicare for All. And a vote for-- I have been going to concerts for a very long time. So I am a very skilled woo-er. So I wooed as loud as I possibly can. You have got a veteran woo? Yes. Well practiced. This is Anique D'Angelo. She is a community organizer. She would gone to the forum that day with her best friend. Both were Sanders supporters and they were both looking at candidates in New York 19. And they were not liking what they saw. We were like oh you know maybe we would get behind him if we had to. You mean because you were hearing the things that they were proposing and you were like these do not sound like what? Like what? So we had decided after the last election after the last primary that this is the moment that things are going to happen and we need someone who is for universalist programs supports Medicare for All and like-- You were like we need to get a real progressive in this race. Yeah. Before Bernie I had always thought a moderate is as good as we are going to get. This is why Anique yelled because when Beals said what he said she felt like she had found her candidate. She felt like she wanted a firm commitment on single payer Medicare for All. And she was hearing Democrats talk about fixing the Affordable Care Act and working towards universal coverage. And if Medicare for All and universal coverage sound like the same thing here's the difference. Medicare for All is national health care. The government takes over the system gives everyone insurance. Universal coverage is more general. I would like to get everyone covered somehow. Maybe some people will keep their current insurance. Maybe some people will pay to get Medicare. Maybe we leave the system mostly how it is. Maybe we change all of this gradually. Anique is not looking for this kind of incrementalism. She thinks that is what Democrats always say and then they wuss out. She is fed up. You know I am a professional person in my early 30s and cannot use my health insurance because I have a 4000 deductible right? I mean I think if you start from a place of we have to be incremental you never get to the end goal because there is corporate interests that get in the way right? If we said we are doing this we will figure it out. How did we get social security right? We  did it. I do not know if I am allowed to curse but-- From that day forward August 23rd 2017 Anique D'Angelo was a Beals supporter. She phone banked in the evening drove to events all across the district. Soon supporters like Anique were fanning out for Beals. The campaign was crystallizing around a plan. Sanders had gotten 35000 votes in the primary which Beals saw as 35000 Aniques scattered all across the district. So Beals' campaign looked at the map of where those votes had come from the precincts where Sanders support was the densest. They targeted their efforts there. If they could just get a third of those people 12000 votes they figured they would have a serious shot because not to overwhelm you with numbers here only 19000 people voted in the last democratic primary. So 12000-- that could win this one. Before long came the first real test for Beale's theory that he could run a campaign that did not rely on big donors and money that would be fueled by a flood of volunteers and enthusiasm for brash progressive stuff. The test was something that seems kind of basic getting his name on the ballot. Like I said it is easy to say you are running for Congress. It is actually hard to get your name on the ballot. I was told that it would cost 200000 to get yourself on the ballot. How much were you told it would cost? I was told 200000. That was an interesting moment because that would be an obstacle because I do not got that money period. Here's why it costs so much money. Beale's was told you are going to need a lawyer on retainer. And you are going to need an army of paid canvassers. And you are going to need those things because getting signatures is harder than it sounds. To get on the ballot in New York 19 requires 1250 signatures but there are rules. Only registered Democrats can sign. The signature has to be witnessed by another registered Democrat. And people can only sign for one candidate. So if another campaign got there first you are out of luck. You mess up any of that the signature can get tossed out. So 1250-- you cannot just get 1250. So all they got to do is find three people who put their middle initial wrong and you are done. Generally the thing you do is collect way more than the requirement to send a message to other campaigns not to mess with you. And you hire that lawyer to defend your signatures. All of this for a traditional campaign needs a boatload of money. Beals' staff knew this was a moment to prove themselves. We are not going to be on the ballot unless volunteers are willing to carry the campaign forward. And we put out the call and people gathered hundreds of signatures for the campaign. And we wound up with over 3200 signatures all off this volunteer spirit. And they just did it on their own. For Beals this was vindication proof that the thing he thought was possible actually might be possible. Proof that the conventional wisdom might be wrong. A campaign like his it could work. I mean I did not even know all the people that were doing it. And you realize that a campaign is not a thing you run. It is a thing you unleash. And it either is picked up and carried forward by people or it is not. And that started to happen. And that is-- you know calling it inspiring is an understatement. That was incredible. And frankly my whole candidacy has been a gamble on the existence of that. If it is there then there is a campaign. And if there is not then there is no campaign. Ben Calhoun. Coming up Democrats who are not Jeff Beals. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. This American Life I am Ira Glass. Today's program It is My Party and I will Try If I Want To about a candidate who is running for Congress for the very first time and what his race tells us about what is happening inside the Democratic Party this year. The candidate we are following Jeff Beals is a Bernie Sanders style progressive. And around the country this past year the climate between the party apparatus and progressives has been pretty toxic at times because of a handful of incidents that progressives have taken as signs of the party's hostility. The most notorious one was in Texas. The DCCC released opposition research on a progressive candidate named Laura Moser for her primary. Progressives kind of freaked out. There've been a few other blow ups in Pennsylvania Nebraska New York Minnesota Colorado. Party officials say that they have nothing against progressive congressional candidates or their ideas. In Jeff Beals' race in New York's 19th congressional district election day is this coming Tuesday and there is a whole array of candidates. Ben Calhoun picks up our sto