A few years ago Jennifer LeMesurier was watching this PBS cooking show. And this chef David Chang started talking about MSG. Monosodium glutamate. And of course lots of people believe MSG is bad for you. It gives you headaches a food hangover-- that idea's been around for decades. I grew up hearing this. Maybe you did too. But Jennifer knows this is a myth. In fact the very next segment on the show is science and food writer Harold McGee saying just that. And he just had this sort of throwaway line that yeah this myth of MSG being harmful can be traced back to one letter in the New England Journal of Medicine. A letter to the editor in the New England Journal of Medicine. And I was just sitting there going huh one letter. It was like oh it is an origin story. At the time Jennifer was PhD student very interested in the way people talk about race and Asian-Americans. So to hear that there was once this letter that led Americans to freak out about the dangers of an ingredient commonly used in Chinese food an ingredient that was later proven totally harmless Jennifer wanted to see that letter. So she went into the stacks found this old journal from the '60s and there it was. A letter to the editor from a doctor titled Chinese Restaurant Syndrome. So the letter reads For several years since I have been in this country I have experienced a strange syndrome whenever I have eaten out in a Chinese restaurant. The syndrome which usually begins 15 to 20 minutes after I have eaten the first dish last for about two hours without any hangover effect. The most prominent symptoms are numbness at the back of the neck-- He runs through the symptoms that he is observed. Then he runs through the possible causes for this strange numbness and eliminates them one by one. Soy sauce? No. Cooking wine? No. And then he gets to the sentence that is going to live on for a half century. Quote Others have suggested that it may be caused by the monosodium glutamate seasoning used to a great extent for seasoning in Chinese restaurants. And that one line is what spawned this entire myth. The letter was signed-- Robert Ho Man Kwok MD. So the first thing she did was look up Dr. Kwok to get the whole story from him. What she learned was Dr. Kwok had been a researcher and a pediatrician in Maryland and he was dead. She found an obituary from 2014. So instead she traced the history of how this letter blew up led to all these other things by reading subsequent issues of the New England Journal of Medicine and newspapers from the time and other documents. She wrote a paper published it in an academic journal in 2017. And then after that she gets his voicemail on her work number. This is last year. She is a professor at Colgate University. Yes good afternoon. My name is Dr. Howard Steel. I am a Colgate alum. In fact I am the oldest surviving trustee that is Colgate. And I have been there since God and love it. At any rate-- And at first I am just like am I in trouble? You know why is a board member calling me? What is going on? I have information perhaps you might like to hear. And then he sort of pauses and he says-- I am the author of Ho Man Kwok. I am the author of Ho Man Kwok. My brain just sort of goes what? And I have a lot to say about it. It just surfaced. And I am listening to the voicemail in my living room and my jaw is just dropping. Because up until then I had operated under the assumption that Dr. Ho Man Kwok was a Chinese-American researcher. And all of a sudden I do not know what to believe. The confusion makes sense because remember there was a Dr. Robert Ho Man Kwok the one whose obituary she read. So who is this guy on the phone? I have a phone. I answer that phone all the time because I store the little thing that keeps electrified in my left chest. Then he makes this little joke about how he keeps his phone in his pocket right by the thing that electrifies his pacemaker. So when the phone rings my heart stops and I answer immediately. At any rate it would be a pleasure to hear you. Hanging up now. Have a nice evening. Bye. OK. What? Right? This message was just the beginning-- the very odd beginning of a story that we are going to continue in just a minute. You will hear more from the mysterious Dr. Steel. Because this letter to the editor-- I do not know. Is it possible that this is the most impactful letter to the editor in the history of letters to the editor? It launched an entire MSG scare that lasted for decades. Even today 42 of all Americans think that it is bad for you and it is not. Since the '90s the FDA has listed MSG as perfectly safe for its intended use like vinegar salt pepper. Today on our show we have three stories like this one where people throw words out into the world that take on a totally unexpected life of their own. And in all these stories the words wreak havoc for years. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act one Humor is Not the Best Medicine. OK so where we left off it was the voicemail on Jennifer LeMesurier's phone from this retired surgeon where he says OK I am the guy. I made up a fake name. I wrote a letter. And it set off 50 years of completely needless panic over MSG. Call me. Lilly Sullivan explains what happened next. So last year when Howard Steel left that voicemail for Jennifer LeMesurier she calls him back right away gets the whole story from him. She does not record it though. And a few months later Dr. Howard Steel dies. But before he died the Colgate alumni magazine-- remember Jennifer teaches at Colgate Howard's on their board-- they did a couple of interviews with him though they did record. OK great. Hi Howard. Hi. How are you today? I am fine thanks. How are you? That is Michael Blanding the journalist who did the interviews. He is the one you can hear typing during this call. I am going to take you back to the beginning. It was a dear dear friend of mine and I were recovering from a Chinese meal we had downtown. We used to about once a week and were perfectly happy-- Howard's friend Bill was a doctor too. They would eat drink and talk shop. And they got to talking about being published in medical journals. Yeah Bill Hanson he said you know you are stupid Steel number one. You should not expect to send articles out and get them published in these dumb journals. Howard's friend was a doctor of internal medicine which he was constantly reminding Howard is a much smarter breed of doctor. He told me that it was impossible for someone as stupid as an orthopedic surgeon which I was to write an article that could be published in something as magnificent as a New England medical journal. That was a threat and he was willing to make a bet. Bill bet Howard 10 that he could not get published there. It is one of the most prestigious medical journals in the world which Howard took as a challenge. And I decided well I will write a little article and send it over there. So I went home and I just sat down and wrote a letter to the editor of the Journal of Medicine in New England. And I did not sign it with my name but I signed it Ho Man Kwok-- H-O one word M-A-N one word Kwok K-W-O-K figuring that someone when they got this letter would realize that what that word was was a breakdown of a not nice word we used to use all the time when someone was a jerk. We call him a human crock of you know what. Human crock. Ho Man Kwok. I know cringy. An offensive pun on a Chinese name. A white guy playing an Asian for laughs. Keep in mind this was the '60s. He said he made up the name of Dr. Kwok's research institute and his title too. He said that Chinese food was not the point of it except for that they were at a Chinese restaurant eating and drinking a little too much the night they made the bet. And Howard won that bet. Yes it was not an article it was a letter. But it was printed in the Journal. Good enough for them. Here's Michael Blanding the reporter who interviewed Howard. But once he saw it once the letter was published he was sort of mildly horrified. So he was horrified at first. He was not happy that he won the bet? It is hard to tell you know. It seemed like he would sort of go back and forth between being proud of the fact that he was able to achieve this being published in this journal and sort of being distressed by the fact that it actually made it into print. As soon as it came out I called the Journal editor and told him that it was a bunch of bunk that it was all fake it was all made up. And he hung up the phone on me. He would not talk any further. He was a jackass. So I kept calling him and finally apparently he gave a message to the phone girl in the office that if anybody named Howard called hang up. So yeah actually for years I tried to call him and tell him that the whole thing was a hoax that it was not true that I did not know anything about Chinese and particularly Chinese-- what is it called? Chinese restaurants. I never saw anybody who had. Did not know what the hell I am talking about. So that is Howard story. And then this joke of his snowballed. After the letter was published other doctors wrote in some of them making jokes about this Chinese restaurant syndrome but also often recounting their own experiences and symptoms. The New York Times notices 10 letters from doctors publishes an article. Remember no scientific studies at this point. Just letters some of them jokes. The headline was Chinese Restaurant Syndrome Puzzles Doctors. The news spread from there under headlines like Kwok's Queeze and Chinese Chow Numbs Some. Here's Jennifer the professor who traced the history. I mean the titles were very very offensive. Oh let us see. Let me see if I can find the one. From the Chicago Tribune in broken English the headline is Chinese Food Make You Crazy? MSG is Number One Suspect. Wow. Chinese food Make You Crazy? I cannot believe that was a headline. Yeah. So I was like hm. They were all reacting to something that was not even real. It was all projection. To this day lots of Chinese restaurants post No MSG signs in their windows and printed on their menus. Everybody in the world is talking about the Chinese restaurant syndrome and it is a lie. It is a big fib. It is the fit hit the shan. It is astounding. Howard told lots of people this story over the years. He told groups of other doctors. He told Jennifer who believed him. She alerted the alumni magazine who recorded those interviews. They pitched the story to us. And we were like 96-year-old man confesses to writing a prank letter that drove the nation to a decades-long scare about a toxin that is not actually toxic? He is dead but you have recordings? We are in. But as we and Michael the reporter started looking into this more carefully there were a few things that were puzzling. For one the name of the research institute Howard said he invented-- the National Biomedical Research Foundation-- Michael discovered it was a real place. And the real Dr. Kwok had worked there. Kind of a coincidence if Howard made up the name-- like he said he did. It also seemed weird. If the journal published a fake letter with Dr. Kwok's name and institution on it and it was quoted in over 100 newspapers naming him and the letter it seemed weird that the real Dr. Kwok never set the record straight. Never published a letter complaining in The New England Journal of Medicine or in any of those newspapers. Also Howard said he tried to get the Journal to retract it that he called and the editor would not take his calls. We reached out to The New England Journal of Medicine. They declined to comment. But it seems strange just on the face of it. Howard became a highly acclaimed surgeon. He invented important medical procedures. It seems like for sure he could have gotten the attention of someone at the Journal. It is hard to verify what really happened because everyone involved in this is dead. Howard is dead. The friend he made the bet with is dead. The real Dr. Kwok is dead. But Dr. Kwok has kids. We called them and talked to his family. We also spoke to one of his colleagues at the research foundation. And the son of his boss there. They all said yes Dr. Robert Ho Man Kwok did write the letter. His daughter said he was proud of it. That he was a concerned doctor and a curious scientist who'd often post questions like this. It was not a joke at all. The thought that Howard was going around telling this story for years it creeped her out a little. And when you read the original letter there are details that seem more likely to come from her father than from Howard like when he says he moved to the US which the real Dr. Kwok did and how he is very specific the syndrome happens with the northern Chinese food. In the '60s how many white guys in Philadelphia would have made that distinction? Also Ho Man Kwok is an actual Cantonese name. What are the odds that Howard Steel threw together random Chinese-sounding syllables to arrive at that? I called up Jennifer the professor that Howard Steel had left the voicemail for. I finally reached the Kwok family. OK. And they told me something. They say that their father did write the letter. What? Yeah. They say that he wrote it and they are certain. Wow. OK. What do you think of that? I honestly have no idea.  Me neither. I just cannot believe that Dr. Steel made this up. Right. Now I am like were there two letters?  Did they happen to write about MSG at the same time and like one got printed and one person thought it was edited? I do not even know. I mean I cannot really-- oh man. The timing of this-- I wish Dr. Steel was still alive for many reasons obviously. There were two options neither of them good. Someone has been telling a story that is not true for 50 years-- one of these two men both of whom were by all accounts brilliant upstanding pillars of their communities. Either Howard was fessing up to something he totally did not do claiming responsibility for the whole MSG mess when actually he had nothing to do with it or Howard was telling the truth and Dr. Robert Ho Man Kwok beloved pediatrician and researcher had seen this letter to the editor in the journal with his name on it that he did not write was delighted with his good fortune and rolled with it for 50 years. I had one person left to call-- Howard Steel's daughter Anna. She grew up hearing this story. And I told her everything I just told you. OK. That is a shock. But actually not that big a shock. It took her about two seconds to make sense of all this. She believed the Kwoks not her father. No I do not think anybody who knew him and loved him would be surprised. It is just one more thing in the life of my dad. This she said-- this is exactly the kind of thing he loved to do. He liked to prank people. And he told lots of big stories about himself many true and some not. You can never totally believe him and never quite not believe him. In fact she says it would help explain this other thing that even though her father supposedly won the bet his buddy never paid him. The fact the bet was never settled up is of suspect that maybe it was a wink-wink between them both. Well so now knowing all this do you feel convinced that he did not write the letter? It seems to point in that direction does not it? I think if I thought we were dealing with you know two straight laced straight arrow no nonsense physicians I might be arguing a stronger position. But knowing these two clowns there is not much I can say. So it seems like Howard did not write the fake prank letter that caused decades of chaos. His prank was that he said he had written the letter. He was claiming credit for chaos he did not create. It was complicated to even think about. Oh my god. Oh. Eh that is too funny. All right well here we are.  First the world believed MSG was bad for you and it was not. And now we nearly believed a second piece of fake news-- that it all started with Howard. Here's where Anna came down loving her father and his best friend but also what the hell? I wish I could give them both a piece of my mind. I am not angry but I just want to say you owe everybody a huge apology. What is wrong with you? And he would just start laughing I am sure. And he would have a big mischievous grin and he would say something like I do not owe anybody an apology. You all should have had your heads screwed on straight to figure out this was a joke. So many people near the end of their lives are trying to make things right. He was trying to make trouble. Like a last act like a life-long legacy prank? Kind of. He got the last laugh. I will do anything you want to with this. No I will talk to anybody. They will not believe me anyway. I am here and happy to screw things up further. But I cannot believe what I did for 50-some years. So I do not know what anybody would want to do with me except shut my mouth but it is getting kind of late. God will shut it pretty soon. And you know how she is. Howard died just a few months after he laughed his way through those interviews. He was 97. Lilly Sullivan is one of the producers of our show. Act Two Babies Got Bank. OK I know how unlikely this sounds but we now have another old guy basically pranking the world right before he dies but on a scale that gets hundreds of thousands of people involved and excited and talking about this guy's plan that he set in motion for years and years. Stephanie Foo explains. In 1926 in Toronto Canada a 72-year-old lawyer named Charles Vance Miller was at lunch at the Queens Hotel with two lawyer friends. They got into an argument over some legal matter. Miller told them they were both wrong and he would prove it if they followed him up to his office. He eagerly ran up three flights of stairs grabbed a law book plopped it on his desk and then died. Just put his head down on the desk and was gone. A couple days later rumors started swirling. Charles Vance Miller had done well for himself gotten rich. He would avoided scandal his whole life was an upstanding citizen though he had no family never married. He would hinted that he would leave his fortune to the University of Toronto. But when his fellow lawyers brought out his will that is not what they found. As soon as Miller's people started executing his will they realized that his will was like an elaborate prank as if he would thrown a bunch of money out of a window to watch what would happen. He left stock in a brewery to prohibitionist pastors. He gave his racing stock to people who did not believe in betting. He said he wanted to leave his vacation home in Jamaica to three other lawyers a nice thing for them to share except for the fact that the three lawyers all hated each other. But by far the clause that unleashed the most mayhem was the last one. It is about all the rest of his money. I will just read it to you. At the expiration of 10 years from my death give it and its accumulations to the mother who has since my death given birth in Toronto to the greatest number of children as shown by the registrations under the Vital Statistics Act end quote. In other words the woman who had the most babies in the 10 years after his death would be awarded a whole lot of money-- 9 million Canadian dollars in today's money or almost 7 million US. There were immediately a number of theories as to why Miller did this but none of them were charitable. If he really wanted to support a young woman with a bundle of kids he could have just willed all the money to her at the time of his death. But setting this up over the next 10 years created a twisted contest. Some said he was an avid supporter of birth control so maybe setting off a baby-making storm could be a wicked way to force a conversation about it. Some said he was trying to test the legal system's ability to hold up a crazy will but that he would really expected it would be thrown out that the money would just automatically be donated to the University of Toronto his Alma mater. People said that Miller had been obsessed with the idea of what people would do for money. He liked to talk about how everybody had their price. Maybe he was testing the women of Toronto to see what theirs was. I do not think anybody fully knows why he did this. This is Elizabeth Wilton. She wrote a 200-page dissertation on the contest. I just think he saw it as a big joke. I feel like the modern day word for it would be that he was basically a troll. That would be a good word for it yeah. He pretty much cops to it in his will. He says This will is necessarily uncommon and capricious because I have no dependents or near relations and no duty rests upon me to leave any property at my death. And what I do leave is proof of my folly in gathering and retaining more than I required in my lifetime. Apparently Miller really liked to drop dollar bills on the sidewalk and hide and watch people pick them up. When I think about the kind of person who'd plant a wallet in the street and put it on YouTube today as a commentary on human nature yeah I feel like I know who that guy is. For the first few years after Miller died nothing happened. A few newspaper articles were written. Nobody took it very seriously. Some relatives went to court arguing that the money should go to them. And then six years after his death the attorney general introduced a bill trying to nullify the will and have the money donated to the University of Toronto. This was a mistake-- totally backfired. Before this not many people knew about the will. But now that the government was trying to invalidate it the press picked it up and there was a huge public outcry. But not in the way you might think. The public was like baby-making race? Hell yeah we want a baby-making race. Women's groups supported the contest because they felt women should have a fair shot at the money which what can I say? It was a different time. Others disagreed with the government intervening in people's wills and affairs. Altogether it caused an uproar. The government backtracked said OK fine. You people have fun. And with that the race was on. Usually when this story has been told it is like ha ha. A man created this zany will that set off a wild baby-making storm in Canada. It conjures Brady Bunch images of big families happily schtupping their way to fame and fortune knee deep in Cabbage Patch children. But the way it unfolded was actually much darker because of course the story is about an old man encouraging women to go through the excruciating pain and danger of childbirth as often as possible in a 10-year period-- a 10-year period that was already half over. This contest did not really get started until six years in. That made it skewed from the start. It meant suddenly the only contenders were women who had about six babies in the last six years women who did not even know there was a contest to be part of. They found out about it quick when reporters started pounding on their doors. It was madness really. It was a media feeding frenzy. This is Karyn Nolan. She worked with Elizabeth to develop a screenplay for a movie based on the contest that aired on Canadian television in 2002. As soon as the will was verified reporters went through the birth registry found women who had already given birth to about six children since Charles's death and dashed to their homes to try and get the exclusive. You know they coined the phrase the Stork Derby comparing it to like a horse race. So there was a mad dash to track down the women get their exclusive stories and to follow them and hound them on the very intimate and personal details of their life. It must have been a jarring experience to be an automatic front-runner in this bizarre contest. But most of the mothers went along with it because of the 9 million dollars. Many of the contestants were desperately poor. During those first six years the Great Depression had taken hold. Nearly a quarter of Toronto's families were on welfare. Families were living in shacks or camps. Some even ate groundhogs to keep from starving. Canada's birth rate had actually plummeted at the time. And so most of the families that suddenly found themselves in the running to receive this Stork Derby money agreed to media scrutiny because they wanted the chance at the prize and because in the short term the newspapers offered them money-- exclusive contracts where reporters could come and photograph and interview the families whenever they wanted to. Sometimes the families even got advertising deals for things like soap. In many ways this was sort of like an OG reality show albeit a really perverse one. The front-runners of the Stork Derby even became household names like Jon  Kate Plus 8 or maybe more like Octomom. After all it was billed on the newsreels as freak Canadian race. Papers all over the world from the New York Daily News to the Marshfield Wisconsin News Herald picked up the story. The press followed a bunch of contenders but I am only going to run through three of the long-term favorites to win. One of the first competitors that the newspapers dug up was Mrs. Grace Bagnato. I do not want to give away who won or how many kids Mrs. Bagnato actually had during the race but over her lifetime Mrs. Bagnato was pregnant 24 times though only 12 of those children lived. She was a working mother. She was a whiz with languages-- picked up Polish German Yiddish and worked as a court interpreter in Italian. All the while she raised her 12 children and would get up at 430 in the morning to make two dozen butter tarts macaroni meatballs sausage and her famous red sauce for her family. But the public did not exactly see her as a hero. Here's Karyn again. The cultural makeup of Toronto at the time was a very WASPy WASPy society. And we have this Italian family here who is reproducing children at a rate that outpaced the white Protestant Anglo-Saxons. Mrs. Bagnato's husband was an Italian immigrant and some papers were not kind about that. These were the years leading up to World War II. Of course it did not help that one of the other Italian contestants named one of their Derby babies little Benito Mussolini. But because of their nationality Italian families in the race received phone calls calling their families fascists and threatening to kidnap their children. Contestant number two was Mrs. X. She was the scandalous one. She was a social outcast because her children were fathered by different men which was taboo and she was shamed for that. She was considered to be a trollop by having children with more than one man. That is a saucy word.  I should start using that. Mrs. X had five children from her husband but then her marriage fell apart. He moved out and she entered into a new relationship with a man and had another five kids with him. She wanted to marry him but did not have enough money to go through with her divorce. All in all Mrs. X had 10 children by the time she was 24. She tried to hide her identity because of the circumstances of her situation but her name was eventually revealed-- Pauline Mae Clark. Contestant number three was Mrs. Kenny. She is my favorite character in the whole story. Why is she your favorite? I think her eccentricity for one thing her passion and her undeniable belief that she was the chosen one if you will. Mrs. Kenny was in it to win it. She was under 5 feet tall but over the course of her lifetime she wound up carrying 19 pregnancies to term. She was French Canadian married to an Irish man and she believed that money was hers. She said she had the gift of second sight and a divine connection with Miller who told her she was going to win. So of course it had to be true. Mrs. Kenny was a talented wood carver and often sold her carvings in the street. And she carved a large number of statues of Miller even named one of her children after him. At one point a bunch of the leading Derby mothers got together and said screw this whole race. Let us just share the winnings. It was a ton of money. They were all poor. It would still result in plenty for everyone. But Mrs. Kenny was the sole holdout the only one who insisted no. I am the winner she shouted once and I will not split with anybody. Why should I? It is my money. And if the judge does not give it all to me I will walk right up to the bench and punch him in the eye. So yeah Mrs. Kenny was tough as nails but she probably was the poorest of the three. Her family lived in a slum and their home was infested with rats. One night rats attacked three of her children. Tiny three-month-old Patrick had the worst of it. Here's Karyn. So yes it had bitten the baby in the face and neck area. And as we all know throughout history rats carry diseases. But they could not afford the hospital. They could not. This is so difficult to even talk-- it is unbelievable that it still chokes me up. Mrs. Kenny and her neighbors tried desperately to have the public health nurse visit her home but to no avail. The baby died. And then it was all over the front pages of the newspaper but always written in terms of what this meant for the chances of Mrs. Kenny or whatever other woman that the coverage was centered on. Every loss or tragedy or triumph was always put in terms of their chances in the race not in terms of what kind of a system do we have where someone's baby can die of rat bites in the first place? It is hard to say how many women had babies specifically for this race. When they talked to reporters everyone always said the same thing. I would have had this child anyway. I tend to believe Mrs. Bagnato and many of the other Catholic families in the race. I do not think Mrs. Bagnato was ever playing the game. She would been cranking out a baby a year long before she heard a word about the Derby so the whole contest was just an added bonus to her. But then there was Mrs. Kenny who was obviously playing to win and said outright that she was trying to make babies. And then you have Mrs. Clark. Mrs. Clark's situation was the most unsettling. It came out that Mrs. Clark's lover had drawn up a contract with her where he could get half her winnings if he impregnated her enough. Mrs. Clark's lover was also abusive. He would given her a black eye broke her door down chased her out into the street after a fight. So maybe she did not want to be pregnant as many times as she was. Maybe she was forced to. Here's Elizabeth. You sort of wonder was she basically abused? Was she taken advantage of? Because if you think about also the kind of power dynamic that Miller set up between men and women-- and at that time if your partner or if your husband or your lover thought that if he got you pregnant over and over that you might win millions of dollars-- and she was a very young woman. And-- So you were sort of insinuating that maybe these women might have been coerced. I mean I do not know. I think it does not take a lot for someone to put together with this young woman and so many babies and with this huge prize. In 1933. It looked like Mrs. Bagnato was going to win. Then in 1934 headlines read that Mrs. Kenny had taken the lead. In 1935 another woman Mrs. Timleck quote sped to the front. In 1936 Madam X was listed as a late entry tied for second. All the while the physical toll for these mothers was enormous. Mrs. Bagnato suffered a hemorrhage near the end of her final pregnancy and many of the Stork Derby mothers were in and out of the hospital for operations and transfusions. And all three mothers suffered the emotional toll of having stillborn babies during the race. Most of the women could not afford to have their children in hospitals and so the infant mortality rate of the Derby babies was six times that of the national average. 34 of these babies died. But aside from an article or two again the press only saw these deaths in the context of the race. The headline in a 1936 Montreal paper was Stillborn Infant May Assure Prize. Underneath A stillborn child may assure Mrs. Matthew Kenny the prize in the Stork Derby under the will of late Charles Vance Miller. Her nearest competitor is believed to be Mrs. Joseph Bagnato. The race ended on Halloween 1936. But at first it was not clear who had won. Here's how our three competitors stood on that date. Mrs. Kenny claimed to have had 11 children. Mrs. Clark said she had 11 as well. Mrs. Bagnato had nine. But Mrs. Kenny and Mrs. Clark did not walk away with the prize that easily. With Mrs. Clark the scandalous one who had tied for the largest number of children the lawyers in charge of the estate had some questions about her case and raised the question of whether children born out of wedlock should count. This is where it was clear that there had been a huge oversight. Nobody had actua