From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Chana Joffe-Walt sitting in for Ira Glass. I have been talking to people lately about their jobs. Something is going on with jobs right now. People are leaving them they want to leave them where we do our jobs is changing what we do. And I have been especially interested in people who are designated essential workers. I think for the stay at home types people like me our jobs changed in very obvious ways. But for people who continued to go to work in person their jobs changed too but those changes were sometimes less visible. For example Kerry Breen. He is a carpenter works for the New York City Department of Education fixing things in schools. Spring last year when all the schools shut down for COVID Kerry was not sure what that meant for him until he heard no no no he should still come in report to work. Well the fact that they deemed us essential I kind of found it a little comical in the beginning. That door has creaked for years that floor has creaked for years. All of a sudden today it is an emergency or it is essential. It is not like he was a doctor or a grocery store worker. Most of our work is repairing floors doors ceilings that are down bathrooms falling apart. Do you have a favorite sort of task? Like on Monday morning if you get assigned doors are you like ugh more doors? Or is there one that you really like? I would not say there is a favorite. My favorite is when the building has an elevator. Because you will get doors on the fifth floor of a building and you have got to carry doors that weigh potentially a couple of pounds up and then back down. Kerry is practical in this way. Kerry has been a carpenter for 35 years. He is also a volunteer firefighter Irish talks about his kids a lot. So he is going to work and they are getting a lot done because there is no kids around. With the COVID schools empty things were getting painted things were getting fixed. I have never seen the schools look so good. And then April a couple of weeks after the schools closed Kerry goes in for his team meeting where they tell everyone what they are working on next. It was I believe a Thursday or Friday afternoon. My boss said we have got a project coming up next week and we are going to start to build coffins. He repeated it. We will be building coffins for the city of New York. Nobody in the shop believed it. We are like get out of here. Build coffins. And he produced a set of plans and showed them to us. And he said we are going to start next week. Monday morning Kerry goes to work. And we had to go to a high school into a gymnasium that was set up as a rudimentary shop with-- A high school gymnasium with like basketball lines on the floor kind of thing? Yes yes. We all get up there and there was actually a prototype of what we had to build standing-- It was an example coffin. Yes I actually have a picture. Oh. Whoa. They showed you that prototype? Yes. It is a simple box standing on its end where a person's feet would be. And it is open. The cover is not attached yet it is just leaning against the box. In the background you can see a scoreboard a basketball net and a championship banner. And it was a basic plywood and 2 by 4 box. I have built some strange things over the years but I have never built a coffin in my life. Very quickly the gym became a workshop. They set up cut stations and assembly stations. Electricians came in to install ventilation fans for all the sawdust. And about 10 carpenters got to work. And we started bringing drafts of plywood which is 50 sheets at a time. And we had six drafts of plywood and two drafts of 2 by 4s. And they did not give us an end. But we were just told this is your job for now. So we started and we ran through all the material got more material. Ran through that got more material. Like oh my god they really need this many made? I asked Kerry did they know where the coffins were going? No. Did the carpenters talk about what the boxes were for? No. We just kept working. We would get up to about 150. And so we had a very large stack of them-- it was almost a wall-- across the gym from one end to the other. Where do you put 150 coffins in a high school gym? Straight across the basketball court from one end to the other. So-- Like stacked on top of each other? Yes we would stack them about five or six high. Until we got pallets and then we placed 10 on a pallet shrink wrap them and I would take a forklift and back them into the elevator. I would drive them out onto the street and up the street through the schoolyard down the next street and to the back of a tractor trailer. And getting honked at for a forklift that goes too slow. They are honking at you while you were driving the coffins? Yes. Yes. And in three weeks of doing it not one person in the neighborhood ever asked the question what are those or what are you doing? Were you waiting for somebody to ask you? I found it bizarre that nobody asked. Maybe nobody made the connection or maybe nobody wanted to make the connection. It just seemed like people were going about their lives until the final load where one guy who spoke Spanish only walks past me and he just says morte and makes sort of a slicing motion across his neck. And I just said si. And he shook his head and just walked away. In the end Kerry's team built 415 coffins. There were carpenters in other schools too. All together they built 1400. As I have been talking to people about their jobs people in lots of different jobs that were deemed essential over these last 17 months I will very regularly find myself saying something like this. I had no idea that happened. Well you would not. Yeah. Do people-- Nobody did. --know that that happened? It was not for public knowledge. I think nobody knew how to handle it. I am sure the schools did not want like hey we are building coffins over here. It is not something you want to highlight. But now that things are waning and-- all right you can kind of let that out. Yeah. There is this sort of-- part of what is weird about what just happened is that there were people who had to do things that just normally are never asked of in your job. And it was not a war. But if it was a war and after a war-- Yeah yeah. It is logistics. --you go over what happened. Yeah. Exactly. This is how many people died. This is how many planes we built or trucks we-- whatever. Or the fact that somebody built coffins in a high school gym in the Bronx. Yeah. There is going to be an accounting. And it will be the weird stats that come out of somewhere. And this is one of the stranger ones. 415 coffins. Mark it down. That happened. A year and a half ago we asked more than 50 million Americans to continue going to work because they had essential jobs. And they did. Nurses and doctors and also mail carriers and waitresses and construction workers child care workers garbage collectors all worked through this once in a century emergency. And now we are kind of used to it. We are focused on what is next. But do we even know what just happened? I remember calling to check in on someone early in the pandemic. She works in customs at the airport and she told me they had not gotten any PPE yet and they were nervous. They all sat right next to each other in desks in this office. So they took cardboard boxes and put them up between their desks. And then they cut holes in the boxes so they could talk to each other. I had the same feeling hearing that as I did with the coffins. Do people know that happened? Should not we be marking that in some way? 415 coffins that happened. And 22 jerry-rigged cardboard partitions in JFK airport that happened too. Today's show I would like to attempt to do a kind of accounting not of how many people died or how many are unemployed but a different kind of national accounting of all the smaller private moments that unfolded in people's jobs all across the country-- Maine Arizona Michigan New York City specifically essential workers. We are going to hear the stories only they know moments that changed the way people thought about their jobs changed the choices they will make next and will affect the economy in ways we are only just beginning to see. That is today's show. Stay with us. Because today's show is a kind of audit each act name will include a number. So our first number for our ledger here is the number 3. This act is called Three Bottles of Joy. That'ill make sense in a second. So here's a small thing you would have no way of knowing what is happening underground during the pandemic. Station agents in New York City's subway system the people who sit in booths and sell you tickets or give you directions they were still going to work every day. But most of the public stopped riding the trains so it got really quiet down there. And as the weeks went on station agents began bringing items from home into their booths to sit with them during the day-- bibles spiritual aphorisms. Little stuff like that putting mirrors. Look at you smile. Moneta Lewis. We do not get a lot of that. She is a station agent for the MTA-- From management we do not get a lot of that. --New York City transit. She saw workers bringing in all sorts of things into their booths. At one point we was buying the bottles of Joy. Sometimes we would have them sitting up Joy. Joy like the dishwashing soap? Yeah. So if you see the word joy you look at it is going to make you smile. Moneta says we needed that. Made us feel less alone.      Over time the bottles of Joy they started to be a marker for Moneta of how their work was changing. Moneta's job is to be lunch relief for other station agents. That means she travels to a station the agent on duty goes on lunch and Moneta sits in their booth for 30 minutes then travels to the next station. So she sees the inside of a lot of booths. And Moneta's an observer. Black woman cat-eye glasses. She can talk to anyone and she does. She goes from South Ferry station to Rector to Chambers. She gets a bagel from the corner store at 1030 AM. She eats it for six minutes by the window as she narrates the traffic at the four-way intersection outside. With an eye on the unmarked cop car that is always parked there waiting she says four or five tickets daily. And people cut the light because you could cut the light four ways here. Every day. Then it is underground. Moneta waves me into the subway through the gate. Come on you are with the MTA lady. You are with me. You are with the MTA lady. March 2020 when the pandemic shut down New York City Moneta brought word of the virus from booth to booth. At one booth the agent would say do you think we should be wearing masks? And at the next booth oh I heard we are not supposed to. Management does not want us scaring the customers. Another booth what customers? Moneta says all the agents at every booth were talking about the disappearing customers. Absolutely. We was like they get to stay home? We wanted them to close the station down too. But as station agents we had to be here on set. Yeah so we felt a little cheated. We felt like OK what about us? So what are you all going to-- We grateful to have a job do not get me wrong. I have acquired quite a lot even just meeting people and learning. But it was just like an uneasiness. It was like we was coming to work to get sick. You felt like you were coming to work to get sick? Yes. And they did. Transit workers began to get sick in large numbers. And they began to die in large numbers-- first a subway conductor and a bus driver then a track worker. The MTA suffered more COVID deaths than any other agency in New York City 171 deaths. COVID was surging and New York City was the epicenter. It was like a plague struck this one specific agency. A bus driver I spoke with told me when you lose someone in the transit system you notice. Because what transit is is a time schedule. That train pulls out at 431 every day. That bus passes with the same bus driver at 822 every morning. That person buys chips from the same vending machine in the break room at exactly 512. When someone dies their absence is immediately visible. Moneta told me she felt like suddenly work was a battle and she was a soldier trying to stay alive. A lot of transit workers felt this way. But they are not soldiers. So I would ask people how do you make that switch? How does a person go from driving a train every day to going into work thinking you might die doing this job? The week that COVID hit my line and my terminal I was on vacation. Christopher Gonsalves drives the number 7 train. He is a conductor suddenly an essential conductor which he spoke about like he was being conscripted into an army just as the war was heating up. I just kept looking at my text messages and Facebook. Everybody at work was getting sick. And I said wow. And I started getting worried when it was time to go back to work. I did not want to go back. I was just thinking about it. I called my mom a lot. And I told her I said Ma guess what? The week I took off everyone got sick. And she was over here thanking the Lord. I was like OK Ma I got it. Thank you appreciate it. But I still got to go to work tomorrow. And she is giving me the whole thing-- please be careful wear your mask stay far away from everybody. I said yes I know. And She is. Also getting on me for my vitamins. She said the vitamins is going to help. Take the vitamins. And I said yes Ma I will. Chris said his mom told him no no no do it now while we are on the phone. And then she waited until she could hear him taking his vitamins. And I was worried. And I said Mom. I spoke to her just to tell her you are my beneficiary. If something happens everything is set. I have life insurance. Do not worry about it. So she was worried and I just had to calm her down a bit. You told her you are my beneficiary that was your way of calming her down? Well she tells it to me all the time when she flies on airplanes. Yeah. It was scary but relieving. It was very relieving when I was talking to her because she is my mother. I just had to man up and go in the next day. I did not want to. Moneta told me it was around this time when you would hear about people dying daily that station agents started bringing in the bottles of Joy dish soap into their booths. Transit workers were essential. But they were also alone. Station agents are supposed to be the eyes and ears of the subway system. But there were so few people. Transit took away cash purchases-- fear of transmission. So subway fares were all taken on machines. Moneta was by herself sitting in the booths looking at all the hopeful items people brought in the bottles of Joy and just hanging on until we got to the other side. And now here we are kind of at the other side? Is there another side? Things have definitely changed underground. They are better. But Moneta's job is not the same. The people have not returned. They are not riding the trains like before. And the cash has not returned either. Station agents still are not allowed to take cash purchases. Technically we sit there. We are not supposed to be on our phones not supposed to be reading anything outside of transit memos. We have no customers. So where is that-- I think it is in England-- where the soldiers just sit there they do not move no-- Like at the Queen's palace? Yeah. Does it make you not want to do the job anymore? It makes me feel like I am unable to fully do what I was hired to do. Say more about that. What do you mean by that? One of the biggest things coming down here was the busyness. I like busy stations. The money the camaraderie with the customers they are going to work. I am a people's person. And most of us were. You do not feel like a people person anymore. I do feel like a people person I just feel like people do not care. And a lot of us feel that way. Especially because recently the MTA has proposed eliminating her position the position of lunch relief for station agents. The union sued and the MTA backed down. But looking forward without cash purchases the job of a station agent does seem much less essential. What if Moneta survived the war only to be laid off in peacetime? I asked her recently if the bottles of Joy are still in the booths. She said nah people took them away. You are not allowed to bring extra stuff into the booth. You could get away with it before when we were left alone down there. Act 2. Moneta's job changed pretty dramatically in ways she did not like. But most jobs did not actually change that much. In fact one of the strangest aspects of working through the pandemic for a lot of people was how much did not change in their jobs. That is the case with this next story. So we are going to add another number to our list. If you picture our ledger here we have got 415 coffins 3 bottles of joy. I feel like the next number here should have stars drawn around it or something sparkly pen aspirational stars like a goals list. The number is 25. Act 2 is called The 25 Tip. It took Shelly Ortiz a decade in the restaurant business to work up to a 25 tip. She started when she was 15 years old got her first job as a cashier at a Five Guys in Phoenix. And Shelly walks in bubbly ready to go. Her nickname growing up was Smiley and you can hear it in her voice. I remember I was at orientation and I really wanted to make friends. I remember turning to a man and being like so what high school do you go to? And he looked at me and he was like I am 35.  It was just a big realization that like I am the youngest person here and it shows. Shelly describes herself as an all-in type person. And she threw herself into restaurants all through college her 20s. There was Five Guys then a French bistro a sandwich shop a food court. And eventually fine dining where she finally got her first 25 tip which was huge. She was only making 9 an hour. Shelly picked up on the routines of each place she worked easily. She loves a routine. And she loved restaurants. Shelly got rude customers all the time people who would say things about her body her personality how much she was checking on the table. I remember I used to work brunches a lot. I was like the brunch girl. And brunch made good money. But brunch clientele it is intimidating. And I remember we were running out of forks. We were running out of forks. And I think about this all the time. I think I put some spoons on a table a very picky brunch table. Because they were getting like something that they could potentially eat it with a spoon but they probably should have actual roll-ups with a fork and a knife and a napkin. And I remember I came back to collect them because we needed them and give them actual roll-ups. And a woman slapped my hand away and said we need those. And I was like I am giving you roll-ups actual silverware. And she looked at her friend. She was like . Like this girl. And she rolled her eyes and continued to talk to the woman. And it was just a reminder that like I am not a human to her. I have never been a person to her. I am just someone out of her world that does not deserve to be treated like a human being. Shelly got it. This too was routine. It came along with the 25 tips. I mean amongst the servers no one would be shocked to hear that. It is very common. And it felt worth it to you. Yeah. I would just think that I got her money I got paid. So she is just another person that I do not have to think about after this. And at the end of my shift I would be able to go home. I would be able to hug my girlfriend. It became like a disassociation. Like this is not me. This is just this person who is serving and you are going to take home this money. Take home the money. She honed this skill to disassociate. She could shake off whatever was thrown at her. Shelly would collect the cash from the table and move on. The mayor of Phoenix declared a state of emergency on March 17 2020. Shelly's restaurant closed briefly. But soon after restaurants were declared essential services in Arizona and reopened for takeout and delivery. But Shelly hung back. Her dad was sick recovering from a heart attack. And her mom is a nurse who was treating patients with COVID. Shelly was too scared. She told me she did not want to apply for unemployment because she is Puerto Rican and she just had a sense that that kind of thing never happened for people like her. By May restaurants in Arizona were serving people in person and Shelly had to go back. She was still very nervous. I was double masking before it was even a thing. I bought fake glasses to protect my eyes. I would only really take off my mask to drink water and I would only drink water in the bathroom where I was alone. That is the only time I would ever get it-- and that was long shifts. I was really scared. Meanwhile she still had her routines. She was doing all the things she would done thousands of times before. Welcome the customer explain the specials carry the plates deliver the drinks. And I was just kind of waiting for that shitty thing to happen. I would have people ask me like pull down your mask. I want to see how much to tip you. Pull down your mask I want to see how much to tip you? Yes. Whoa. They would want to see how pretty I was before they tipped me. Was that a thing that happened frequently that people would ask you to pull down your mask? Yeah. That happened probably about every week. Pull down your mask so I can make sure you are smiling. Pull down your mask so-- or like why are we still wearing masks? Do you have to wear a mask? It was always about like either why am I wearing one or can I see your face? So I can know that you are smiling? Yeah. So I can know you are smiling so I can know if you are pretty.  Which is so stupid.  It is like god who gives a fuck if I am pretty? Can I just serve you your food? I am sure that was not the first time that customers were assessing the way that you looked. But did it feel different to have it stated so baldly? Yeah. So I am 4 foot 9. I am very short. And I have very big breasts for my frame. It is unavoidable. I am very small I have big boobs. And usually like-- I am really cute. So it is easy to just understand that people are going to be checking me out. I would have comments before. But I think when the pandemic hit it hit harder because I they wanted me to risk my safety so that they could see if I was cute. Something I heard from a lot of people I talked to about working through a pandemic people in all sorts of jobs they said they felt like they were in a movie that one of the strangest parts was how much did not change. It was uncanny the way good science fiction is uncanny. It looks like normal life but something big is off. And the parts of the job that have not changed just make the parts that feel off stand out even more. I was serving a Saturday night and it was a really busy shift. I was outside and I was serving this couple. And they were really needy. That was not very rare especially at a restaurant like this where you are paying good money for food and drink. But at the end of the shift the gentleman-- it was a gentleman and his wife older gentleman and his wife. And he asked me to pull down my mask so he could see if the bottom part of my face was as cute as the top. And I said I could not. And then when I said I could not he said that because he could not focus on my face he was forced to focus on my breasts. Whoa. And his wife was sitting right across from him. And I looked at her for any sort of response. And she just kind of gave me a blank stare in return. He said it almost like matter-of-factly. He was like well if I cannot look at your face I am forced to look at your breasts. And it was just disgusting. It just sucked which is like great. Awesome. Now I am-- I think mostly during the pandemic my self-worth was so low. I felt really disposable obviously being objectified all the time because half my face was covered up. And I tried to make it work. But I was not adjusting the way my coworkers were. And I felt really disposable. And I just felt like another person who was destined to get sick. And it would just be another stat. Have you felt that way before? I have never felt that way before. It was like the pandemic and risking your life and not feeling of camaraderie with your teammates anymore because it really did not feel like anyone was taking it as seriously as me. And then I started questioning if I am this crazy person. And I started questioning my anxiety and then my anxiety got worse. And the anxiety and the anger got so high. But I felt like I was not adjusting the way my coworkers adjusted. I feel like people who had to work during the pandemic adopted this disassociation and I could not. I could not separate it. Why could not she? Shelly spent so much time on this question. Why could not she disassociate as she would done for years when a customer slapped her hand or yelled or talked about her body? Her coworkers were going out to karaoke after work. Her customers were out with friends and family catching up. I remember one time a woman had a comment card. And she left it for me. And it said thanks for making things feel normal. With a smiley face. And I was livid. I was like things are not normal. This is not normal. I am risking my life to serve you a margarita and it is not normal. I do not want to contribute to this fantasy that a pandemic is not happening right now. That is really interesting. So she was trying to give you a compliment. Like-- Yeah and-- --you did a good job. I understand that it was coming from a kind place. But thousands of people are dying right down the road at the hospital. And I am here serving your margarita because I have to. Because I have to live. And it was just such an intense moment for me of realization that like this is what I am here to do. I am here to create a fantasy that things are not as bad as they are. And they are. What is essential about restaurants? Sure they provide jobs food but so do grocery stores. This was a health crisis. Doctors nurses-- sure essential. But what is essential about an Asian fusion place in downtown Phoenix? All these things we suddenly started calling essential services this was not some long-held agreed-upon category. We just made all this up very recently. And even then it was pretty random. There was federal guidance on what services should be essential but most states did not follow the guidance. They either came up with their own list of essential services or they had no guidance. So if you had a liquor store in Pennsylvania you were not essential. But in New Jersey you were. Construction workers that was a controversial one in a number of states. Essential or not essential? And then there are the ones that have a particularly local flavor like flower shops. They were essential in Delaware. And in Arizona golf courses essential-- also restaurants. So Shelly's restaurant was open and millions of restaurant workers performed their normal daily routines through a pandemic. Why? What essential service did they provide? Was this it? Restaurants were essential because they helped make things feel normal? Once Shelly thought about her job this way-- she was to continue doing all the things she would always done she was essential so that other people could feel normal-- it was too much for her. The tradeoff she would been making in her head 25 tips in exchange for some long hours some crap from customers that tradeoff fell apart. She did not want to be paid for the fantasy anymore. A few weeks later a coworker was exposed to COVID and Shelly walked out of the restaurant. And then I never went back. Oh that was the end for you. Yeah yeah. Shelly got unemployment then picked up some film jobs went back to school for film. She told me now she does not think she could ever go back to serving even after the pandemic. Do you feel like the actual job changed or do you think it is that you changed? Like has it become ugly or was it always ugly? Yeah I think that I changed more than the job changed. There is always been a certain amount of ugly that is been in the restaurant industry especially-- sexual harassment has always been there. Verbal harassment has always been there. But it was like seeing it for the first time with new eyes. I saw a lack of kindness and courtesy and it was constant. Yeah. It is almost like people put on COVID goggles. And wearing the COVID goggles they started to see their job differently. Mm-hmm. I definitely saw my job differently with my COVID goggles for sure. That is what made it really ugly for me. Here's the image I have in my mind hearing Shelly talk about where she is at right now. I picture all the governors and mayors and council members sitting down to make their lists of essential services-- hospitals grocery stores restaurants golf courses. And I picture Shelly doing the same. She is making her own list of all the things she considers essential-- her life her health her self-worth. And she is crossing off an item at the very bottom of her list a 25 tip. Coming up quitters and the people who love them. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Chana Joffe-Walt sitting in for Ira Glass. This week's show we are talking to essential workers about what happened inside their jobs over the last year and a half things nobody else knows. And we are marking these experiences down for posterity. So that as we move into the bright and quickly darkening future we will do so with a shared understanding of what we have just been through. So far we have 415 coffins 3 bottles of Joy and a 25 tip. We are going to be adding more to that list. And we will see what happens when people take stock one by one and wind up making some choices they never expected to make. That is what the second half of the show is about quitters and the people they quit on. A record number of people are quitting their jobs and they are all quitting on Miss Jordyn Rossingol. That is how it feels to her anyway which brings us to our next act Teacher Number Four. Miss Jordyn's Child Development Center in northern Maine has lost 23 teachers since the pandemic began. 23. Most years Miss Jordyn told me herself maybe one or two teachers leave. So that is our next number for our ledger 23. 23 disappearing teachers. Miss Jordyn says the first teacher she left right away March 2020. She was scared of germy kids. Then another went in April a third in May. They left for other jobs. And then in June Miss Jordyn says was teacher number 4. Shania. Ah Shania was hands-down the best teacher I have ever had in this program ever. I could talk for hours about Shania. Finding good teachers and then keeping them-- this has always been a problem in early childhood education. It is one of those areas that was already a bruise and the pandemic came and just stomped on it until the bone was broken too. For Miss Jordan teacher number 4 Shania Bell that felt like the break. She cannot get over it. And she is not joking about how much time she can spend lamenting this particular loss. Shania's ideas were fresh she tells me. Her discipline was fair. Her lesson plans were thought-out. She was reliable she was a fun coworker. In meetings when we would have staff meetings I would say OK your voice I want you to have Shania voice where they could be firm but their voice was happy. In the morning when you drop off your child you want to hear good morning my friends. What kind of voice were people doing? Just like oh. Good morning. How are you doing? Let us go. Get in. Come on. Oh. I know you are crying. Let us go. Just short. We had some teachers in the past who were just short. Come on you are a big kid. Let us go. None of that. Like no good morning my sweet girl. Good morning friends. She did this calm-down method because toddlers toddlers get mad. And they do not know why they are mad all the time. And they are impulsive. And they want to bite or hit or run away. And she told them to blow up a balloon. And they would put their hands over their head while taking a deep breath and they would hold it there like a balloon over their head. And then they would slowly let the air out and they would just go puh puh puh puh puh puh puh puh puh. And they would sit by themselves. And she made a little balloon corner is what she called it. And they still do it. I will still say-- even my own daughter Monroe. Monroe I need you to do three balloons please. And she will take her three deep breaths.  Puh puh puh puh puh. And she will release them and they are calm. So yeah. It is just-- she has a gift. She has a gift just amazing. Am