From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. It is been such an extraordinary and painful few weeks since the killing of George Floyd. And we have a show today with people in scenes that we recorded this past week trying to capture what this moment feels like and how different people are reacting and what they are doing. And I know usually right here at the top of the show I jump right in with some story. But I think it actually captures what lots of people are feeling this week a lot better to start with this essay from one of our producers Bim Adewunmi. Here she is. The year I came to live and work in America 962 people were shot and killed by police across the country. Or maybe the number was 1093. It depends on who you ask about 2016. One project that counted the dead found that black males aged 15 to 34 were nine times more likely than other Americans to be killed by law enforcement. In case you have become fuzzy on timelines Michael Brown was shot by police in Ferguson Missouri in 2014. Walter Scott was shot in the back by police in Charleston South Carolina in 2015. In 2016 Alton Sterling was killed by police in Baton Rouge Louisiana. And a day later in Falcon Heights Minnesota police shot and killed Philando Castile while he was in his car with his partner and her 4-year-old daughter. Those last two incidents were recorded. Both were viewed by the public at large. At the time Sterling and Castile were killed in 2016 I would been living in New York for four months. I would come to America to report on the presidential election campaigns with a wry British eye. I no longer have the original text of my visa application but I remember distinctly that it mentioned both the 19th century French social scientist Alexis de Tocqueville and the late British journalist Alistair Cooke. Both Alexis and Alistair were men of letters operating in very different eras of American upheaval. The aim of their writing was to help readers back home understand the unique American situation. They were good names to put on a visa application. It indicated I knew my literary lineage. But the reality is that beyond the common ground of our jobs I was not really like Alexis or Alistair and moved through the world differently. I was a woman. I was a Muslim. I was a child of working class immigrants born to parents who themselves were born in an African country still under the yoke of the English monarchy. And of course I was black. I still am. Thanks to the spread of empire I am no stranger to the project of colonization. Of all the things I would be reporting on and experiencing firsthand in America the subject of blackness was the thing with which I had the most literal most lived experience. British police have historically not used guns like their American counterparts. But the history of disproportionate black deaths during and after interactions with police in the UK tells a familiar story. The lyrics are different but the melody is old and known to me. That is the horrible thing about this moment. I have been here before. And so when George Floyd was killed in Minneapolis on Memorial Day in the last week of May I had a feeling of resigned deja vu. Police had arrested a man and then less than a half hour later that man was dead. The manner of it-- a cop's knee pressing down on his neck for eight minutes and 46 seconds-- felt like a stage play we would all seen before. The fact that it had been recorded felt proper like a sort of sacred practice. The mundane location of it was familiar too-- a regular street suddenly transformed into an arena for public death. The echo of some of Floyd's dying words eerily the same as Eric Garner's in 2014-- I cannot breathe. Even that felt like an on-the-nose rerun of a series called How to Die in America. Almost every element of what happened next hit the exact beat it was supposed to. The video of his life being snuffed out went viral. Tabloid newspapers brought up his criminal past. Protests began the day after he was killed. Against police brutality yes but also against the organizing principle of colonialism in general and explicitly against the ideology of white supremacy itself. And it was not just black people yelling. Things shifted. Something was different. By the end of the week there were protests across the country-- all 50 states. And a week after that there had been protests in other countries too. Last weekend I watched protesters in the west of England topple the statue of Edward Colston a Bristol man who made his fortune by trading in thousands of enslaved Africans. After kneeling on the supine statue's neck protesters rolled it down the street before tipping it into the Bristol Harbour. My London friends sent me videos and photos of protests they had attended while doing their best to maintain social distancing. As someone on Twitter put it I cannot believe corona blew a 28-3 lead to racism. The day after George Floyd was killed I quit Twitter because of my propensity for doom scrolling. I knew my right thumb would be in constant endless motion eating up breaking news that would later crystallize into insomnia and migraines. But even on Instagram it was a wall of George Floyd content. Suddenly I was overwhelmed with graphics and photos and links to bail funds and that uniquely American habit-- crowdfunding. On pastel-colored digital easels people wrote anti-racist quotes from Angela Davis and Ijeoma Oluo. Artists created tributes to people like 26-year-old Breonna Taylor who was killed in her own home in Louisville Kentucky back in March and Tony McDade a trans man killed in Tallahassee. There were guides on everything from how to dress and prepare for a protest in the age of coronavirus to the specifics of raising truly anti-racist children. My favorite-- or least favorite-- genre of these is the one that teaches non-black people how to be people in this moment. Posts with headings like Here's what to say to your black friends or Check in on your black friends were seemingly everywhere. After that first weekend of protests I got a text in one of my group chats from a black friend. Have either of you gotten texts from white people this weekend she wrote. Yes we both replied. We all shared a dark laugh. Black people have been dying in America and elsewhere for so long. What is so different about now? That first weekend I kept asking myself this. What is making white people care now? I keep looking to see what I have missed. What was the thing that is making brands draw these lines now? What makes babynames.com dedicate its landing page to listing black victims of police violence along with the note Each one of these names was somebody's baby. Babynames.com stands in solidarity with the black community. What is compelling people a lot of them white to stand up for the first time and proclaim that it is time to do something? How is it that I have read more proposals for defunding and abolishing the police in the last two weeks than over the course of the last two years? What is making people in small towns across America from Lewistown Montana to Bad Axe Michigan get up and protest now? If Sandra Bland did not do it if Eric Garner did not do it if Atatiana Jefferson did not do it if Aiyana Stanley-Jones did not do it how is the death of George Floyd the thing that moves the needle? I cannot think of an easy answer. It is not because he was seven years old like Aiyana Stanley-Jones was. It is not because he was a 12-year-old boy like Tamir Rice was. It is not because he was an award-winning EMT who tweeted that 2020 would be her year like Breonna Taylor was. So the next likely answer is that it is as simple as the effect of accumulation. Finally there are enough dirty clothes in the hamper to justify putting on a load of laundry. Maybe the increased visibility of the stark differences between the haves and have-nots over the last few years has produced a populace ready to be pushed into the hitherto radical lane of thought that suggests actually black lives do matter. Maybe the activists finally broke through. Who can say? A part of me wants white people at large to feel deeply ashamed. This is entry level. Stop killing us. This is basic. If the killing of George Floyd could unleash this tidal wave of demonstration what was stopping you before? He is as meaningful as any other victim of police violence named or unnamed here today. You could have harnessed all this energy 15 20 200 500 1000 deaths ago. But that did not happen. And so when I ask the question why now the truth is that I do not really care. All these white people newly attuned to this frequency the rest of us know so well. I told a friend that I wanted everyone to do their belated learning far away from me. I do not want to see how anyone is carrying the one. I do not want to teach anyone. I have no office hours. I do not want to know what triggered your come to Jesus moment. I have no interest in seeing how the sausage gets made. I just want to rock up to the table and enjoy my breakfast. I know what is different for me. I am angrier now. I think of what parents say about how their hearts grow bigger after a second child instead of having to share the love they already feel. That is me. But instead of love it is rage. I find that this time I am furious. That is what is different. Bim Adewunmi is one of the producers of our show.    Act Two Before Sunrise. So one night recently one of our producers Diane Wu stopped by Mr. Mango which is a corner grocery in New York City. It is two or three blocks from the Barclays Center where lots of the big New York City protests have happened. And it is just down the street from Brooklyn Hospital which has been hard hit treating coronavirus patients in these last few months-- New York of course the epicenter of coronavirus cases in this country. Mr. Mango is a 24-hour grocery store that has stayed open through the city's shutdown through the curfew. It is an intersection that all kinds of people pass through. And that particular night that Diane was there protesters were singing Happy Birthday to Breonna Taylor at a little plaza across the street. A woman in scrubs at the store was FaceTiming somebody about onions. Cop cars pulled up. And standing there watching all of this during this intense moment we are all living through where race and justice and survival are at the forefront of everything Diane wondered what were all these different people thinking in this quiet little grocery store. So she went back the next night-- it was this past Saturday night June 6-- with a microphone and with our co-worker Lina Misitzis. They stayed all night until 500 in the morning talked to dozens of people. And they put this next story together. Usually I just want to say we do not point out the race of the people that we talk to on the radio unless there is some particular reason. But race is the context for so many interactions including the ones at the store that in this story we are going to identify the race or nationality of everybody who you are going to hear. OK here's Diane. We got to Mr. Mango just before the city's 800 PM curfew. Inside it was crowded and serious. People were shopping silently trying to keep a distance trying to move fast and get out of the store and get home by 800. A police helicopter buzzed overhead. Mr. Mango is a small grocery store with inexpensive produce out front and a mix of regular and bougie groceries inside. They have 35 kinds of honey but also dollar pineapples. The cashiers were hurriedly checking everyone out from an island in the middle of the store. Once curfew kicked in things relaxed. Like all the anxious rule followers had cleared out. The regulars started filtering in-- neighborhood people essential workers. A white guy in pajama pants came in to buy a corkscrew. Chan who is Thai and manages the restaurant three doors down he came in after his shift ended at 1000 to pick up some pita chips for his husband. The curfew had actually been good for business. When it is next to 800 people were so afraid that they will have to stuck at home or something so a lot of delivery is going to happen around that time yeah. How many tonight? Tonight we hit like 3000. 3000 which is 50 more than usual he told me. Devon a black man who lives around the corner stopped by in a camo facemask to pick up some ice and cups. He was hanging out with a friend from Jersey that night. Yeah with all this going on I need something to unwind a little bit. But this has been rough this world right now-- everything that is going on. No basketball season no sports. My daughter cannot graduate high school. Could not have a graduation. Only great thing about this thing my grandson is born now. Wow congratulations. One month old. I am sorry for people who lost death but my daughter's happy. My grandson is home. They are safe. The ice he was carrying to the register actually was for a toast for baby Thurmond. One group of regulars was hard to get to talk because they were either rushing to work or exhausted-- the hospital workers. Everyone else had moved on to the new crisis but they were still very much inside the previous one. Do you have a minute to talk? Mm I just came from work.  A black woman on the hospital cleaning crew Bernice talked to me for one minute and 24 seconds while she shopped and wasted none of it. I am tired. Yeah. Because of this coronavirus I have been working for the last 96 days. And then you got these people out here protesting which I am all for that but they are going about the wrong way with the burning buildings and stores. And people got to survive you know. This is your neighborhood. You should not be doing stuff like that. You know you have got to do it the right way. But that is just my opinion. And I am delirious and I am tired right now so I am about to go. I know. I feel tired for you-- 96 days. I am actually walking slowly by slowly taking it step by step. I am like burnt out drained. I do not know what to say anymore. Just go to work and just pray that the same way you leave there you come back home that way. That is all I can say mama. You be careful. Have a good night. I gots to go. At the cashier's island there is Ronny who is new at Mr. Mango. He just started working here this week. He is Latino from Guatemala. And Dorje the longtime overnight cashier gracious and calm. Dorje is from Bhutan. He is the quiet center of gravity of the whole store and does not want to be on the radio. Every time I swing the microphone in his direction he leans back and puts his hands up to protect himself from it. Once the mic is safely out of sight though he is happy to talk. After I interview any of his regulars Dorje helpfully fills in the details. That guy is a really hard worker. They come almost every day after a long day. They used to buy Corona but after coronavirus they started getting a different beer. One of the regulars Schecter who is Asian tells me that Mr. Mango is his favorite store in his whole life. And the reason is Dorje and the other night cashier Karma who is off tonight. Last year I had a bad year. Everything started to fall apart. In my worst moments I would come here at midnight or 100 in the morning and just be with them. And I found out that I was not the only one. Ever since the pandemic Dorje has been working more-- 72 hours a week. He is tired. Tomorrow is his day off. As it gets later around midnight the mood at Mr. Mango shifts. Some of the energy outside filters in. Lina tells what happens next. Protesters keep turning up. A sunburned couple white holding hands on their way home from a rally. They buy ice cream beer and lemons. Patrick an older black man with long hair and a beard to match he would been out protesting too. Wanted to grab a snack before turning in. He bought one pineapple. And then these protesters-- I call them Josh and Katie. They seemed about 30 both of them white. She had long red hair and he had knuckle tattoos but he refused to show them to us-- for his own protection he said and because he did not want to put himself as an individual ahead of the movement. Do you like persimmons? Not really. Why not? So tell me what is up? I just do not like them that much. I do not know why. I never really liked them that much. You are getting started. But I like them. You know I eat anything. Josh and Katie told Diane they would spent the day marching all over Brooklyn. Went through Flatbush Crown Heights Bedstuy and then back up here to Barclays. You sound a little tired. I was locked up for a long time after one of the recent violent assaults on a protest in one of the outer boroughs. So you got arrested this week. Yeah. Josh kept talking about what he called movement moments. Katie focused on shopping for fruit. They have the best fruit. They have plantains. They have litchis. They have soursop. They have star fruit. They have mamey. They have things you do not see in America. I mean you know these guys are the real deal. Oh oh oh oh. Hang on. What is going on? What is going on? Hey what is up? How're you doing? What just happened? What happened was a couple NYPD walked into Mr. Mango and Josh and Katie immediately reacted. Josh very dramatically stopped talking wrapped a scarf around his face so that all that were showing were his eyes. He looked like a mummy who was also an anarchist. He crept away picked up some tofu and held it like a prop and glanced back at the police. Meanwhile I went and talked to the officers one white the other Dominican. What are you guys here for? Just buying snacks. Snacks and water. I got water and pretzels. I got some water. While I was talking to the police Josh and Katie moved to the back of the store where they accidentally knocked over some toilet paper. The whole thing is pretty conspicuous. But they did not want to be near the NYPD which the cops definitely noticed but they did not care. It does not bother me at all. Wait because you are used to it? Yeah. Oh yeah. But sometimes we get appreciation too you know? It goes both ways. We get both you know? Both ways yeah. Did you get appreciation today? Um-- No. That no was coming from Josh. He is listening to our conversation. Officer Rodriguez heard him rolled his eyes. Yeah but that is the same guy that when he is getting robbed or something he is going to call 911. And he is going to expect us to show up. You get what I am saying? So. The officers pay for their water and pretzels tell me they have to get back to work. They are on patrol duty. I walk out with them and when I get back Josh has uncovered his face. He is talking about Standing Rock. When you have seen him shoot down Americans and natives at Standing Rock with four different jurisdictions at once in every brutal way they can-- Wait can I tell you what he said about you? What did he say? I asked if it upset him that you would not step up to pay until he was gone and he said no but when he gots robbed he is going to call 911 and expect us to help him. I do not call the cops. You have not-- you do not call 911. I never call it for any reason whatsoever. Everything can be handled within a community-- every possible situation you can come up with. Does it make sense to you why he would have said that though? Yeah because he is been acculturated to a system which believes that we will always need policing no matter what even though it is an advent of the 18th century. Wait are you saying a rehearsed speech? My entire life is dedicated to the destruction of the police and the American empire. I am speaking off the cuff because this is what I think about all day long. Another protester came in soon after Josh and Katie. She was also skeptical of the police. Her tactic though was pretty different. This was a white protester I noticed in front of the sliced cheeses animatedly chatting up a black police officer. She was asking him questions which he seemed to be answering. This was a kind of conversation I had not heard yet and so I walked over. Lieutenant Maurice Walston was wearing an upper rank officer's white shirt. Brianna was holding a green juice. She was on her way home from drinks with her friend after protesting all day. And I appreciate you just talking to me. Yeah yeah yeah and that is-- I mean absolutely. Officer Walston I really appreciate this conversation just in general. Yep no problem. And I appreciate it as well. And again it should be everyone's right that no one should be able to-- no one should fear police interactions like this. We should all-- I do not. No I know that. But I am sure-- But that is my privilege right? I do not have to. Lieutenant Walston does not want to talk about her privilege. Well I can tell you this. When I deal with even people of my race I give them the same respect that I give to you. And that is just across the board. I am sure you do. That is not the question right? You are an officer of color. But that is your question. You have a different question right. That is my question yes but I have been-- this is not my first conversation with a police officer tonight. No I understand. No I get it. I understand. I want to communicate and understand. It is a really awkward conversation to watch. She keeps making big statements about policing ending with Right? It is not an isolated event here or there right? It is a systemic problem. I have this general sense that people who go to be police officers generally have a power issue. Right? Either it is a power issue or they want to help people. And in my mind it is one or the other. I think generally most people become police officers to help people. And of course it is hard to get Lieutenant Walston to agree with what seems to be her central premise that there is something fundamentally wrong with his job. But ultimately when police are called in on peacekeeping missions violence ensues right? See there are times when we get called and violence has already occurred or violence is there. And that is the majority of the times why we are getting called to these emergency situations. Lieutenant Walston told me later that people who do not have as many interactions with the police often fill the vacuum with the worst images they see in the news not anything based on their own experiences. His strategy during this conversation he told me was first to mostly just listen. But when she told him she knew what it was like to be in the minority because she would lived as a white person in Oakland he realized the depth of her misconceptions. But since she seemed so adamant he was not out to change them. When we talked to Brianna later she said she was not expecting to change anything about his beliefs. It just felt important to say what she thought. Toward the end of their 20-minute conversation there is a moment where she asks for his advice. She asks do you have kids? Yeah I do. I have twins. I have a four-year-old son. He is biracial. And I am trying to figure out how to tell him he presents as white. He looks white. But he is not white right? So how do you talk to a biracial kid about racism? Right. So that is why I asked. Right no I understand. How do you talk to your black kids about police brutality? They are also biracial so I am honest with them. That is the only way you can be. Be honest and-- What does the honesty look like? Well honestly looks like me in part. Tell them that there are officers like me out there you know? Do you also have to tell them there is officers that is not like you? Yes I would be truthful. You have to have that conversation with your kids. You have to have that conversation with your kids she tells him. It is funny to imagine how different those two conversations would be. After she left I asked Lieutenant Walston what you have made of all of that. Have you been having more conversations like the one you just had? Sorry to be more specific have more white people wanted to talk to you about that kind of thing than usual? Yeah. Yeah and I get that. Let me just say this. I am actually I am happy that you have all nationalities that are coming together to come and go. And I am happy about that. The only thing is that when you do get a white person which is fine but the one thing I just do not allow is for you to claim that you know my plight more than I do. Is it accurate to say that that was like a white lady explaining to you why black lives matter? Yeah. Yeah basically. In a sense yeah. It is someone not of my race telling me why my life matters. And I know why my life matters. I know what I went through. He gets in an unmarked police car with his patrol partner and drives down Lafayette Avenue. By 100 or 200 in the morning the protesters recede off the stage and the night shift workers make their entrance. The mood changes again. It becomes quiet contemplative. The night shift workers they are not on their way home from protesting racism. But many of them know a lot about it like Alexander. I do security for 300 Ashland. OK is it that big fancy building on the corner? Yeah. Exactly. What is that job like right now? Has it been hectic at all because of the protests? Not really but people-- it is just that you get surprised to see who has their position politically on the protest from working in a residential building. Some people come out to jump with the protesters. Some people come out and go get the protesters. So you get to see-- you know. Huh. Do people kind of match up with what you would guess? Yeah this is surprising how being cynical is usually being right.  Though there is one wildcard category. The older residents are always surprising on their views. Because at a certain age you start to be like OK I do not expect much from you.  There is some older woke people in your building. Yeah when they are awake they as not know what is going on. It is surprising you know? That feels nice. Wait what kinds of things are people saying who are against the protest? It is more of like the subtle hints would be oh when is it going to be enough of these people protesting? That or it is too late for that. Or now is this usually the time? Or why did not you all do that the last time you know? It is subtle when people try to diminish or water down the situation. But it is what it is. As not nothing us as a people are not used to so. What do you mean? Like being a black individual you are used to people always dismissing your cause. Like if we talk about slavery they bring up the Holocaust. If we talk about anything that is about being black other people bring in their struggles too. So it is what it is. So even with the protests now nothing wrong with I see Caucasian friends helping us out and being a part of the situation. But it is getting watered down because everybody sees the white faces. They are not seeing any black face as a part of it. So whose lives matter? Mm I do not know.  The vast majority of the protesters we talked to at Mr. Mango that night were in fact white. How has it been working after curfew? Does it feel-- have you been nervous about it at all? No I have not been nervous. I am not a nervous individual. Yeah because this is all-- this is all riots and never know whether you are going to be attacked or not or feeling unsafe. It is part of being a black male period. So it is a little bit of insight for everybody else to feel like how we feel you know? Alexander works the night shift from 600 PM to 200 AM which has made getting home hard during this week of curfew. The subway is closed. Cabs are not an option. Alexander is 26 and has lived in New York City his whole life. He told me that the first time a Yellow Cab stopped for him as a black man was this last year. Tonight he heard Uber is running and that is how he will get home. How did you get home the other night? Through the grace of God.  That is the only way possible to describe it. Right now though he has to get back to work. He walks over to the cash register. You know what? I am the type of person that when I buy stuff sometimes I get all the things that are the same color. I do not know why. I think other people do it too but somehow I got Ramune and it looked like blueberries. It looks like you got all purple today. You got purple Ramune and an acai drink. And somehow I got this grape juice too. I do not know why. It is hilarious huh?  Have a good night. You too. At around 130 AM a guy in an MTA uniform walked in. He was holding a big leather binder. He heads straight for the cash register eager to show Dorje whatever is inside of it. It is a trading card album full of old basketball cards the kind with holograms. Yeah this is from the 1990s when Michael Jordan dominated. There is Michael Jordan. This is the famous nuts and bolts collection. I am going to give 500 for that. It is 10 cards. Everybody's in the Hall of Fame. See? Look at that. His name is Fred Nixon. He works for the city subway system specifically the G stop beneath the store. I work right downstairs in the booth. Yeah I got to-- do not you see I need a napkin since I am on TV man? Fred comes into Mr. Mango a lot when he gets hot downstairs. The napkin he asked for was to wipe the sweat from his forehead. He and Dorje talk all the time. They know each other well. Is it crazy people outside also? No no it is died down now. Fred starts talking about the looting. You know the reason why people did that because Donald Trump is an idiot. And he said when the looting starts the shooting starts. People in America they take that to heart and they say oh yeah? Shoot me. And that is what that was all about. But I am glad they stopped. I really believe that is why the people looted because they wanted to challenge him you know? Like they felt dared to. Yeah. Fred Nixon is 61 years old. He is black grew up here in the same neighborhood. And he is proud of these past couple of weeks. He feels the protests are a continuation of work he had a hand in starting. Yeah I started this movement 40 years ago right across the street at Bam with Sonny Carson. Wait . Sonny Carson actually was trying to do something like this 40 years ago. Go look that up. I did. Sonny Carson was a civil rights activist and a political organizer from Brooklyn. In the 1970s he led demonstrations for racial justice just a block away from Mr. Mango. How does it make you feel seeing it happen again now in 2020? I wanted to see it before I am dead so I am glad about it because black people cannot do it by themselves. And until everybody jumped in the course that is why nobody was listening. What do you think is different now though that-- I mean basically more white people than ever are paying attention. What do you think is different? I think that-- you ever heard the saying the straw that broke the camel's back? Of course. George Floyd was the straw that broke the camel's back. Part of Fred's job is interfacing with cops patrolling the subway station often. Sometimes when I see cops I get really upset about it. When I was 15 years old I got beat up by the cops right in front of the 88th precinct. Where is the 88th pre-- where is it? On Carson and DeKalb. And recently they tried to burn it up last week. I did not even feel bad for them because of that experience I had when I was 15 years old. It was the early '70s when it happened. Fred said it was a misunderstanding about unpaid bus fare which at the time was 0.35. He says not a lot's changed since then. I have been stopped by the cops with my uniform on. The cops came to my job and told me I stole a Red Bull at the store with my uniform on. And I was going crazy. I was like-- I told them if they did not get out of my booth I was going to press the emergency button. They all left. Because they know they have to fill out paperwork for that. Fred did not buy anything at Mr. Mango not during that break anyway. He just came in to say hi to Dorje. Yeah this is the place man. Mr. Mango is the best. Especially Mr. Dorje here. Mr. Dorje. On his way out Fred promised Dorje that he would bring back the basketball cards soon so he could get a proper look. Dorje said he would want a full hour to do it so that he can see everything. After 300 AM even the night shift workers were not coming in anymore. It was just Dorje and Ronny in there. They were in constant motion-- Ronny restocking the eggs and coconut water Dorje cleaning the coffee machine and rearranging the pastries. Around 330 a really out of it man walked in. He was black. It seemed like he might have been homeless. He got a muffin. After that no one came in. And the store felt like a safe clean cocoon full of soap and honey and different kinds of sprinkles. It felt like a store from six 