Rachel was identity thefted. And at first it was the kind of thing that you hear about. Money was vanishing from her bank account and it turned out to be some charges and ATM withdrawals that she had not made herself. So she found this out but she figured OK no problem. Call the bank explain the situation. They will take care of it. She even figured out how it probably happened. She had been visiting friends in Chicago sitting in a coffee shop. And this guy walked in wearing a windbreaker and sat at the table next to us. And at one point he just brushed against me and I had my purse actually hanging over the chair. And it was not until after he had left and I went to pay that I realized that my wallet was gone. But you just figured that was the person who stole your identity? Yeah. My social security card had been in there and I thought that was something you could do without. So she goes and closes out her bank account switches to a different bank. Same thing happens. Money just starts disappearing. And she goes through several banks this way. It was like a game of bank-a-mole. Wherever her money goes the identity thief arrives. I was like I do not really know what else I can do. I closed everything. It really started to freak her out for money to just keep vanishing inexplicably out of her control. I started to become just a very paranoid person all the time. After this had been happening for a year or two I was just very anxious all the time. There was one point where I thought that my mail was being stolen because I was like how else is this happening? So I got a PO box and I got to the point where I thought someone was following me. I was just so paranoid that I would try to find alternate routes to get to my PO box so that-- They could not figure out where your PO box is and hack your PO box? Yeah. I mean it sounds so crazy looking back. To be honest I did not have that much money. I was working at a non-profit children's museum and trying to wait tables to supplement my income. But my boyfriend at the time was helping me out. I always paid my rent. I did not want him to pay for me or anything. It was very uncomfortable for me but he would buy the groceries and do everything. I would pay my rent and he would take care of everything else. And what did he do for a living? So he was always into politics. So at that point he was working at the Massachusetts State House working for the president of the Senate. Oh. Fancy. Yeah fancy job. And without him she would really be sunk because money just keeps vanishing from her bank accounts. So eventually she just gives up on the entire banking system. She closes her last account has the bank put all of the money that was remaining 1000 into a bank check that she keeps in a drawer handles all of her finances in cash and money orders. Problem solved at last. Until she and her boyfriend decide they are going to move and she needs the 1000. And she goes to the top dresser drawer where she keeps all of her financial stuff the receipts and statements and all of that and there is no check. And she is like OK well maybe it fell behind the dresser. Maybe I put it somewhere else. And so we tore apart the apartment just flipping couch cushions and opening drawers. And I was just having a panic attack because this was all of the money that I had in the world and we could not find it. So she goes to the bank. And they were like you already cashed this check. And they showed her a copy. And then where my signature was was my forged signature and it was my boyfriend's handwriting. Bum-bum-bum. It was the boyfriend. After all think about it. Who else could it be? In retrospect Rachel says that she is sure there was some small part of her in the back of her brain which was like OK what if it is him? I mean of course it is something you would think about and the banks are always like do you have a boyfriend? It is the boyfriend. The banks would say that? They would suggest that? Yeah. Any bank or police officer would always be like do you have a boyfriend? It is the boyfriend. It is always the boyfriend. And I was like you do not know my boyfriend. You do not know my boyfriend. These are like magic words that sometimes keep people from seeing things that are right in front of their face. You do not know my boyfriend. My boyfriend is like the king of generosity and kindness just so giving all the time to everyone just giving. He just wanted to give. You do not know my boyfriend. You do not know my wife. You do not know my spouse. You do not know my partner. You do not know them like I know them. This is one of the dangers of getting close to somebody. To get close you have to agree I trust you I believe you I know that what you say is true you know what I say is true. And sometimes that is a mistake. That is one of the perils of intimacy. There are others too of course. That is what our show is about today the perils of intimacy. Today we have grown men awkwardly trying to make friends with each other not sure what to talk about. We have people on nervous first dates bravely fighting their own insecurities and anxieties. There are downsides to being close to somebody. Let us talk about that for a change instead of how great it is to be married forever and blah blah blah Bridget Jones' wedding toast blah blah blah. Single people there are 32 million of you living alone 107 million of you unmarried. Here is an hour to make you feel good about that for a change. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us losers. So when Rachel came back from the bank from seeing her boyfriend's handwriting on the check that he stole from her when she got back to the studio apartment that they shared to confront him with the truth obviously how was she not going to ditch him? But he sat on the bed with her and did something. He broke down crying. And he said I have to tell you something. And I do not want to tell you because I am afraid that if I tell you you are going to leave me. And that is when he told me that he has impulse control disorder that he is been diagnosed with this for many years and that he is done a lot of stupid stuff. And he said he was seeing a therapist and getting help for it. How long had you guys been together? Probably four years three years. Yeah. I do not want to be disrespectful to somebody's actual disease but the name impulse control disorder just sounds like the name of-- well that is just saying well I just could not help myself. Totally. I just wanted to take money from a cash register. I have impulse control disorder. Right. I just wanted to sleep with your sister. I have impulse control disorder. Right. It just seems like the most-- I mean I say with respect to people who might have this as a real disorder. Right. And you know when you tell these stories and then you just feel like how do you not know? You just sound so stupid. But back then I think I needed to hear that there was some sort of medical reason. OK it is not-- At least it was an explanation. Yeah. Like he is not a bad person. He is just going through something that is out of his control and it is medical. Yeah it is interesting how a person would want that rather than the other thing. Well yeah-- like a bow I could tie up and here's why. Not like you have been living for years with a sociopath. The other one sounded better. So at the time she accepted all right he has an impulse control disorder. And she believed that the disorder is what caused him to steal the very last money she had in this world and forge her name on a check and then search for the check with her pretending he had no idea where the check could have gone. But that is all she thought he did. That tiny morsel of truth was all she was able to take in at that point. She did not put together the whole truth that he would been stealing from her for over a year that he was the identity thief not some stranger in a dingy apartment in Chicago. He was the identity thief who made her so totally stressed out over money all the time who drove her to the point where she was looking over her shoulder as she walked to her own post office box. They stayed together for another year and a half. And before you judge before you think how could she do that I will explain how. It is really interesting and I think it could happen to a lot of us. For starters her boyfriend had been the one steady thing in her life right? She is going through this hard time with banks and credit cards and it is not ending. And he was the one thing she thought she could depend on. It was just hard to let that go. Ugh God it makes me sound so stupid. But yeah I really thought I knew what good was. Everything felt so bad and so hard to control I was like he has to be good. Because if he is not good nothing is good. Right. That is the whole premise. That is the premise of your life. Right. Yeah. I was like rationally there is no way that it was him because he literally supports me. He buys all of our groceries and he pays all of our bills and he is legitimately my personal army to try and figure out the identity fraud. Right. So it just does not add up. How could that person be taking money from me the person who is actually paying for everything? Right. Yeah. So I was like why would someone steal from you and then spend it on you? It just did not make sense to me. But weird financial stuff keeps happening. Rachel gets phone calls about credit cards that are in her name that she never took out and knew nothing about. Her car gets booted even though Rachel never got a ticket herself. And occasionally the thought would cross her mind OK if I broke up with him would all those troubles go away? And she would just brush that thought away. Once the boyfriend's stepmother said something to Rachel. She was like the evil stepmom that he-- he hated her. And he kind of got me to hate her. And I realized years later she was the only one who was onto him. This happened early on. The stepmom said to Rachel I hear you are having some kind of identity theft problems. I was like yeah. And she was like do you guys go over bills together? Do you guys ever do that kind of stuff together? And I was like no I do not want to do it. It stresses me out. And she was like a really important part of a relationship is figuring out financial stuff. Maybe you should look into that and make sure that he is got things under control-- you know really tried to get me to do stuff with him. And I honestly-- I know she said something rude about him like he is not great at this. And I shut it down. I was just like you do not know. Because he made me hate her. So years later I realized oh my God she tried to warn me. But he had done such a good job of protection that I was like she is not even a candidate for trusting. It is interesting to think about what was in this for the boyfriend? You know what I mean? Stealing from her making her feel so anxious or paranoid about her finances and then stepping in to comfort her and save the day and help her out using her money. He was like a caretaker. It made him really happy. He really wanted to provide. I think he really wanted to be a provider. And he would make me these fancy dinners every night and pack my lunch for work and stuff like that. So like I say a year and a half passes and he asks Rachel to marry him. She says yes. She is really happy. The next morning-- this happens the very next morning-- she gets a call from their landlord who the boyfriend had always dealt with. And he was just screaming. He is like I do not know what you and your boyfriend are trying to pull but you owe me 16000 whatever it was. And you are being evicted. And why are not you returning my calls? And I was like I have no idea what you are talking about. And he was like you are a liar just like your boyfriend. She would been giving her boyfriend her half of the rent but he had not paid the landlord in a year. And she was like OK well where did that money go? And she started to look for it. She went through his stuff for the first time without him around and opened drawers and found all kinds of bills and credit cards in his name from American Express and Banana Republic and all kinds of other places a whole secret financial chaos. And then they fight about how he would been lying to her. And this is what breaks them up though it takes a few weeks for them to break up-- which I get. He would been her college boyfriend. They would been together five years. They were engaged. So OK it takes weeks. And during those weeks horribly-- We started planning a wedding. Like I kind of went into a catatonic state of existence where I went through the motions for a month where we would go look at wedding places. But in the back of my mind it was like I cannot marry this person. But I could not say it out loud. I did call her boyfriend to run all this by him everything Rachel said and give him a chance to respond but he said no. People close to Rachel and to him did confirm her story. So finally they agreed they were going to take a break for a few days think about things talk to their families and then come back and figure things out together. And he went home to his parents and I went to my parents. And I never ever saw him ever again. Never. Months later I was living with roommates and put together that for years I had been living with this person who was stealing from me and started to put together oh my god he was not working. He would get up every day and get dressed and leave the house when I left the house and he would pretend to go to work. I never went to his office. When he was working at the State House he showed me his office from the car. He was like look that gold domed building that is where I work. I am so excited. And I just realized I do not know anything that was real. I do not know when he was working or when he was not. You never met any of his office-mates? No. I heard stories about them all the time. Oh. So he had names of people who he said he worked with? Totally. What were their names? Well I remember Ann from the State House. He had a boss. I think he had named him Rob. And I just remember because there was this one time he called me at work. And he was really upset because he was at the airport. And he was like we are all supposed to go on a trip to DC. And it ends up there is a problem with the flight and we have to get put on the next flight and there is not enough room for everyone. And I am really bummed because I do not think I am going to get to go on the trip. Because I am not important enough. I am not high up enough. And he ended up not being able to go on the trip. And he was calling me from the airport telling me this story. And I felt so bad for him. But he did not work and those people were not real and he was not at the airport. I do not know. He was probably at home. We have this idea that when we discover the truth it hits us all at once. You know we see what is real and what is not in a flash of understanding. In fact the thing that we call an experience like that is the moment of truth. That is what we say the moment of truth. We do not say the dragged out year and a half of the truth. But that is how it goes sometimes. Sometimes we come to accept the truth slowly in stages. Sometimes we have reasons to hold on to a lie. We are not ready to let go of the world that the lie preserves the people the lie keeps close to us. And we release the lie from our hand one finger at a time. Act Two Why Cannot We Be Friends? OK fellow adults. Here's a question. When did you last make a friend? I mean an actual friend who you see regularly you talk about actual personal things. It is hard right to make a new one? To get to that point? To get through the awkward hey you want to hang out sometime phase? I am in this thing right now with this guy who honestly I thought maybe we were going to become friends. And he sent me an email saying hey let us have dinner. And I thought great. And I responded with a specific time. I said Thursday how about Thursday? Heard nothing. Then a few days later in an email about something completely else he suggested again hey we should do dinner sometime. And again I was like great. How about Thursday? Again heard nothing. What is that people? How do adults become friends? Neil Drumming on our staff has run a little experiment with human Guinea pigs on this particular subject. I have no idea how adults make new friends. I would like to but I am not really trying. I do not join clubs. I do not ask my co-workers out for drinks. And when I am at bars I do not do this. I have gone out by myself just trying to talk about sports what is usually what is blaring on the TV or about the beer. Like I will notice someone just ordered a beer next to me. I am like oh how is that? I really like hoppy beers. Blah blah blah. That is Chris Gerben poor guy. He is 37 years old. Nine months ago he moved his family from San Francisco to Austin for a teaching gig at a small university leaving most of his male friends back on the West Coast. He has no choice but to start over. I have not left New York in 16 years but so many of my male friends have recently moved or drifted away that I probably need to start over too. I have not done anything about it except maybe complain and overburden my romantic relationships. The thing I found remarkable about Chris was that he was being proactive. He was actively seeking male friends. He got on meetup.com. He formed a men's only book club. He memorized baseball statistics as conversation starters. He started going to bars expressly for the purpose of meeting other hetero dudes. The only time I remember it ever going really well-- really well-- I would been in Austin maybe for about a month. And I was sitting at this brewery near my house and I was eating dinner. I think my wife had our daughter out somewhere. So I was on my own and this guy sat next to me. And he was there with some of his friends. And I do not even remember how it started but at some point he actually turned towards me. And for a good I would say at least 20 minutes if not a half hour it was just me and him. We were talking. And we were talking talking talking. I remember in the back of my head thinking this is it. This is how you start a guy friendship. And then at some point he started talking about how he was a vet and he had been in Iraq. And he was talking about how he would just flew somewhere. And he took his concealed gun into the airport and the TSA flipped out about it. And I am thinking OK. I am not a gun guy and I do not really even know anything about guns. But I am just shaking my hand like OK sure. I am in Texas now. This is how it is. And then out of nowhere I think he grabbed my knee if I remember correctly. But he definitely moved closer to me and looked me right in the eye and said you have got to get a gun bro. You have got to protect your family. You have got to protect your daughter bro. And I was like oh yeah I do. Wait. Did you feel like you needed a gun to protect your family? No of course not! So why did you agree to continue along this line? CHUCKLING Because I was desperate for friends. The only reason I know about Chris's predicament is because he emailed This American Life about it. And even though I could relate I would not have given the letter a second thought if it did not remind me of my buddy Evan. Evan coincidentally had also just moved to Austin with his partner and his young daughter. I could tell from Facebook that they would managed to get set up OK but Evan was already feeling lonely that special kind of loneliness that people in long-term relationships often know too well. We do things together. We are raising a child together but we are not friends. Yeah. You know? That is Evan. He is honest. The parts of my identity that make me who I am being a nerd reading and writing about comic books and video games and movies I need somebody to share that with. Because we do not have similar interests in that regard or similar tastes. So this is a part of me that I feel is important to me and I want somebody to care about and to share that with. And traditionally that is where I have gone to my friends for. Yeah. Evan is one of those friends I let slip away in a flurry of rain-checks earlier this year. We have known each other I do not know maybe 10 years now. He used to recommend comic books and Xbox games that I never read nor finished. Part of what I love about Evan is how unabashedly he is who he is. He is earnest somewhat awkward and above all a nerd-- although I think he would accept the term black geek. He says he was not always so confident about these parts of his personality. And moving to Austin away from his friends and peers living on the sleepy edge of town with only his partner and daughter has put him in unfamiliar territory. What is your place like? It is nice. There is a pool maybe a couple hundred feet away from us. And there is tennis courts not that I am ever going to use them. But it is nice. Evan was not putting himself out there but Chris was. And they live in the same city both men both dads around the same age. Both want friends. Maybe I have been making it out to be harder than it actually is. Maybe all you have to do to make a friend is get off your ass and try. Here was a chance to find out without you know actually having to do anything myself. I would fix Evan and Chris up on a date-- a man date. You cannot have a man date without an official activity. Those are the rules. So the first thing I did was write to Chris and Evan and ask them each what they were into. Chris sent me a list that included hiking running karaoke and something called disc golf. Evan said he likes playing video games and eating-- oh and drinking in moderation. I suggested they go sea Captain America Civil War which was coming out in a week. The trailer was awesome plus the movie stars Chris Evans as Captain America. Chris Evans. That is fate right? Evan emailed me that he would wrangled free passes to an early screening. More fate. Though he was concerned about inviting Chris. The movie features the cinematic debut of Evan's all-time favorite comic book superhero the Black Panther. And he was worried that Chris a total stranger might witness him crying. I grabbed fate by the hand and convinced Evan to give up his plus one anyway. When I emailed Chris the good news he wrote back that quote Hate may be too strong a word but I really dislike the newest round of superhero movies. I did not tell Evan about that and we kept looking. Eventually we settled on trivia night at a brew house in town. But by then the whole idea had started to feel a little precarious. For one thing Chris was having some weird misgivings. The first thing I did was google him and see who this person was. I even went onto his Twitter feed and saw that he was interacting with people and retweeting people who seemed really big in his field. And it was intimidating. I mean the first thing I thought was I feel sorry for this guy having to go out with me. You know? I really felt like he did not need this. He felt like Evan was out of his league. Meanwhile Evan was not even thinking about Chris. He never googled him. And when Chris gave Evan his phone number over email multiple times Evan never responded with his. When I talked to Evan hours before the date his biggest worry was traffic. He moved to Texas from New York City. He had not driven in years. There is so much unpredictability surrounding you. Even when you feel like I am in control I feel confident about my abilities but you do not know who the  else is out there making a sudden turn. It is stressful. I get it. Having relied on the subway most of my life driving scares the crap out of me too. But I needed Evan to get his head in the game. You see by now I was starting to think that Chris and Evan might not immediately or ever become fast friends. They might just be too different. But whether they recognized it or not there was something that connected them. I could see it from my perch 1800 miles away even when they could not. Evan is a deep-dive pop culture junkie. Chris is an English professor who is into sports. They were opposite sides of an egg-headed coin. Between them I figured they must have the gamut of trivia game minutiae thoroughly covered. If my experiment would not generate a lifelong friendship at least it was within my power to forge the mightiest trivia team in all of Austin on this particular Wednesday night. In this hope I was not alone. Evan was poised to win. If there is a whole bunch of superhero video game  out there you better believe I want to  try and own it. Yeah. Well I know I looked at the website for the trivia night and I saw some Star Wars references and things. Yeah I saw Star Wars and Lord of the Rings and some other stuff. But you know I have got my weaknesses in certain areas. Wait what are your weaknesses? I do not know what your weaknesses are. Tolkien? I do not  with Tolkien at all. Really? Yeah no. No that  was always too white for me. The night of the man date arrives and I hear nothing from Chris or Evan. Not a text not an email. The next morning still nothing. I finally talked to Chris that afternoon about how the night went. Being the eager one he would gotten to the bar first. I got there and I was going table to table asking if we could sit down. And every single person said no. It reminded me of elementary school where you are going table to table asking if you can sit. All of the cool kids are saying no. I mean that is kind of what it felt like. I really felt like I was already in the hole before Evan even arrived. They would agreed ahead of time on how they would recognize each other. He told me that he was going to be wearing a purple shirt and yellow shoes and he was going to be limping slightly because he had a stubbed toe. So I got there a little bit early. I ordered a drink right away. Can I get a Fonrazade? And I saw him stride up to the first white dude with a blue shirt sitting near the stage and just go introduce himself and it was not me. And as soon as I saw it I said this is my guy. How tight was his shirt? I know how Evan likes his shirts tight. CHUCKLING It was a shirt I would not be able to wear out in public. And then he sat down and then the first thing he did was order a lemonade. And I thought oh no. This is going to be bad. Evan eventually ordered some bourbon but not too much. Moderation. So I said we need a team name. What do you want? And he just ripped off. He said we are the Lonely Transplants. And I said all right. And I thought that was a little on the nose. I mean it was a little briefer than Two dudes one from New York one from California both of whom cannot find any friends blah blah blah. But yeah Lonely Transplants was our name. The Lonely Transplants Lonely Transplants. All right. Welcome to town. Enjoy the food. The trivia night that Chris and Evan went to is officially called Geeks Who Drink. And Evan killed it just as I had hoped. Chris was impressed. There was a whole category about directors. They would show us clips and we would have to guess what the movie was. And he was getting those left and right. And I honestly sat there. I sat there for entire rounds without doing anything. The Lonely Transplants did not turn out to be the quick-fire mind-melded dream team that I had hoped for. There was one where the answer was a loofah like a bath loofah. It is an organic substance that you have to microwave once a day so it cleans out the bacteria. And for whatever reason I thought it was a sea cucumber. And he is like no it is a loofah. And I was like no I promise it is a sea cucumber. And if it is wrong I will leave. Chris says Evan did not actually force him to leave or hold it over his head that he was not pulling his weight. Chris took that to mean that things were going well between them. The Lonely Transplants came in 19th out of about 30 teams. 19th place the Lonely Transplants. But their meager showing did not matter to Chris. This is a guy who had told me that he was missing spontaneity in his life that his everyday felt scheduled around work and running errands and toddler parties. He was feeling like there were no surprises left. Suddenly here he was trying to remember who recorded Rock Me Amadeus with this sort of awkward sort of dapper black dude from Brooklyn. And he knew it was by Falco. I had forgotten it was by Falco and I did not write down Falco. It was cool. Evan is a cool dude. And yeah I think if there was an opportunity to meet someone like him out in the quote-unquote real world I think I would have gone home just floated on air telling my wife about how excited I was for a potential new friend. But at the end of the night the trivia host came over to talk to Chris and Evan. And something happened that left Chris feeling yet again a little inadequate. Evan and the quizmasters went on this long riff about Star Wars and then Star Trek and the Death of Spock and how that had a relation to men's feelings and loss. And I am sure I saw those movies but I was just nodding like an idiot. And it was at that moment where I thought oh man. I got nothing. Why would you need to microwave a sea cucumber to remove bacteria? That would just kill the sea cucumber. And what are you using a sea cucumber to wash anyway? After talking to Chris naturally I called Evan. How did it go? Are we talking about the quiz part? Or are we talking about the making-a-friend part? Just general impressions. Yeah general impressions I think it well. I definitely thought it was more fun than I was anticipating it to be. I can definitely see myself hanging out with him again. This was confusing to me because the entire time that I talked to Evan he just did not say that much about Chris or how he himself felt about the date. If he had any impressions of Chris he did not let on. The only thing Evan got passionate about and I should have expected this was when I asked him to revisit the impromptu Star Trek conversation he had with the hosts at the end of the night. I love Wrath of Khan. And the friendship between Kirk and Spock has been a thing that I have always loved in science fiction pop culture. Kirk represented the brash impulsive seat of your pants mode of living that I never really pulled off. And Spock he did not fit in. And his emotions were not readily accessible to him. And his primary identifier was his intelligence which is something I felt deeply. Kirk and Spock were opposites thrown together under extreme circumstances and multiple alien encounters who came to a level of mutual respect and admiration that spanned a galaxy and several franchise reboots. They were friends for decades who were willing to die for each other. By these standards Chris and Evan's man date was not a rousing success. But I am more of a romantic comedy buff than a Star Trek fan. And rom-coms for the most part are only about the beginnings of relationships. By those standards you just have to establish that first connection. All you really need are two people who both kind of want to meet someone and a powerful external force to bring them together like a best friend's impending wedding or a forced road trip together or say a radio producer just trying to satisfy his own curiosity. Would you like to hang out again? Yeah. I would love to hang out with Evan again. I thought he was a really cool guy. Would you consider calling Chris at some point or hanging out with him again? Yeah. Yeah totally. I was planning after I spoke to you-- I did not want to muck up the process by emailing him prematurely. But yeah I was planning to follow up and email him. It is been three weeks since their date. Chris and Evan still have not gotten together again. But Evan finally gave Chris his number and they have been emailing back and forth about plans. I think it will happen. Hell I would do it. Probably. Neil Drumming is one of the producers of our show.   The song stylings of Leonard Nimoy. Coming up you meet your hero. And maybe they are a jerk maybe they are just OK maybe they are wonderful. Why that third scenario might be the very very worst. In a minute when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program we choose a theme. Today's show The Perils of Intimacy stories of what exactly can go wrong big and small when you get close to somebody. We have arrived at Act Three of our show. Act Three Hero Today Gone Tomorrow. It can be so awkward meeting one of your heroes. I swear there should be like a separate word for the phe