When Mike and Sara bought their house they were in their 30s-- been renters all their lives. Not married no kids yet but heading there. We had saved some money for a down payment and we used all of that. So we had no money to furnish the house with. And we were two people who had been living like grad students basically. So yeah we moved in our futon and we moved in our-- They had a little table that they got from Mike's dad's garage. Their chairs were these plastic stacking deck chairs-- the ones from Kmart. They had two desks. And that was about it. So most of the house was empty. Most of the rooms had nothing in them. And so on the weekends they would go looking for furniture. At first they tried yard sales. And then they learned about estate sales barn sales. They live in Maine. The thing that they wanted more than anything was to get a dining room table. If they had a dining room table they could have friends over for dinner and they really wanted that. But the problem was they never had enough money to win at these barn auctions. Somebody would always outbid them. And Mike says he was seeing a side of Sara he had never seen before. She turned into an absolute different person at these barn auctions. They would hand her a paddle and she would have to win which is not good when you do not have any money. Yeah. You give me a paddle and I am not going to sit there with it on my lap the whole time. And so then I would get a little wound up. After this one time when she spent hundreds of dollars that they did not have on something that looked from the back of the room where they were sitting like it was kind of a table but did not actually turn out to be a table the two of them decided OK no more barn auctions. But Sara was not done. Well then I discovered this little thing called eBay. And this is like 1998 1999. EBay is really new. They had just gone public. People like Sara are calling on dial-up modems. And Sara said that the first thing that she did when she got onto eBay was enter dining room table into the search box. And then I was amazed because suddenly there were all these pictures of tables and you can just get them. Today it seems kind of old hat but back then it really was exciting. So at first bidding on eBay was a lot like the barn auctions. Sara would bid on some piece of furniture and then ultimately did not have enough money to win. But she says that she was able to get a nice side table for 20. That gave her hope. And then one day-- The listing was round walnut table and two chairs. And I clicked on it and the starting bid was like 10 but then the shipping was really low. I remember seeing a picture of it. It was kind of fancier than something we might normally go for and the chairs looked great. It looked like what grown-up people would put in their house. Like if we can put that table in here that is it that is the beginning. You could kind of see your kids sitting around that table someday. So there is a brief bidding war and Sara wins the table. She remembers it costing 20 Mike remembers it as 40. But the moment she won that she is totally clear on. Are you kidding? On that front I was elated. That felt great. It just felt like wow I could furnish our whole house for 400. I felt like suddenly oh we have been looking in the wrong places. We would been going to these barn auctions but people already know about that. But nobody knows about eBay yet. So yeah I was really fired up about it. So a couple days pass. And one day Sara goes out to the mailbox and there is a package. It is a box like half the size of a toaster. I was sort of like oh what is this? I brought it inside and I came into the kitchen and I opened up the box. And there was my walnut table and two chairs. And it was just as beautiful as it had been in the picture but it was about 2 and 12 inches high. But it had the little velvet cushions and it had a crocheted top on it. And it was from some guy in Maryland who makes doll furniture. And I sat and I stared at it dumbfounded for so long trying to decide how I felt. That was the first thing when I was staring at the doll table. It was one of those do I laugh or do I cry moments. And then I do remember getting back on eBay and realizing that when you put in a general search term there are still categories. Because I went and found the listing and it was under doll furniture. Next she showed it to Mike. And Mike says that when she showed him the toy table at first he could not even understand what it was that he was looking at. His brain could not process the information-- like what is this? But then we were like OK. That is fine. So we set it up in the dining room. So we had this big empty house and this tiny doll table with doll chairs set up in the dining room. And our friends started buying us little doll dishes and glasses. So it was a perfect transaction except for that one thing. Yeah. Until the cardboard box arrived. I do remember wanting Mike to see what a beautiful table it was even if it was the wrong size. Like that did matter. It was a nice table. And I remember when our friends came over and they would all mock me it really was important to me that they saw-- I mean it was a beautiful-- the guy who made it is an artist. I am going to give him that. And it was walnut and it was hand-carved and it had a nice little rim around it. And it was a miniature version of exactly what I wanted. Well today on our radio program Except For That One Thing we have stories today where everything is just like you would dream just like you would wish for except for one pesky detail one flaw. And the people involved they have to decide if they can live with that flaw that one problem in how things worked out or if they cannot live with it. That is what growing up is about right? Living with things not being absolutely perfect. Am I just talking for myself here? I hope not. OK. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act 1 Run On Sentence. So lots of us have things about ourselves that we keep to ourselves that we assume people would see us differently if they knew about. And Mike Anderson had something like that one thing about him in particular that he kept a secret until one day it came out. Jessica Lussenhop explains. Mike Anderson was 36 years old married a suburban father of four. He owned a contracting business and built his family's modest three-bedroom house in St. Louis from the ground up. He volunteered at church on the weekends and coached his son's football team. That changed last July. He was at home alone with his two-year-old daughter while his wife was away on a business trip. I was sleeping. I was awoken. It was about 6 oclock in the morning woken by knocking at the door. And it was unusual knocking. It was the consistent knocking the hard knocking. So I knew something was going on. So I just stood at the top of the stairs for a moment. And finally I said who is it? I am in my boxers. And they said marshals. Open it up or it is coming down. Open up the door. As soon as I opened up the door it was a small army. I mean it was about eight of them. They had the shields. They had the helmets. They had the AR-15 style machine looking guns. And they had the street blocked off. And I said hey man you got the wrong person. And he just looked at me. He said no you are the right person. The officer handcuffed him and asked do you remember 13 years ago? I broke out in a sweat. They had to sit me down. And the only thing I could think about what is my wife going to say? What is she going to think? I called her. And as soon as I called her she was crying what is going on? And I told her what was going on. I said baby this is from 13 years ago. I am freaking out-- I mean screaming crying. This is Mike's wife LaQonna. They have been married for six years. I can hear the marshals in the background telling him he has to go. So he told me he loved me and that was it. And when you heard something from 13 years ago did you understand what that meant at all? Or what were you thinking? I did not understand what it meant until the next day when we had a talk with the attorney. Then I just passed out. Hit my head on the concrete. Here's what LaQonna learned. In 1999 Mike was arrested for armed robbery but never served his time because of what amounted to a clerical error. He was 22 years old when he and a friend held up a Burger King manager making a night deposit at a bank. This was not a case of mistaken identity or wrongful conviction. Mike was there. Although his attorney instructed him not to discuss the details of the crime with me Mike says he got caught up with the wrong crowd that night. Until then he had no prior convictions and worked a full time job at ATT. In court Mike testified that the robbery was not his idea and that the gun his friend was holding was just a BB gun. The police never actually recovered any weapons but Mike was convicted of armed criminal action and robbery. The judge sentenced him to 13 years in prison. Mike filed a series of appeals but in the end the courts decided nope. He had to serve his sentence. At the time Mike was out on bail. And here something strange happened. At this point Mike's bail should have been revoked and he should have been arrested and taken to prison. But a warrant was never issued for that. Mike's attorney and the prosecutor appeared before a judge. Mike was not actually there himself. From what I understand the judge asked where is Mr. Anderson? My attorney handed her the briefs and told her Mr. Anderson is currently out on bond. But the prosecuting attorney at that time hopped up and said no he is not out on bond. I checked my office checked he is currently in prison. And so that was it. It was the prosecutor who told the judge that Mike was in custody even though he was not he was at home. Mike's attorney did not say anything because he had not actually talked to Mike in a few days and he thought maybe he really was back in prison-- until he talked to Mike on the phone. He was shocked. He said you are not in jail? I said no I am not. And so I was like what are we supposed to do? Am I supposed to turn myself in? And it was just like well at this time it is a mistake. They will figure out their mistake. He says temporary-- expect to be picked up. They are going to pick you up. It was not unusual for it to take a couple of weeks for a warrant to get issued but months then years passed. No one ever came and picked up Mike. Mike says he never really considered turning himself in. He figured they would either come for him or they would not. And if they did not OK. That was God's plan for him. His lawyer was vague about what he should do next. He left it up to Mike. But after the arrest the trial the months he spent in prison before bonding out Mike decided to turn his life around. He went back to school and became a master carpenter. He got married and became a family man who checked homework and got his kids ready for bed every night. Mike never had another run-in with the law. Did you feel like a fugitive during that time? No. I never felt like a fugitive. Because a fugitive is someone that is running from the law. I never ran from the law. I was there. I registered my business through the state with a Social Security number address everything. I am four streets over from the address that they had on file. I built a house over there. So there was never any running or strategy of hey I do not want to go here because there is going to be authorities. No I lived a normal life. Did you feel relaxed right away? What was it like to sort of acclimate to this feeling that you are out and you may get to stay out? It was 13 years of somewhat relief. But was it always in the back of my mind? Of course it was always in the back of my mind. Is that day coming any day now? So like you get pulled over for a traffic ticket. You run a red light run a stop sign or you did not come into a complete stop. And they are running your information and your heart's beating fast like man are they going to know? And they come back hey Mr. Anderson. Hey get your taillight fixed. Get your tags renewed. And that was it. And I was just like wow. What is going on? In the end the only reason that the Missouri Department of Corrections realized Mike was missing was because they were preparing to release him from prison. I called the Department of Corrections the county's warrant officers the original court where this happened Missouri's Attorney General and the state supreme court and no one would say anything about how there was a record claiming that Mike was one of their inmates when he was in fact free. Meanwhile Mike and his wife still have not had a frank conversation about all this either. They have not discussed the fact that Mike knew all those years that he might someday go back to prison but never told her. Do you feel any sense of anger or wish that he had told you this earlier on? I mean that question arose in my head just like why he did not tell me. I cannot get mad at him because I understand why he hid it from me. He just wanted to protect me. So he did not want to put too much on me that I could not handle. And that is just the type of person Mike is too. He will try to juggle everything by himself. It feels a little strange that you guys have not had that conversation. It is uncomfortable for me because I am always embarrassed about it. That is not who I am now. It is not who I will ever be. I just want to forget. When I first visited Mike in November he had to stay in his cell for about 22 hours a day in a huge penitentiary called Fulton Reception and Diagnostic a gray building planted in the middle of farmland about two hours west of St. Louis. Usually clean cut Mike had several months worth of beard on his chin. August the kids went to school their first day of school. Missed that. September missed me and my wife's anniversary on the 26th. November my son turned seven on the 5th and my daughter turned 11 on the 10th. I missed a lot-- missed a lot. 13 years without going to prison did exactly what you would hope 13 years in prison will do for a person. Mike reformed became a model citizen. Which raises the question do we want to send him to prison? It will cost the state of Missouri about 20000 a year to house and feed him. And if Mike's no longer a danger to society what is the point of having him sit in a cell when he could be out working paying taxes and raising his kids? Tim Lohmar is the prosecuting attorney in St. Charles County where Mike was sentenced-- although he is not the one who jumped up in court and said Mike was in prison. That prosecutor has passed away. It still baffles me how this could have happened. But I think the state's interests are that this sentence has to be served. So he is had this life. He is had children started a small business. has not had any run-ins with the law. Some people would say that he is been rehabilitated. He should not have to serve the sentence because it took so long. Well I cannot say that that is not a reasonable thing for those people to think especially his family people who are close to him. Anybody who does not have sympathy for Mr. Anderson I think is not being genuine. It is a horrible tragedy for he and his family. So whether that spurs somebody at a higher pay grade than me to figure out a better way to do this I do not know. You open Pandora's box. If our system allowed for people to somehow-- whether it was their doing or somebody else's doing-- to delay their incarceration to see if they can rehabilitate and become a productive member of society become a family man I do not know how we would do that. I do not know where you stop. Where do you draw the line? That is not a precedent that I feel that we can set. Mike's family hired a lawyer who is filed a brief arguing that when the state forgot about Mike for 13 years they violated his constitutional right to due process or speedy punishment that now suddenly taking Mike away from his life because of the state's quote utter and complete failure to act defines cruelty end quote. If that fails Mike can petition Missouri governor Jay Nixon for clemency. He is only granted that once. Then there is the victim from the robbery. You would think if anyone would have an opinion about whether Mike should serve his time or not it would be him. I hope someday that man can forgive me for what I was a part of. So I have always wanted to someway somehow reach out to him but I always feared that it would be an intrusion. All I can do is just-- I am sorry. I should have never been there that night. I first reported this story last summer for the St. Louis Riverfront Times. At that time I could not find the victim. But then right after my article published he found me. His name is Dennis. I was sitting there back at work eating my lunch and reading this magazine. Something about oh the guy was a Burger King manager at a night shift and he got robbed out in St. Charles. And that is when I was like wow man this is really trippy. That almost sounds like something that happened to me. And then when I got on down farther then I was like crap they are talking about me. When he first contacted me Dennis sent me an email saying I was that victim. Why do not you talk to me and I will tell you how bad it screwed up my life. When we finally met Dennis told me that getting robbed at gunpoint left him deeply paranoid. He even moved a few times thinking the robbers might come looking for him to keep him from testifying. It started kind of getting to me a little bit to where I was not sleeping at nights. And it kind of just escalated from there. I did not want to be there at work no more refused to take any money back to the bank not at nighttime anyway. I just did not trust anybody did not want to do anything did not want to be anywhere. I just pretty much wanted to just be by myself. Dennis said he had problems in his life before the robbery-- with his marriage with drinking. But he says after they got worse. His marriage fell apart. And so when Dennis found out that Mike never served his sentence he got pretty angry. But then the more I thought about it it was like what you are doing to him is not right. He was not out robbing other people doing this that and the other. He seemed to have gotten his life together. You have got to give the guy a little bit of slack. I mean yeah he screwed up when he was little. But the law dropped the ball. The law ought to drop it completely. They need to leave the man alone. When you tell people that that is how you feel about it does it surprise them? It is the weirdest thing. As I was sitting downstairs rereading that article one day for my daughter she goes Dad we read this in school the other day. I was like oh yeah? I said oh. But at the time she did not know it was me. Because I just never talk about it. She said that she did not think it was right what they are doing to him now. And pretty much her whole class agreed with her. Then Dennis told her that he was the Burger King manager in that article and that he felt the same way she did. Two days after that conversation I went back to the prison to talk to Mike. I told him what Dennis and his daughter said that the state should let him go. He was overwhelmed. Wow that is-- all I can say is praise God. Thank God for that. And I do not know what to say. CHOKING UP I do not. He told me he was really sorry to be bothering Dennis by reminding him of the past. I appreciate him. I never want him to ever be-- this brought back to him. That is my fault. I appreciate him for that-- his daughter and the class. His daughter could be affected by that you know? That is not something that I ever-- that is never my intent and I do not want that. Mike is afraid of falling into the daily routines of prison. So aside from his church group he does not interact much with the other inmates. He will not do things like watch TV with them or play cards. He also does not like writing his family letters. I try not to write anybody because I do not want to get used to this. I do not want my wife coming up here to visit me. She wanted to come up here the 1st of this month and I said no do not do it. For eight years we have never been apart. And I do not want her getting this image of me. I do not want anybody thinking this is who I am. If you could go back would you turn yourself in at 22? If I would have known this yes. Yes. If it would have been something-- oh definitely. Like I said I would have rather done it then. I was 22 23 at the time did not have any children did not have a wife did not have a mortgage did not have a car payment. The hurt would have been less then. No one financially or physically depended on me. It is almost like I feel like I have abandoned my job as a man and as a father. Because my mom my wife my kids they are doing the same time I am doing. As it stands now Mike's sentence will keep him in until 2026. He will be nearly 50 when he gets out. His two-year-old will just be starting high school. Accepting all that it is just too crushing to consider. I have to look at it like no matter what God's got me. I wake up every time the doors pop. Every time the intercom comes on every time my name is called I feel it is my time. I am going home. How long do you think you can kind of keep up that mindset? I am going to keep up that mindset till the day I walk out of here. I have to. I cannot sit here and think that I will be here for 13 years. There is no way. Everything that I have been allowed to do that I have accomplished. It seems like it would be all for nothing. In November Mike and his wife both expected he would be home for Christmas. Now she just assures herself it will be very soon. They talk on the phone almost every day. But they both told me they figure they will finally discuss Mike's original crime and the fact he kept it from her all those years face-to-face once this is all over once he gets home. Jessica Lussenhop she is the managing editor at the Riverfront Times in St. Louis. Since we first broadcast that story a year ago a lot has changed for Mike Anderson and his family. Four little children are back in the arms of their father tonight. They have not seen him since US Marshals came to take him back to prison last July. That is right. Mike Anderson was released this past May when a judge decided keeping him in prison was a waste of taxpayer money and that quote it would unnecessarily punish an obviously rehabilitated man. Then six months after being released Mike was back behind bars. He was leaving a restaurant 100 in the morning. And he was stopped by police identified as a man who had just stolen a purse. Mike Anderson said he was innocent. He was nowhere near the scene of the crime when the crime happened. He would said he would been in the restaurant with his wife at a party his employer was throwing. He was charged with felony second degree robbery. Then three months after being arrested new evidence emerged. Surveillance footage proved Mike had been telling the truth all along. Here's Circuit Attorney Jennifer Joyce. My apologies to Mr. Anderson. Mr. Anderson did not commit this crime. And so two times Mike Anderson became a free man. Coming up after the break a date that is close so close to being perfect except for one thing. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program Except For That One Thing. Stories where everything is perfect except for one inconvenient detail. We have arrived at Act 2 of our program. Act 2 Not Okay Cupid. This is a piece of fiction by BJ Novak-- a piece of fiction that with his help we have turned into a little radio drama. It takes place at a restaurant. Hold on let me cue restaurant sound please.  There we go. OK. Here's our story. OK. Now you sir. Julie finished the second-to-last half sip of her third complicated cocktail. Yes? You sir. Now I am-- OK.  I feel like we have only talked about me but I do not know anything about you other than that you are very charming and well very cute of course. Do not let that go to your head. Should not have said that. Should not have said that. Thank you. OK. If this is my--  OK. What do you do? What do I do? You mean what is my job? Sorry. I hate that question too. It is like is this a date or an interview right? He finished his bite of sauce-soaked broccolini and answered.  lord. Hm? All I heard was lord. Yes. Oh OK. OK. This is fun. Are you a landlord? Because I do not have the best history getting along with landlords. My first apartment-- I am not a landlord. Are you a drug lord? Julie stroke-poked the side of his face with her finger. Because that could be a problem. No. You are not the Lord are you? Because I have not gone to temple since my bat mitzvah. Do not tell my grandma.  She could tell he was laughing just to be nice. And she liked that more than if he had laughed from finding her funny. A nice guy now that would be a real change of pace for her. Then what kind of lord are you anyways huh?  God she was a bit tipsy was not she? I am a warlord. Interesting. Now I do not know exactly what this is. But I want to learn. So what exactly is a warlord? She rested her chin playfully on a V of two upturned palms. Educate me. OK. Can you picture where the Congo is on a map? Julie exaggerated. Kind of. This is Africa. He pointed to an imaginary map in the air between them. This is the Indian Ocean. This is the Democratic Republic of the Congo. This is just regular Congo. Wha-- what? Hold up. I know. That is just how it is. I did not name them.  Anyway this all this here this is what I control. So you are like the governor of it? No. There are areas of the world Julie where it will show up on your map as a certain country. But in reality no government is in control of that region in any real way. They cannot collect taxes. They cannot enforce laws. Do you follow? Mhm. Julie nodded. The people that are in charge are the warlords. They-- we-- bribe kidnap indoctrinate torture and what am I forgetting? What is the fifth one? Oh kill.  It is weird that I forgot that one. We kill the population of any region that falls above a certain threshold of natural resources but below a certain threshold of government protection. It is not exactly that simple Julie. But basically that determines where I am based. Once those conditions reach that level me and my team we show up and terrorize that area until the entire population is either dead subdued or ideally one of our soldiers. Ideally-ideally dream scenario a child soldier. But that does not sound legal. No. It is not legal at all. Have you been listening? Oh um-- Julie blushed and rotated her fork on her napkin in a four-point turn so that she would have something to focus on besides her embarrassment. This is a show of force outside the ability of any government to enforce its laws. He went on and on. The words rape and limbs came up more than on any other date she could remember. Have you ever scene a picket fence made of limbs? No. But what about like the international community? Do not they ever pressure you to stop or-- or something? Yes sure. For example there was this thing about me on Twitter a while ago. Are you on Twitter? She said she was but did not check it often. Yeah I am. But I do not check it often. Same here. I have an account but I can never figure out if it is a thing I do or not. Anyway I was trending. Do you know what that is? Yeah. I will be honest it weirded me out. I got into this pattern where I was checking my name every two seconds. And there were like 45 new mentions of me-- all negative. You cannot let yourself fall into that. Exactly. Anyway it passed. You know Twitter before long everyone's onto the next thing. What about  um the ethics of it? How do you feel about that? Does not that trouble you? The warlord gestured to Julie with his fork. That top you are wearing-- Anthropologie? HM but thank you. Even better. Do you know the conditions in the factories that made that top you are wearing? Do you ever think about that? Yeah OK. No. That is not-- nice try. Just because-- no. No. And yes I know this phone right here that I use every day. But no-- no. You cannot-- it does not help anything to equate-- look-- there is no excuse. But that also does not mean-- WHISPERING Just in case you are thinking about dessert. The waitress dropped off two stiff sheets of artisan paper in front of Julie and the warlord. Remember when they used to ask first if you wanted to see a dessert menu? Now everyone just ambushes you with a dessert menu without asking. When did that start? I know. Everyone started doing it at the same time too. Yes. How does stuff like that happen? I do not know. Everywhere just  changing their policy at the exact same time. I have no idea. Better get Malcolm Gladwell on that. I know right? They both scanned the menus. Let us see-- Each pair of eyes starting in the unhelpful middle of the dessert menu for some no-reason then tipsily circling around and around until most of the important words had been absorbed. I have never understood flourless chocolate cake. Is flour such a bad thing? I mean compared to the other things in chocolate cake? You want to split that? Flour is probably the least unhealthy thing I can think of in a chocolate cake. Is that supposed to be the point that the whole cake is just all eggs and sugar and butter? And anyway who cares? It is chocolate cake. We know it is not a health food. Use whatever ingredients you want. All it has to do is taste good. We do not need to know how you did it just make it. You want to maybe split that? We shall split the flourless chocolate cake. Great. So do you get to travel a lot? Not as much as I would like. Now and then we will reach some ceasefire especially after some big massacre and things get quiet for a bit. That is what allowed me to take some time off travel meet you stuff like that. Oh I meant to say you look even better in person than in your profile picture. Oh thank you. Yeah. I have been meaning to tell you that. It is a nice surprise. Rare that it goes in that direction. Hah well thanks. Um same. Do not let it go to your head. Thanks. So lost my train of thought. Ceasefires? Right. So you know ceasefires they never stick. Yes. I think I saw something about that on Jon Stewart. That must be frustrating. It is. Thank you Julie. That is exactly the right word. It is very frustrating. Flourless chocolate cake. Thank you. Thank you. Can I get you anything else? Another drink? I really should not. Are you OK to drive by the way? I have a driver. Julie ordered a fourth and final cocktail. BJ Novak that story Julie and the Warlord is from his book of short stories called One More Thing-- Stories and Other Stories. Our amazing actors-- Alison Brie played Julie. Tunde Adebimpe was the warlord. Act 3 Hungry Hungry People. There was a period in the early 1900s in our country when meat was actually scarce because of huge waves of immigrants coming in. Plus there was also a growing demand for us to export meat to other countries. And meat was scarce enough that the thinkers and journalists and politicians of the day did not just call it a meat shortage. The problem was commonly referred to by this loftier more zen-like name the Meat Question. Jon Mooallem wrote a long story about this for The Atavist online. He says that there would be newspaper editorials about what are we going to do about the Meat Question. It pops up in congressional testimony on unrelated subjects. People will say well you know it is just like the Meat Question. The question being how are we going to raise enough meat for all the people here? Jon Mooallem talked to This American Life producer Alex Blumberg about all this. He said it was not like American industry was not trying to produce more meat. This is like Upton Sinclair The Jungle era. So you have the industry just ramping up and trying to become as efficient as it can. But it is just not happening. It is just the supply was still being dwarfed by the demand. And-- No matter how many rats and human fingers they added they just could not produce enough meat. Well right. And people were actually a little bit worried. There were rumors that Germans were eating dogs and all this stuff. And could it happen here too? And in that way it was also really an existential crisis for the country at the same time because literally we had gone all the way west. People talk about the frontier being closed. There was not a sense that there was more t