How old were you when you first came out?  That is weird to say it like that. I know. I cannot really talk about it. Yeah why is that weird? It does seem weird to me too. Well because it feels-- to me it feels-- OK here's something that I just heard about though I guess it is been out there for a little while now. It is the idea that fat people would come out to their friends and family as fat. Like they would decide OK today's the day going to say it out loud to people I am fat. I heard about this from Lindy West. She is a writer who is been on our program before. Maybe you remember her story about confronting an internet troll. Coming out as fat is a strange idea because of course people can see if you are fat. It is no secret. It is not like when you come out as gay or transgender. Nobody says to you dude I cannot believe you are fat. Lindy says it was obvious how big she was. But I always felt like if I did not mention it that maybe people would not notice. Or it could just be this sort of polite secret like open secret that we did not address because it felt so shameful. It just felt impolite to talk about like me not wanting to burden you with my failure. Like I am not going to bother you with this. Yeah and just give me a little more time. Let us not talk about it and I promise I will fix it. That is key she says. As long as you are a fat person who is trying not to be fat that is acceptable. That is a good fat person. You do not totally admit to yourself you are fat because well-- The way that we are taught to think about fatness is that fat is not a permanent state. You are just a thin person who is failing consistently for your whole life.  So to actually say OK I am fat-- and I have been as long as I can remember so I do not know why I live in this imaginary future where I you know someday I am going to be thin. So before you declared to others OK I am fat how did you see yourself? Did you see yourself as fat? Did you conceive of yourself as fat? Yeah but I was determined to not be fat forever. And my worst fear was what if I am? And then at some point I just was like you know it is fairly likely that I am going to be fat forever. So why am I putting off figuring out how to live with that? I should rather than spending all my time counting almonds why not try to figure out how to be happy now? Which means saying to everybody let us just decide together that like most fat people I will probably always be this way. This is who I am which-- right now anyway-- is so rare it feels like a radical act. I am fat. It is so weird to actually hear you say I am fat. I actually heard you say that. I do not think I have ever actually heard somebody just say those words except in a much smaller context like somebody puts on a dress and it is like oh I am fat. But they do not mean this is who I am. Yeah and it is usually thin people who say that. Yeah. You know? Yeah. When you come out as gay most people accept it because they know you cannot do anything about that. That is who you are. You cannot change it. But coming out as fat doctors and your family and kind of the entire culture is organized to point out how wrong-headed you are. When you are over a certain size-- it is been explained to me by a few people now-- complete strangers walk up to you on the street and tell you to lose weight. They shoot you dirty looks when they see ice cream in your shopping cart. They talk down to you like you are stupid about nutrition and calories as if pretty much every fat person has not been around the block 500 times on that one already. That is why deciding to stay fat and be OK with it is at a peculiar frontier right now where things are shifting and people do not agree about what is acceptable to say and think. I was talking to Lindy. I used the word overweight a few times. And at some point she stopped me and said the word overweight is not preferred. She was not strident about this. It was super friendly. She said the problem with overweight is that it implies that there is a correct weight for people. That is how radical this is. It is saying that no weight is better than any other weight which given the health risks associated with greater weight that Lindy acknowledges it can be hard to get your head around. And we are doing this show today because I read the book that Lindy just published about this. And it made me see this whole thing differently. And so what we are going to do today is we are going to present some excerpts from her book. Her book's called Shrill. And we are going to hear from people who definitely do not feel the same way that Lindy does about all this. For WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One The Day the Scales Fell from Her Eyes. So Lindy West is very much a fat person with a before picture and an after picture. In both pictures she is fat. In the after picture she is outspoken and happy. In the before picture she is painfully shy and not as happy. She says as a fat teenager she felt like a monster. Cool clothes did not seem to exist for her. In her 20s fat made her world smaller. She would stay home when friends went hiking biking sailing. She would cancel plans to avoid restaurants whose tables were so close together she could not navigate through them. And then not to mention the fact that you are knocking stuff over. You know just moving through the world as a big person is hard. I take up a lot of space. It is undeniable. It is awkward and embarrassing. And I am just constantly knocking stuff over with my butt you know? She describes being fat as simultaneously being way too visible and being invisible-- not wanting people looking at her noticing her noticing what she eats. She worried-- and she worries still all the time-- about destroying chairs by sitting on them.  Chairs. You catch that? Until this interview it never occurred to me that a human being could sigh that way over chairs.  Chairs. For the record she says she is only destroyed one chair. It was at a friend's comedy show. You know packed sold-out theater. And I am sitting on the stage. And then of course the chair made a horrible loud cracking noise like five minutes into the show. And I was already on high alert for the chair. So I managed to sort of leap into a crouch.  As if trained for it. Exactly. It was like Mission Impossible. Because breaking a chair is a combination of so many horrible things. It is like confirmation that you are giant that furniture cannot withstand you. So it is like falling down making a scene-- You are on stage so people can see you. Yeah I am sure people in the audience-- I mean well a guy came running out with a chair.  Of course. Then how do you go about the like OK nothing to look at here nothing--  How do you do that? I do not remember. Nothing's going on here. I think I just started nodding a lot to the comedy like ooh yeah. But those things just make you stronger Ira.   In fact the question she is asked most often these days is where do you get your confidence? Which is kind of a messed up question because the subtext is if I looked like you I would definitely throw myself into the sea. Fact is though it is a good question. How she went from somebody who never wanted to be noticed as fat or at all to somebody who tells her well-meaning friends that yes she wants them to call her fat even though it makes them feel a little uncomfortable at first. She says it took years involved many humiliations things she realized. But the biggest turning point-- the moment that she actually came out and said to everyone she knows that she is fat-- happened as the result of a fight she got into with her boss-- or to be more precise the boss of her boss. She was working at a weekly newspaper The Stranger in Seattle. She got into a fight with the paper's editorial director. His name is Dan Savage. And if you listen to our show a lot you know him. He is been on many many times. I have also appeared on his podcast and Vice program which I recommend wholeheartedly the Savage Lovecast. He is also written books. He appears on TV. Dan is friends with Lindy today and had no interest at all in coming on to the radio to revisit this fight that they had a couple years ago. Lindy writes about what happened between them in her book. I asked her to read this part of her story for us here. That is going to be the rest of this act. She says Dan was a great boss. But starting around 2004 2005 he began writing sometimes about obesity. OK here's Lindy reading. My boss Dan was on something of an obesity epidemic kick. He was not alone. The rest of the nation had declared a war on obesity. They would whipped up a host of reasons why it was right and good to hate fat people-- our repulsive unsexy bodies of course the classic but also our drain on the health care system our hogging of plane armrests our impact on the children our pathetic inability andor monstrous refusal to swap austerity for gluttony oh and our health because they care. Dan was on that train and I do not blame him. It was a very popular and I imagine gratifying ticket at the time. And even more so than today it was considered very roguish to tell it like it is about fat people. Dan's main sticking point seemed to be fat people like me who insisted we were not imminently dying. He fiercely and persistently defended his quote refusal to take the self-esteem-boostingpublic-health-shredding position that you can be obese and healthy. More than anything this passage from his 2005 book The Commitment sums up the overall tone of his stance at the time on fatties. Here's the quote. Two days later in a water park in Sioux Falls South Dakota I came to a couple of realizations. First anyone who denies the existence of the obesity epidemic in the United States has not been to a water park in Sioux Falls South Dakota. The owners of water parks in the US must be saving a fortune on water and chlorine bills. Floating in the deep end of the wave pool with DJ Terry observed that there was an awful lot of water being displaced. If the South Dakotans floating around us all got out of the pool at the same time the water level would most likely have dropped 6 feet. That is what Dan wrote. In other words we are horrible to look at. We are in the way. We are a joke. I could probably have dealt with that. But I started to get comments here and there from readers asking how it felt to know that my boss hated me because of my body. I knew Dan did not hate me. But why did not he see that when he wrote about fat people he was writing about me Lindy West his colleague and friend? And why should I as an employee have to swallow that kind of treatment at my job in the same newspaper I was sweating blood into for 36K a year? Did I want to be the kind of person who did not fight? OK so I am going to jump in here. Lindy decided to take a stand. And she did as a culmination of a bunch of experiences and changes in the way that she thought about being fat. And I talked to her about this in our interview. One of the big things was she saw these photos taken by the actor Leonard Nimoy the guy who played Mr. Spock on Star Trek. Late in his life he did a series of these gorgeous black-and-white photos called The Full Body Project where he photographed fat women naked. And they are presented as objects of beauty. They are art photos. And I just had never seen that before ever in my life. It had never occurred to me that you would do anything with a fat body other than hide it. And the women in these photographs were so proud and just full of life. And it really had an impact on me. I mean at first I was really uncomfortable. Uncomfortable like oh no do not show that. Yeah like you guys!  That is secret! You guys I have been working really hard on not showing this to people. From there she started searching the internet with the intensity she says of a teenager looking for porn only she was looking for sites where they posted images of fat people. There is a bunch of Tumblrs along these lines. Some are basically just fashion blogs for fat people. Finding decent clothes is an issue if you are really big. There is a Tumblr called hey fat chick! I mean this was just my favorite one of these fat acceptance blogs. It was just that. It was just bright happy funny smiling people wearing cute outfits. It is just you are so used to seeing fat people presented as sad and apologetic. And what did this do to you? What it do to see that? I remember feeling like my brain was changing shape. It just had never occurred to me that you could just decide that you were allowed to be happy and live as a-- As a fat person. Yeah exactly. And did this change the way that you saw fat people? Yeah I mean I cannot even explain how strange it was because it was like-- it was not just conceptual like oh I deserve to be happy. It was like I was looking at specific parts of their bodies and staring at them-- parts of their bodies that I had always just reviled on myself. Like what do you mean? You know like fat rolls and arm fat and bellies and staring at them and saying OK what if I found that objectively beautiful? What if I decided that is beautiful? And then does that work? Yes it does. At least it worked for me. And then it really looked beautiful. Yeah really. Really genuinely. And it felt like some sort of sorcery. Like at the time I was like how is this possible? Lindy says in her book Want to change the way you see fat people? Try it. So that stuff is rewiring her brain and she is thinking about it a lot. And to get back to our story her boss is saying these demeaning things about fat people. And she decides enough. OK back to her reading. And I will just say we have unbeeped some words here on the internet version of our show. If you preferred a beeped version there is one on our website. Something lurched awake inside of me. A lifetime of being talked down to about nutrition being kept secret by men I was dating being both invisible and too visible finally foamed up and spilled over. I emailed Dan privately in November of 2009. In my memory I asked him to please please consider his words more carefully before writing about fat people to remember that we are human beings with complex lives not disease vectors or animals. I was timid pleading. Or at least that is how I remember it. While writing about all this I looked up the original exchange. And it turns out that my memory sucks. Here's the actual email that I sent to my actual boss. To Dan Savage. Subject-- hello could you lay off the fat people shit? Just curious. Who are these hordes of fat people chasing you around insisting that eating pot pies all day is awesome and good for your health? Because um I do not believe you. That sounds like a strawman. And I know some of your best friends are fat or whatever but you sound like a bigot. Also your super fucking obvious and regressive point has been made. Everyone in the world already thinks fat people are lazy and gross. Then I went all caps. WE GET IT! YOU ARE NOT BREAKING NEW GROUND HERE! Back to regular case. Being fat is its own punishment. I do not give a shit if you think I lie on the couch all day under the Dorito funnel. I would just rather not be abused on the internet from inside my own workplace. Just a thought. Love Lindy. Dan's reply was nine words long. He asked simply if I would ever detected any animus from him personally. Nope not at all I wrote. Not my point at all either. He said he heard me but I was accusing him of being a bigot-- a serious charge against someone exhibiting by my admission no animus. It was a dodge. He was deliberately missing the point. We never talked about it in the office. For the next year he went back to posting semi-regularly about the horrors of the obesity epidemic with no discernible interruption. And I went back to ignoring him. Then Dan wrote a blog post entitled Ban Fat Marriage. He was responding to some Republicans' argument that gay marriage should be illegal because gay people supposedly die younger. Here's Dan. Quote Why stop with gay people? Iowa should ban fat marriage. There are according to the state of Iowa more than 1.4 million obese people living in Iowa. The social costs of Iowa's obesity epidemic are pretty staggering. And those costs include premature death and lower average life expectancies for Iowans. In response I threw up a quick blog post. Hey Dan. So now that you are equating the stigmatization of fat people with the stigmatization of gay people does that mean you are going to stop stigmatizing fat people on this blog? Nothing. I waited a few days. Nothing. I looked back over our old email exchange. My private confrontation with Dan had gotten me nowhere. Taking a quick vague swipe at him on the blog had gotten me nowhere. So I did what honestly I thought Dan Savage would do what he would taught me to do over my years at the paper. On February 11 2011 I wrote a scorched-earth essay and posted it publicly at the tail end of a sunny Friday afternoon. The post was called Hello I Am Fat. It included a full body photo of me taken that day by Kelly O our staff photographer with the caption 28 years old female 5 foot 9 263 pounds. It read as follows. This is my body over there. See it? I have lived in this body my whole life. I have wanted to change this body my whole life. I get that you think you are actually helping people by contributing to the alp of shame that crushes every fat person every day of their lives. But you are not helping. Shame does not work. Diets do not work. Fat people already are ashamed. It is taken care of. No further manpower needed on the shame front. Thanks. Then I tore into something Dan wrote about fat rolls. Here's the quote. I am thoroughly annoyed at having my tame statements of fact-- being heavy is a health risk rolls of exposed flesh are unsightly-- characterized as hate speech. Ha! Rolls of exposed flesh are unsightly. That is in no way a tame statement of fact. It is not a fact at all. It is a cruel subjective opinion. But this is what is behind this entire thing. It is not about health. It is about ew. You think fat people are icky. Ew. A fat person might touch you on a plane with their fat. Ew! Coincidentally that is the same feeling that drives anti-gay bigots. No matter what excuses they drum up about family values and yes health it is all ew. And sorry I reject your ew. You are not concerned about my health. Because if you were concerned about my health you would also be concerned about my mental health which has spent the past 28 years being slowly eroded by statements like the above. Also you do not know anything about my health. You do happen to be the boss of me but you are not the doctor of me. You have no idea what I eat how much I exercise what my blood pressure is or whether or not I am going to get diabetes. Not that any of that matters because it is entirely none of your business. OK I am going to jump in one more time here because this health question is actually kind of the third rail when people talk about fat people. Fat people are told all the time they are choosing to be unhealthy. Lindy and other fat people point out that actually the causes of obesity are way more complex than just eating too much. According to the National Institutes of Health they include physiological metabolic genetic psychological social and cultural factors. Also we have not invented a way to make fat people thin long term. Fewer than 1 in 100 obese people get thin and keep it off according to one recent study which tracked over a quarter million people for nine years. So we are in this situation where a third of all Americans are classified as overweight another third of us are obese. Can it really be that so many of us are just weak and choosing to be unhealthy? There must be some other way to think about this. OK back to Lindy. I reject this entire framework. I am not concerned with whether or not fat people can change their bodies through self-discipline and choices. Pretty much all of them have tried already. A couple of them have succeeded. Whatever. My question is what if they try and try and try and still fail? What if they are still fat? What if they are fat forever? What do you do with them then? Do you really want millions of teenage girls to feel like they are trapped in bodies that are ruining their lives? And on top of that it is because of their own moral failure? And on top of that they are ruining America with the terribly expensive diabetes that they do not even have yet? You know what is shameful? A complete lack of empathy. A few days later Dan Savage wrote a response by the way three times longer than Lindy's post. She did not convince him at all. Dan and she went out once for beer and soft pretzels and talked it out a little to make sure they were still friends. Of course they still did not agree. And then they never spoke about it again. Lindy says in the years since though she is noticed-- and Dan says this is true-- he writes about fat people differently. No cheap punchlines. Live and learn he texted me. Of course how Lindy writes about fat people was changed by this as well. Almost every day I hear some kind friend say Sophie dear I think you are much too stout. Right away they suggest the diet they think best. They make me sick. I wish they would cut it out. I do not want to get thin. I do not want to get thin. Why should I when I am all right as I am? Act Two It is a Small World After All. So when we were all talking about what wanted to put on this week's show we come to the subject of fat suits. And one of our staffers Elna Baker blurted out if she put one of those on today she would feel like herself again. Elna is one of those rare people who has lost a lot of weight. She lost 110 pounds and she is kept it off for years and years. Says she grew up being told the same thing that lots of fat girls are told-- that she would never have a husband or a family if she stayed fat. She would never got the job she wanted if she stayed fat. The job she wanted in her case was she wanted to be an actress. Her grandfather would tell her flat out nobody wants to see a fat girl on TV. But she did not believe it. She thought it was an exaggeration. She is a hard worker good attitude. She just figured she would just make it work. Then it did not work. Here's Elna. A year out of college I took stock of my life. It was not going as planned. I was unemployed and I had never been in a relationship. I tried for the life I wanted hard. I got a scholarship to NYU. I was a huge flirt with lots of guy friends. But it felt like there was an invisible force blocking me from achieving my dreams. Sure I would think is it because I am fat? But then I would think do not be paranoid. I refused to believe that people were that shallow. It had to be more complicated. I tried to put my finger on it but I just could not figure it out. Once I lost weight I realized it was all because I was fat. It felt like that famous Eddie Murphy sketch on Saturday Night Live where he goes undercover in whiteface and gets treated way better. He rides the city bus. And when the last black rider gets off music starts. A cocktail waitress in a sequined dress hands out martinis. That is what I felt like-- like this whole other world for thin people had existed alongside mine a world they have been keeping a secret from me. When I was fat and I walked down the street people would stare. I would hear comments that I would ignore. Occasionally someone would shout something out at me. In this new world when I walked down the street attractive men and women would do something to me they would never done before. They would look me up and down and then they would nod their heads. Thin people nod at each other? One day I went to pay for my groceries at a deli and realized I was short off by a full 10. I looked at my pile and began debating what would stay and what would go. The deli guy waved his hand. Just take it he said. Take it? I walked out cautiously not sure what had just happened. So I tried the same thing at a different deli this time on purpose. I picked out more items than I had money for. Then I faked debating which ones to choose. Just take it the man behind the counter said. Soon it was a scam I ran all over the city. It was not about saving money. I wanted to know is this is a thing? It is a thing. Of course I would lost the weight to fix two specific problems. I wanted to get a job and find love. Old Elna looked for a job for a year and a half. New Elna was offered work a month after she hit her goal weight an entry-level position on an actual TV show. I was hired to be a page at the Letterman show. My job was to walk down the line of people waiting to go into the theater and divide them into three groups-- dots generals and CBS twos. The dots were the beautiful people. They got seated in the first three rows. Usually those were the only rows you saw on television. Generals were average people. They sat in the order they arrived. CBS two was for fat people elderly people with a visible illness people who looked like they might be disruptive and goths. I would scribble CBS two on their ticket. And that was code for seat them in the back three rows at the balcony-- the nosebleed seats. I would seen Letterman a few years earlier. I was near the front of the line and somehow ended up in the nosebleeds. I remember being confused by it. The day I was trained I put it together. I lost weight so fast-- close to 100 pounds in 5 and 12 months-- that it was like going from one human to another. Here's how I did it. I enrolled in a weight loss clinic. The doctor gave me a list of foods I could eat and told me I had to exercise daily. Your diet will be aided by medicine he told me-- potassium serotonin dopamine a multi-vitamin and then phentermine which would help suppress my appetite. I look down at the little colored tablets. Skittles I thought only the opposite. I began my diet with a prayer for grace. I was Mormon then. I asked God to give me the same willpower Jesus had when he fasted in the wilderness for 40 days. I prayed for his self-control. Then I took the first pill phentermine which is similar to amphetamines-- speed. I would never done drugs before. Remember I was Mormon. I would never even tried coffee. I did not know how a substance could alter your state of being. And so when I became so focused so driven so able not to eat and so into cleaning I was certain my prayer had been answered. I was sure it was God. I kept a journal during that time and recently read from it on stage. This is from my journal. So I am doing it. I am taking control over my body. In the last month and 10 days I have lost 30 pounds. I cannot deny Heavenly Father's role in this whole process.   I am receiving divine help. I basically feel like I am possessed by an alien.  Now I just have to keep going. And this is after-- so after I would lost like 60 pounds it was like the racial breakdown. I would walk down the street. Black dudes noticed me. 10 more pounds Hispanic guys noticed me. 20 more pounds white guys noticed me. And Asian guys have never noticed me!  I have never been thin enough for Asian men. I would only been kissed a handful of times when I was fat. Each ended with the guys saying the same exact thing-- do not tell anyone about this. I was hoping that losing weight might change all that. And it did. New Elna kissed 16 guys in eight weeks. I know this because I drew a map in my journal of the city and marked the location of each kiss with an X geolocating it. Nine months in I started seeing a guy from my building-- a kindergarten teacher who left love notes on my door. And we started to really fall for each other. One night he told me I liked you from the first moment I saw you. He was referring to the building barbecue we would hung out at a few weeks earlier. But we would met long before that barbecue. We would lived in the same small building for four years. One day when I was still fat I would knocked on his door and asked to borrow a hammer. When I brought it back we talked for 20 minutes. After that I knew him. He was Andy in 3C. We nodded when we saw each other in the hallway. Now he had no idea that girl was me. We dated for another two months but I could not let it go. It just spoiled everything. I thought we were falling in love. I thought it was real. But it was based on the way I looked. He could not even see me when I was fat. I did not matter until I was this size. The attention I got from men I wrote in my journal I wish I could just enjoy it. Instead it made me sad. It was the unfairness that got to me. Old Elna longed for someone like Andy and never got him. She tried so hard for everything that I now got so easily. New Elna did not have to be a good person. I just had to be thin. It made the world seem so bleak like this is the system? Really? It made me less hopeful about people. When guys came on to me it did not feel like it was about me. I could be anyone. It made it hard to trust people. Can I just say another word about this? It is just such an unbalanced reward system. It took so much more kindness hard work and ingenuity to be a person in the world when I was fat. All this took was not eating. Here's something that surprised me. It was not enough to take diet pills. It was not enough to lose the weight of an entire adult woman from my own body. Once I did all that I realized I still was not actually thin. Not really. After dropping the weight I had so much extra skin that I could lay on my side and pull it a half foot in either direction. For a long time I tried to get the skin to go away with lotions and exercise. Eventually I resorted to surgery-- in fact four different surgeries. They included something called a circumferential body lift. They made an incision around my entire waist cut out a 6-inch belt of skin and then sewed me back together. I also got a thigh lift. They cut up my legs from my knees to my groin and took out as much skin as they could. Now I have a scar that runs completely around my waist as if a magician cut me in half. I also have two scars running up my legs like inseams. In order for my legs to heal I had to sit alone in a room for a month without any underwear and my legs spread eagle. It is OK. I made it through every season of The Wire. But it was a painful month. One night I went to pee and the incision along my crotch split open two inches not unlike splitting the crotch of your jeans except it was my actual crotch. I called the doctor in a panic. He told me he could not sew it back up together without a risk of infection. So I had to pack the wound with gauze and keep packing it. I tried to pack it myself but I was too hurt to move. As I bent forward I heard it split even more. I called my friend Andrea sobbing. She was at my apartment within five minutes. She came in holding a bottle of white wine and two Valiums-- one for her one for me. She had me lay back and pushed wads of gauze in my leg crease like she was putting the stuffing back in a teddy bear. But even surgery could not remove the extra skin entirely. When I hold my arms and legs out I still look like a flying squirrel. Here's a journal entry from when I was 22. Quote I was happy when I was overweight. I had no idea I should be sad. I was free before. I had trained myself not to care what people thought and I would done a good job of it. I learned how to do the worm and I would do it in dance circles. Only I was not actually physically capable of it. I just thought it was funny and it made everyone laugh. I would never do that now. What if I look stupid? I wore the most ridiculously bold things-- vintage neon green and pink Hawaiian print dresses. I did not constantly take the temperature of the room. It just was. That is the person I sold out to become this person. As new Elna I threw out all my pictures of old Elna and all the pictures in my parents' photo albums too because I did not want people to see them. And when I looked at those photos they made me feel bad because in the pictures I looked happy. And I would look at them and think you are so stupid to think that you are happy. That is crazy of course. And now I do not have any pictures of myself from ages 12 to 22. As new Elna I once went on a date with a cute guy who said to me I know this is going to sound mean but I just cannot tolerate fat people and then took my hand for the very first time. And I held his hand. I said nothing. I did not tell him about old Elna. We went for a walk. I went out with him again. It is sad that new Elna gets everything old E