From WBEZ Chicago it is a special Christmas edition of This American Life. We have a bunch of things for you today including later in the program Christmas on Fire. But let us just kick things off right now with a song recorded at an event we did onstage a few weeks ago. SINGING On the 12th day of Christmas my true love gave to me 12 drummers drumming 11 pipers piping 10 lords a leaping nine ladies dancing eight maids a milking seven swans a swimming six geese a laying five golden rings four calling birds three French hens two turtle doves and a partridge in a pear tree. I have always hated that song.  I have always hated that song. I feel like that song is symbolic of everything that is bad about Christmas. I should say I have no bad feelings about Christmas. I am a noncombatant when it comes to Christmas. I was onstage talking about this song because we had this idea that we thought might make a really fun thing to try for Christmas. And that is we organized a night of improv comedy. And I know maybe you are saying OK how does that go together? Why improv comedy and Christmas? OK well this is going to take a little explaining. Stay with me. This British writer and performer named Daniel Kitson-- I saw him say this thing about Christmas that seems so true. He says that when you are a kid and you wake up Christmas morning what makes Christmas feel so magical is this feeling of like Oh my god. It is going to be amazing. The world is so full of possibility. Anything can happen. The fact that Santa Claus even exists this literally magical being who came to your home. And Kitson says this thrilled feeling that anything can happen that is the thing that is so hard to hold onto once we become adults. And in fact he says that so many adults at Christmas they try to recreate the same Christmas year after year with the same everything over and over and over. It is like they lock in. Christmas becomes the opposite of anything can happen. That is why it never feels as magical to adults. But it is possible to get back to that feeling. And OK back to the plan for today's show. One place that adults embrace that feeling that anything could happen and it is going to happen and then they make it happen is improv comedy where you know they walk on stage with no idea what anybody is going to say. And then one person tries something. They say something. And then somebody else pitches in with a line of their own and then somebody else pitches in. And before you know it they have made like a whole scene a whole world really. And so with that in mind we got these incredible improv comedians and we got a club to perform in and we did a show. And we did the show in this particular style of improv where the people on stage they tell true stories about their lives. And then those stories those true stories become the basis of the improv scenes that they then invent. And those scenes lead them to other true stories that then lead them into other improv scenes and so on and so on and so on. And I was there. I kicked things off with a story about that song about the song The 12 Days of Christmas which is a song that I noticed even though-- just to say it again-- Christmas is not my day. I am not somebody who celebrates Christmas at all. I am a Jew. And I am not that kind of Jew whose parents celebrated Christmas on Hanukkah. We were pure Hanukkah people and we look down on the Christmas Hanukkah Jews.  And in fact I grew up in a suburb of Baltimore that was so Jewish I did not understand that we were in the minority. And so Christmas I do nothing. It means nothing to me. The day means nothing. And most years I go to Vegas on Christmas. But I do really love Christmas music. I have always loved Christmas music. And at some point in my 20s I started to make a collection of Christmas CDs and records. And the worst song of all is the song The 12 Days of Christmas. And whenever it comes on I just think like why is this still in circulation? First of all the words refer to a wife and a world that none of us can relate to or care about. 12 lords a leaping like what is-- what experience is that even referring to? And then swans are swimming geese are laying. So are we in a warm climate a cold climate? It just raises so many questions. But also the form of the song is so intensely boring. And you guys know what I am talking about where you do the first one and then you go back and you do all the ones before it which you already did. You know I mean? So you do two turtle doves and a partridge in a pear tree. Then three French hens two turtle doves and a partridge in a pear tree. Then four calling birds three French hens two turtle doves and a partridge in a pear tree. Five golden rings four calling birds. And so like-- and so you know what is going to happen. It is repetitious in the most boring way and then it is always sung very slowly which is annoying. And I do not know why it survived hundred of years to still be around. And my only thought is five golden rings. Five golden rings is the hook of the song. And you have sung the song right? When you get to five golden rings everybody breathes a sigh of relief. It is like SINGING five golden rings. And you just feel like yeah! You know what I mean? It is like the drum solo. That is the hook of the song. And without five golden rings this song would be nothing. Okay so at this point-- this is me back in the studio talking-- at this point if I could just describe the stage. Sitting on stools in a row there are six improv comedians. And we got some of the best people around for this kind of thing. Seriously we felt so lucky they agreed to be in the show. Aidy Bryant and Sasheer Zamata they are both on Saturday Night Live. Scott Adsit he was on 30 Rock and before that he was in Second City. So was Tammy Sagher. Chris Gethard and Mike Birbiglia they have both been on our radio program before Mike many many times. They both have deep improv backgrounds. So six of them are sitting on the stage on these stools. And they listen to that first story that I told to kick things off. And Mike was the first one to stand up and speak. Wow. Well first of all I want to disagree with Ira about that song. I think in some sense it is sort of the 15 Bottles of Beer on the Wall of Christmas carols. It is anthemic. It is repetitive. I think where the disconnect happens is that it is just British things.  What kind of American things would you put in there? Like a bald eagle? A bald eagle in a-- in a what oak tree? Yeah. Bald eagle in an oak tree. Yeah we just got to de-British the whole thing. I think that is the problem. Lady Haversquire. Yes? We have been courting now for going on 10 months. And-- Yes? --I have been playing in my mind with what to get you for Christmas. Lord Mavermunch I am sure that whatever you will bring me on Christmas will bring me much-- what? May I give it you now? Oh! Yes but so soon before Christmas? I am excited. I think I did well. All right. Here you are-- five golden rings. Oh. Oh my goodness. But I have also brought you 23 birds. Sorry? 23 individual birds and 50 human people.   Could you stay in a group please?  Guys guys guys. We are the Christmas presents. Do you like it? I-- I love it. Um Lord Mavermunch um if we could just go back for a moment to the five golden rings. Ah yes. Yes. Ah so two questions. Question number one-- what is the difference between a gold ring and a golden ring? Because one seems to imply that it merely has the color yet none of the value. Well you have caught me there. I am afraid to say the pear tree cost rather more than I expected. Lord Mavermunch? Lady Haversquire? Do you remember when you first came courting? Oh yes. My memory is intact. Was it? Because I distinctly remember telling you I do not like a turtle dove. I find roses played out. And quite frankly lords a leaping I have seen enough. And yet that is all you seem to have brought. Oh come on! Oh hey come on! We are so good! Watch this! Hut hut hut!   I am going so high! Look just-- Do you know what they call you in the county? I do not. They call you Quantity over Quality. Scene.   I wonder if you guys actually have memories-- did any of you have to go caroling? Or did you sing in-- I am also super Jewish. I am Israeli Jewish. So the level of-- Oh you totally out-Jew me. Yeah. But I was in the Chicago Children's Choir. And it was a little kids choir. And the big thing that you do at Christmas is sing Christmas carols. So two things that I remember very well from Christmas choir was one was I got a solo that I got to do. Yeah. And I screwed up and that was horrifying. The other thing that just occurred to me now is-- so it was on the South Side of Chicago. So it was pretty racially diverse meaning I usually was the minority not just as a Jew but as a white person in choir. And so we also did a lot of gospels which is where I discovered that I cannot clap. And it became something that I would practice at home. Could I just have clarification just as a fact-checking matter? You would practice clapping. Yeah. To what? Like what would be the sound-- Just radio. I would just turn on the radio and I would be like  I would just like try to clap on the beat. Because if you do not know how to clap and you are in a choir clapping it is terrifying. Bernice I was watching you sing in the chorus. Oh wow. You saw me? Wow. I see everything. I am Jesus. Oh wow-- this is-- this is so cool for me. This is huge. Oh listen it is an honor to meet you. Oh my god. Thank you. Thank you Jesus. You know I hear that all day? But it still means a lot when you say it. Aw Jesus you are so nice. I got to tell you. You really should not be singing.    What do you mean? What do you mean by what you are saying? Well I think-- What do you mean? Bernice I-- Jesus do not say that to me! Bernice I think you are answering your own question there. You know I am the Holy Spirit. And I just wanted to chime in. I think Bernice has a really nice voice. I-- Dave I told you not to come. All right. Well maybe it is because I am singing like gorgeous God songs. Maybe you want more of like a pop hit or something? No what I am saying is that you are singing from your heart but your heart is not good enough. It really puts other people off and it is pushing people away from me. I need people. I need more people.  We cut to a television executive's office. I got to say we got this show and the judges they are too soft. And I think you are the exact kind of hard edge we need Jesus. Well I appreciate the compliment. But I would be happy to do the job but let me also warn you that when I bring judgment that is the end of the world. Listen that is the kind of ratings bonanza I have been looking for OK? I am in. CeeLo Aguilera they softball it Adam Levine. They all feel bad. Nobody gives an honest opinion. I need somebody who is going to be harsh. I need somebody who is going to be brutal who is going to say This is exactly how I see it. Do not talk to me about Adam Levine man. What do I gotta do to get you on my network? I know money means nothing to you. You are omnipotent. You know everything. You have access to everything. What do I gotta do to get you on my airwaves? I want you to live your life as I would live mine.  Scene! My Jewish brothers welcome. I call this meeting. You called this minion. Thank you for-- There is 10 of us. I got to say there is 10 of us. Thank you for the correction Jacob. I call this minion to discuss our grievances with Christmas as a holiday. I know it is not our holiday. But I know that I have some concerns. Brother Abraham I think you should adjust your level of Jew-y. It is a little high. Oh! Here it is. It is on my anklet here. There we are. Oh well-- Well I do not like it! Okay this is Ira in the studio. I am just going to stop the tape for a second just to make perfectly clear what is happening on stage right now. OK so the first comedian in the scene Mike Birbiglia he had some trouble with his Jewish accent as you heard and he was teased about it. And then another comedian Aidy Bryant entered the scene. And she has so much trouble coming up with a Jewish accent that at some point that just becomes what the scene is about is her discomfort at this awful accent and the other performers kind of egging her on and also ribbing her about it very affectionately. OK back to the scene. Well-- Well I do not like it! I do not like the holiday one bit. I want to welcome our brother from the Italian branch of Judaism.   Hey what is the big deal? Thank you Antonio for bringing the 24 pizzas. We hope everything's going well at the temple out in Bay Ridge. It truly is. Please continue. I will stay quiet I promise for the rest of the meeting. Antonio you guys have been getting sweat everywhere. Eh my favorite thing about being Jewish is of course the sweet lasagna! And I want everyone to know that I am trying my absolute hardest. I feel we must move on. Scene.   I am sorry. I am sorry to all the cultures everywhere around the world. Fellas fellas fellas get in here. Fellas I am working on-- Yeah yeah yeah what is up? Yeah. I wanted to get the group back together for a Christmas song. And I was just thinking this one would be just Five Golden Rings. Whoa. Wow OK. Jettison the other verses. Mm-hm. We hit five golden rings hard right? We circle back. You could do some scatting. Oh my god. Well I am in! If you are going to finally let me do it then doopity dop dop yeah! I just think we all need to accept the truth which is that nobody likes the other verses. I do not no Jord. I feel like a lot of people are going to miss like calling birds. Yeah or at least the nine ladies dancing.   Scene.   Dad? Yeah. I want to feed the geese. OK we can do that. I just want to-- I just want to make sure you know they are an extremely vicious animal.  Dad I have seen geese before. They are like really cute and-- OK. You know I am a big believer in letting you learn your lessons. You always say that before like something really bad happens. I mean I just tried to warn you. They can be a really aggressive animal. OK. Sure yeah. Give me the bread. Yeah. OK. Go for broke just remember what I told you. All right come here little goosey.  Oh!  Okay. Whoa you are really beautiful. Oh my gosh. I am sorry. I do not usually say that. But you are really gorgeous. Thanks. I mean you are the kind of person that a goose would give up his whole life for. I mean I could take you places. I am going way too fast. I am sorry. But you-- you are turning me around.   Did you hear that? Yeah like I told you-- super aggressive.  Scene! Did you guys have this as a kid where the joy of Christmas when I look back on it I think has a lot to do with no school. Oh yes. Just this idea of Wait there is a week where there is no school? It is so different when you do not celebrate Christmas. Because for you it is two weeks where you do not see your friends because they are all going somewhere cool and having fun. But Jews also get the school break too right? It is not like you still have to go to school. But we love school! Children gather around. We have a class-wide announcement. All right. The Jews-- This is never good. Scene!  I was just going to tell a quick story. I am going to listen. Great. Well I feel like we keep talking about like especially people who were always experiencing a Jewish Christmas experience. But I was the exact opposite where until I was 13 years old I did not know Jewish people existed maybe. And I loved Christmas so much that I would get up at 300 in the morning to try and look at my presents. And I just always felt like such simple things would give me such overwhelming joy that I wish I could have that now. Like one Christmas morning I was in my little Christmas gown and I crept down and there was a giant stuffed animal Saint Bernard which is not like a bike that you can ride or something that you can do. It is just going to sit there and you are going to look at it and love it. And as soon as I saw it I was so happy I could not believe my eyes. I fell to my knees and I  my pants. I just-- like upon the sight of this Saint Bernard I just was like thank you! And I fell to my knees and just blasted right into my pants. So I had to creep into my parents' room and say like Good morning Mom. Merry Christmas. I have soiled myself and I need your help. Can I ask the other improv stars on stage like did you have moments like that of such incredible joy at Christmas? Not that would take your body to that length but do you know what I mean? Like moments of just pure pure joy in that way that I think we rarely have as adults. Do you have-- When I was a kid my sister and I would get up really early and stand at the top of the stairs because we knew we were not allowed to go downstairs. And my dad had this tradition. We would have to wait for him to-- we would just shake with anticipation at the top of the stairs and wait and wait and bother them my parents to get out of bed. And we would pull them out of bed. And they would take their sweet time putting on their clothes and getting their shaving just to torture us because they knew we were at the top of the stairs. And my dad would go downstairs first and say Let us see if Santa came. Like he would look around the hallway and say I do not see any evidence that he is been here. And then he would walk into the dining room and he would disappear. And we would hear him go Well mm no nothing in here. And we are up there going like It is the dining room. There is nothing in the dining room! Goes into this kind of side little sitting room and same thing. He disappears. He does the same shtick of No nothing in here. And then he would say-- inevitably he would say I do not know if he came. The first couple years we were really nervous that maybe Santa did not come. But then after three or four years of this we were like Of course he came. Everything's in the-- go to the family room! Go to the family-- were the tree is where the fireplace is. Santa's not going to come down and then cart everything into the dining room. Dad you idiot! Go to the family room! Family room! Family room! Go to the--  Nothing in here. Oh my god! Dad I will kill you! Please let us down the stairs! Maybe I will go look up in the attic. What is wrong with you? What is wrong with you? It is not going to be in the attic. Oh guys. Your dad's having fun. Come on. Point your stupid freshly-shaven face towards the family room. I want to talk to you guys about your dad. OK. He has Alzheimer's. What? He does not know where the presents are. That is true. We have been saying he was having fun but holy hell. Scene!   Ho ho ho come in here elves. OK Mr. Santy Claus. Ho ho ho! Merry Christmas. Thank you again. I know you want to tell you something I have never told you about Christmas. Santa we have been working for you for 472 years. You are going to have to dig deep in that bag. Well I have told you that it is a magical time of year. Uh-huh uh-huh. I have told you we give presents to millions of children in the world. Mm-hm. We know. We make all that stuff. Yeah we do that. But I have not told you Rudolph has cancer. The red nose is-- Why did not we get him treated? He is had that red nose for so long. For years we just thought it was adorable. I feel so bad we used to laugh and call him names. Scene! I have a question. I wonder what you guys think of this. And I think this makes me sound like a bad person. Do you feel like Christmas loses a lot of the joy when you hit an age where you have to start buying presents for other people? I have not hit that age. Really? 1000 yes. I feel like it takes-- it is like a fun magic thing and then when you actually have to give back to other people it becomes such a drag. Such a drag. Your parents did not make you give presents to your siblings? To my sibling? Yeah I had one brother. Our elementary school rent-- did you guys have this? Our elementary school had a thing that was just bad presents. It is like you would go into the gym and be like oh you can buy your dad a little screwdriver set or you can buy your mom a plastic ring. It was all the same stuff. So every year my brother was just an interchangeable-- like I got you the neon flyswatter. Great I got you the slap bracelet. You know? And our mom would give us the money anyway. This might sound cynical. My wife and I we do not give each other Christmas presents because neither of us believe in holidays. You do not believe in them? Well they are out there. Like they exist. Every 4th of July do you think a war is breaking out? No to Chris's point neither of us like the pressure of having to get a gift. And we just do not like them. So we are just like No we do not want that in our relationship. Well I am the opposite. When I grew up I remember the first presents I bought. And it is still essentially true of me now is that I am really excited for people to open the present I found or made for them. And watching them open other people's presents makes me angry. And I just am waiting for them to get to my present. I am going to walk you back on that one. Are you making a lot of presents? Found or made? Same thing. What is unusual about that? You are a really good person. Mom mom. Oh sweetie. I got this for you. Oh sweetie. It is a paper puppet. Oh. Oh honey. It is a paper puppet. Honey. What did you get me? You know what? Greg now is not a good time. Oh OK. Sorry. Sweet-- Mom's friend Greg he might want a paper puppet to play with too. Yeah. Yeah Greg might want a paper puppet. I only made one paper puppet. Well you know what? That is great honey because Greg and Mommy are going to share because sharing is caring. Yeah. SINGING Sharing is caring. OK. I want you to share the paper puppet. Oh that is awesome. Yeah thank you for that. That is nice. Greg you please put on a robe? Sure I guess so. OK sweetie now remember we said when Greg's over we are going to knock on the door and we are not going to come in at 300. I love my paper puppet. I love my paper puppet but it is time to go back to bed OK sweetie? Can I get in bed with you guys? Not a good time baby. Not a good time. And I want to be honest. No maybe not. Not a good time. Scene! Wait so probably not use able but for my own sake there is two things that we went past that I want to hear. And one is what Greg was going to say when he said Can I be honest with you? Greg was going to say I am going to be honest. I did not get you anything. But your present will be a father figure if you play your cards right.   You know what? There was no like religious factor in my Christmas experience. But it was all about like creating your own magic I feel like. Like we had this family tradition where Christmas Eve everyone had to do one trick which could be of any sort. And then if you did your trick you got to open one present before you went to bed. And now you are a professional performer. I know. But you know what? Like all the tricks-- I mean it was all kinds of things. Like I remember one year my aunt and uncle timed like a nostril flashlight dance to dueling banjos. And like-- What? Welcome to the Bryant Family Talent Show. Does anyone want to start? I think Jeff we have got a real great lineup. Oh we got a great lineup. We are really excited. Great. Big big big big lineup this year. But I have to say I have been hearing whisperings from Samantha that she is got a real great talent coming up. It is not ready! Oh! It is not ready. It is not ready. OK sweetie. OK. Stall stall! OK sweetie. It is OK. It is OK sweetie. All right we will just do some banter. We will do some banter. Or we could ask Michael if he is ready. Yeah I am ready. I have been ready for this all year. I have been waiting for this opportunity all year. Michael I am going to remind you of the ages of everybody in the family. OK. OK. All right so-- Yeah I will remind you of my age. I am 16 and I am finally seeing the world for what it is man. I am finally seeing the world what it is. I am 16 man. OK Michael. Michael Michael. Michael calm down. Michael. Yeah. Calm down. Michael. OK. Calm down. Calm down. Michael relax. I am calm. Who is-- I am calm. I am calm! Uncurl your fists. Who is yelling? Uncurl your fists. That is just how my hands are comfy. Hey. This is how my hands are comfortable. Michael? What? Are those brass knuckles? No not if you do not hit anybody with them. Michael put those away. They are just interconnected rings. We-- Can I have them? Can I have them? Yeah take them. Do whatever you want with them. Cool. SINGING Five golden rings. Give them back. Give them back. Anything but that. Anything but that.  I think one of the things that is really evocative about Christmas and childhood is actually fire. Like we used to make fires. What? In the fireplace where one makes fire. You said we like every-- like it is a common experience. Like collectively we all associate Christmas with fire. I agree with Mike where we always had like a big beautiful fireplace where we would kind of gather around. But my parents remodeled their house when I was probably 11 a little bit. And they redid the fireplace and it was like all these river rocks. Gorgeous I know. But they were like fake you know? I mean you could not tell that if you went except for there is still to this day one at the very top that is deflated. It is like this deflated river rock. And so in all our Christmas pictures it is all of us seated in front of the fireplace and hanging above us is this weird indented sort of like light gray river rock. Um what is a river rock? Oh I am sorry. I was born and raised in the desert. So we are always searching for rivers. No it is just-- they are like rounded rocks. So they could not get real ones? They had to get fake ones? Whoa burn. Taking my family to task. Also is it full of air? Like why is it deflated? Look I did not build it. I just-- I frickin' lived it. Aidy can you come here for a sec sweetie? Mm-hmm. Loved hearing you on the radio. OK. I have to say your dad and I got real sad though with what story you had to tell. Um I guess I-- I do not know. They chose that one. I did a ton of other nice stories. Did you talk about what happened when we gave you a four-foot St. Bernard stuffed toy? I am going to stop this scene. Really why? Why you do not want to hear our opinions on how your hip tight-pants friends do not like our rocks? Your hip friends with the tight pants? They act like they do not know what a rock is. They act they like they do not know what a rock is. Oh because you say river you do not know it is just a rock. Hey I heard your daughter on the radio. Yeah. We are avid-- Teresa and I are avid listeners to the public radio station here in Arizona. And it was very disappointing to hear that your family is an embarrassing family. Scene! I will say the thing that was particularly special about Christmas-- because when I try to analyze what it is that made me experience this absolute euphoria in these two days is that my dad was there. My dad's a doctor you know which is wonderful. You know he is a great doctor. But there would be no two days in the year for sure when I would know that he would be around for those two days. And it was like-- there was something where there was this joy of the full family that I will never forget. Kids kids line up. Daddy's going to be here today. He is going to be here today. Promise? You promise? There is nothing that could stop that right? No he is coming. Today is the day. He wrote us. He told us. He phoned. Everything's all set. Oh man. I am going to get love from him. I am going to get advice from him. I am going to get a spanking from them because I have been bad. I have so many questions to ask him that will shape how I view men. I am just going to quietly observe him and then mimic him subtly forever. I am so excited! I cannot wait! Oh here he comes. Oh Dad! Dad! Kids. Tammy Aidy what is your name? Sasheer? Something with an S. It is Samantha. I am your wife. Dad Dad look at my awards! Very nice. Dad spank me! I stole two years ago! I just do not see why we have to go crazy like this. I do not see why we all have to go so crazy. Because we miss you! You are never around! Dad if I got all As would you be around more? I have been throwing up Dad. Do not they look good though? Do not they look good? They look all clean and they are posture is very good. Just like you like it. Just like you like it. Dad I appreciate that you work for Federal Express and that you guys will deliver packages 24 hours a day seven days a week 365 days a year. Plus you were on that island for a couple of years. But you are just never around for us! We just want to hug you for an hour. Oh my god. Do not say that out loud. Do not-- I just think that-- you just need to understand that I love you all but I am just very busy just very very busy-- Oh let them hug you please. No it is OK Mom. Dad's too busy for a hug. Thomas look at their faces. It is OK Mom. I do not deserve to be touched. Sometimes I just send an empty package hoping that you will bring it back.   Dad I just want you to know I can sense the emotional distance you are keeping. And someday I plan on replicating and furthering it. All right. I will see you all next year. Oh. Dad. There he goes. You know what I just noticed Dad? It is like you are inverse Santa Claus. Like Santa Claus brings kids packages one day a year and then you never see him again. And we only see you today and then you bring people packages every other day. And we watch as the dad gets into his FedEx truck and he drives off into the distance. And the kids notice that the FedEx truck flies into the air!  Scene.  Our Christmas improvisers in alphabetical order-- Scott Adsit Mike Birbiglia Aidy Bryant Chris Gethard Tami Sagher and Sasheer Zamata. Coming up normally responsible adults doing stuff that is wrong just wrong for Christmas. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's program Say Yes to Christmas stories where people embrace possibility try something different because that is how you get back to the feeling of wonder that children have at Christmas when everything is so new. We have arrived at Act Two of our program. Act Two Oily Potter and the Gobble of Fire. One of our producers Stephanie Foo recently discovered a Christmas tradition that is still pretty new in our country that no kidding brought her joy no kidding made the world seem like a bigger more wonderful place to her. She has this report. I do not remember how I stumbled on my very first turkey explosion video. But I do remember everything else about it. The video is called Why you should never deep fry a frozen turkey. Two firefighters are standing at the ready in front of a fire truck on a lawn somewhere. In front of them stands a large pot full of hot oil and a propane burner. Another firefighter in full gear comes out with a raw pink turkey hanging from the end of a long stick. He lowers the turkey into the pot. It is totally submerged in oil. And then the oil bubbles and overflows spilling everywhere and a couple of fireballs even burst out of the pot in gusts. And then just when you think it is over here comes the best part.  Suddenly an enormous 20-foot column of fire blasts out of the pot like Sauron himself has been conjured by way of poultry sacrifice. I watched it again and again. Then I pulled in my coworker-- Sean come here. What? Come here. --Sean Cole to watch with me another time. Oh my god. Whoa! Oh wow!  Oh my god. That was great. It is just so pleasurable.  I saw in the up next column in YouTube that there were more videos like this turkey fryer fire safety PSAs put out by fire departments across the country. We stopped counting at 150 videos. They come from Tucson to Pensacola to Danville California all made to demonstrate the dangers of deep frying. A lot of the videos were clearly done as segments for local TV stations. But some departments employ different theatrical methods to amp up the drama on the PSAs. Some use slow mo.  Some play epic music as you watch closeups of the pot of oil.  Some spray water in the pot obviously something you should never do with a grease fire as it doubles the size of the flames. William Shatner even stars in one video titled Eat Fry Love created by State Farm. In it he is playing the inept chef. I want a moister tastier turkey. I want a deep-fried turkey. And there is a dubstep remix.  SINGING I want a deep-fried turkey.