Do you know where you are going to do this? Do you know where you are going to ask the question? Yeah. Yeah I know where and when.  Where is it going to be? What can you say about that? At her home next week.  Some answer. You are going in a week. Oh my God. So are you freaking out? I am a little excited. This man is 76. I am not going to say his name here on the radio because he is hoping that the woman that he wants to marry is not going to get tipped off by some radio or podcast listener that he is about to ask her. And he does not know what she is going to say. He does not know. Which is not usually how that goes down right? Usually you ask somebody to marry you you kind of know. He is totally shooting in the dark anxious about what she is going to say. And this is somebody who he is had feelings about for a long time. I met this girl at a time when I was 17 she was 16. She was very popular. She was one of you might say the queens in high school right? But nice he says really nice. And I did not have all the confidence and courage that I needed at the time. And I just felt like I do not I do not measure up. I mean she can pick any superstar or whatever. I was a fairly good athlete but I was not a superstar and whatever and stuff like that. All right. So you did not do everything you could. No I did not try. I just played like well hey we are just friends. And then when it was time to go to the Navy I just left took the coward's way out. But that experience changed him he says. When he met his wife he totally went for it. Did not want to make the same mistake again. He and his wife were together for nearly 47 years had children who are now grown. And when his wife died eight years ago after some time passed he checked in with this woman from high school. Well her husband had died. And so this man started flying to the other side of the country to visit her where she lives now. He stays in the guest room at her house. So the visits there I would visit her for a week or so and we hung out everyday and we just did natural things. And we just went places and what have you. But there was really no intimacy involved realistically. We were just hanging out and I believe she was having a good time. I was having a good time. You know? But you guys did not kiss? Well maybe only once or twice over those years and what have you. And every time we met it was a friendly kiss on the side of the face but it was not anything like a passionate real kiss. And that happened only once along the way once or twice along the way. Now you must have been testing the waters and saying things to figure out where she felt and what her feelings were right? I was trying very hard to find that out along the way Ira. And I was getting some mixed signals. I did not-- I had a sense on the one hand when it was all over-- OK those mixed signals she would hold his hand all the time. She never hesitated when he would call her and ask to schedule another week-long visit. But at the same time she seemed very encouraging about him going out with other people like weirdly encouraging. And she did not seem interested in discussing her feelings towards him. It seemed like any time a question or anything came up that related towards that or went in that direction she tended to slide away from it a little bit. That does not sound good to me. That did not sound good to me either. My feeling was that she did not want you to ask this question. She does not want to have to give you that answer. Did you tell her you love her? Yes I did. Has she ever said I love you back? No no. Well is it possible she just wants to be friends? Very good possibility. OK ladies and gentlemen I know what you are thinking. This does not sound promising at all. And oh my God what love struck creatures we all are wandering around this earth right? Here is a 76-year-old man a father a grandfather with the same logic defying feelings dominating him that a teenager has. He told me that back in July after years of wondering with this woman OK are we always just going to be friends? Is this ever going to be more than that he finally told her OK look we are going on a date. We are going on a date. It is going to be a real date. Are you up to have a real date with me? And she said yes. So how did that go? It went well but it did not go any differently than all the other dates we went on. So nothing really changed? No. So realistically if I want to be just honest with you and-- I do not know where this can go what have you but my feeling is that either she truly wants me to move on or she is waiting for me to ask this question. Will you marry me? That is really where I am. And I do not know which one is true. But you know people if somebody is interested they let you know. If a lady is interested she figures out a way to let you know right? Yeah. Some people might say well hey she lets you stay at her house. I mean you stay there all week. Oh man you are stuck on this lady. Oh my god.   Well let us put it this way. That may be the case but it does not change anything that I just want to know that hey I did everything I could. And that is what I did not do first time. That is what I did not do the first time. You know what strikes me is that this is just very inconvenient for you that you like her so much. That I like her so much? That that is inconvenient? Yeah yeah that you are having these feelings that you are stuck on this lady it seems like you are in the grip of this thing. You do not even have a choice. It defies all good sense. You know all the signs pointing against it. And yet-- and yet you feel like you have no choice. You have to ask this question. Oh I do have to. In truth I understand that. I do have to ask the question. My heart says resolve it. You know just resolve it. And if her heart does not want it then I do not want it with her. You know? Honestly over the course of this conversation I went from thinking that it was a terrible idea for him to ask this woman to marry him next week to thinking he should totally do it. He totally convinced me that he needed to hear yes or no once and for all. And maybe he was going to get what he wanted or maybe he was going to be set free but either one of those was going to be better than just floating around her like he is been wanting this thing to happen. And then OK we talked the next day on the phone. And I learned that a weird thing happened in that conversation that he and I had had the day before which is we switched positions. He had completely convinced me that he should ask her but I had completely convinced him that he should not because she was not showing enough signs that she loves him because it seemed doomed on its face. So the next day Tuesday this week we got on the phone and he told me his new very pragmatic very sober plan. He is not going to ask her to marry him next week. He is just going to tell her his feelings and see if she is open to being in a real actual committed relationship. This opens the door to get started with a relationship. I am not really saying that she would want to go there but if she does then the question would be well where do we go from there? So he flies to his fate this weekend. He is asking her Wednesday he thinks. The heart wants what it wants. Emily Dickinson wrote that. Though depending on how old you are you might associate it with Woody Allen or Selena Gomez. Today on our program people who get stuck on somebody whether that is a good idea or not whether they want to or not people who get stuck even when the signs are not looking so very good for them at all. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act 1 Jesse's Girl. So here's a great example of the heart wanting what it wants against all reason. It is the story of a con that lasted for over two decades. And when the con was discovered there was a trial. And incredibly some of the people who had been conned testified on behalf of the man who scammed them. They defended the con in court. Which is to say that even after the con was over and the truth was revealed people still bought into it. NPR's social science correspondent Shankar Vedantam was so curious about why and talked to some of the victims including a man who says he got a lot out of being conned. Here's Shankar. So here's how the con worked. Guys around the country signed up for a pen pal service. It would put them in touch with women they could befriend and correspond with. And then they would start to receive letters. They come from Hillsdale Illinois. Some of them are white pink green. Jesse is a sweet soft spoken man with thick plastic aviator glasses. He started receiving the letters in 1985 when he was in his 30s. Back then he was overweight. He would never had a serious girlfriend always lived with his parents. After his mother died he spent most of his time taking care of his sick dad and working at his family's restaurant. Jesse's favorite letters came from a woman named Pamela. Yes I usually took it at the end of the day when I got them in the mail went into my room and laid on my bed and just sat there and read them. Dear Jesse deep down you know as well as I do that you could be a lot better off than you are if you only had someone on your side someone who would help you encourage you work with you and stick with you even when things get bad. What I am talking about of course is a true friend but that kind of person is hard to find today is not it? Jesse had never met or talked to Pamela but he was curious. He wrote back telling her a little about himself. And Pamela replied again and again. The letters were typed in a girlish font and signed in a blue pen with big loopy letters. In another letter Pamela wrote Just before I sat down to write this letter to you I was thinking how lucky I am that in this great big crazy world I found you. I hope I can be part of your life for a long time Darling and I hope as time goes by I will be able to make you happier and happier. This mystery woman seemed to know him. She made Jesse feel understood. She made him feel loved. You can tell when you meet a person that they are not superficial. This is coming from their heart. Everybody's looking for that perfect love and everything and this pops up. So I thought well could this be something different?  This was Pamela. He was middle aged balding and had a small gray mustache. His real name was Don Lowry. Was any of it difficult to come up with these characters? Did the characters bore you? I mean tell me about it as a writing project. No. No I looked at a photograph of a girl and said what kind of girl is this? Where is she from? What does she like to do? It was fairly easy after a while. The first 20 were a little bit rough but the next 80 were not hard at all. And you enjoyed making up these characters? I loved it! Yeah I loved it. I admit that. Don died in 2014 but I met him in 2011 in a rundown house in Butler Pennsylvania. He was 82. If you have trouble understanding Don's voice it is because he was a lifelong heavy smoker. The desk in his living room was covered with ash. His sofa smelled of smoke. Don told me he always wanted to be a writer but his real talent was in being a hustler. He always had a scheme going. In his early 30s Don visited Mexico and wrote a traveler's guide where he explained how American men could live cheaply there pick up women and get by with rudimentary Spanish. It was called Mexico Bachelor's Paradise. It did not sell. And then he tried something most writers would never consider. He changed the name of the book's author to a woman's name. Sales skyrocketed he said. Apparently lonely American men did not want tips from a guy. They wanted tips from a girl. Don realized there was a market waiting to be exploited. He rented mailing lists from magazines that catered to single men and started writing letters to them posing as different women. Men like Jesse were invited to join a club where in exchange for a small fee they could receive love letters. In a moment of inspiration Don decided to call the women who wrote the letters angels Angel Linda Angel Kristina Angel Pamela. He purchased stock photos of models and printed catalogs with photos and bios for each angel. Angels came in different flavors. Some were compliant helpless and pure. Others were raunchy and sent nude photos of themselves. Most were young and all were eager to please. Dream women for a certain kind of man dreamed up of course by another man. In one brochure Angel Linda Scott is pictured in a one piece swimsuit on her hands and knees. Angel Kristina looks like an idealistic woman. She is shown hugging a tree and holding a flower. I prefer a certain type of man Kristina says. He can pick up a handful of dark rich soil and feel a kind of reverence and joy. But he is awfully hard to find. Don mailed these brochures to men like Jesse. If a man wrote back Don began sending letters to him as Angel Kristina or Angel Linda. Don told me he did not want members who were just looking for sex. He wanted men looking for meaningful relationships who would be in it for the long haul. He thought this would be better for business and better for the marks. A guy his wife died and he was living alone he did not have any friends that kind of thing. He needed this. He did not have anything you or anybody else to cheer him up nobody. Reject. These girls would boost their egos things like Oh your handwriting is so masculine. Things like that little things gave the guy a boost. And they loved it. After a few letters to Jesse Pamela let him know that the only thing she wanted was a little help. Darling I want you to know that I really love writing you every day. It has filled a great need in my life and I know I would be very sad if I had to stop writing to you and being your friend. I hope you feel the same way about me and my letters to you. I think it is fair and reasonable for me to ask you to help with the expenses of paper envelopes postage photos and the other things I will be sending you. If you could send me just 10 a week for my letters I could continue writing every day as I have been. Jesse was fine with that. He figures he sent in 4000 or 5000 between 1985 and '88. It was not a big deal to him. My business was prospering pretty well. We ran over 100000 three years in a row so it was no problem for me to be sending money and stuff. So-- Pamela often sent Jesse stories about the two of them for a little extra money. In one Pamela and Jesse go on a picnic together. In another he literally rescues her as a knight in shining armor. There is one story that has them both lying on a bearskin rug in front of a fireplace. And of course it goes where you think it will go if two people are lying on a bearskin rug in front of a fireplace. But it is romantic not explicit. The language is tame. The letter concludes I lay beside you and whispered good night my sweet Darling. Let us drift away to paradise in our dreams and wake up together to a new and wonderful day. I kiss you gently and fall asleep in your arms. OK obviously cheesy. Don Lowry was not a gifted writer but he was a gifted manipulator. When I first heard about the story I assumed the men who signed up for the letters from the angels must have been such easy marks so naive. Who else would buy such absurd fantasies? But then I read the dozens and dozens of letters that Pamela sent Jesse. He saved them in a large binder each letter in its own plastic sleeve. And as I read the letters I started to understand the power of the psychological tools Don used to hook men like Jesse. Most of the letters are not epic fantasies. Most are about the minutiae of Pamela's life. She goes to the bank. She talks to co-workers. She tells Jesse her thoughts on televangelists. Over and over Pamela tells Jesse how much he means to her. She praises him encourages him. When you read the letters one after the other like Jesse did day after day after day it paints a picture that feels real. I felt the Pamela in the letters was a real person and I knew Don was writing them. There were other tricks. In one letter Pamela asked Jesse to keep a picture of hers nearby as he read her letters so he would feel she was in the room with him. Jesse put up two photos of her on the wall. She once sent him a dime. In that letter she told Jesse she had just had a strange day. Another driver bashed her car but did not leave a note. Just when it looked like the day could not get any worse she lost her purse. Depressed Pamela spotted this very dime on the street. She picked it up hoping it was a lucky charm. Later a little boy showed up with her purse. A woman called and took responsibility for the car. Pamela told Jesse she was giving him her lucky dime. Here's Jesse reading from the end of that letter. Keep this dime Darling. Let it always remind you that good people can still come into your life and good things can still happen to you. And also think of this as a small token of my affection for you. If you hold it in your hand and squeeze it hard you will feel the warmth of my love coming out of it. Did you actually do that Jesse? Yes I think I did do that and everything. Like I said Jesse's mother had recently died and his dad had heart trouble. He spent a lot of time looking after him. He wrote letters to Pamela confiding in her about his depression. She sent him heartfelt letters about bad relationships she would had. And she told him about visiting her grandfather who was suffering from dementia. That really took its toll on her so I bonded with that knowing that she was going through the same thing that I was. Me and her more or less bonded more than any other person I have ever talked to. It was like a beacon from outside like if you were a ship out at sea and you were looking for lighthouse. Which they used that in the deal to look for the light and everything and guide yourself towards it where you know that you will have safe haven. I am not sure I am exactly following you. Is this something from one of the letters where they basically talk about the lighthouse? Yes and in fact I got a little wooden figure of a lighthouse that she sent to me at one time and everything and said this beacon know that somebody is out there looking out for you and everything. If Jesse had wanted to see it there were plenty of signs the letters were mass produced. They looked typed but the paper does not have the indentations that come from typewriter keys. The signatures looked like they have been stamped or printed. All the specifics in the letters are about Pamela's life. In the letters did Pamela ever ask you how you were handling your mom's death? Not that I remember. No I do not think so. Did she ask how your dad's health was? Not that I remember at this time no. In fact when I read Pamela's letters to Jesse she never mentions any of the things he is told her. When Pamela talks about Jesse's life she switches into generalities. I know you are sad. I know you are lonely. I know you are having a hard time. The only way the letters are personalized is that Jesse's name is sprinkled throughout autofilled like a madlib sheet. To Jesse it did not matter. He saw what he wanted to see. At the time I was not really fully absorbing all of that. I had a lot on my plate in turmoil with everything that was going on. So I just read them and I took some like encouragement out of it. Did you ever have doubts about what was going on as you were receiving the letters? Well no not at the time and everything. Like I said I was glad to be getting letters from somebody and even though you are paying money for that because you have blinders on and are not really paying attention to all of that. Like I said when you are not the best looking person in the world that somebody out of the blue would write right to you and tell you things and build up your spirits and everything and stuff because everybody looks at you and stuff it is like the deal with the Hunchback of Notre Dame. You will never find anybody that will care for you but there at the end he wound up making friends with the people that befriended him and everything. At a certain point Pamela became the thing that kept Jesse afloat when he had to work long hours when he had to close his restaurant and rush his father to the hospital. Yes there was one thing that really touched me and everything. I was telling her I am ready to give up and everything. And she just told me get back on your feet and everything. So that really was a word of encouragement and everything. As Don went on he realized his members were hooked and he could take the fantasy further much further. He invented an epic world for his angels with a magical backstory and a fantastic future. Here's how it worked. The angels supposedly lived together in a retreat hidden away from the world. Most were lost souls escaping drugs and bad men. These were women who needed a steady hand and a strong shoulder. As he invented more angels Don came up with interweaving backstories. Some angels were good some bad. Angels helped one another backstabbed each other. All the men who signed up to join the Lonely Hearts Club understood they were joining an organization of good hearted men who were devoted to taking care of the angels. The organization was known as the Call. Don promised members of the Call that they would one day move with the angels to a valley paradise into a giant building shaped like a naked woman lying down on the grass. This lady shaped building would house meeting rooms and auditoriums. The paradise was to be called Chonda-za. In exchange for their contributions the members would have their needs looked after at Chonda-za all their needs. At the center of the entire fantasy was a matriarch a saintly woman named Mother Maria. Maria collected and managed the money from the members and she organized and disciplined the angels. She was said to have mystical powers and could revirginize fallen women. There were photos of Mother Maria. She was beautiful. Maria's photos were actually of a woman named Esther. She was Don's wife. Not all the members of the Call believed in Chonda-za. Jesse stuffed the letters describing Chonda-za in the back pocket of the binder. He figured it was just some wacky idea Pamela had and just ignored it. But there were other fish who found this Hoque tempting. In my mind I always held this area. I tried not to be convinced 100 about it. Surely this was too good to be true. This is Ken Blanchard. He is a big gentle man and was another member of the Call for many years. He was single when he joined and he was still single when I met him in 2012. What was the draw? What did you tell yourself when you said that this is too good to be true? Well I think with me it was the prospect of maybe at least having some sort of communication with some women maybe my age maybe a little bit too young for me maybe even then. But it sounded like a neat idea to be on the leading edge of something like that. Oh geez I do not know. Well-- I do not know what else how else to try to explain my part of it or belief in it and everything. They got me hooked on what they were saying and everything. And I believed them so-- Don got hundreds of new sign-ups every year. Millions of dollars flowed back to Don's headquarters in Moline Illinois. He bought himself expensive cars a Rolls-Royce and a Mercedes. He bought his sons and Esther everything they wanted. He got a big office in downtown Moline and operated a print shop. He hired assistants salespeople and ghostwriters to expand his operation. By the mid-1980s Don was writing love letters to more than 30000 men. We had lawyers doctors professors mechanics bakers you name it. All kinds of people were members. We even had a priest join the Call. Really. That is not a Catholic priest. Yeah a Catholic priest. What was he hoping to get out of it? Who the hell knows? He was probably just bored. To exploit this growing market Don constantly experimented with new schemes and products. He started selling cassette tapes where the angels flirted with the men. He got into merch-- mugs puzzles commemorative coins all with angels faces printed on them. And we sent out a pillowcase with Angel Terry's face on it. And it said now you can sleep with Angel Terry every night.   We did a lot of things like that. The members were not just sending in cash and checks. They were sending gifts. Ken sent Angel Vanessa a windbreaker. Others sent coats and shoes even gardening equipment so the angels could grow vegetables at their secret retreat. Did you encourage them to send personal items? Oh God no no. I hated that. Here's a guy his wife died. And she left all kinds of jewelry and dresses and so on. He put them in a big cardboard box and mailed it to us. What the hell are we going to do with it huh? Now what you wanted of course was you wanted them to send a check. Yeah of course or a money order or cash anything. Did you tell them not to do it? Very subtly. I did not want to hurt their feelings. They thought they were doing a great thing for the angels by sending these clothes. I did not want to hurt them. My dad would brazenly just have sidewalk sales lingerie and gifts and jewelry. This is Don's son Rico Lowry. And my dad would brazenly just be selling the lingerie on racks in front of the print shop. He would actually put up racks on the sidewalk in front of the print shop? Yep yep. My dad had a very sarcastic and wicked sense of humor. A local police officer told me men from all over the country started showing up in Moline asking where they could find the angels. If they found their way to the print shop Don called the cops on them. Dumbfounded police tried to explain to the men that there was no Angel Vanessa no retreat no Chonda-za. But occasionally if Don was in the mood he would actually allow them to meet female employees whom he had asked to pose as angels in photos. In time Don even set up events for his most loyal members to meet the angels. He called them gatherings. At a gathering in Chicago an advice columnist offered dating suggestions. A comedian told jokes. Angels in yellow green dresses leapt around onstage in an interpretive dance. Jesse went to the Moline gathering. He was excited to finally meet Pamela. She looked just like she did in her pictures. In fact she was one of Don's employees and her name really was Pamela. She greeted Jesse warmly. But Jesse's excitement was tempered by the fact that there were a dozen other men at the gathering. Jesse was shocked to find that every man thought he was in a personal relationship with Pamela too. They crowded around her vying for her attention. And then that is when it dawned on me. And I said hey this is not what I thought it would be or anything that it was a rip-off. Well that was like getting a kick in the stomach. It was upsetting and everything wasting all that money and this and that and the other. And it was not what it was meant to be. It got you down to reality and stuff so-- Jesse knew that Pamela liked music boxes so he bought her an expensive one with a tiny record on it that played When the Saints Go Marching In. Pamela loved it. He says she stared at it and let the record play. It went on and on and on. The other men stood around them and looked at Jesse. They looked at Pamela then back to Jesse. He liked that he was making them jealous. Jesse did not blame Pamela. He was not exactly sure how the scam worked but he was sure that the woman standing before him was the same woman who wrote to him that she was the one who had read his letters. The proof? Pamela's dog jumped into his lap. She jumped on my lap twice and everything and that really surprised Pamela and them. So I guess she smelled my scent on the letters I was writing to her and everything and stuff so-- We got in touch with Pamela to see if she remembered any of this but she declined to be interviewed on tape for the story. She did confirm that she had not written the letters. Jesse made friends with a couple of other men at the meeting particularly two guys named Lenny and Al. They were all like strangers who had independently watched the same soap opera for many years. And we got to talking about it. I said well why did you write to this and everything? Instead of bonding with the girls we ended up talking to each other and meeting new friends and talking about the troubles we had. Well they were just like me and everything. So we stayed in correspondence. Like they said they wrote me letters and they even called me at my restaurant to ask me how things were going and everything and finding out asking about my dad and everything so that was encouraging to hear somebody calling to want to check on you and everything. In other words they asked about all the personal stuff Pamela never asked about. Lenny and Al stayed in touch until they died. What finally brought Don Lowry's scam to an end was a woman named Susan Rosseau. She was a model that Don had worked with. She would gotten into a car crash and called Don for help. He showed up at the hospital with a photographer. They unbandaged her wounds and took pictures. They sent these to all the men who were corresponding with the angel Susan and asked them for help in paying her medical bills. But Don did not give Susan the money. She went to the cops. And she came to our office. She revealed the promises Mr. Lowry had made to her and broken. The return that Mr. Lowry received was staggering in terms of dollars and cents. This is Lieutenant Kenneth Rexroth of the Moline police department. He would been aware of Don Lowry for years. He turned away many men who would come to the police station in search of the angels. And he would been looking for a way to lock Don up. He was very diabolical. He is a sinister person. I consider Mr. Lowry to be an evil man. But thanks to Susan Rosseau the police finally had evidence to obtain subpoenas. They raided Don's print shop. They found out that some men sold everything in order to give their life savings to the angels. One man lived out of his car and forwarded his social security check to his angel. When the police got in touch with these guys many of them realized for the first time that their treasured letters were written by a man. What I turned out to be angry about and more embarrassed about more than anything was the fact that he was even involved that any man at all was even involved. Again this is Ken Blanchard who spent years receiving letters from Angel Vanessa. When I found out that these letters I would been getting all these times and I thought it was some girl sharing something with me well then I find out it was him writing the darn thing I thought my God what the hell am I getting into. But I can laugh about it now but I think at the time I did have some feelings about that that were not very charitable. Don's lawyer said that if members believed the angels were real that was on them. As Don told me many years later. People believe what they want to believe. You cannot dissuade them. Most members believed the angels lived forever in a Never Never Land called the retreat. We told them that they live forever and they never grew old. Does that tell you anything? Huh? Well you are surprised that they believed you? Yeah yeah. And it helped them. I mean it made them happy. So big deal. Don and Pamela were charged with mail fraud conspiracy and money laundering. The press mobbed the trial. Don was shamed in the press called a snake oil salesman in People Magazine. Which brings me back to what got me interested in the story in the first place the thing that really surprised me. Many members flew from all over the country to show up at the courthouse in defense of the Call. Some stood outside with picket signs defending the brotherhood. Jesse and his friend Al were both there. As they waited outside the courtroom Jesse saw Pamela come up. He rushed over to her. She was walking up and I noticed that she was cold so I took off my jacket and draped it over her shoulders and we walked all the way up to the courthouse. I was like a security guard. And after she went indoors I took my coat off and I backed off and everything. Did she say anything to you at that point? No not really. Members testified on the stand and said the Call had been a critical beautiful part of their lives. One man said letters from the angel saved him from alcoholism and thoughts of suicide. Jesse testified too. This is him reading a court transcript of what he said on the stand. Well it gave you like I said inspiration to continue no matter what the circu