Mike was out with his dog. It was a January night. He was on the CO Canal in Washington DC. I have been there. It is like you are in the city but it feels like you are in the woods. On one side of you is the Potomac River. On the other side there is this pretty old canal which was frozen over that night. He gets around three miles out in his jog and stops to stretch. His dog Looly is off leash. And so I remember throwing a stick down near the water just seeing if she would go after it. And I started stretching. And I am getting my calves. And I am looking toward the Potomac so I am not really paying attention to her. I turned around. Could not have been more than 30 40 seconds. And she is in the middle of the canal probably 30 35 feet out there. She is standing on the ice you mean? She is standing on the ice and she is sniffing around. And I go Looly Looly get back here. And she puts her head up. And it could not have been more than three seconds later I just heard this sploosh. And she goes through. And I am freaking out.  And I all of a sudden OK OK she will get out of this. She is a dog they can contort out of anything. And she started trying to get her paws up on the ice. And they just kept slipping off. And she was kicking it like crazy from behind. And a good minute goes by. And now I am sort of trying to coax her out gently like Looly come on. Come on baby. Come on girl. Come on. And a minute goes by. And I am starting to think OK this is not good. And then two minutes go by. And she is starting to whimper these little--  And I am going oh man. And I am looking around. There is nobody around. It is pitch dark. I only remember even two people on the trail running that I even saw. Today's show is about how do you choose what to do. How do you decide your move in a daunting situation where stakes are high? Like Mike he is got no rope. His dog is too far out to use a branch or something. There is no time to get help. So what is he do? I literally thought about some Discovery Channel thing I would watched once. And the guy was showing you if you never want to fall through ice how to distribute your body weight if you put this much here and this much here. You mean you spread your body out like you are lying on the ice? Is that how? Right. Right. I put my arms out and my legs like I am almost splayed. And I am slowly moving across it. And you are on your stomach? I am on my back. I am on my back. He thinks OK worst case scenario if the ice breaks-- well he had actually jumped into the canal once. And he is 6' 4. The water only came up to his chest. So again worst case he could still grab the dog and walk out. We are talking the canal here. We are not talking the Colorado River. And it was the classic miscalculation because I started to move out to her-- and I was not that far from her. I cannot remember maybe 10 15 feet. And she is looking at me. And she is in kind of a little ice hole. And she is trying to get toward me. And in my head I just had this sort of weird thought that I had not thought of before. My dog is about 65 pounds. I am about 205 pounds 210 at that point. What if the chip-- boosh I go right through. I fell through the ice myself. And the shocking thing was I am tasting sulfur. I am tasting the sediment of the thing. And I cannot stand. Mike was a sportswriter for The Washington Post when all this happened years ago. And he wrote a really beautiful account of what came next for the newspaper. And as part of that he researched-- and yeah the center of the CO Canal does get much deeper than 6' 4. So he is in the water. He is only about five feet away from his dog. He wrote that plunging into the icy water the moment that happened the water shocked him like a dental drill hitting an exposed nerve. That is what it felt like. Boom it was freezing. And then one of the things that is very arresting about reading your account of this is just how fast things go south for you. It is like you are trying to pull yourself up on the ice. And then right within two minutes you cannot even feel your hands. And your lower extremities are beginning to feel numb. The dog is in even worse shape than you. Yeah. She is just looking toward me for help. But every time I try to push myself up on the ice it cracks a little. I cannot get on a solid piece. And I am starting to get cuts on my wrists as I am going up on the ice. And I am probably panicking at that point a little too because I do not have much time. These things happen quickly. He tried over and over to lurch himself up under the ice. But every time he did it would break underneath him and he would be back in the water. He made it to his dog Looly. She put her paws on his back to hold herself up. It was not clear what to do. He thought about the stories you always hear about people who die in the wilderness hiking or whatever. There is a cameraman from The Washington Post newsroom who he would known named John. He was a kayaker biggest strongest guy I ever saw in the newsroom. He died in a kayak accident because the water pinned him under in West Virginia somewhere. And we had this big funeral for him. And I just thought of all those stories. And I had this really selfish vain moment where I thought I am not dying in the Kodiak region. I am not dying in the Gallatin or the Madison in Montana. I am friggin' 15 minutes from a Ralph Lauren store and a Five Guys. Georgetown's down the street. My main thing was I did not have a lot of time. I did not know how much time I was in there but literally my legs were starting to freeze up. And so at that point the only thing I could think of was I cannot get up here on my own. And she looks worse off than me. And so I took my right arm and put it under her like a big fishing hook. And then with all of his strength he heaved Looly up onto the ice. She scampered to the bank shook herself off ran down the trail then realized he was not with her and came back. Now she kept a safe distance on the shore. He thought to himself who is going to find his dog when he is gone? Who is going to take care of her? It was quiet. He could hear cars in the distance. This moment he wrote about it. And I asked him to read it for us. I had been in the freezing water for about three minutes I figured. I half remembered reading an article that said hypothermia could set in between four and seven minutes. I drew in deep breaths and paused maybe 10 seconds. I figured I had one minute maybe two with physical exertion left. I felt nothing in my hands and arms which just slid off the ice each time I tried to pull myself up. I wanted to believe there was an internal survival mechanism that would kick in an uber human force that would enable me to rescue myself. But losing muscular function prevents those surreal endings. I began to consider my options and arrived at a plan I should have thought of before I went in after her. The plan? He called for help loud as he could. Screamed and waited for a while. Nothing. Suddenly I did not feel cold or frozen. And that I would learn later meant I was heading into stage two of hypothermia. I remember leaning my elbows on the ice for balance and looking at Looly pacing along the bank. And then a guy showed up a law student who'd been out for a jog. He sees Mike. And his opening line is hey so what are you doing in the ice? The way he gets Mike out is that he wades into the cold water breaking the ice as he walks forward his feet solidly on the ground never getting in too deep. And then Mike breaks the ice and kind of lurches towards him. So we are probably about 15 feet from each other. And I just kept lunging and lunging. And I got a couple of feet more. And all of a sudden I could feel my feet touch the bottom. And it was at that moment I was like oh my god I am freezing but I am going to get out of here. The student's name is Jason Coates who is still in regular touch today over a decade later. Over that time Mike's thought a lot about that night in the canal when he nearly died. In hindsight do you think you made the wrong calculation and the wrong choice trying to save your dog? I made the wrong calculation when I took her leash off along a frozen canal. I know but the real choice that endangered your life was to decide to go rescue her. In retrospect do you think well that was just the wrong choice? I should not have tried to rescue her. No. I do not think I made the wrong choice. Because-- Wow. --a life without her-- the next 10 years would not have been a life worth living. No. Come on. Really? I mean that sincerely. You almost died. You are just lucky that somebody was passing by. It does not matter. That dog was everything to me. Now you are married now. Yeah. When you have told your wife this story does she agree with that assessment do you think that you should have gone in? Like is this an example to her of something about your judgment?  Oh she has 10 other examples of bad judgment. Yeah yeah yeah. Yeah there is definitely as my wife says Seor Drama. OK Seor Drama take it easy. And so yeah I definitely lead with my heart. Well today on our radio show we have stories like this one of people in difficult situations trying basically to scramble their way up onto the ice and having to invent how to do it trying one thing after another. That kind of battle it brings out who you really are. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One New Sheriffs in Town. So the House of Representatives of course is where the Democrats are now in the majority. And they are flexing their muscles. Take the Michael Cohen hearing that just happened. If Republicans are still in charge of the House do you think that could have ever happened? We are in for lots more hearings like that. And if you believe the news the Mueller report about what the president did and did not do is apparently maybe close to being done. When that comes out it will probably mean hearings about whether it is going to be released to the public about whatever it is that it says. And a lot of that is probably going to happen in the House Judiciary Committee. Now that is a different committee from the one that did the Cohen hearings. Our producer Zoe Chace spent weeks with the Judiciary Committee as they prepared for their very first oversight hearing. It happened a few weeks ago. And she watched them during this first hearing trying to exercise the new power that they got when they took the majority the power to drag in whoever they want and grill them with questions before the cameras. As we hear it was not a cakewalk. The Democrats had to fight for every step adjust tactics try this and that. Here's Zoe. The House Judiciary Committee has its own hearing room-- long gold drapes rich blue carpet. And the way the room is set up everywhere you look is a reminder of exactly who is in power and who is out. The C-Span cameras are set up stage left so the Congress people and the majority are shot at the best angle. They just look better on TV. The minority staffers have to squeeze awkwardly behind the cameras just to get up to their members on the dais. It is not dignified. The majority has a much bigger staff. It controls the budget. Even the portraits on the wall of the past chairmen that look down on everything even those are arranged so that the majority's portrait gets the benefit of that better camera angle. You know who knows every inch of this room including even the parts behind the scenes that the mortals never see? Jerry Nadler. There is a door to the right to the right of the committee room doors. Nadler is the new chairman of the House Judiciary Committee. You walk in that door that is the minority staff room. And you will see a narrow corridor two very small bathrooms an office a little space for a printer or for a microwave. A printer or a microwave that really sums up the choices the minority gets. It is where Nadler's been for the last eight years but no longer. Now walk in on the other side of the committee room and you will not see that little thing. You see a suite of eight or nine or 10 offices. A suite-- nice big offices with couches and extra chairs for big staff meetings. The point is the switch is always extreme. Right now it is an especially big deal. The House leadership has made clear they are going to push back against President Trump. They are passing bills. They are running oversight hearings and investigations. Nadler's committee the Judiciary Committee is looking for the answer to the very slow motion movie we have been watching since President Trump took office. Did the president abuse his power? Did the president obstruct justice? Hanging over that question for Nadler is the possibility of impeachment because impeachment proceedings if they ever happened would start in the Judiciary Committee. But for now it is just hearings hearings for days hearings as far as the eye can see. And for every hearing that makes the news that rises like a bubble to the surface where we can see it there is this churn underneath of meetings and pre-meetings and strategy sessions. That is the work I am here to see. This really does not-- the real reason-- Nadler and his staff are gathered in his newly giant office strategizing around their first oversight hearing. He is editing a letter half out loud. His typical pose bottom drawer of his desk pulled out his right foot up on it and leaning way too far back like he is going to tip over. He is making notes debating with his staff. Well I do not know that they are bound by it. Right. Nadler's like their constitutional law professor. He is actually a constitutional lawyer. Nadler's 71 years old a liberal congressman from New York represents primarily the West Side of Manhattan spends a lot of weekends with a megaphone hollering about civil rights spends his weekdays with piles of paper. Where is the stuff about Mueller? This is back in January. Nadler and his staff want acting Attorney General Matthew Whitaker to appear before the Judiciary Committee. This letter is negotiating a time and sending him topic areas they want to cover-- the southern border the Affordable Care Act and primarily questions about you sir and your highly unusual brief tenure as attorney general. Whitaker is important even though he is a temporary villain. He is a plot point in the story Nadler and the House Democrats want to tell. Or he might be. That is why they need to ask him a bunch of questions in a hearing under oath. We all suspect he was put there for one reason and one reason only to interfere with the Mueller investigation. Sessions-- Former Attorney General Jeff Sessions Whitaker replaced him. Sessions recused himself and would not protect the president against the Mueller investigation. Is fired because he would not protect the president against the Mueller investigation. Whitaker who is written nasty things about the Mueller investigation is hired with no visible qualifications.  obviously for the purpose of protecting the president from the Mueller investigation. Whatever is obvious to Nadler if he wants the public to believe it he is got to show it in a hearing. His committee needs to ask pointed questions and make sure Whitaker answers them. That is the letter full of topics that Nadler's working on. At this point he may not answer the questions. And we cannot tolerate that. That is correct. OK that is what I will say. That voice in the background is Aaron Nadler's deputy chief counsel. Aaron's one of the two people on Nadler's core staff who is allowed sometimes to speak into a microphone. He believes really hard in his job. Instead of saying the country he will say the republic. Now one question we should discuss is whether we should prepare a subpoena for Whitaker even though we hopefully would never have to use it. We should certainly prepare it. My only question is does that look belligerent like we are doing something? That is the concern. Nadler and his staff are considering deploying the biggest weapon they have early in the game the subpoena. You will hear a lot about the subpoena in this story and I believe in the coming months. A subpoena forces you to show up to a congressional hearing. A subpoena can also force you to answer questions unless you plead the fifth obviously. Back when the Democrats were in the minority they did not have the power to subpoena anybody. It killed them the last two years not being able to force Trump officials to come in and answer for the stuff they were doing. Now they have subpoena power. And they have two years of unanswered questions. We have to reestablish proper oversight not because we do not like this president-- though I do not-- not because I think he is a terrible president-- though I do-- not because I think we will find all kinds of things-- though we may-- but because it is our job to do that. Whitaker is coming in voluntarily. Nadler does not need the subpoena for that anymore but he does want to use it to combat this maddening thing that is been going on over the last two years the Democrats were powerless to stop. People from the Trump administration would come in and refuse to answer questions. And every administration does that but there is been a twist on it. We saw it for example with the guy Whitaker replaced Attorney General Sessions. A year ago he went before a congressional committee and showcased this innovative way of not answering a question. Here's Sessions. This is from a New York Times video montage. Senator Heinrich I am not able to share with this committee private communications I may have-- Because you are invoking executive privilege. I am not able to invoke executive privilege. That is the president's prerogative. Has the president invoked executive privilege in the case of your testimony here today? He has not. Then what is the basis of your refusal to answer these questions? I am protecting the right of the president to assert it if he chooses. Sessions drove the Democrats crazy because he kept talking in terms of future executive privilege. The president might invoke it sometime hypothetically potentially and I have to protect that. He kept claiming this even after he was given months to go to the president and ask over which communications do you want to invoke executive privilege? This potential executive privilege was like a back door Sessions kept slipping out of. Nadler spent the last few months trying to nail that door shut. He sent a list of questions to Whitaker in advance. Are these subject to executive privilege? Go to the president find that out get back to us. Anything the president does not claim is fair game for us to ask and get answers to. And if you do not answer those questions we will subpoena the answers out of you. Weeks passed. Whitaker did not get back to Nadler who feels like OK if you try to stonewall we will subpoena your answers mid-hearing. But to get a subpoena for a hearing first Nadler is having a hearing about a subpoena. This is Congress after all. The Judiciary Committee will please come to order a quorum being present without objection. The chair has authorized to declare a recess at any time. Nadler is sitting in the chairman's seat with the gavel opening a meeting about the subpoena. It is the day before the big Whittaker hearing. This meeting is focused on just the subpoena. It is called a markup basically a debate among the committee members. And it is teeny tiny-- no audience very few reporters. Not even all the committee members are here. I called C-Span and asked if they were recording it. They were like what is that? I now call up the chair's resolution authorizing the issuance of a subpoena to acting Attorney General Matthew G. Whitaker to secure his appearance and testimony at the hearing of the committee regarding oversight of the US Department of Justice. I move that the committee adopt the resolution. So this hearing is about the subpoena but it is also a way for Democrats to show off how transparent they are going to be as they run this committee. Back when Nadler was in the minority it frustrated him that the Democrats would not get a chance to weigh in on a subpoena like this. There were not committee votes markups where Democrats got to go on the record and vote no when they did not like what the Republicans were doing. Today Nadler and the Democrats could just go ahead and authorize a subpoena without this hearing but they are letting the Republicans weigh in. And they are feeling a little holier than thou about it. Also Nadler genuinely believes in proper parliamentary procedure not just the technicalities of it but the idea of it that it is a way to keep everyone honest. The chairman begins by recognizing himself for an opening statement because that is the procedure. Not a showboat. Whatever's under-understated is how Nadler presents himself. My staff and I can not have been more transparent about our goals here. We explained the possibility of this subpoena to Mr. Whitaker months ago. We provided him with the questions in advance weeks ago. We consulted with ranking member Collins and provided him with a copy of this subpoena days ago so that we could schedule this markup if necessary. In fact we are only voting on this resolution because the ranking member asked us for an up or down vote on the matter a courtesy we were not afforded in the last Congress when Democrats were in the minority. The hearing is filled with digs like that back and forth. Well back when you guys did not follow the rules back when your president was the one being secretive. This is the way it is going to be for two years. And these are the people who are going to be doing it. This is the cast for the new season. Let us get to know them. Ranking Republican Doug Collins from Georgia charismatic talker Air Force Reserve Iraq vet. He steers things away from Whitaker immediately and does a classic what about Obama and his attorney general Eric Holder? And is not your subpoena here a double standard? A subpoena should not be used to supplement where the committee is merely worried that a witness might not testify or might not answer questions to the extent of the committee's liking. If that was the standard for a subpoena many on our side especially when Attorney General Holder sat at that table and offered on the record the executive privilege which he could not claim. Let us be honest about this. There is arguing back and forth about whether waving a subpoena around is too rude for someone coming in voluntarily and what is the precedent. Here's Nadler sparring with Jim Jordan Republican from Ohio who loves a fight. Big defender of the president. The issue is if he refuses to answer legitimate questions. That is why we want the subpoena. How do you know that until he comes tomorrow? And he said he is coming. Sir I am speaking. We do not know that. He has not told us what he will do. We asked him. He refuses to say-- Mr. Chairman that is actually not accurate. He has told you what he is going to do. He said he is going to be sitting at that table tomorrow morning at 10 oclock. No he has not told us about answering questions. Finally after arguing against the subpoena for a while the Republicans changed tack and offered an amendment to it. Thank you Mr. Chairman. I have an amendment at the desk. You have an amendment at the desk? The clerk reads the amendment. Beginning on page one after acting Attorney General Matthew G. Whitaker and before to secure his appearance insert the following-- and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein. Here we go. If you are getting a subpoena anyway get one for Rod Rosenstein. Rod Rosenstein deputy attorney general. Lots of Republicans cannot stand him and think he is out to get the president. So their amendment is basically you Democrats want the guy you do not trust at the Justice Department to testify. Well then we want the guy we do not trust to come in at the same time. The argument that follows is so small sized but they all throw in so hard which is normal here. Just stay with it for a second. The Democrats' response is led by David Cicilline from Rhode Island. I have come to think of him as Nadler's pinch hitter. Thank you Mr. Chairman. I would argue that this amendment goes beyond the scope of the resolution before us. The Democrats knew this amendment was coming. Nadler's team already set up Cicilline with what he needs to knock it down. His addition to this resolution is not germane. It expands the scope of this for the individual charged with the oversight of the Department of Justice. And therefore I ask that you rule it out of order. Germane is a legal term. And once it is released in here it is like a swarm of bees. Republican member Biggs argues back. Because under the rules of any parliamentary body this group determines what is germane. This group determines what is germane. We are going to vote on germane this in just a second. Another Republican Louie Gohmert from East Texas he jumps in. Like not only is Rod Rosenstein germane-- It is extremely germane. --cannot be germaner. It is as germane as it gets. So let us be fair. In any event the Democrats have the votes to do what they want. Nadler rules the amendment not germane. The Republicans appeal. Democrats immediately table the appeal-- swat it down in other words. They finally vote on the resolution to authorize the actual subpoena. And it is authorized obviously by a party line vote of Democrats. This entire show the whole hour of debate it was a fait accompli from the beginning. But the minority got what the minority gets a chance to object on the record. It as not much but it is all there is. Everyone knows that. And yet at the very end of the hearing Republican Louie Gohmert knowing the Democrats are feeling so very pleased with themselves for letting the minority speak Gohmert gets in one last graciously worded dig at the majority. He is like you played your part a little sloppy. You did not even make it look like you were listening to us. I rise to commend the chairman on the way in which he ruled on the germaneness issue of-- we know that to rule before giving this side a chance to respond on a germaneness objection would be a sign of partisan railroading. And whoever it is that typed up your answer and had it instantaneously at the very moment we finished our argument in front of you so you could read it so fast we could not even see it-- they typed it got it to you so you could read your ruling the moment we finished stating our position. Will the gentleman-- I commend the-- I thank the gentleman. Everyone laughed. They went on to consider a bipartisan bill which they passed out of committee. The Democrats felt great about how this markup went. They authorized a subpoena meaning now they had the power to use a subpoena on the day of the hearing to compel answers if they want to just to have it on hand like in case of emergency break glass get answers. We get backstage as it were back to the vast suite of the majority's offices behind the hearing room. And I find Aaron who is full of his particular brand of patriotic bonhomie. So who do you think won? The American people I would say. No.  Many members had sort of a moment where they pulled me aside and said oh we are going to win a vote today because it is been a while. It is our first game time like regular season vote. As the day ends and we head into Whitaker oversight hearing eve everything seems set. Nadler staff is feeling ready like they had a great dress rehearsal and the play is also going to be great. The props are all in place. Everyone knows their lines. Every box has been checked off. I go downstairs to the Rayburn Cafeteria stare at my phone like everyone does. Suddenly news breaks and it is big. I look up from my phone to CNN which is playing everywhere. The Whitaker hearing that is supposed to happen in just hours the hearing the Democrats have been rehearsing for planning for might not happen now. Whitaker apparently heard about the vote they just took on the subpoena. And now he is saying he is not going to come tomorrow if there is a subpoena threat. In other words this new tool the Democrats can wield now that they are in the majority the main tool they want to use to get the answers they have been waiting for the DOJ is saying go ahead and try it. See what you get. If Whitaker does not show up like he is threatening a subpoena can force him to appear but it would take a while. I run back upstairs. People are gathered around the TV in the office watching the breaking news. Acting attorney general to discuss his communications with the president. So that is a --- Oh my god.  Nadler's staff is in Aaron's office with the door closed. They are all on speakerphone with Nadler. And I sit outside watching MSNBC for what feels like hours but I think is like 45 minutes. Finally they come get me. And Aaron and another staffer Danny show me what they have all been looking at. It is a five-page letter they just now received from the DOJ telling them Whitaker will not come if there is a chance the Democrats will use their subpoena at the hearing tomorrow. To be clear it is a PDF but it sounds like it is from the 19th century. So the department says Given the concerns expressed above we seek a written assurance from your office that the committee will not issue a subpoena to the acting attorney general on or before February 8. Oh We request the benefit of your reply by 600 PM today. So the threshold question is-- So formal. Yeah. The threshold question is do we respond to this at all? This is a last minute threat. It is out of the box. It is irregular. Attempting to dictate terms from the executive branch to the legislative branch on how to conduct its oversight of the executive branch. They are indignant and a little shaken I would say. They are like wait did we mess this up? Is Whitaker seriously not coming? What do we do now? F this guy. They are legitimately freaked out because they really really want Whitaker to come in. Nadler's the new leader. All his members might be upset. They stuck their necks out and supported his subpoena move but they really want to have a hearing with the cabinet official to be the first committee in the new Democrat-controlled House to show off a tough oversight agenda. Aaron and Danny walk me through their various options for a response from hard line to pushover. People are running around researching ways to beef up their response to the letter. Nadler's decision is just reiterate what they said before as though it is not exactly what they said before. Basically as Aaron puts it-- Dear Matthew Whitaker if you show up on time prepared to answer our questions there is no need for us to issue a subpoena. Love Jerry Nadler. So then Aaron and another staffer call the DOJ. I am not allowed to record. They start out by saying I have got good news for you. And the news is not good. They say well the gist is if he shows up on time and answers questions we will not have to issue a subpoena. It seems to somehow pass muster with whoever's on the other side. And they talk about logistics what elevator Whitaker is going to use how he is going to get into the hearing room and stuff. The way they talk is like they are releasing a bull into a ring how to keep everyone safe before we let this angry frightened creature in front of 30 matadors. Things are calm for about a half an hour. Then Aaron's cell phone rings on his watch and he curses and runs out of the room. It is the DOJ. They want a stronger assurance. They want a promise-- no subpoena tomorrow or Whitaker will not come. It is 10 to 600. 600 is the deadline. This time the team gathers deeper into their catacombs of offices. I cannot even hear them arguing they are so cocooned away from me. And when they come out I cannot get a straight answer out of Danny or Aaron. He asked for a guarantee. You did not give him a guarantee or did you? We said that there is no need for a subpoena. But did you guarantee him that you would not issue a subpoena? Yeah. There is no need to issue a subpoena because he is agreed to come in tomorrow morning and answer the questions. OK. So what if he does not answer one of the questions and you want him to answer it? We will deal with it as we move forward. But is not that when you would issue a subpoena? If in fact we were going to issue a subpoena. Oh my god. They are being so cagey so parsey I cannot quite tell what is up. Did they cave and they do not want to admit it? Later that night the ranking Republican on the Judiciary Committee Doug Collins gets on Twitter to reveal Nadler caved. Nadler's team protests that wo