You may remember this story that we did about a year ago about canvassers going door to door and talking to voters for 20 minutes. And in just 20 minutes the canvassers got some voters to change their minds to flip positions on big hot button issues. Gay marriage. Abortion. Which of course is amazing right? That is not something that seems like it is even possible. There was a study in a well-known peer reviewed journal-- Science magazine-- proving how remarkably effective these people were. They invented a whole new way to sway voter opinion. It seemed like a game changer a whole new tool for politics for liberals or conservatives to use. And then a month after our radio story-- maybe you saw this in the news-- there was overwhelming evidence that one of the researchers a grad student named Michael LaCour had fabricated all the data. Science magazine retracted the article. But the team that invented this canvassing technique they were not the ones that did the research study. That was a separate thing. And they were just as shocked as anybody. Maybe more shocked. The week the news broke one of the canvass organizers Steve DeLine told me they would spent months meticulously going door to door and keeping perfect records of everything they were doing for this researcher. To find out that LaCour had just made up his part of the data-- It is unfathomable to me having you know made sure that we were dotting every I and crossing every T. And you know jumping through every hoop that he asked of us. It is just-- just cannot really explain it. I am at a loss.  Then in August three months after the retraction four months after our story aired-- Hi. Hi. Steve. Dave. Hi.  Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you guys in person. We got a visitor to our office from two of the guys who'd developed this canvassing technique that guy Steve and his coworker Dave Fleischer. They happened to be in town from California. And they had news. A brand new study with new researchers was looking into their work. Results were coming in. Here's Dave. We are not anticipating going public with these results until January at the earliest and maybe not till June. What these researchers really wanted to do was publish their results in Science magazine you know the place that published the original discredited study. In fact one of the researchers was laying the groundwork for that. So he actually called up Marcia McNutt who is the editor of Science. And they did not immediately reject it out of hand. She just said You know the bar's going to be very high.  Well no  fooling. Well apparently Science magazine liked what the new researchers did. This week they published the new study about these canvassers. This one's not fake. We know now for real whether those canvassers are in fact convincing anyone of anything when they go door to door. And if anything what the canvassers are achieving and the way that they are achieving it is even more interesting than the fake study said. From WBEZ Chicago and This American Life I am Ira Glass. Today on our program For Your Reconsideration. We have this story and two other stories where people go back and revisit evidence from the past. And just to start this off in case you did not hear our first story about those canvassers a year ago here's what they were. If you heard that show this will just be a quick reminder. Hi. We are talking to registered voters in your neighborhood today about their views on abortion. This is one of the canvassers. She is young with tattoos and a halter top. It is a warm Los Angeles day and the voter's on the other side of a screen door. She is older heavyset wire rimmed glasses. She is a nurse. And OK just to be clear what you are about to hear is a real canvasser with a real voter. This is not part of the discredited study. This is from a video of one of the regular canvasses these guys Dave and Steve organized. The canvasser begins by asking this voter what she believes about abortion on a scale from zero to 10. Zero means you think women should have no access to abortion. 10 means women should have full access to abortion. The voter says zero. No access. No abortions for anybody. She is Catholic from Mexico. And they start talking about how hard it can be to discuss abortion. Even with family. How did that feel for you to talk to your daughters? It is not easy. It is not easy because in my country they have taboos a lot of taboos. And my mother is one of the person never talking about sexual relations or conceptions. Yeah. That is why I try to be very open with my daughters. Notice that this conversation's just begun and already she is talking about her daughters and her mom. That is no accident. This whole technique is built around having a very personal conversation a very real conversation about the voter's experiences. To make that happen this canvasser does something that a lot of the canvassers do-- she talks about her own experiences. My mother's from the Philippines. Uh-huh. And my mother went through the same thing. Like it is not something that you talk about. No. It is not. Huh. In my family it is the same. When I got my period I was 12 years old. Mhm. And-- The voter tells her that when she was 11 and got her period nobody explained what was happening. She thought she was dying. And I believe I am dying.  Oh!  And when she was six her mom miscarried a baby. But nobody explained what was going on to her. And so she is tried to be different with her daughters and talk to them. That is why she became a nurse she says to help women. So these two strangers are swapping stories and really talking from the heart. And 15 minutes into this 22-minute conversation the canvasser circles back to the subject at hand in a very pointed way. I had an abortion. Mhm. In November this past year. Oh I am so sorry. And it was not the wrong choice for me. Mhm. Because that is what felt right for me. But I was alone. Yeah. And it was scary. Uh-huh. And it was not-- it was because I do not know how to talk about it with people. Like my family my mother loves me. And so does my papa and my sister. Mhm. But-- I know but it is hard. And you carry it for the rest of your life. It is your decision-- Yeah. But you carry it for the rest of your life. If you are-- one of the things that I struggled with with telling my family is this idea that my family's going to love me less. No. Never. Would you ever love your daughters less? No. Never. It is a moment that is simultaneously intimate and manipulative and honest all at once. And it works. After this the canvasser asks the voter again to rate on a scale of zero to 10 where she stands on access to abortion. Remember she was a zero before. We have that same zero to 10 scale where zero means no access and 10 means full access. 10. A 10? Mhm. She is been standing at the door just 18 minutes. So again OK that is real. That is not part of the fraudulent study. The team that invented this technique of going door to door-- including Dave Fleischer and Steve Deline the two guys who visited our office at the beginning of this story-- they work at the Los Angeles LGBT Center which is a big multimillion-dollar nonprofit the biggest LGBT organization in the world. They started doing these canvasses in 2009. They were hoping to change voters' minds to support gay marriage. This was in the wake of Proposition 8 which rejected gay marriage in California. And they discovered through trial and error that the trick to this whole thing was they do not try to reason with people about rights and equality and big principles like that. Canvass organizer Steve Deline says if you are talking at a kind of rational sort of intellectual level about things you are gonna fail. That is not where people make their decisions about issues like this. People make their decisions about how they are going to vote on this at a gut level and at a visceral level and an emotional level. This is what they learned-- to stop telling people things. The most important thing the canvasser should do is listen. I think the big revelation was that our job was actually to go and give them the chance to talk about their own life and realize that you know maybe that led them to conclusions that were a little different than they would thought. So they are out doing this trying their canvasses. And it took them less than a year to start to get decent results like you heard with that nurse. A small but noticeable number of people at the door told them that their minds had been changed. But of course the only way to tell for sure if their minds changed and stayed changed was to have outsiders-- scientists-- do a proper case control study. And that is why the canvassers invited in two political scientists to do the original study that was published in Science magazine. That grad student from UCLA-- Michael LaCour-- did the actual research. But the study design and results were overseen by a big deal political scientist from Columbia University named Donald Green who is kind of legendary in that world for transforming how people do field experiments. And Green says that before they started he expected the results were going to show--  Short-term effects. I thought that those effects would subside in a few days' time. He thought that 'ecause pretty much that is what always happens. People change their minds and then the effect wears off. Or much more common they do not change their minds at all. There is a hefty body of research documenting something called the backfire effect which happens with most of us. When we are confronted with evidence disproving something that we personally believe most of us generally just dig in and we believe it more. This is a phenomenon by the way that is familiar to anybody who is ever been to a Thanksgiving dinner during an election year and tried to argue with some favorite uncle's wrongheaded political opinions. Never works right? Facts mean nothing. And by the way Uncle Lenny I am not talking about you. But this is what was so revolutionary about the data that this grad student seemed to be gathering about these canvassers. He said he did online surveys with the voters who got visited by the canvassers and they showed that their minds changed and stayed changed for six months nine months a year after the canvasser knocked at the door. Green told me that he and his colleagues had read through over 900 papers never seen anything like this result to change people's opinions and have it last like this. Though interestingly when LaCour first showed his data to Professor Green Green thought this data is so perfect these results might be real. But OK best to be sure. And he told LaCour to do the entire study-- canvasses surveys everything-- a second time. Which LaCour did. Same result. Now of course later Green's suspicions would be confirmed in spades. All that data would be shown to be fraudulent. But here's what LaCour said he found in the original study published in Science. OK so what I am about to say is from the discredited results of a retracted study. This study was about gay marriage. It was about convincing people to support gay marriage. And the study claimed that a year after the canvassers visited voters' homes the number of voters supporting gay marriage had jumped 15. 15. But-- and this was key-- according to the study the 15 increase only happened if the canvasser at the door had been gay and admitted being gay to the voter. People who talked to other canvassers only rose 3 which is about as much as the nation as a whole changed on the issue of gay marriage that year. It was a similar effect with abortion according LaCour. He said the number of people who became pro-choice after the canvass rose 5. And again the effect only lasted if the canvasser at the door revealed that she had had an abortion. It was talking to somebody affected by the issue that seemed to be changing people's minds. I actually interviewed Michael LaCour a year ago for the story that I did for our show about all this. I have to say it is strange listening to that interview today knowing what happened just a few weeks after we talked that his data would be shown to be fraudulent. 'ecause when I talked to him he really talked like somebody doing a real study with real surveys. Like for instance I asked him how attitudes towards abortion changed over time among the voters that he was studying. So that is still ongoing. Because I am tracking longitudinally these individuals over a course. I do not want to give out a hard number but it stays relatively flat. And I think it levels off around five percentage points. That is around 200 days later. He offered conclusions from his data. Like this one. So one of the things is people change their-- when they had contact with a gay person discussing gay equality-- they changed their minds not just about the policy issue about same sex marriage. They also changed their minds about gay people gays and lesbians as a group. Nice if that were true. If there were data supporting it. Or there was this finding which is so particular and specific that again if there is no data supporting this it is just a very idiosyncratic thing to decide to say is true. LaCour said that he graded each gay canvasser on how stereotypically gay they appeared. And-- The gay canvassers who are perceived as straight had the largest effects. That is they were able to convince the most voters to support gay marriage. So this suggests that voters may ordinarily have an unflattering mental image of a stereotypical gay person. And the discrepancy between the stereotype and the person standing on the doorstep creates a space for attitude change. Right. I see. Especially when the canvassers are building empathy through respectful two-way conversation. This vision of the world is such a hopeful vision of how the world might work. The world LaCour fabricated is one where intolerant people hold inaccurate stereotypes in their heads and all it takes is an empathetic conversation one sincere talk 20 minutes long with somebody from the stereotyped group and the scales fall from their eyes. They realize they were wrong all along. I like that world. I wish I lived in that world. Maybe we do live in that world for all we know. But if we do there is no data proving it.   Hello? Hey Don Green? Yes. Ira Glass. Hey Ira. Last May a month after we ran our story about LaCour's study six months after he published that study in Science magazine I called his co-author Columbia professor Donald Green. Green had just reconsidered what was going on in the data LaCour had collected and had asked Science to retract their article which the magazine did. He seemed understandably sobered and sad. It was such a waste. Not just of my time obviously but no the Center and the canvassers' time. Yeah. It is just crazy. The way the fraud was discovered was actually a little detective story of its own. A detective story that began kind of exactly the way they tell you in school that the scientific method is supposed to work. Two young researchers-- David Broockman and Joshua Kalla both in their 20s-- tried to replicate what LaCour did. The team from the Los Angeles LGBT Center and a Miami LGBT group was organizing a new canvass operation in Miami. Broockman and Kalla would study that. Broockman was already suspicious of LaCour's data. It seemed too perfect. Then they started their research and they noticed something funny. The way this experiment works like I said the researchers do online surveys of the voters' opinions before and after the canvassers come to their doors and talk to them. And the researchers pay the voters to fill out those online surveys to motivate them to do the surveys. And tons of voters filled out LaCour's surveys but not Broockman and Kalla's. This made no sense at all. And they did not know what to do. If people did not fill out their surveys they would have no study. They started to panic. So they reached out to the survey company that LaCour said he used to find out exactly how LaCour got so many people to fill in their surveys. The company informed them that LaCour was not one of their clients that the employee LaCour said he worked with did not exist and in fact this company did not have the capability to do the things LaCour said they did for him. The hundreds of thousands of dollars that was supposedly paid out to survey responders which LaCour said came from funders like the Ford Foundation-- who LaCour thanked in his study-- never was actually granted to LaCour. Given all that it was hard to see how any of the data could be real. But LaCour held firm. Said the data was real. He even wrote a paper defending it. But he said that he could not show the data to anybody because he had destroyed all the original surveys to protect the privacy of the respondents. I am not sure anybody believed him. He would been headed for a prestigious job at Princeton University after finishing his doctoral thesis. Now that job evaporated. His collaborator Don Green says the odd thing was the fakery went way beyond what seemed to be necessary. And this was I think the thing that I just want to convey somehow is that there was an incredible mountain of fabrication. It was the most baroque and ornate ornamentation. There were stories. There were anecdotes. My Dropbox is filled with graphs and charts. What do you mean there is stories and anecdotes? I thought the only thing that was fabricated was the online surveys? Right. But there would be stories out of the survey. So he would say things like well did you know that some of the people in the survey came out? As if in later surveys their attitudes about homosexuality had changed enough that they were comfortable finally admitting to the surveyors that they were gay. Except of course the surveys did not seem to exist. It is layer after layer of embellishment that the sheer magnitude of it makes it very hard to entertain the possibility that it is all made up. The day after the truth came to light one of the guys who created the canvasses Dave Fleischer told me that that is what he found himself trying to get his head around the layers of embellishment. He told me this story about working with Michael LaCour. At our very first canvass where Mike was measuring us right we were running the canvass training we are sending people out canvassing we are going out canvassing. And Mike has a laptop set up. And as voters that we have talked to then fill out their first post-canvassing survey-- In other words after real life canvassers came to their doors Michael LaCour is supposedly having these voters fill out online surveys. And he is telling the canvassers those surveys-- Some of them are starting to trickle in. And Mike's got his laptop set up with him gazing intently at it. And his group of about a half dozen research assistants clustered around him gazing at it raptly the way you would at election results on a presidential election night. And after we finished the canvass de-brief and the volunteers leave Mike invites us-- the team of staff organizers-- to come over and also glimpse the findings that are starting to emerge. And I really have thought back on this moment obviously in the last 24 hours. Because it really looked like oh my god the results are coming in. Wait wait wait. And so what was on his screen? Did you see his screen? Oh yeah. It was like a-- heck it is like data points coming in. And he would go back and forth between these two-- it is probably an old fashioned term from when I studied sociology-- but scattergrams. These are like charts. Yes. There is a graphic depiction. And so he is going back and forth. And are those charts changing over the course of the time you look at them? Oh yeah. It is so elaborate. Well yes. It would have been a whole lot easier just to have measured our work.    How do you explain this? Like you worked with him for many many hours. How are you putting this together in your head? Two years Ira. And yeah it is not really understandable to me. Because you spoke I believe with Mike on the phone. Yeah. And he is a smart guy. He I think is genuinely a caring guy. He genuinely loves statistics. But there is a piece of this that is incomprehensible when somebody who has so much makes such a grievous choice. Canvass organizers say staff and 73 volunteers worked for more than 3600 hours including knocking on doors and talking to over 400 voters for the fake study. Since all this went down last year Michael LaCour still has not admitted to fabricating data in public or in private with the colleagues of his that I have spoken to. He declined my invitation to come on the radio this week and talk about this. He declined to say whether the data was real or fake. The one chink in this position came last month when out of the blue he texted Dave Fleischer. Hi Dave. If you are willing I would like to meet with you face to face. To apologize. Dave told me he has not been able to bring himself to respond just yet. He is not ready. Yeah so what we have done so far is the Miami work. I think that is what we are ready to show you some of the early sneak peek into. I think you are the first person outside of the study-- That is David Broockman one of the guys who discovered the fraud in the original study and the co-author of the new study with real surveys and real data that was published this week in Science magazine. This recording has him talking to me last August three months after Science retracted the original study. It was Broockman and his research partner remember who discovered LaCour's fraud when they tried to replicate his methods in Miami. Now the Miami data was in the first part of it anyway. The canvassers in Miami went door to door trying to change voters' attitudes about transgendered people. Miami-Dade County passed an ordinance in 2014 banning discrimination against transgender people. And these canvassers were trying to convince voters that that was a good idea and to support it if a ballot measure someday tried to strike it down. And they succeeded. And you see just a huge increase in the acceptance towards transgender people. And overall what you see is it is basically the largest effect I have ever seen for any political tactic. So much more than phone calls or mail or other forms of canvassing that I have seen. The effect is just huge. In other words the thing that was so exciting about the discredited study turned out to be true. These canvasses can change people's minds. For real. Roughly one out of 10 voters changed their attitudes about transgender people. As the study notes it took from 1998 to 2012-- 14 years-- for the country as a whole to have a comparable change in its attitudes towards gay people. It only took the canvassers 20 minutes or less to do this for trans people. Broockman said the only political tactic that has ever been shown to be more effective than this in affecting attitudes is personally meeting somebody who is running for office which of course is a very different kind of thing. More impressive is that the effect appears to last that you basically see the exact same pattern of results six weeks later. We are going to start measuring again at I think we decided three months and six months. So who knows if these will continue to last into the future? They did. Three months later attitudes stayed changed. Again same as the discredited study. But where it gets really interesting is the stuff that the new guys found that is different from the original study. First difference? Remember how the original study said that only a gay canvasser could convince a voter to support gay marriage? And only a woman who talked about her own abortion could convince a voter to become pro-choice? David Broockman says on these trans issues-- That is not what we are finding at all. We see that both transgender and non-transgender canvassers are effective and they are similarly effective. Which is a profoundly different finding from the original discredited study. The original study seemed to say that it was meeting somebody relating to a gay person or a trans person or whoever that changed people's attitudes. It was empathy that did the trick. But this new study says it is something else entirely. Really what is happening here is it is listening and asking questions to voters to get them to say the words and to get them to do the mental work to think through how the experiences they have had are relevant to this issue. In other words there is this ideal of well if you just met a gay person-- That is right. Then you would have this feeling. You are saying nah that is not it. The idea is that if the words come out of your own mouth it is much more meaningful to you than if they come out of somebody else's mouth. That is so funny 'ecause like who do you believe? Oh I believe myself. Exactly. So it is not that this is not common sense. But it is also not what any campaigns do. Broockman and his co-author have also been working on a study of the abortion canvasses organized by the Los Angeles LGBT Center. And here's another difference from the original discredited research done by Michael LaCour. Broockman has found the abortion canvasses failed. They did not actually convince people. Zero. No effect. No effect for anybody. No effect for anyone. Right. How do you explain that this worked with the trans issue but it did not work with the abortion issue? Well I think there is a lot of possibilities. One possibility is that trans issues are so new whereas abortion is so ingrained that it was just easier. Like-- In other words people have not really formed very firm opinions about trans issues-- Exactly. Whereas everybody knows where they stand. Every adult knows whether they are for or against abortion rights. Right. So I think that is possible. The other possibility of course is that canvass organizers just have not figured out yet how to talk about abortion at the doorstep in a way that lastingly convinces anyone. We tried very hard by the way. Somebody actually flew to Los Angeles to locate that nurse that you heard at the beginning of the program to find out if she went back to her old pro-life beliefs after the canvasser walked away from the door. But we could not find her. I will say in videos of the Miami canvass one thing that is really striking is how malleable people do seem to be on the transgender issues in this way that is very hard to imagine on abortion rights. Sometimes a canvasser has to explain to the voters exactly what transgender means. They have to show videos to be sure that it is understood what it is that they are even talking about. Or take this man an older voter with a kind face who stands at his doorstep in a sleeveless undershirt telling that same canvasser that you heard at the beginning of the program-- There is one thing that disturb me. I do not know if let us say a man that is a fag using a man's clothes going into ladies bathroom. That I do not really like. Mhm. Did you say a man who is a-- They talked for a while. He is from Ecuador. Does not get out much because he is at home caring for his wife who has dementia. Does not have many friends. And seems genuinely confused about the difference between trans and gay. The canvasser explains what is what about that to him. She even helpfully informs him-- So we do not usually use the word fag. So-- Well it is--I--  He apologizes. Says that spending all of his time with his wife maybe he is getting demented too. Forgetting how to talk to people. And by the end it is just like the researcher Broockman said. The voter is the one reflecting on his experience drawing new conclusions.  So-- I am so glad that I am talking to a really intelligent person that made me-- It is kind of hard to hear. He is saying I am glad to be talking to an intelligent person that made me think about my own background. And that it was very old. Listen probably I was mistaken. Listen probably I was mistaken. OK one last thing. I guess this is the most obvious question probably that I could ask in this story. And I just want you to know I did ask it. Here's the recording. OK so there is one study published in Science magazine like a year ago. It says that this works. It was proven to be a fraud. Now you guys are coming out with a study in Science magazine saying that this works. Why should we believe you?   We have thought about this. As silly as it was we did have one of our old graduate advisors-- Gabriel Lenz at Berkeley-- independently verify and go through that the original raw data collected in the survey platform matched all the stages of the data that we collected data from the study that we will then post publicly. He is saying that unlike Michael LaCour they gave their actual raw information of what all the survey respondents said to somebody else to look at who also made sure that the numbers in their charts and graphs and analysis match what the actual surveys say. They are posting the original survey data without people's names or identifying information online for anybody to inspect. Science marches on. Coming up a stranger tries to make somebody rethink everything in his life over the phone in one hour in one conversation. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose some theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's program For your Reconsideration. We have stories today of people going back and rethinking evidence reconsidering where they have been and what has come before. We have arrived at Act Two of our program. Act Two Hotline Bleak. So here's an example of a guy reconsidering his life in real time on the phone with a complete stranger. The recording comes from Chris Gethard who is a comedian. He also does a cable TV show. He is been on our program now and then. And the recording that I want to play you comes from this new podcast that Chris is doing called Beautiful Stories From Anonymous People. Our editor Joel Lovell is the one who heard it and loved it. So the idea for the podcast is pretty simple. Chris is in a studio in New York and he opens the phone line to one caller an anonymous person calling in from anywhere for any reason at all. The only rules guiding the conversation are it is 60 minutes long and Chris cannot hang up. If the caller decides to get off the line before the hour is up if they get annoyed or mad or tired of Chris that is totally fine. But Chris he is in it for the duration. In this call you are about to hear you can feel him at the beginning getting his bearings so it is a little meandering. And then something changes.  Hey this is Gethard. How are you? Hey what is up? Eh not much. Just a second. I am in a weird hallway right now. Am I echoey? Ah no. I think you are pretty good. Awesome. So what are we talking about? I do not know. I am at work. I just took about a 30-minute break in my car. I walked back in and then yeah just nobody's here. So you are just doing whatever you want. I do customer service for accounts payable. How is that? How do you like that? Oh it is the worst Chris. Yeah it sounds like it. I did not want to be judgmental but it sounds awful.  You are hiding in your car. Yeah. It is been a year I have been doing this. I just feel like I have kind of wasted the last year. I feel like I spend a lot of time not doing things. What are the things you are not doing? I do not-- go to that-- take those improv classes. Uh huh. Go hang out. But even when I say what are the things you do not quite-- Yeah I-- You do not really even know what the things are. I feel I am generally uncertain about everything. You kind of have a dream to have some dreams. Mhm. Man that is-- I do not want to be judgmental. I am not trying to be judgmental. I say this with love. That is a-- No. I know. That is a grim place to be. This kind of conversation with a sad person who has a vague wish to join an improv class or maybe go to an open mic night but probably will not this is really familiar terrain for Chris. He hosts a show on cable and he often talks about his own mental health struggles. And he and his staff they are always concocting ingenious ways to motivate and cheer up depressed people. Specifically their own depressed fans. There is this one episode where Chris says OK we are going to generate some footage here for people to revisit if they ever need to feel better. And then Ellie Kemper that really sunny actress from The Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt comes on. And they just keep bringing out impossibly cute things. There is a b