From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass.   I used to be really scared of roller coasters. I did not like them at all. If I just looked at them I would start to feel upset and kind of sick. Tess is 12 and back when she was 10 she and her dad were driving by Six Flags Magic Mountain. And she told her dad that when kids at school talked about going on roller coasters and which ones they would ridden and how awesome they are she always felt kind of dumb because she was so scared of them. My dad was like let us go there sometime so you can conquer your fear. At first I thought he was joking or he was crazy or something. He was not of course. And he made this recording of the trip that I heard on this podcast called Unfictional that I want to play you some of now because this recording is great. Her dad is Bob Carson who hosts that show Unfictional. Magic Mountain Parkway! Wait is that something we are going on?  I do not know. I do not know what that one is. That better not be something we are going on. So they get to the park and they start with the easy roller coasters right? They would watched videos of the ones they would go on to prepare. And so after they do the Road Runner Express and the Gold Rusher they advance to the Ninja which turns you sideways. And then they came to the big challenge. All right next stop Revolution Tess's first looping roller coaster. So they approach this huge frightening-looking steel contraption. Can I just say looping is a fantastically bland way to describe what this thing does. It is an enormous loop nine stories high like a giant Hot Wheels loop that flips you totally upside down. Anyway here's the recording of what happened.   Are you a little nervous now? Yeah a little. Relax relax.   Here comes the loop! Here we go.   I just went through a loop! I just went through a loop! And it was not even that bad! OK what just happened Tess? I just rode a looping roller coaster for the first time in my life. And it was so exciting and it was not even that bad. I am a different person than I was a minute ago. Ladies and gentlemen when does it ever happen like this right? That you change so fast? You were one thing now you are another. Change usually takes time. Psyching yourself up and self-help books and advice from friends and one tentative step after the next. This is about as efficient as it ever gets. I am a different person than I was a minute ago. Today on our show it is the new year. People are making resolutions. We have stories of people deciding they are going to totally transform themselves overcome their fears finally change the things about themselves that have dogged them and held them back their entire lives things that in some cases it is hard to believe could ever change. Stay with us. My grandma Vicki is 90 years old. She lives in a nursing home and lately she cannot stop talking about her new boyfriend Frank. They are very much in love and their dialogue is straight out of a romantic comedy. I mean this is what it sounds like when they are drinking tea. Have enough sugar? Not as sweet as you. You are one of a kind you are. I also told you they broke the mold.  That is the way Frank talks. He is like an encyclopedia of love cliches but totally sincere about it. What do you want to do hon? Stay close to you gorgeous. I have been in love before but never like this. Yes. That is how I go to sleep at night with those words in my ear. Again Grandma is 90. Frank's 62 which makes him 28 years younger than my grandma. That is not even a cougar. That is a different animal. It is like a water buffalo. Also she is partially deaf while Frank is blind he is got one leg and it is an interracial relationship. As a stand up comedian I have never felt more pressure to write a joke. This is in no way the grandma who raised me. She is not a lovestruck soft hearted kind of girl. She is a tough Italian lady from New Jersey right out of central casting. If you have ever seen a mob movie in the last 30 years you got the picture. Her eyebrows are drawn on but not at the appropriate height so she always looks shocked. It is all there the opinions the accent and yes even the racism. So a relationship with a blind one legged black guy not the thing you would expect from grandma. And yet none of that is the most surprising part. What is most surprising is that she has anything to do with a man at all. The grandma I have always known she despised men. Like she was fundamentally against them as a concept. So all this lovey dovey Frank business it is like she is been inhabited by an alien. In order to understand how opposed my grandma was to men I need to tell you the very weird story of the tenant who lived with my family when I was growing up. This was in Bloomfield New Jersey. My dad died in a car crash when I was a baby so my mom and I moved in with my aunt grandma and great grandma. We lived in a two story house with a basement. Each floor had a different set of women. The only other guy in the house besides me was our tenant John. He rented out our living room. John was always there lying on the rug shirtless in black sweatpants eating waffles and watching animal shows. My grandma did not like John. She treated him like a second class citizen. Whenever she walked through the living room she would look at him and grunt. She was fixated on keeping him away from all our food. I would open the fridge and there would be stickers on everything there. Milk cold cuts leftover pasta. They all said Not for John. Then one day I thought I overheard my aunt saying John and Grandma Vicki were married. And I am like what? And you said to me John is married to Grandma Vicki? That is her husband? That is my mom. I was like Yeah who did you think he was? You actually did not know that they were married. No I did not know that we are married. You know why? Because nobody told me. Why did you tell me he was the tenant? I only said it maybe one time. Because that was a joke to us. They were not a happy couple any longer. But I did not realize that you gave it a category in your head like that. Nobody ever-- I was shocked when you said that to me because how could you not figure that out? He was our father. Because he lived in the living room and nobody ever called him this is my father or this is my grandfather. No one ever said that. But it did not hurt you. No it did not hurt me but that is weird to just one day be like oh the tenant is my grandfather. Since you put it that way. So how many years just about was he living there before you know he eventually gets kicked out or whatever? I do not know. OK. It is too far back. Right. And plus when I do not like something I block it out. So I can remember some of it but if I do not want to remember it it is gone. It goes. OK OK. But how long just approximate from when he moves into the living room till he gets out of the house? 15 years. About 15 years? Yeah mhm. That is insane. 15 years he lived in the living room? It was bizarre. Yeah. I am 33 now and two and a half decades have passed since I learned that John was my grandpa. And you know what? This conversation that you are hearing right now this is the first time my mom and I have ever talked about it since that day when I was eight. There were so many lies happening in the house at one time do you know what I mean? Because nobody was just saying what was going on. It was like a corrupt government or something. I do not even know. It seemed normal to us. Whatever the situation is you want to make it seem as normal as can be. Think about that for a second what that says about my family's aggressive lack of interest in processing feelings. So being a DeVito I learned John was my grandpa and then I did not change anything about my behavior at all towards him. And he did not act any different with me either. He stayed the tenant. Here's how my grandpa ended up in the doghouse. One day years before I was born Grandma goes out to move Grandpa's car in the driveway. She pulls down the sun visor. And all these on the envelopes fell on me. I said what the heck? These are apartments that he rented that he-- I do not want to really go into this crap. Not now and I do not want to remember. I really do not. I got you. My mom filled me in on the details my grandma could not bring herself to say. The envelopes contained pictures of Grandpa with another woman-- the one he was renting secret apartments for. For Grandma the marriage was over. But Grandpa John refused to move out because he always denied ever having an affair. And Grandma never filed for divorce because she did not have the money to move herself and four kids. There was a total standoff in the house. So then he took upon himself to sleep on the floor in the living room because he never was going to sleep in my bedroom. Right. Did not he ever want to get back together or try to win you back in any way? No. No I do not think so. Because I know he thought it was hopeless. Because what he did was more than I can ever understand. So did you guys establish any ground rules between the two of you places he was allowed to go? Did you talk at all? Because you were in the same house. No never. No? No never. He only came in late at night. Then he would be gone in the morning. So we did not connect. No. I remember all the food in the fridge was marked Not for John. Yeah. Well yeah because I felt I was not going to pay to feed the bum. Would you just in your head just pretend he was not there? You have to. What are you going to do? He is not worth me going to the crazy house for no way. No way. They had not always been unhappy. She says he was this charming funny guy who loved to dance and bought her beautiful gifts rings necklaces a blue fox fur coat. They had four daughters together big family dinners every night vacations at the Jersey Shore. It was nice. But now she ignored him. She chose not to recognize her husband sleeping under the same roof. She never explained to my mom or sisters why their dad had moved into the living room. So sometimes they would sneak him a plate of food or give him some extra money. Finally when I was in seventh grade they forced him out. My aunts and great grandma were fed up he was not helping with the mortgage. I never saw him again. And soon after he died of a heart attack. When my grandma heard the news she was blank absolutely no emotion. He would already been dead to her for years. There were some other guys who tried with Grandma. I mean really tried. Seriously courted her. First there was Mr. Bill our fix it man. He would always try to kiss her and she would wiggle out of there. Then there was Gene a school crossing guard. He wanted to marry her and proclaimed his love over and over. And her? There is no other way to say it. She took huge pleasure in turning them down. It was the one activity that gave her pure joy. It was hard to watch. I was in high school then and I feel bad for Gene. I wanted to pull him aside and be like dude just walk away. You are a crossing guard. You of all people should know when to stop. I remember he used to leave these sobbing voicemails private outpourings of emotion. And Grandma would play them for me laughing while she cleaned the kitchen. Gene would call up crying. Oh yeah. Do you remember that? Vicki I love you. Vicki I miss you. Vicki I want to marry you. That is enough. Oh he was unbelievable. I did not need that. Yeah. I do not need you in my life. That is the way I felt. Yeah. I do not need this commotion in my life. Yeah that makes sense. I always took it as I do not know I guess you were more guarded or they were paying for what Grandpa did. Do you know what I mean? Whereas he wronged you he cheated on you he hurt you so bad that you would not open up to them because of that. Is that accurate at all or no? I lost a lot of trust in men huh? Yeah. So when my mom walked into the nursing home one day and she saw this guy pulled up next to my grandma in his wheelchair needless to say she was surprised. And she introduced me to Frank to say that is her boyfriend and they found one another. How nice that they found one another in this place. Right. And I am like huh. I thought I was hearing things. So I said how nice. Nice to meet you. I did not know what to say. I just tried to hide my surprise because I was startled wondering what frame of mind she was in. My mom wondered if she messed up her medication. No really. She worried about that. We all did. Since then it is been an adjustment the thought that Grandma could ever have feelings for a man. My grandma moved into the nursing home for health reasons a year ago and it was brutal the way those things often are. She would been living with my mom and my aunt. Their life at home was so close everyone sitting around the table up in each other's business in a good way every day. There were always multiple conversations happening at the same time. You jump in and out of them like double Dutch. And Grandma was the center of it all. She held court. Her laugh would fill the room. Now she was alone and she hated it. She did not talk to anyone would not leave her room for months. Every time we visited her she begged for us to take her home. That is until she met Frank. Frank was walking toward me and he said hello. And he says What is your name? I am Frank. And I told him my name. Then I find out this guy is blind totally blind. I felt very bad. And I told him if there is anything that you need or you want me to-- just do not hesitate. Let me know. And I asked her not to let me fall. My grandma had wheeled up to him and held out her right arm. Frank had lost his leg and was struggling to make it down the hallway. That day he was wearing a prosthetic leg and using a cane. Your grandmother would hold me on one side. She said I will not let you fall. She said she is going to be my eyes. After that my grandma always sat next to Frank in the cafeteria. She used to take charge. She would tell me my juice is here. Whatever I am getting ready consume is here on my left on my right. I see them do this all the time. Wait hon. I am going to turn the dish around so that you can eat the fish because the fish is in front of you and the fish is very good. Over that way. That is it. OK? As long as I can find my mouth I am all right. I get a lot of help from you. They are like a couple of cozy cellmates playing cards watching Family Feud. Frank cannot see anything so Grandma gives him the play by play. They talk about what life was like on the outside. She loved a beer at the end of a long day. For Frank it was rum and Coke. Frank told my grandma he used to work at a factory wrapping products and plastic. And like her he was married and had his heart broken. He said his wife fell in love and left him for another man. Then he lost his eyesight to macular degeneration then his leg to blood clots. And now he lives in this place. It is not the Ritz. As soon as you get off the elevators there is just ambient screaming a full chorus of wails and moans. There is a smell of sickness which attaches itself to everything. It is a real playground for all five senses. But somehow Grandma and Frank together make it all a little more tolerable.   Good Lord. No matter how much goes on you never get used to that right? Another day in paradise.   You know that feeling when you hang out with someone a lot and you just want to be with them all the time like going home at the end of the day feels like a tiny loss? That happened to Grandma and Frank. It was just they had to go to their separate rooms. I would realize how much I miss her and I said to myself something's going on here. Soon as I wake up I would been looking to hear her voice first. And I told her. I said I never missed anyone the way I miss you when we are apart. So I must be falling for you. And evidently you for me. I tell her you can go ahead and admit it.  Because she knew I was right and I knew I was right. So I told her I love her and she told me she loved me back. I said ah-hah. It slipped out. He is beautiful. And a lady my age being-- you know that is magical. Lord. What about the first kiss? Tell me about that. It was not bad.  That was a toot. I was surprised. I mean you have to be more surprised than anybody by this. Yeah but I think it is beautiful. I really do. I really do. When it comes to Frank I want to please him. I want to make him happy. Frank he is special. And then for two people to be so happy and good with one another to be finding pleasure and comfort in a place like this I find a certain contentment being with Frank all the time. I kept asking her to explain this huge transformation but it is pretty simple actually. She is 90 years old. She lives in a nursing home and she fell in love. Recently Frank asked my grandma to marry him. She said yes. Anthony DeVito is a comedian in New York. His website anthonydevitocomedy.com   This is my first time. I have never ever used this bus pass and the bus system. I heard it is terrible. Let me see. I think we have to cross. One Monday she rode a bus as the next of those many steps that she has to do to become an American. This was a year ago. Today's show is a rerun. This woman is from Afghanistan but she lives in Detroit now. There are currently a record number of people-- over 60 million according to the United Nations-- displaced by violence and persecution and needing to start all over elsewhere change their lives transform themselves. M is one of them. She is right now living in a temporary home for asylum seekers called Freedom House. And at Freedom House they have taught her how to put together an American style resume and go to the doctor in America. Today's lesson is how to get around the city independently. This turns out to be one of the most critical skills if you are going to get a job or really do much of anything in this country right? And the Detroit buses are chronically late and confusing. And in the past other Freedom House refugees have gotten lost for hours when they have been sent out on their very first bus ride. One of them circled around and around and around on the route not getting off until finally the driver asked where the guy was going and then drove the bus to Freedom House which is actually a couple blocks away from the route to drop the guy off. Since then to minimize mishaps usually a volunteer goes with. And because I wanted to record this Freedom House decided not to send a volunteer. They informed me when I arrived basically I would be the volunteer. I have you with me so I am not afraid that I will be lost. Unfortunately for both of us-- well mostly unfortunately for her-- I have never ridden a bus in Detroit. I really know nothing about Detroit. OK so let us look at the map and just see when we are supposed to do our next thing. OK we will arrive to Outer Drive. Then we have to change and take another bus bus number 125. So wait we get off here and then we walk to here? Is that what that means? No no no. We do not walk. This is the bus. We are heading to southwest Detroit to a neighborhood called Lincoln Park to an apartment complex called Indian Village Apartments as just practice reaching a destination. We ride the number 19 bus for over half an hour. We have to get off here? DRIVER Yeah this is the last stop. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. We are supposed to transfer to another bus but it is not so clear where we are supposed to do that. This is a moment that sometimes trips up other refugees the transfer points because they are afraid to approach strangers and ask for help. M does not pause. She sees two young guys sitting on a railing at a convenience store in front of a shiny black Mustang and strides purposefully up to them. She is not very tall 40-ish wears squarish glasses and a hijab a scarf covering her head. Excuse me. I am going to this area Indian Village Apartments. So I have to get bus number 125. 125? Yeah where should I go? Right here. Shall I wait here? Yeah. If you want to get the bus but if you want a ride we can take you. He and his friend smile at her. It is a smile that says they are flirting with her but that also says that they know this is not going to work with this devout Muslim lady standing in front of them. They know that they are going through the motions of hitting on her because well that is just what you do I guess. No thank you so much. I have to wait for the bus. No problem. No problem. Thank you so much. So it means I have to wait here yeah? Yeah let me see if it is the right stop. Yeah I think you got to wait right here. Thank you so much. M maybe you can tell is this super capable person who seems to have no problem in any situation I see her in finding out what she needs to know and making things happen. In other words figuring out how to ride a bus is child's play to her. She is a college grad with a bachelor's in business administration. Back home in Kabul did project management for an international organization humanitarian projects. I was responsible for example to make need assessments and then to check every stage of that project with the implementing part. It is not unusual of course but this immigrant who is used to a job in her own country managing things and doing PowerPoint presentations and looking at Excel spreadsheets is hoping here in America that she will get work as a seamstress if she she is lucky. She got her papers to work legally a month ago and looking for work so far has landed nothing. OK these two cards? This one's always first. The driver on the second just shows M how to use the transfer. Slide through here. This one comes behind it and slide this through here. This is only worth 1.50. On the second bus we are hoping to get off at the corner of Ford and Brest. The driver tells M that he is just filling in so he cannot help us. He does not know the stops. There is an automated system that calls out the stops as the bus approaches each one. It is pretty quiet. Ford and Brest. I think next stop. You heard it? No I did not. He just said Ford and Brest. It was too loud. It was not too loud. We wait for the bus to pull over. The automated system names other streets Oakdale Wesley Birrell. And suddenly I realize-- We need to ring it. We need to ring it to make him stop do not we? Sorry? We need to pull the thing to make him stop. I do not know. No she does not know. Because in Kabul that is not how you get the guy to stop the bus. That is why she has an American with her. I pull the cord. You know she does not even know the English word for cord yet. She knows rope sure but cord? That is a more subtle one. She has not heard that one yet. A guy in a trucker hat hears us talking about how we are looking for Ford and Brest. We want Ford and Brest. It is like six blocks that way. We passed it? Yeah it is six blocks that way. We climb off the bus. OK so here's what we learned. Yeah we are lost. No. By no of course what I mean is yes. We missed our stop? We missed our stop. So what should we do now? We walk back six blocks. OK. Like I said for somebody who lived through Taliban rule whose previous job was humanitarian relief in the middle of a war this is still not much of a challenge. Because learning to do concrete tasks like using a bus transfer that is not the hard part of turning yourself from an Afghan into an American. The hard part is that M is here alone. She came here for a conference a year ago. But while she was here word got to her that certain people back home did not like what she was doing working and traveling with foreigners. And if she came back she and her family could be killed. That is by the way why I am not saying her name. So she is been apart from her children and her husband for over a year. The youngest do not even know where. They think she is in Afghanistan because it would be dangerous if they would blab to people that she is in America. The oldest are teenagers. The littlest is now just three. The last time she saw him he was two. And he does not recognize her. He has no idea who she is when she talks to him on Skype. And the others? Yeah of course they are asking me when are you coming back? So I just tell them I do not know when. For me it is very difficult because I have never been away from my children. And I was very active with work. I was a mom for my children. But here I am kind of idle you know? Staying at home and doing nothing. Oh right of course. You were busy every second before. But I hope that I will find a job soon. It can take years to get asylum in the United States. The systems been especially backed up recently because of the flood of children coming in from Latin America. M used to have control of her life. And now the most important thing to her in the world getting to bring her family here is on a time she cannot predict or control and really may take four or five years. The three-year-old could be eight. He is not doing well as it is. He is acting up. He is a handful for his dad. But today the sun's shining. It is unseasonably warm. We finish walking the few blocks back to where we are supposed to be. This is our final destination. These are the Indian Village Apartments. This is our final destination. You said that just like it says on the little computer map. You have arrived. You have arrived at your final destination. You have arrived. Go down that road and your destination is on the left. So this is left so it totally matches what we see on the map. The tiniest of tiny victories. And since we first ran this story a year ago she is had some more. She has a job a place to live. She does not ride the bus anymore. She drives. One more step to becoming a real American. Coming up shy man makes himself unshy without the aid of powdermilk biscuits because you cannot get powdermilk biscuits in prison and of course also they do not exist. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show for the new year as people make resolutions we have a show that we first ran a year ago about transformers-- people willing themselves to change from one kind of person to another trying to alter something fundamental about themselves. We have arrived at Act Three of our program. Act Three Afterburner. So there are things I think lots of us think we might fix about ourselves. You know like someday when we get around to it. And then for some of us that day arrives and we try to rise to the occasion. Keith O'Brien met a guy like that. Richard Pierce caught my attention the moment I met him. Rich is a prisoner of the Northern New Hampshire Correctional Facility way up by the Canadian border the North Country people call it. He is unusually open way more than most prisoners. There is a good chance he is going to be released next year. And he talks frankly about how much that scares him. But he is trying to prepare himself for that moment by joining a club called Toastmasters. At Toastmasters people give speeches. Here in the prison it is supposed to help inmates learn how to speak when they are in front of the parole board or in a job interview say. And he needs to practice because for years in prison Rich said nothing to no one. He worked out alone walked the yard alone ate in the chow hall alone. Even for prison Rich was weirdly quiet no conversation no give and take. He was a ghost in a green uniform. Because that is a good way to do time. And before you know it the calendar is going by. And before you know it it is almost time to go. And you realize that you do not really know how to talk to people anymore. And that is kind of a scary thing. What do you mean? What have you realized about that? Well it is really freaking me out just talking to you. You are doing a great job. And that is not normal though. I mean you want to be more comfortable with people. And that is my goal for the next year is to get away from how I used to be. That is what led me to prison in the first place not dealing with normal situations and holding back from people not reaching out for help when you need it. And that is one of the things I need to change. It is not fun to be alone all the time. So I have to change that. Rich is 52 years old a big guy thick and muscular with a long history of arsons. He is been locked up for 28 of the past 30 years actually. But before a recent Toastmasters speech this prison lifer he looked like he could barely breathe. How are you doing Rich? I am a little freaking out right now. Do I look OK? You look great. Freaking out how? I am very anxious. My heart's beating out of my chest. I am very nervous. I am taking a lot of deep breaths. Everything will be fine. I am nervous but everything will be fine. I have been preparing for this for a couple of weeks. Toastmasters is part of Rich's master plan. It is all about re-engaging with people with the world. He feels like if he can stand up in front of people and talk he will be OK in normal conversation. He will be OK everywhere. What do you think of that? I think it is a great plan. Really? I do. Wow OK. And you are a real person and you think? I am a real person. Well that is good then. I am a real person. The way Rich isolated himself in prison he was not so different before he was locked up. When I ask why he explains his mom drank and she would hit him belittle him in front of his friends. She would say What the hell do they want to go out with you for? You as not got friends. They do not want you there. They are just saying they are your friends. You are an idiot. You are stupid. You are this. You are that. And before I know it I am like Yeah why do they want to hang out with me? And especially girls would come over to the house Hey is Richard home? My mom would say and very loudly so they could hear What the hell is she doing here? She does not want to go out with you. Look at her. She is cute. She is as not got nothing to do with you. You are an idiot. What makes you think that she wants to go out with you? She is just trying to trick you somehow. And before I know it I push them away because I am not sure what they are up to. Totally isolated Rich started setting things on fire abandoned cars abandoned houses. No one ever got hurt. He says he just had to do it. I am trying to put my finger on it. I cannot. Well when you are told bad things so many times over and over and over and you are getting hit and you are getting beat and you cannot get out of the house you cannot go nowhere-- when you finally get out it is such a release just to throw things on the fire and watch it get bigger and bigger and bigger until it consumes everything. And it felt like what it was consuming it was consuming everything inside me so I did not have to deal with it anymore. And the bigger they were the more things it consumed out of me. Because when I walked away even though I smelt like smoke I felt so much better. I was ready to take on anything life had for me after that. Whereas the day before that I could not take another thing. I could not. I just could not bear another thing. He burned up a bulldozer and got arrested. He burned down a vacant restaurant and got arrested again. But his big crime happened on July 17th 2000. He would been released from prison just 45 days earlier. Rich burned down a restaurant in a big condominium building near a ski resort. He was sentenced to up to 60 years in prison. He earned parole in 2010 on one of his two arson charges. And he knew he would come up for parole on the other arson charge five years later. That is when Rich decided he could not be alone anymore. 5 years that is right around the corner. I got 10 years in already.  I might get out after all. It is only one more president away.  What am I going to do? Where am I going to live? Where am I going to work? I am going to be real pretty soon. I cannot just not talk to people anymore. I cannot be isolated anymore. And that is when the realization hit me that I need to start practicing. He joined the prison chess club. He began eating with others forced himself to do it. And the prison psychologists the mental gals Rich calls them gave him a challenge. Speak to three people three in a single day. One morning Rich woke up got dressed and approached a total stranger on the cell block thinking OK I will try. I said Hey mind if I sit down for a minute? And he looked up at me really quizzical. He says I have been on this pod six months and that is the first time I ever heard you speak. That is like a slap in the face. It is a 