From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. OK so we are looking at 2010. Next year. What does your higher power want you to know? Asking your higher self to guide your hands. What does that look like 2010? In the back room of a crystal shop in San Francisco a spiritual adviser named Joa Marcu is doing a tarot card reading for a woman named Ashli Lewis. In her car on the way to the reading Ashli explained to me why she was going at all. She is not somebody who especially believes in psychics and readers and all that but going now and then over the last decade and a half she has always gotten the same exact message from these people. You are going to be incredibly successful. And usually it came with the addition that I would be incredibly wealthy. Also sometimes-- famous. And not just sort of successful or somewhat wealthy or semi-famous. The prediction is always to the max. The first time it happened was in 1996. She was at South By Southwest in Austin and a friend had dragged her to an astrologer's table there. And the guy you know he quickly did my chart or whatever. And all of a sudden he goes oh my god. He goes I knew somebody would be walking around this weekend with this chart. He goes you are the one. He goes big big money. Big big money. Incredible success. And I am just kind of-- I kind of go-- well I did not really think much of it at all. A few years later on her 35th birthday she took a trip to Santa Fe. Decided to go to a psychic as a birthday treat to herself. And this woman made the same prediction during the reading. But it did not really hit me until I was leaving her house and I was walking away and I am walking down the street. And she chases after me and she catches up with me and she is like look. She says I have to make you understand something. She says I do not think you get what I am talking about. She says when I tell you you are going to be successful I do not mean kind of successful. I mean successful in a way that you rarely see. I mean really successful and you just need to get ready. Two years later Ashli was visiting Seattle and yet another reader delivers exactly the same message. Massive success massive wealth massive fame. And Ashli asked this woman why is this always the same wherever she goes? And the woman said your spirit guide is really really loud. It is like he is behind you yelling this at me. Ashli says that she is not even somebody who wants spectacular money or fame. She is still a skeptic about psychics though she says that she is had a few predictions come true in spooky ways. Like when she was 18 a friend dragged her to see this old woman who did not take money and supposedly had a gift from God-- seeing the future. She said to me do you know a Bill? And I remembered later thinking you know that is such a common name. But I really do not know a Bill except for this ex-boyfriend a friend of mine. And she said Bill Mc- Mc-something Irish. Do not worry you will. And my husband is Bill Mc- Mc-something Irish. What is his name? Bill McLachlan. And what was your relationship with him at the time? Like what did you know about him? Oh I did not meet him for like another four years after that three years. It was later that I remembered that she had asked me that question. Creepy right? So another seer told Ashli that her money and her fame would happened by the time that she is 50 years old and she is 46 now and she figured OK. Time is running out. 2010 really might be the year. 2010 could be when this is all going to go down. And the only question was how? So can I ask you are you thinking like OK maybe you are going to go on American Idol? I am past the age requirement. Like would you ever go on a reality show? No. Have you been thinking about sleeping with the president? Not the current one and cannot say the last one either. So no. All right. So to begin our reading Ashli what I want you to do-- Which brings us back to the crystal shop. It is been five years since Ashli's had a reading. She is had a baby since the last time. Her life has changed a lot. And she came here because she wants to know if her fate has changed also. Maybe she is no longer destined for money and fame. And what she hears from Joa is disappointing. Mostly the reading just seems really really generic. Joa tells her that there is something new and hopeful on the horizon for Ashli in 2010 but force inside her negativity is blocking this from happening. There is a part of you a judging part of you says no. Who do you think you are. You know whatever that negative voice is. No mention of wealth. No mention of fame. Outside on the street afterwards Ashli tells me that despite all that despite Joa's reading she still thinks she is heading for that fate that all the other psychics have predicted. Maybe in 2010 maybe not. So you think you are going to have a good year? Oh I always have a good year. Really? Yeah. It always gets better for me. I suppose if you are going to go to psychics this is a sensible way to do it. Ashli will look into a crystal ball and then she will pick and choose what to believe about what it reveals. Which happens a lot this time of year. We got the idea for today's radio show from some conversations that I had with guy from The Economist magazine. The Economist once a year heads out on this mission to see into the future. They try to predict the coming year. All of their editors all their writers devote a full issue to this. I am a fan of the Economist. I am a subscriber. It is well-written it is well-edited. I like the voice of the magazine. And full disclosure they have been an underwriter of our show now and then. That said I think this project where they predict the coming year it is totally ridiculous. You have these great reporters who have to write about for instance what is going to happen in China in the year 2010 and they bring so much knowledge to this question. But in the end because no one can know the future they end up making these kind of equivocal-- on the one hand on the other hand-- kinds of predictions. China wants to be respected as a world power but it does not want to do the things that a great world power does and so it stands at a crossroads. Who cares? As a reader you are basically in the same position that Ashli is in. There is a bunch of contradictory things that might or might not happen. Believe whichever you want. And here at our radio show we thought what if somebody tried to forecast the coming year but instead of those maybe it will be this way maybe it will be that way kinds of essays that you see everywhere this time of year what if they went for real predictions? Real predictions of things that are actually no kidding going to happen this year? To them to people they know? And so that is what we are doing. Today we have five predictions in five acts including a death a birth a sixth grader's fate in school and just for some scope the fate of the Middle East. Want to see the future? Want to see what 2010 holds? Well stay with us. Act One. Chronicle of a Death Foretold. We start with this look into the coming year from Shalom Auslander. 2010 is not going to be a good year for me mostly because it is going to be a terrible year for my friend Lisa who is going to die. That is what the doctors say. Three months ago they gave her six months to live. Lisa according to the doctors will die sometime in late February possibly early March. The day after the doctors gave her the news her husband Jason came over to our house. Jason and Lisa are our next door neighbors. My wife and I do not like people as a rule so it was something of a miracle that we do not just like Jason and Lisa that they are two of our favorite people in the world and live right next door. Our list of favorite people is a short one approximately two people. And by late February possibly early March that list is going to be cut right in half. Six months said Jason. And though it is news I knew would eventually come I began to feel faint. Lisa has stage four metastatic cancer. On the plus side ten years ago the doctors gave her two years to live. Five years ago they gave her just one year to live. I am trying to remain hopeful. Perhaps in another two years they will give her thirty seconds to live and she can just prove them all wrong one more time before even leaving the exam room. I hugged Jason. We tried not to cry. When he leaves my wife is crestfallen. She is inconsolable. I try to console her. Screw 'em I said. Maybe Lisa is one of those stories you always hear about where the doctors give someone a week to live and they live ten more years. She was one of those stories said my wife ten years ago. She had a point. Eventually if you follow them long enough even the happiest stories end unhappily. I was a child when my grandmother's older sister Henni died. Baba as we called our grandmother was already in her 70s and was suffering from Alzheimer's disease. There was a memorial service at our home. Everyone was sad except for Baba who came through the front door saw the house full of people and assumed it was a surprise birthday party for her. This is my first experience with the ending of life and watching Baba it seemed that dementia was a pretty good way to go through it. Baba smiled and clapped and thanked everyone for coming. Then my mother took her aside sat her on the couch in the den and gave her the news that her sister Henni had died. Baba gasped pulled her hair and began to wail. Oh Henni she cried. Henni Henni Henni! My mother held her and stroked her hair and asked me to get her a glass of water. After a few minutes Baba had recovered. She asked me if I was in school and if I liked it. I told her that I was and that I did. And then she smiled and apologized and asked me who I was. I was about to answer her when a well-meaning guest approached and gently clasped Baba's hand. Pearl he said I am so sorry about Henni. What about Henni? asked Baba. What happened to Henni? It was a rough morning for Baba. There was much gasping much pulling of hair and much wailing. Every time she forgot about her sister another well-meaning cousin came over expressed his condolences and tore Baba's heart out anew. Perhaps I quietly suggested to my mother everyone should just keep their stupid best wishes to themselves. At last they did. Baba for her part stayed on the couch in the living room smiling sipping her water and enjoying her birthday party. This really is such a nice surprise she said to me. It is a great party I said. Everyone's here she said. They love you I replied. Baba looked up at me and smiled. And who are you? she asked. In the other room people sobbed. I moved a pillow aside and sat down beside Baba preferring the joyful company of the delusional to the miserable company of the sane. By mid-January Lisa will be getting worse. She will not come out much not even up to our place for the occasional dinner. Jason's voice will sound wearier if he even answers the phone and by February we probably will not hear from him at all. Perhaps they just want to be alone together. Perhaps they have put their trays up assumed the crash position and are waiting for impact. That is about when I will begin to get angry at science. It is 2010 I will complain and they cannot even cure cancer? How goddamn hard can that be? By early March I imagine I will start reading philosophy books the more miserable and convoluted the better looking for answers. The something something of existence or the whatever-otics of mortality. I will go to the information counter at the bookstore and ask for invented titles that sound like the kind of book I am looking for. Do you have a book called Death Without Sorrow? How about Why Life is Relentlessly Cruel and Terminally Oppressive? Not sure of the author. My grandfather Baba's husband was one of the kindest people in my life. We called him Zaida. Zaida always seemed to make the best of any situation to keep positive even in the face of unrelentingly negative situations. When Baba's Alzheimer's progressed beyond a manageable point he moved with her into a home for the aged. She lived upstairs with the patients and he lived downstairs with the spouses. I was 17 and went to visit them after school on Friday afternoons. Sometimes sitting in his room beside his bed you could hear them up there the demented the delusional the dying yelling and cursing and crying out. Fortunately while the patients upstairs were losing their minds the spouses downstairs were losing their hearing and there was not a television on the floor that was not set to maximum volume. Zaida would ask me about school and we would talk about my plans for after graduation. Baba and Zaida had been married for over 50 years and he visited her up there every day. He joked about the nonsensical things she said to him the insults she flung at the nurses. He gave me hope. If he could find laughter in this hell maybe there could be hope for us all. Maybe death did not have to destroy the life around it. And then Baba died. Zaida refused to walk. He refused to get out of bed. One of his toes became gangrenous and the doctors removed it. I went to visit them. I told him about school and what I planned to do after graduation. It is a lie he said. What? I asked. The golden years he replied. There is nothing golden about the golden years. And then he died. Getting together is not my thing. I could do without getting together. I would rather be stuck in an elevator. At least in an elevator most people agree they would rather not be there and there is no obligation to talk. You are not even really supposed to. Just find somewhere to stand shut up stare at the wall and it will soon be over which is basically how I handle get togethers. By April though assuming the doctors were right Lisa will be dead and her friends will be getting together with alarming regularity. Dinners in dinners out barbecues pool parties. I will have to go of course because it will be for Lisa and it will be what Lisa would have wanted. Not that anyone will talk about Lisa. In fact everyone will be careful not to talk about Lisa because these parties will be about celebrating life about joy and friendship and moving on. There will be a lot of laughter. Too much laughter. That laughter in the face of tragedy kind of laughter that is not really laughter at all and which will annoy me since I work really hard to make people laugh and here people are getting big laughs just because someone's dead which should not count. Lisa was a vegetarian and I will decide to get in on the easy laughter by making some joke about hey at least now we do not have to worry about making veggie burgers am I right? There will be uncomfortable silence and I will feel like a dick so I will find somewhere to stand shut up and stare at the wall. Soon it will be over. By May it will be almost three months since Lisa died. In the warmer months I like to ride my bike to work but I will feel guilty passing Lisa's house while engaged in something so healthy and alive so I will put my bike in my car drive past the house park at the end of the road and ride from there. It will be an incredible hassle and by the middle of May I will think about moving. I have always liked Seattle. I get over my guilt by June but Lisa is an avid gardener and around the middle of the month her friends will decide that maintaining her garden would be a beautiful and life-affirming gesture one that Lisa would want. They will start showing up every weekend to weed prune and water Lisa's garden. They will make a sign brightly colored that reads Lisa's Garden complete with butterflies and a rainbow maybe a sunrise. And by July there will be at least one of them working there every goddamn day of the week. By August I will feel guilty riding pass them and I will have to go back to putting my bike in my car driving past Lisa's house parking at the end of the road and riding from there. When I was a child my favorite book was called The Five Chinese Brothers. It was about five Chinese brothers who all looked exactly alike. When the first brother is sentenced to death the other brothers trade places with him and use their special powers to save his life. One has an iron neck. One can stretch his legs. One can withstand fire. One can hold his breath forever. The first brother escapes death and everyone lives happily ever after. I had a brother who died when he was three. His name was Jeffy. I hated him. Jeffy died before I was born and every dysfunction in my considerably dysfunctional family was blamed on his death even though he died many years before the dysfunctions actually began. In the story of my family the three Jewish brothers there are no special powers. The first Jewish brother dies. The Jewish father starts to drink. The second Jewish brother comes resent the third Jewish brother. The third Jewish brother takes out his feelings of helplessness on the Jewish sister who is forever being protected by the melodramatic Jewish mother. The lesson learned was simple. Death was something from which you could never move on. By September as the Jewish holidays approach I will start thinking about God. The Jewish High Holidays are all about sin and guilt punishment and admonition hell death retribution vengeance. It is the most plunderful time of the year. I will consider going to synagogue. I will wonder if I should be teaching my son more about Judaism. Partially out of an irrational sense of tribalism but mostly out of an irrational sense of fear. God had taken out Lisa. Maybe he was just working his way up the road and I was next. By November I will begin to worry about Thanksgiving. We have been spending the past few Thanksgivings at Lisa's parents' house which is close by. Will her parents invite us now that Lisa's passed away? It would kind of suck if they did not and I would take it personally assuming that it meant that they did not really like us all along but were just inviting us because of their daughter. I will obsess about it all month long and then in mid-November when they do invite us I will obsess about the awkwardness of the meal now that Lisa will not be there. They will probably invite lots of Lisa's friends thinking that will make it less awkward but they will not know how sick I am of all her friends already thereby making a bad situation worse. I will ask my wife if I can skip the dinner. She will look at me with the usual disappointment. A few weeks before my grandfather died my mother asked me to go visit him. His spirits were down. He was refusing treatment and he was talking about wanting to die. I expected to find a miserable old man bitching about life in the golden years but I did not. He would been miserable in bemoaning death but he was at peace in having accepted it. I have dozens of grandchildren he said and countless great-grandchildren. I have had a wonderful life and leave behind a beautiful family. So why do you want to die? I asked. Because my pearl is gone he said referring to Baba. I just do not want to be here without her. He was not sad. He was not morose. He was done. A few weeks ago Lisa refused her doctor's advice to go through yet another round of chemotherapy. A close friend of hers died recently also of cancer also after having been given a few months to live. Her friend did chemo to the end. The chemo left her nauseous tired weak. It would have bought her another month tops. Sometimes the problem is not death. it is holding on too dearly to life. Zaida was done. Lisa is done too. She wants to walk her dogs and have dinner with some friends and maybe even take a last long walk through her garden. And then if death comes it comes. By December I will be glad to see the year coming to an end. I will be looking forward to getting on with things. Nearly 12 months or so will have passed since Lisa died and that will feel like an accomplishment. Someone will no doubt decide to have a one year memorial party in Lisa's honor because that is what Lisa would have wanted and will leave a message on our answering machine with a time and date sounding all cheery and excited but almost too cheery and too excited because Lisa after all is dead. And for a moment I will feel like I have to go because hey it is for Lisa. But they will realize you know what? It is been a year all right? Why do not you all go to hell. And I will tell my wife I do not want to go. And by this time instead of the usual disappointment she will look at me and say Christ me neither. So we will lie to everyone and say we are going away on vacation even though we are not and we will just make sure to stay out of town for a few days so nobody sees us. Which is exactly what Lisa would have wanted. Shalom Auslander. He is the author most recently of the book Foreskin's Lament. Act Two. Lewis Time. When we were all talking about what to include in this week's show and where we would find interesting predictions for 2010 we realized that teachers are constantly making predictions for the coming year. A good public school teacher has an ongoing diagnosis of where each of their students is and where each of their students is going to end up in June. Like if I was to show you Lewis' writing it does not make sense whatsoever. Samantha Cato teaches reading and writing to sixth graders at Public School 303 in the Bronx. And she is talking about one of her students Lewis de la Cruz who has trouble organizing his ideas when he writes. Even listening to Lewis he is all over the place. So where do you want him to be at the end of the year with his reading and writing and where do you think he will be at the end of the year? I would like truthfully for Lewis to write two to three sentences that go together and make sense. And I really do think he can achieve that. I do not know if that is necessarily on grade level but it is a big step from where we are. When it comes to reading she hopes to have him reading and understanding everything at a fourth grade level. But of course to accomplish that by June 2010 she is going to have to get him to sit in his seat. Lewis began the year as the most disruptive student in the class. And to deal with that Ms. Cato and one of the other sixth grade teachers Ms. Subramaniam came up with their most ingenious invention-- Lewis time. Generally Lewis time begins with Lewis pretending to be a teacher. This is Ms. Subramaniam. It is really cute. Sometimes he starts with Good morning boys and girls. So hi everybody. Hi Lewis. This morning I visited the last school day before Christmas break. And at Ms. Subramaniam's request Lewis has agreed to do a special 2010 prediction edition of Lewis Time with his predictions for the coming year. In 2010 I want to be a famous basketball player in my team. Lewis also predicted a trip that will take him around the world and to Antarctica where he says he would drink hot chocolate and chill with all the birds. Lewis time came about one morning this fall when everybody was still unpacking their stuff and settling in. Lewis popped up at the front of the room announced It is Lewis time and put on a little show. His teachers sensing opportunity decided to turn Lewis time into a reward. Lewis would get to do Lewis time in the morning if he were good the day before which meant that he-- Stayed in his seat and stuff like that. And we actually discussed with him what are the things that you do that are not helping the class learn? And he listed everything. He said I do not finish my work and I do things to get attention. It was pretty amazing how self-aware he was. Sometimes we let the class vote on whether Lewis should have Lewis time. And they are pretty objective about it. I mean they love that five minutes of the morning so they all want it but they are very willing to acknowledge when he does not deserve it. Now we are going to sing for Lewis time. Who is ready? All right. So  give me the beat. Lewis time! Lewis time to 825. Everybody loves Lewis time. In fact everybody does love Lewis time. When he asks for suggestions of participation hands fly up in the air. Twice in the past he is called for backup dancers and each time three girls stood up and joined him and improvised dance numbers. Can I ask you what do you think of Lewis time? Funny and it is cool. Like it is fun. I like it because he talks like about what happens at home which is funny because he always says how he is got a brother his sisters and they are always bothering him. And his grandma he always talk about his grandmother. It is que mas funny. Because his grandma he is always saying that his grandma always throws farts after she wakes up. If you did not catch that she said his grandmother throws farts when she wakes up. Sorry grandma. She was like mmmm. you know how grandmas are. Lewis time till 825. Lewis time till 825. It is over! Has it changed his behavior? Yes a lot. He used to behave really bad. He used to talk back to the teachers. He was really doing bad. He would just get up on his seat when he wants something. Has he changed? Yeah a lot. Of course Lewis is just one of 35 students in this class and there are over 100 sixth graders. And Ms. Subramaniam and Ms. Cato have predictions for where each of them is going to be in June and a plan for each student. A plan that in this class the students actually write out themselves. In other words every one of these students has his or her own much quieter version of Lewis Time. Coming up. The President of the United States who is going to be born in the year 2010. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our show of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show 2010. We asked people to predict with as much exactitude as possible things that will happen in their lives and the lives of the people around them in the coming year. We have arrived at act three of our show. Act Three. POTUS Operandi. Jonathan Menjivar has spent a remarkable amount of time thinking about the coming events of 2010. One event in particular. POTUS will have dark wavy hair. Her eyes will be brown unless they are green or maybe hazel. She will have full lips. She will not be tall which is a nice way of saying that she might be short. Because of this fact POTUS will not like going to concerts because like my wife Hillary she will only be able to see the backs of other people's heads and that spot on a person's back between their shoulder blades. Someday when she touches that spot on a person she loves it will feel oddly familiar and comforting because all her life while standing in line at the swings or waiting for a cashier to ring up her milk she will have looked at that spot on other people. Because she will be our daughter POTUS will like chocolate ice cream and enjoy puns. She will need glasses by third grade. POTUS I should explain is what Hillary and I have taken to calling the little girl Hillary will give birth to in 2010. Calling our kid it only felt right for about a week or two so we brainstormed baby code names one night in bed. Hillary thought the name should be something like that opening scene in the West Wing pilot the one where Rob Lowe walks out of the shower and a woman in underwear and a men's dress shirt reads from his pager POTUS in a bicycle accident. Hillary said our code name should pop like that but we could not think of anything as cool as POTUS so we just stole it. I worried that while POTUS was still nothing more than cells splitting into other cells that we might be setting unachievable expectations by naming her the acronym the Secret Service use to refer to the President of the United States. When people find out you are having a baby they predict all kinds of things about the child you will have. But I wanted to let POTUS tell us who she was so I tried to cling mostly to the facts. 20 weeks into Hillary's pregnancy we went in for an ultrasound. Our ultrasound technician looked like Kate from Jon  Kate Plus 8 in scrubs. She had that crazy hairdo and everything. We asked if she could tell the gender of the baby and she said It is a girl. She said it with the same level of enthusiasm I use to tell Hillary that we got a gas bill in the mail. Knowing that POTUS was a girl meant that now there was a shape to the mystery. The ultrasound gave us the lines of a coloring book and we could not help but fill them in. Hillary remembered all the stuff about dominant and recessive genes that I slept through in my high school biology class and we thought about our friend Michelle a biologist who spends her days working with fruit fly genes. I do not really understand what it is she does exactly except that it has something to do with diabetes. And this summer when I was having a fruit fly infestation she did not have any suggestions for how I could capture or kill them. I thought maybe Michelle could help us figure out what POTUS might look like. She said she would do her best but that this stuff was more complicated in humans than what I was imagining. She also told me that there was a great paper published in Science recently about the genetics of dog coats and that if we were breeding a dog instead of a little girl she could be really helpful. So Michelle came over to our house and in exchange for lasagna and a beer she sat with me and drew Punnett squares those little squares divided into four smaller squares that are supposed to help you figure out what traits win over others. Michelle was willing to commit to a few things like the fact that POTUS will likely have dark hair. But really she said even if she was able to study me and Hillary in a lab she could not tell us with any certainty what our baby will look like. Because unlike dogs humans have not been bred for certain traits so there is really no way of knowing what green eyes may be hiding in my genes. Mostly she said the whole dominant-recessive thing could help us figure out dopey stuff. Like for instance now we know that POTUS will have unattached earlobes and be able to impress her friends with her ability to roll her tongue like a taco. A few months ago not long after we found out that POTUS was a girl I was riding my bike home from work. The traffic was heavy so I was going pretty slow. I looked to my right and noticed a girl on the sidewalk looking at me. Staring really. She looked like she was in her early 20s and she had her auburn hair tied in a thick braid that swung over her right shoulder. I cannot remember if she was wearing glasses but I know she was wearing a dress and holding a petition clipboard in her right hand. If skin was made of Play-Doh hers was what you would get if you forever mixed the Hillary color with the Jonathan one. I could not tell you if it was that or the way she looked at me intently that is to blame but I stared back. And for a split second I thought she might be POTUS all grown up. I wanted to ask her so much how is school? Do you live around here? What do you like more seeing fireflies for the first time in the summer or the first fat snowflakes in winter? Really though every question was some variation on the one big question I will try my whole life to make POTUS answer yes to. Are you happy? It is also I realize a question I cannot predict the answer to. Jonathan Menjivar is one of the producers of the radio show Fresh Air in Philadelphia. Act Four. Nostra-Mom-Us. For our next predictions for 2010 we leave the United States and we turn to one of our regular contributors Etgar Keret who lives in Tel Aviv. I live in a family of predictors but they are mostly predictable predictors. With my ultra-Orthodox sister it always comes down to the messiah being just around the corner. While with my anarchist brother it is more along the lines of a blissful economic catastrophe that will liberate this planet from its social injustice. My four year old son Lev predicted next year I will be moving out of his apartment and he will finally get some quality bedtime with his mother without me snoring in the background. And there is my dad. But he being one-track minded will reply to any question with his usual pitch about how our entire family should buy a piece of land build a huge mansion and live in it together hippie-style minus the sex and drugs. The only person in the family who is a good predictor is my mom. So prediction-wise I am stuck with her. This woman told me when I was 12 years old that my favorite soccer club would never win any title and the last 30 years have pr