Florida is crucial this election. Florida Florida Florida. One of the people who thinks about that a lot is Kevin Sheekey. He is the guy whose job it is to spend 100 million that billionaire Mike Bloomberg has devoted to winning Florida for Joe Biden. Sheekey is not intimidated by that task at all. He is spent lots of Bloomberg's money in the past. He ran Bloomberg's three successful runs for New York mayor and his campaign for president this year. And Mike likes to say he gave me an unlimited budget and I exceeded it each and every time. I actually do not intend to do that in the state of Florida. So why Florida? Of all the battleground states why 100 million there? Kevin explained that a big part of it has to do with what is going to happen in other states. He pointed to all the times in tweets and in speeches that the president has said that mail-in ballots cannot be trusted. Donald Trump has sought to delegitimatize all mail-in ballots full stop. And clearly will have a plan to contest those ballots after election day as they are counted in important swing states such as Michigan and Pennsylvania which Joe Biden is currently leading in. Michigan will take at least three days to count their ballots. Pennsylvania is not much different. Trump has said listen I am going to take every lawyer and every judge I have. I am going to question every single ballot and try to toss them out. And just throwing out ballots by random could really move those states from Biden to Trump. That is because more Democrats are doing mail-in ballots than Republicans are this year. Bloomberg's people have actually run the numbers and calculated that there are states who were throwing out 7 of the ballots at random for not being filled out correctly which would flip a Biden victory in that state to a Trump victory. And that is a very dangerous proposition. And that is what we are trying to avoid by getting into Florida. Florida is a state that Donald Trump pretty much has to win. If he loses Florida it would be enormously difficult for him to gather enough electoral votes to have re-election. And-- this is key-- Florida is a state that counts mail-in ballots as they arrive. They are counting them right now already which means we very well could know the results in Florida on election night. And if Florida goes to Biden it might settle the race that night. And our ultimate goal is to win the state of Florida so that we quite frankly do not have to have that fight in a state like Pennsylvania. So how did you pick 100 million? What was that discussion like? You know listen I think it was ultimately what we determined we would need. It was the number that we thought we would make a difference. I called a guy who I know who is probably the smartest strategist on the Democratic side. And I asked him how much would you need to spend if you wanted to be able to have an impact on a race statewide race in a presidential in Florida? And how much would you need to really put your thumb on the scale? And he said at the time well Florida is an extraordinarily expensive state. It has a lot of large expensive media markets. And to have any sort of impact you really need to spend 20 million. And if you really want to put your thumb on the scale you are going to need to spend 70 million. And so this being Bloomberg we rounded up. Most of that Bloomberg money is going to TV ads and digital ads dropped into cities all across the state like a vast air war conducted from 30000 feet. Kevin Sheekey says Bloomberg's doing daily polling to see what effect this is having which is actually kind of hard to figure out. All kinds of things push voter opinion around. But Kevin says the numbers in Florida have moved from a tie between Trump and Biden to a small Biden lead. It is still within the margin of error but it is a lead 2 to 4 points that the Bloomberg people find encouraging. So that is the view from 30000 feet. Down on the ground that all looks a little different because of something so basic. And that is the coronavirus and how the two campaigns have responded to the coronavirus. As you may know over the summer the Democratic Party policy was do not go door to door. Do not hold events in person. Do not hold rallies. Republicans did all that stuff. And in Florida even before the virus they were doing more and registering more voters than the Democrats. In sheer numbers there are more registered Democrats in the state than Republicans. But since 2016 the Republicans have knocked that lead down. It used to be 7. Now it is just 3 and 12. A quarter of the voters in the state have no party affiliation. So the Republicans were going strong before the virus. And after the virus hit the state they resumed normal operations. But the Democrats were not going out to campaign. It was like one party was out there in the streets visible. And the other was just not. One of our producers Lina Misitzis has been talking to Florida Democrats about all that. And Lina how are they feeling? Not great. Or at least not the ones that I talked to. Uh-huh. OK so there is this one voter I found Marji Hope. She is in a suburb called Weston which is in one of the bluest counties in Florida. It is Broward County which is just north of Miami. But she says that the Republican presence is so much more noticeable that her house is somehow surrounded by Trump signs. Wow. And there is almost no Biden signs in her neighborhood. Wow. Yeah and she sees Trump supporters everywhere. The frustrating thing that is happening is when I get texts from my friends with pictures saying oh my god a carload of Trump supporters just got out in my neighborhood and they are knocking on doors right now. But we have been not able to do that. So four years ago Hillary Clinton's campaign had an office near Marji's house in Weston. And that is where people would go to pick up signs to phone bank to meet up with each other. Biden does not even have offices set up yet here OK? We have not been able to-- we have not gotten campaign material. I mean how hard is it to just put stuff on somebody's door? We could get Weston done. There is like 65000 people living here. We could get them done in a weekend. And that is where the frustration is is the minute we would put a call out I know that I would get a ton of people to come out. Because we are all dying to do this. Not only is Marji keeping track of what her site is not doing she is keeping track of what the other side is doing. She actually signed up for her county-- the Broward County local Republican newsletter. Wait why? Because every day when it sends out its daily email that lists all of the campaign events that they have coming up for the Republicans she likes to keep track of it. And it kind of drives her crazy just noticing all of these events that they are running. They are doing candidate forums. They are doing watch parties for the debates. They had watch parties at this place my husband and I used to go have breakfast at all the time which we are not going to anymore. Because I am like if they are hosting these huge watch-- I could send you all these pictures of these people at the debates. Probably fit a lot of young people-- They make a lot of noise and they make their presence known. I also talked to Marji's friend Julie. She tracks the Republican events too. And while Marji sounds kind of indignant when she talks about it Julie sounds almost wistful. They had pictures on the community Facebook page and they had a watch party. And I thought well that is nice. I mean most of them were not wearing masks. So I know that that is something that a lot of people would be hesitant to do. But it just seemed like it was something that involved community that they were sitting together around going hey we are a group. We are here. And they kind of support each other. And it is kind of something that I wish we could replicate and were as strong. In the absence of their own official meetups I found a bunch of frustrated Democrats all over Florida not just in Broward who took matters into their own hands. What are they doing? OK there is a woman in Oviedo which is a small red town. And she is been hosting these very small rallies on street corners every Monday Wednesday and Friday. Oh wow. Another example is a grandmother in Tallahassee who told me that she printed out a bunch of Florida voter registration forms. And she was handing them out to young-seeming people in the Walmart parking lot. Now I have read that the Biden campaign did finally start going door to door in Florida and in other states too this fall. Yes that happened two weeks after I started talking to Marji. And she went out with them. But for her it was not enough. Why am I canvassing 23 days before-- whatever-- 25 days before an election? I should have been canvassing 40 days before an election. Right. You know how many people-- I mean hundreds of thousands of people have already voted in Florida.  Well today on our show we have stories of people fretting worried about what is going to happen next and all that is still unknown. The future is barreling towards them. They are going to find out soon enough but not quite yet. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. And let us get to it. Act 1 the School of Hard Knocks. So Lina looked into whether the fears that she heard from Florida's Democrats are justified. Are their leaders dropping the ball? Did the party pull back too far with the coronavirus precautions? She put together this story. I think Democrats have been doing instead of door knocking phone calling. And gone is the camaraderie of organizing everyone breathing in the same air in some makeshift fluorescent-lit campaign center. This volunteering is done from home. And here's what it looks like. Maria is a phone banking volunteer. She is 33 living in Southeast Florida with her husband and her three-year-old son. Your entry does not match our records. Please enter your PIN then pound. She works in consulting. And after work she has 45 minutes to phone bank before her kid gets home. You are now connected. Maria was born in Colombia moved here when she was 16 with her parents. She is a citizen now and not a fan of the president. His comments against immigrants against women-- I mean I think almost every single position that he is taken and every comment that he is made is against what I believe and what I think this country stands for. Maria did door knocking in 2016 and she is doing phone banking now. I wanted her to compare them for me. And so I listened in while she phone banked. In 45 minutes she dialed 28 phone numbers. Hi is this Angie? At the tone please record your message. When you finish recording you may-- Nine of those 28 phone calls went to voicemail which the Democrats mostly do not think it is worth it to leave messages after the beep. One phone call a toddler picked up. Hi is this Caitlin? Yeah. The kiddo seemed to put the phone down and walk away. Hello? Some grownups did not want to get into it either. With who? With the Democratic Party of Florida. OK thank you. Not interested. All right thank you. Of course not everyone Maria spoke to favored her side. I am going to vote for Trump. Oh you will? I am voting for Trump! OK. I can tell you that right now. Bye. There were three calls like that. I do not think I want to vote for Sleepy Joe. I am sorry. I do not think he is worth being president. Thank you. The goal of these calls it is not to persuade anyone. It is just to get Biden voters to vote. And over a third of them 11 people were Biden supporters. Six of them said that they would already mailed in their ballots. And five of them had not. Well it is only the first week of October. They do not vote until November 3rd. I thought maybe I could send it out at the end of the month. No do not wait till the end of the month because a lot of people are going to be mailing their ballots. And the Postal Service is going to be overwhelmed with the ballots. So make sure you send it in sooner. You do not want to have it delayed and not being counted. OK. Use black ink sign the outside of the envelope and mail it back quickly. OK. Maria says that that one call it made it feel worth her time that day. Because I think that was one more vote-- one vote that will be counted and would not have been otherwise if I had not called him. All right have a good night. Bye. Bye. So 45 minutes one actual vote for her team for her state. Though also four other Biden voters that she nudged towards mailing in their ballots. And how do these phone calls compare to door knocking? Maria says in 2016 in terms of how many people she would made direct contact with in a shift door knocking and phone banking are about the same. But going door to door takes way more time. Between going and grabbing the list and getting to the place and walking around and waiting-- someone's mom would open the door and then we had to wait for the person that we were actually trying to reach to come over. What happened yesterday took 45 minutes and then what you are-- like a Saturday afternoon in 2016 it sounds like it would take a few hours. Yeah but I do think it is just as good. There is been actual research on this which shows that door knocking and phone banking are pretty close in terms of their effectiveness with a slight edge towards door knocking though calling people is faster. So the question really is how many phone calls are Democrats making for Biden in Florida compared to doors knocked on in the past? I called around for numbers. The closest I got was from the independent organization that coordinates a lot of the get-out-the-vote among Democrats in Florida. They are called America Votes. They say when you count phone banking and door knocking and everything else that they do to reach voters they have doubled the number of people they have had conversations with in Florida. It is 2 million this year versus 1 million or fewer in previous elections. But that number does not include the Democratic Party's own get-out-the-vote effort which is an important part of the picture. Party officials would not give me outreach numbers for this year or previous elections. What they did do instead is say that everything is on track. All of the Florida Democratic officials I talked to agreed on that. Here's Debbie Wasserman Schultz. She is Marji's congresswoman and she used to chair the National Democratic Party. I mean at the moment I can tell you that we lead. I mean the proof is in the voting. Democrats lead Republicans in vote by mail by 360000-plus vote by mail ballots being turned in. That is just massive massive increases. We are really lapping the field. And so what I say to nervous Democrats is the proof is in the voting. And we have to just keep people voting. It is true that more Democrats than Republicans have mailed in their ballots. But that is kind of what you would expect. COVID reactions have fallen along party lines and way more Democrats asked for mail-in ballots than Republicans did. Of course things could get completely reshuffled on Monday. That is when early in-person voting starts in Florida. Republicans could start showing up in droves. I honestly think that there is nothing Debbie Wasserman Schultz or other party leaders could say that would reassure Marji or Julie or any of the nervous Democrats I talked to. Jeff Green who also lives in Broward he remembers two years ago how confidently they all headed into the governor's race. It was the race that was supposed to show that a Democrat could win statewide office in Florida. So two years ago today Andrew Gillum was up 9 points against Ron DeSantis in the governor's race. And all the Democrats were ra ra ra Gillum's going to win. And of course he did not. Looming even bigger of course is Hillary Clinton. Every Democrat I talked to invoked Hillary Clinton. We all remember. We all remember what happened in 2016. We remember what happened in 2018. We remember all of it. And so nobody trusts it anymore. Fact is most big elections in Florida in the last 10 years have been decided by about 1.1 of the vote. Biden's ahead right now in the polls but not by much. And either candidate could win. So they are not wrong to be worried. Lina Misitzis is one of the producers of our show. Coming up fears of toys that come on without anybody touching them and other worries that have nothing at all to do with electoral politics I promise. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues.  It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program The Moment After This Moment. We have stories today of people who are worrying about a future that is on its way. We are now at Act 2 of our program. Act 2 Words Versus Fear. So when you are scared about things that might happen the most effective thing to do of course is to jump into action and see that things go your way right? To try to make things happen so that the worst does not occur. But the truth is that does not always do the job right? It does not always get rid of your fears. So then what do you do? Well years ago we did a story about somebody who came up with this strategy. There were things that this guy was afraid of things that put him on edge. And one day he just decided to write them down just to get them out of his system. And so he started writing numbering every fear one after another. Quickly it got to 10 fears and then 20 and then 30 and 40 and 50 until he had 138 of them on paper. The man's name is Michael Bernard Loggins. He was in his 50s at the time he did this. He is developmentally disabled. He was living in San Francisco-- still does. And the arts program for adults where he did this a place called Creativity Explored published this writing as a little handwritten xeroxed zine called Fears of Your Life. And then a few years later Michael found out there were more fears to tame by turning them into words and he put out a part 2 a sequel titled Fears of Your Life a Whole Brand New One. This one listed 45 fears. Michael gave us permission to excerpt the two books. And they are just this remarkable wide-ranging encyclopedic Talmudic memorable tour of human fears. And none of them have to do with politics. And they seem worth going back to today. Actor Tom Wright is our reader. Fear of hospitals and needles. Fear of school and dentists. Fear of noises and bumps in the middle of the night. Fear of doors when they slams. Fear of toys that come on by itself without anyone touching it. Fear of being caught with another woman after cheating on your wife. Fear of being in wrong places at the wrong time. Fear of dropping your soda as it hit the ground and fizz on you. Fear of tall giraffe. Fear of some birds. Fear of being different. I fear that those TV people would take off my favorite cartoon The Rugrats off the air and would not be able to watch them anymore for a long long long time. Please let well enough alone. Please do not take my Rugrats cartoon off the air because I love that cartoon. Let there be a possibility that life with the Rugrats stays put means leave my Rugrats cartoon on TV Michael said. Fear if you put things that does not belongs in your ears and you bust the drums that is are in your ears. It liable to run you deaf where you cannot hear anything at all. You would not be able to hear cars when they are coming at you. That can be a frightening and very horrible situation to happen to you if you had an occurrence in real life especially if you comes involved in it. Can you get hit by cars if you cannot hear them? Michael is afraid and frightening and fearful when Andrea Scheer goes away for a very very very long long long long vacational trips in order to go traveling all over the world almost like different places and different cities and countries to visit people in her own image and own language. He afraid Andrea Scheer would come back to San Francisco California with all different accents and will not be able to speak Michael's English or not be able to understand his words that he is telling her like Merry Christmas. I am afraid and fearful that pigeons do not know right from wrong to not go out into the street. They do not have the kind of memory as we humans does to know what to do and what shalt not do. They must do not know the danger of their lives are being jeopardized. And they must do not know what can definitely happen to them to humans' knowledges and sense. They land just anywhere they can find a land-on surface. Fear of sharks. Fear of giant man. Fear of gorilla. Fear of Godzilla. Fear of tall woman. Fear of killer whales. Fear of dinosaurs bird. Fear of invisible man. Fear of blob. Fear that if I go into the library and I happens to get like seven or eight books and I happens to find a place in the library that I would get a lot of comfortable and begin reading in those seven or eight books but one book at a time and I start to read and somehow my voice and mind start to get from low to high and thinking that there were not anyone elses reading theirs. And I look over and the people in the library and I get fearful and I will say Oops sorry. If your friends are people that you are with and you hear them making decision about what they decided that they are going to steal expensive and very valuable merchandise out of the department stores and do not care less you say I am out of here. Bye bye. I am not getting caught in your crazy schemes. I am not your stealer partner. I am just your friend. It is going to trouble and it is on your head not mine. I am not going to participate in stealing with you so leave me out of your crazy schemes especially if it involve Oreo cookies and other stuff hot stuff. Fear of me getting in trouble just as well. It is very scary and fearfully to be sleeping in your bed in the middle of the night whenever there is a telephone right beside the bed on your left near the door you once enter and exit out. You are sleeping. The telephone rang and scare the living life out of you in the middle of the night. Who is this calling at this hour of the night? Fear of a blasted music on the radio when you are not aware that the volume is turned up. Fear of rolling downhill backwards. Fear of foghorn. Fear of getting hugged by somebody you do not like. There is Los Angeles fears. Fear of getting hit over the head when you carry lots of dough with you or bucks. Fear is like this. Someone like a woman that you grab ahold of her hand in going down the escalator when of a sudden you happens to be holding a stranger hand not realizing that she is not your mother is scary. Fear that if you put too much of toilet paper in the toilet bowl it will run over and get all over the floor and on you and on someone else too. It would leak from upstairs to the next floor below. I am afraid someday I liable to get lost inside Children's Hospital if I am not all so familiar with that place yet. It is going to take some time to get used to it. Fearfully of that great big humongous Children's Hospital there ever would be to Michael's knowledge. Good that Michael's sister is driving him up there on Tuesday January 15 2002. Even though she is with him she can easily get lost too. Bad situation to tangled up in especially if you that person has an appointment at 1045 AM in the morning. Michael Bernard Loggins does. Michael fear that if his teacher Francis does not put away Michael's Top Ramen noodles up in the desk drawer that Douglas will see it and he will liable to want to take it. And he will happen to eat up Michael Bernard Loggins' noodles himself. And Michael Bernard Loggins would be out of luck but he would have to go home tonight and bring back to school another pack of noodles to eat himself so that would not ever ever happened with that Douglas eat up noodle story. It would be very fearful if I reached up on top shelf trying to reach for a nice thicker-covered dictionary book and not ask for help from someone and the books come off the shelf and make lots of noises and the people gets angry at me and do not understand that I had want help but I were afraid to ask for it. And they would be a jerk or a creep as Hope tells me. And people say that I will have to pay for the shelf and I get in lots of trouble behind it says Michael. Fear of being with a friend that you have recently met start to take you places with him and you does not know him all that well. You did not know that he were going to bring you fear and lots of trouble your way. Someone you does not know all that well starts to carry you in this store to buy you and him something to eat and drink. And all of a sudden something very fishy starts to happen. Like for instance your friend that you are with could be up to trouble and whoever with him could be heading in for trouble as well especially if a friend of yours could be bringing you trouble by stealing a big package of Oreo cookie. People are fearful of me which I wonder is they think I am all that terrible? Or I am thinking that they think I am not human at all. Because when they sit next to me then they get back up and move away from me. I may be a stranger but that does not make me a created monster or something like that. People are not humans. They act like ignorance dogs with their tail in back of their legs or in between their middle bodies their legs. They do not think whose feeling they hurt at all. They just do it no consideration for whatsoever. People do not think about how they hurt my feelings or do not give a hoot. They do not give a crap. Fear of you never knowing you were going to lose your mother is very sad and scary experience you have to face and learn from. And you wonder why she has to die. I love her. And I had loved her once while she were alive especially if she was the mother that raised you and the others through birth. And you only wish that you could have done all you can to help save her life. There going to be a worst times and hard times for Michael Bernard Loggins and his sisters and brothers too especially when Mother's Day comes. Afraid this is the last thing that ever occurred to me. Excerpts from Michael Bernard Loggins' two xeroxed zines Fears of Your Life Parts 1 and 2 read for us by actor Tom Wright. To get your own copy of these amazing books or to find out more about the arts program where they were made you can visit the website of Creativity Explored. That is creativityexplored.org.   Act 3 The Best Laid Plans. So today's program is about people worrying about the future. And we thought for a change of pace we would do this next story about people who are not worried enough about it. This is another story from our archive. It is a particular favorite. It is about this couple and the future they kind of cheerfully threw themselves towards. And after that everything that happens to him it is like a hand grenade they bring into their own home pull the pin and then wait to see what is next. And one important thing about all of this is is that when they did this the kind of couple they were was a really great couple. We were always like the most solid of all relationships of our friends and everything like that. Kurt Braunohler met his girlfriend on the third day of college. And in all of the ways that we think of what makes for a good relationship I think that they were doing better than you or me or most people. They had a lot of fun together. They could talk about anything. They did not really fight. Happy sex life. We really just got along very well together. We traveled well together. We were always the kind of-- we were the place that friends would come when they are having hard times and they would stay with us. And we were kind of-- it felt like very adult. When even when I was 23 I felt like I am kind of married even though neither of us had ever ever discussed getting married. So what happened? Well after we had both turned 30 one day I just kind of was thinking about why we had never talked about getting married. We had never ever talked about it seriously or otherwise. And whenever anyone would ask us we would always just kind of brush it off and say oh we will get married when we have kids. That is what we would always say. And I remember we were sitting in the living room and it was October. And I had just said hey I want to talk. And I said why do you think we have not gotten married yet or even talked about it? And she just kind of looked at me and thought for a second. And then she said well I think that before we get married we should probably sleep with other people. And you would imagine that that would come as a huge shock to me-- like hit me hard. But for some reason it kind of-- it made sense to me. I kind of was like OK very calmly. And I guess the reason-- Wait how did that make sense? I have thought a lot about this and I think that there is a few reasons. We both had this kind of arrogant notion of our relationship-- that it could survive literally anything. That we had been together-- we had known each other our whole adult lives. We were each other's worlds. So really I do not think we thought that we could destroy this thing. I talked to the girlfriend who did not want to come on the radio. And she said basically she would only had two boyfriends in her life-- her high school boyfriend who was not a good boyfriend at all and Kurt who was great. But she met Kurt she said when she was 17. She was 30 when this happened. And she said that she felt like maybe she missed out on something in her 20s experiences that other people had. And she did not want to regret that. A warning-- I should say before we go any further in this story we are going to acknowledge the existence of sex between adults. Nothing explicit. Anyway so they sat on the couch and they talked this through. The next part of that conversation was the logistics. Do we break up? Do I move out? Do we just do this while we are living in the same house together? And we kind of came up with this idea of borrowing this Amish concept called Rumspringa. And Rumspringa in the Amish world is when you are 16 you are allowed to be not Amish for two years. And then when you turn 18 you decide whether or not you come back to the fold. Right. And during those two years kids get drunk. They sleep around. They try drugs. They do lots of meth. They do lots of stuff. So we were going to have-- we decided to have a Rumspringa from our relationship. And that is the other crazy thing is that we decided that 30 days was enough. Because probably within 30 days sleeping with other people would get that all out of our system in 30 days. And it turns out it is really difficult to all of a sudden become single at 31 when you have never been single for your entire life. Because all of a sudden I am in New York City and I am single. And I essentially have the emotional tools of a 17-year-old boy. Because the last time you dated was-- you were 17. The last time I dated I was in a dorm room. Yeah. Also it was not that I was just-- it was not like I was single in New York City. Because being single in New York City is I think-- the majority of it is being just very lonely and being on your own whereas this was very different. I was in a mara-- I was in a race. I was in a 30-day race to sleep with as many people as I possibly could. Because after 30 days I was going to go back and then get married. So-- So there is a time clock ticking. Every single-- it was almost to the minute where I would just be like if I was not out somewhere trying to meet someone I was like this is wasted time. I am wasting my time right now. And also because of the fact that we were both-- my girlfriend and I were both very competitive with each other that we did not speak during that 30 days. But I think in both of our minds we had a competitive nature of being like I need to sleep with more people than she does. And I think she felt the same way. That is true. She did feel that way. I asked her. So before they started the Rumspringa they took a last romantic trip together to New Orleans over New Year's. And they had a great time. And then on January 3 after they both cried a bit Kurt moved out for a month. So suddenly single 31 time clock ticking where do you start right? Well Kurt called this woman that he knew just a little bit and had a date on the very first or second night. He cannot remember which it was. And at dinner he told her the entire situation. He laid the whole thing out that he was seeing somebody. They were taking this break to sleep around. And this was a rule that he made for himself that he was always going to be honest with any woman that he met during t