I grew up in Baltimore. And I remember in the 1970s at a very low moment the city commissioned a slogan and a song and an ad campaign called Charm City USA. And at the time Baltimore was grimy and run down and still recovering from the riots and white flight of the 1960s. I have never met a single person who took this slogan seriously. And I always thought that that is how it goes. Right? My wife has told me how pathetic Detroit is slogan Say Nice Things About Detroit seemed to her even as a kid. That is where she is from. This kind of forced boosterism arrives precisely when things are at their worst in a city. So I wondered if there are actually cities where these campaigns work. And somebody told me that Calgary Canada was a place like that. And we looked for a born-and-bred Calgarian to tell us whether or not it was true. And that is how we found Ken Lima-Coelho. And he said yes. He said back in the '80s they had a feel good song. At the time he says they only had three TV channels and it was on two of them. So I have probably heard it-- I am not even exaggerating-- 1000 times. Everybody knew it. Everybody knew it. And there was this kind of weird pride around the song. And I actually remember that. We used to sing this with our friends. And my mom used to talk about this song. Wait. You would sing this song with your friends? Oh yeah. Absolutely. And somebody would start and we would sing it and we would all laugh. I loved it. I loved it then. I kind of love it now. Just when you hear that bling those first little strains of the mel-- I am right back there.  Of course there was a video which at the time seemed very fresh and new. Kind of a prairie scene. And there is this beautiful sunset. A guy throws a football at McMahon Stadium which is our big football stadium. And the guy who is supposed to catch it gets bonked on the head. It is really cheesy.  Do you have a favorite part of this song? Oh yeah. Right here.  Ha? She is just giving her.  Did the song seem cheesy at the time? No. The song seemed very genuine at the time. Early in our interview I asked him if he knew any of the words and he sang me the entire song from memory perfectly. He says now and then one of his friends will post the song to Facebook. It was a really big deal back then he says because before then Calgary did not have much pride at all. The city was not doing great. Their nearby archrival Edmonton which was smaller and which he would been raised to think of as a poorer cousin seemed to get all the glory. You have to remember at the time Edmonton was it. They had the Edmonton Oilers the most famous hockey team on the planet-- Wayne Gretzky. They won four Stanley Cups. They had a sign as you drove into Edmonton that said Edmonton city of champions. And that drove us crazy. I mean they did win every Stanley Cup in the era. But that drove us really nuts. And then here comes this song that oozes pride. And it sort of captured the spirit of hey ya we are the best hometown we know. Darn it. So Ken now I want to play you something else. And I think you have never heard this.   Milwaukee? This is the original song that the Calgary song is based on. What do you-- really? Yeah it was Milwaukee first. And then we are told by the songwriter-- he cannot remember if Utah was second or Calgary was second.  Whoa whoa whoa. How can there be two best hometowns I know? That cannot be right. I am glad they did not use the same woman though. That would have been really bad. Let me play you something else now.    No!    Oh my-- ah! I do not know what to say.  How many versions are there? There are over 100.  Ken said that he was 23 bemused by all this and 13 actually sort of mad. He had really thought of it as Calgary's song. For me this is like finding out that your childhood teddy bear was owned by three other people on the weekends when you were not there. I do not know.  You know what would really get me? There is not a Hello Edmonton is there? No there is not. And Ken does not begrudge the song's composer his success at selling the song in all these different cities. He just felt dirty and betrayed by this song that claims that each city is unique and special but then by telling 100 other cities the same thing proves that the opposite is true. When we tracked down the song's creator a guy named Frank Gari no relation to the architect I was surprised when he described the customization that he said that he gave to each city's version of Hello. Listening to a few dozen of the songs the only changes that I found were that he would change the name of the city. And then usually he would just change one geographic detail. So from the mountains close at hand would become from the golden countryside or from the bayfront shore in places where there were no mountains. Though he described his process this way. I would fly to the city. I would meet with the people study the area location the lay of the land the people. And that would inspire me to write the lyric the new lyric the new customization. It was really a geography history class. I learned a tremendous a lot about this country. Frank Gari said that actually they usually would not change the lyrics that much because the feelings in the song were so universal. He said feeling pride about Calgary is not so different from feeling pride about Baltimore or feeling pride about Detroit. You know it is the same. It is the same. It may be snowing in one area and it might be 80 degrees in another. But people are people and they are going through the same-- absolutely. And that is the same thing with keeping certain parts of the song. I mean it is funny. I think the fact that this works that you could have a song and have all of these local places attach and have people really like it in all these local places I feel like it really shows that people want to connect with a song like that. Well there is no question about that. I mean people want to attach to a positive vibe about the place where they live. Absolutely absolutely. That is what Hello did. And that is what we tried to incorporate. Lots of people of course have very strong feelings about where they live. And lots of people will of course do all kinds of things to hold onto that feeling of place. And today on our program we have three stories of people doing some very unusual things including for example staging an exit from their own country though all in pretend as a way to stay in their country and their hometown. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One Flight Simulation. For lots of small towns in Mexico so many people leave that leaving becomes one of the defining parts of being from there even the people that have strong ties to home and family members who stayed behind. James Spring went to a town like that recently in Mexico for an event organized by the people who stayed behind. A lot of people are going to yell at me tonight. One of them is this guy Mateo. He is 19 and he is rolling past me in a pickup truck with blue and red flashing lights. Come out with your hands up. I want to see your hands up.  There is a US Border Control emblem on the door of the pickup. But it is fake. Just like Mateo's Border Patrol uniform. We are hundreds of miles from the actual US border in a tiny Mexican village. It is called El Alberto. And it is known for a really specific kind of tourist attraction a simulated illegal nighttime border crossing. They call it the Caminata Nocturna the Night Hike. I am the first one here. So I am just standing around with 40 or 50 locals all of them dressed up in their costumes. Fake border agents wearing Vietnam-era camo blinged out drug cartel thugs and migrants and human smugglers. A few years ago in the US there were some news reports about the Caminata and right wing blogs jumped all over it. They accused the organizers here of running a training camp for illegal migrants. But most of the people who go on the Caminata are middle class Mexicans and university students people who can afford the 200 peso ticket about 16 people who would probably never need to actually sneak into the US. For instance tonight we are waiting for a group of salespeople from Mexico City that is coming to do the Caminata as a  a corporate team building exercise. The people in costume are joking around with each other. And I speak Spanish but I do not get any of the jokes because they are not speaking Spanish. These are the Hnahnu an ancient tribe here since long before the Aztecs. They run the Caminata on their land which is a federal territory grant almost like an Indian reservation in the United States. The land is not much good for farming or cattle and there are almost no paying jobs in El Alberto. So at some point the Hnahnu became experts at crossing the border into the US. Pretty much everyone around me now they have done the real crossing many of them multiple times. And it is been killing the village. There are only about 2500 of the El Alberto Hnahnu left in the world. And 80 of them now live in the US in Vegas around Arizona and Utah. The Caminata Nocturna is part of the Hnahnu elders' plan to turn the villagers' expertise-- leaving-- into a money maker so that the villagers will stay. Hello hello hello. A guy named Brigilio is one of the Hnahnu who is playing a migrant. He is 33 lanky with a wisp of a mustache. He is going to be my own personal crossing buddy tonight. I am wearing these clothes. Are these clothes going to work OK? Is this-- Yeah looks good. During his four border crossings through the desert into Arizona Brigilio's been robbed at gunpoint had a knife held to his gut. He showed me the scar. Other people that he is crossed with have faced worse. One of my friend her hands-- como se dice? Broke? No. Sprained? Get paralyzed? Oh. Was it from the cold? Yeah from the cold. Frostbitten. Frostbite. One of Brigilio's cousins was in a pickup that was chased by the Border Patrol. The truck rolled over and his cousin died. Brigilio says there is no way to plan for every danger on a border crossing. When the cartels come we do not know what is going to happen. Or when the gangsters come to us sometimes you will see a beautiful girl or a woman sometimes violate these women. Or sometime undress-- como se dice? Undress? Mhm. Undress the clothes in front of the group. Or touch her. That happened to my kids one of my kids. And-- Is she OK now? She is OK. Brigilio told me he never wants to do the crossing again. I believe him. He looks exhausted just talking about it. But he says he does not mind faking it for the Caminata.  Brigilio asks me in Spanish if we are going to turn off his mic. I tell him we are just going to leave it on. Because the salespeople are going to arrive any minute right? He is been getting updates on a VHF radio. Yes he says they will be here in a few minutes. The salespeople are a few minutes away for more than two hours. It is just past 1030 at night when their bus arrives. The sales team disembarks men and women about 50 of them bearing zero apologies. Just a sea of polo shirts embroidered with the name of a big international corporation. Most of the Hnahnu actors have long since taken their positions out on the trail. The lead coyote a short wiry guy does not waste any time.  Do any of you know what the Caminata Nocturna is he asks. The salespeople do not. They make stupid guesses. I hate them. The coyote is all business. He explains our objective. Tells us all that he and his pals will be leading us across the border this very night. But crossing the line is not the hard part. No that is just the first step. After that the trek will be tough fraught with danger. The salespeople look more like they have prepared to trek to the lobby bar of a Radisson. One of the saleswomen asks if we are going to have to negotiate any stairs along the way because stairs might present a problem for her. I look to Brigilio to see if he hates these people as much as I do but he gives me nothing. The coyote tries to impress upon all of us the gravity of the situation. Crossing the border is only for the most desperate of souls.  No. He asks us if we are desperate. The salespeople do not get it. No?  The coyote says we can stay here all night then. It takes asking them three times but the group finally agrees to be desperate.  Si. So the coyotes introduce themselves. El Chiquilin. Chiquilin El Guero El Tigre. The salespeople clap after each one like they are being introduced to Bob in Accounting. And then in an instant everything changes.  Let us go James let us go! The coyotes start yelling for us to get down low. It is time to move. We all run willy-nilly like lunatics rushing the asylum gate. Brigilio and I are pretty fast. We pass a dozen of the saleswomen. Chiquilin the lead coyote signals for us to follow him behind a bluff where we all hide. Our coyotes know the schedule of the border patrols. One truck passes us flashing lights and sirens. We all sprint to an abandoned building. A coyote hisses at us to hide and we try. But two of the fake US Border Patrol trucks are racing toward us. And then the agents are out of the trucks and chasing us. And they are on us. And we are trapped. There is only one way out. And it is right through the middle of the Border Patrol. Our coyotes run so we run. Five or six Border Patrol agents are grabbing the rest of the salespeople right in front of me. One agent gets a hand on me but I make it past him. There is gunfire like I am sure they are shooting blanks but it is loud and it feels real. We all race away from the Border Patrol and lose them in a thicket of spiny plants. All I can think is what the ? The salespeople are dead silent. Brigilio and I find each other and I follow him up a narrow rocky trail about mid-pack in the sales team. We walk a long way. It gives me time to recognize that the real US Border Patrol would probably not have blasted their sirens when they snuck up on us. And they probably would not shoot into a crowd of migrants. This is the Mexican telenovela version of a border crossing a dramatic reenactment. This is what sells tickets. That said the salespeople have fully suspended their disbelief. They look totally freaked out. There is a barbed wire fence in front of us. We all scamper beneath it and circle around the eroded edge of a cliff. And then the coyotes start going crazy motioning for us to get down. Before us there is a dying campfire and a shack like a little log house. And then there is this.  It is an old Indian man not like a Hnahnu Indian like an American Indian like in the year 1823 an old Western with a feathered headdress and a loincloth. He is carrying a rifle an old Red Ryder looking thing. And he is not happy. He lights a torch. Chiquilin tries to tell him that we are just passing through trying to get north. The Indian fires back with an angry bunch of words. And then this small Indian woman comes out of the log house. There is just a lot of arguing and I am not understanding a word of it. The Indian shoots the old rifle into the air. Then two more shirtless Indians show up on the scene like warriors. One's carrying a spear. This feels really fun to me like John Wayne's going to come over the hill next. The warriors grab one of our coyotes El Tigre I think. They tie him up to a cactus. Maybe it is a post. It is dark. One Indian holds a gun to his head and the other holds a spear. A saleswoman beside me is clearly into it. She pleads our case saying that we are Mexicans and we are lost and we just want to pass north. Mexicans? The old Indian says like it was the magic word he would been waiting for all along. He tells us to prove it by singing the Mexican national anthem. Before the weirdness of that can sink in Chiquilin starts us out. And the salespeople warm to it.  The old Indian decides to let us pass with a little more gunfire to help shoo us off.  And we are running again. We run for a long time. Like I do not even know why we are running now. Faster James. Faster. I ask Brigilio if he ever went through an Indian reservation when he crossed the real border. Once he said in Arizona. They did not care. They just waved them through. When we stop running we walk. We walk for a long time. The walking is the opposite of exciting. It is monotonous. It is drudgery. The salespeople are showing wear shuffling their feet like prisoners in leg irons. One of the women appears to have twisted an ankle. She is leaning on another one of the salespeople for support. I am not sure that this was the kind of team building they signed up for. There is a mountain up ahead. I ask Brigilio if that is our destination. He says yeah. And I say I am happy because it looks close. Brigilio tells me he remembers having that exact same feeling looking at mountains when he crossed the border for real. You say oh yeah. It is close. But it is not close. I ask him if seeing the Border Patrol brought back any memories for him. He says no. But the walking does. We climb more hills more rocky ledges more dusty trails more mud. All the jostling makes my recorder switch itself on and off and it makes me lose a pretty good chunk of important stuff. For example I do not capture the sounds of the five guys who stop us on the trail tattooed gang members like from the streets with the baggy jeans and tank tops. When they cannot find our money they steal food from our coyote's backpack. I also failed to record the encounter with the 20 members of a powerful drug cartel that surrounded us. These guys had everything-- big gestures really angry voices automatic weapons that looked really real. And the cartel boss wore gold chains and he had this great aura of evil. They even took one of the women from our group and shot her in the head. The salespeople were really traumatized by this one. She was one of the actors and the cartel guys fake-threw her body off a cliff. Then after we ran some more and got ourselves clear of the murderous cartel my recorder started working again. Vamos!  It was nearly the end of the night. We reached a bluff that overlooks the highway. Our transportation our ride is scheduled to meet us here and deliver us to fake Phoenix. Brigilio tells me that this is a hot corridor heavily patrolled by border agents. Chiquilin whispers that when the coast is clear we will go in groups of 10. The first group of salespeople scurries down the hill and is just about to jump in the back of the truck when trouble appears. Two Border Patrol trucks box them in. An agent speaks through the PA tells the other agents to search them all. He asks where the coyote is and if there are any more of us. But nobody rats us out. They are all loaded into the Border Patrol truck and taken away.  We are all of us in disbelief. We have been walking for three hours. Everyone is silent. Brigilio signals that we are in the next group. It strikes me that I really want to make it that I do not want to be one of the ones who gets caught. Three white pickups appear in the distance our ride. 30 of us run down the hill. I am waiting to hear the siren. Brigilio and I jump into the bed of the third truck. We force ourselves as flat as we can and then I feel the truck shift into gear and we are driving. We are going to make it. We arrive at the safe house blindfolded. That is how coyotes protect the location of a safe house. Vamos vamos. Brigilio says that at a real safe house we would all be jammed into a room with a bunch of other migrants and forced to wait until our relatives paid off the final balance to the coyotes. And of course that would be after two days and nights of walking through the desert not just three hours. But we are led down a path to what feels like a grassy field. It sounds like we are next to a river. Chiquilin tells everybody to keep their blindfolds in place. And he says tonight we gave you just a small sample of the dangers of crossing the border. Maybe 5 of what the real experience is like. He delivers this rousing speech. This message is like a patriotic stay-in-school kind of thing that Mexicans have a moral obligation to stay here in Mexico to not cross the border and give all of their energies to another country. Give your energies to your own community he says. Make this country great. He tells everybody that he is going to count to three and then we are all going to remove our blindfolds. Uno dos tres!  Across the river in front of us is a tall bluff maybe 200 feet high. It is covered top to bottom with hundreds of flaming torches maybe thousands. The firelight dances on the surface of the river. It is surreal. Chiquilin asks if we know what the torches represent. One of the salespeople guesses correctly. Yes Chiquilin says we do it to honor our brothers and sisters who have lost their lives crossing the border. The salespeople they are really moved by all of this. Some look sort of misty-eyed. These stories are a big part of their national heritage even though the reality of it is so far removed from their own lives. Chiquilin calls all of the salespeople to huddle in a big circle and hold hands. For the second time tonight they sing Mexico's national anthem.  The other message from tonight is not about the future of Mexico or the dangers of a real border crossing. It is just about the reality of the Caminata itself and the fact that it even has to exist the whole elaborate thing with all of its actors and costumes and staging and props the endless reenactment of something that none of the Hnahnu wanted to do in the first place. Chiquilin said to the tourists we started doing the Caminata because we were becoming a village of ghosts. This is all we have got. We have no professions no education no industry. This is what we have to do to survive here. But it is an experiment that has not paid off yet. They advertise these Caminatas but sometimes they go for weeks without enough tourists to run one. And when there are enough tourists like tonight none of the actors gets paid by the village. This is not a job for anyone yet. Things here are still desperate. People go hungry. And the village still depends on money sent from the 80 of the Hnahnu who are living in the United States. Some of the actors from the Caminata told me that very soon they are heading north to try to cross the real border again. James Spring in Hidalgo Mexico. In July the Caminata Nocturna will celebrate its 10th anniversary. James has done a Spanish language version of this story for Radio Ambulante which is a radio show and a podcast modeled after our radio show but all in Spanish. If your language skills are good enough you should check him out. We will link to the Spanish language version of the story on our website or you can just google your way there. Act Two Phone Home. So now we have a story about people moving the other way across the border from the US to Mexico yearning for homes here in the US not there in Mexico. We deport from the United States about 250000 people every year to Mexico. Over 100000 more leave on their own. And there is an entire industry that has grown up around the fact that there are now tons of people living in Mexico who speak perfect American English. And that industry is call centers. Over the last decade American companies like Best Buy Dish Network Time Warner have been outsourcing their call center jobs to Mexico. And at first these call centers just handled Spanish language calls from the United States. But then everybody realized oh they have got lots of really good English speakers there. And that became a big part of what those call centers now do. Seth Freed Wessler has talked to dozens of people in these jobs though. And he says it can be a little weird for the people who work at the call centers. These are pretty good jobs except for one thing-- they make you homesick. Lots of people who work at these call centers have just moved to Mexico and they miss the United States. They miss their old lives. And at work they spend hour after hour call after call talking to people who still have those lives. Maru Ponce left New York for Mexico when she graduated from college with a business degree and could not get a job because she did not have papers. She got hired in Mexico taking calls for ATT. One guy who called and he is like oh yeah we are going ice skating. And then we are going to dinner at Olive Garden or something. And I was like oh I used to do that with friends. So I would feel this churning. And sometimes I would stop listening to what they were saying because in my head I would be like this memory and that memory when I used to go out with my friends. And they would be like hello hello are you still there? When Maru would work the evening shift over the phone she could hear customers doing the same things her family used to do back in Queens like watching boxing matches. In the back you hear the TV like really loud. And I just remember thinking oh I wonder if my dad is watching it right now. Like I remember him leaning down on the couch and he would be like oh get me some soda or get me something to eat. And it would be very clear in my head seeing this family in this room that brought me back to the apartment that we used to live in in Astoria Queens. You are like oh man these people are calling from over there. And I just wish I could just go through this phone and be over there you know? It is an overwhelming feeling of sadness. This is Luis Roldan. He grew up in Orange County California got into some gang-related trouble missed a court date and got deported. And he says what makes these calls hard is that people call when they are out doing stuff American stuff running errands driving shopping. Sometimes they are waiting in line at fast food drive-throughs ordering hamburgers or whatever. Like this lady. She called about her internet working. Oh I am just sitting here in the drive-through at Taco Bell. I am like oh man are you kidding me? They have no Taco Bell here. It is just taco right here. There is no Bell. It is just taco.  What is it about Taco Bell? I do not know. American food itself. Jack in the Box In-N-Out Burger King Carl's Jr. I mean how many times I remember going through drive-throughs you know? Luis is not kidding. This came up again when I went out with him and his call center friends. We were eating at the best taqueria I have ever been to in my life. And this guy from North Carolina said yeah he also really misses Taco Bell. Actually I do. I am going to be honest I do. I do not know it is just a different flavor. It is the States flavor. You know you are in the States. Luis says sometimes it messes with his head hanging out with people who remind him of his friends in the States. And then speaking English all day to customers in an office that looks like a cheesy American startup. There is a ping-pong table outside the cafeteria. Walls are painted neon green. I do not know. I am taking a call and I am just thinking ah I am going to go home. And I look out the window and the Mexican flag's right in front of me. Pwish. Reality just melts. And I cannot believe I am in Mexico City. I even say what the hell am I doing here? I cannot believe I am in Mexico City. Angel Perez came to Texas when he was two years old lived in a small rural town called Graford Texas population 600. He spent his whole life there graduated from high school had a couple of kids. But then he got into some trouble and eight months ago got deported. Angel ended up in Mexico City working for one of the biggest call centers TeleTech. Lots of people told me they are supposed to keep conversations short to around eight minutes. But Angel keeps his calls to two because he is saving up his minutes. That way he says he can drag out calls with customers who remind him of home. Mostly people who live in the country like this guy named Jim from Alabama. He kept calling me Bubba. And that is one of my words that I use too because I was raised with them redneck boys. So they use Bubba a lot or Bub. What did he call in for? Well he called in just saying hey listen here Bubba like my bill's up. I do not even know why and this and that. Man I am a country boy here. I do not know none of this technology. I said I know I feel you. I said I am in Mexico City right now. And I was in Texas out in the country. And he goes oh Bubba man you need to go back. Hurry up and come back to Texas. I said I know. I am I am trying. So-- Yeah we talked I am going to say at least 25 to 30 minutes  on that call just talking about hunting fishing out in the river swimming. I used to just lay back on a roof on a car. And we would just sit there and just look up there and see shooting stars because it is so black and everything's so clear. And here you do not see nothing. Well I still have not seen-- I do not even bother looking up at the sky at night no more. Right now there is a 6 billion a year industry in Mexico that does customer service calls billing and IT for people who do not live in Mexico. At the rate it is growing the industry will double in the next five years. And it is benefiting from the hundreds of thousands of people who get deported from the US each year. One of the companies told me that the Mexican government sometimes gives out job information at the border about call centers to deportees. And the outsourcing companies they are keeping track of the cities where people are settling and then opening up new facilities there. When Angel arrived he found odd jobs like moving furniture for 15 a day which is typical. Other deportees told me about working at a car wash or a soap factory at a restaurant or hauling fish off a boat. All those jobs pay 10 to 20 a day. Call center jobs start around 40 a day. That is a good middle class wage in Mexico. These jobs are desirable. Mexican kids come out of college and try to get them. But for the most part these call centers are like little islands of expats in Mexico. The agents who work there they hang out with each other. They date each other. Sometimes they even marry each other. Angel's group of friends are all guys from Texas just like him. Only most of them are not from the country like Angel. They are from cities Dallas and Houston. A lot were in gangs. Now that they hang out all the time Angel's been trying out their shtick. Like he is thinking about becoming a rapper. One Tuesday night I go out with Angel and his friends to a bar that looks like an American diner. They sit in a booth getting wasted off 40's. We put music on. We smoke weed. We drink. We rap. RAPPING I am a Texas boy that was not born but I was a Mexican man that was deported from the TX-- They go on like this for about half an hour getting louder. Almost all of their lyrics are about Texas. Then some preppy Mexican guys at the table next to them start getting annoyed and shush them. --way back in the gang. Shh! Hey man that be the name-- Shh! Eventually the bartender gets fed up too and goes to the music system. --and they free-styling about my lifestyle. Stand up and I am gonna shoot you bitch--  Here in Mexico some of these call center workers still make a turkey every year for Thanksgiving. Remember these are people who could not even get driver's licenses when they lived in the US. Other Mexicans notice they are not from here. They stick out. They dress differently. They walk differently. Their arms are covered in tattoos. And they go around in big groups speaking English. That can make locals mad. This happened to Luis the other day when he was on the subway. His girlfriend who is also from the States called him on his cell. I answer the phone call. Hello? And this guy notices my accent right away. I noticed him from my periphery. He just turned around and he starts staring at me. So I keep talking oh I am going to be home in the next 10 minutes whatever. And he told me you are in Mexico. You need to be speaking in Spanish. He used the word bocho which is a word that they use towards Mexican-American. It is a derogatory term. Locals look down at people who have come back. They see them as screw-ups who got kicked out of the US and cannot speak proper Spanish. But it is complicated because they also resent the advantages these returnees have their English and these jobs that pay so well. People see them as uppity. They are too American. But actual Americans also give them attitude. They get flak all the time from callers in the States who are annoyed to find themselves talking to someone in Mexico. The other day in fact I had a call. It was a customer. He is like well you have an accent. And I was like well I will 