A few years back when Jada's mom took her and her sister out of the Akron Ohio public schools and put them into the Copley-Fairlawn public schools Jada was just in third grade. But she noticed a difference immediately. This is Jada. It was weird at first. The teachers are more serious. They really-- they buckled down. I just know that it was more educational. Akron where she would been going to school before is a city of around 200000 and its school system recently met only five of the state's 24 educational goals. Copley-Fairlawn is just next door to Akron has population a tenth of Akron's and met all 24 of the goals. Even the school building Jada says was totally different. It was huge. The library was so big and had many books and they had a greenhouse and they had like a small trail in the back if you wanted to go for a walk during recess. It was amazing. They had a computer lab. It was amazing. It was so much more resources that they had there. And so we did a lot of activities outside in the greenhouse for science. And what was science like at Akron? It was not as environmental and outside it was more of like in a book. So they would just say OK we are going to go over this chapter and you are going to learn this. In Akron's science class she says instead of a greenhouse each kid got a pumpkin seed and a bag. And they put the pumpkin seed in a plastic bag and it grew over a few months and so we had plastic bags in shoe boxes. After two years in this nice school third and fourth grade Jada was kicked out. Her sister was kicked out. To go to Copley-Fairlawn they would been giving their grandfather's address as their home address. Their grandfather lived in the school district. Lots of districts of course have been cracking down on that kind of thing. Homeowners pay high property taxes to live in a place with good schools and lots of them feel like it is wrong for anybody to freeload. So the district told Jada and her sister they had to go. Out of Copley-Fairlawn and back to the Akron schools. I was a little devastated because like you know friends I made and-- basically like everything about the school. I loved the school. It was it was-- they did not bully me there at all. The kids there were so nice and-- and then when I went to Akron Public I was bullied because of the way I spoke how was the grammar and different things. And so you go back and it is fifth grade and it is the first day of fifth grade. Like what do you remember from that day back your first day back? I remember really just how the kids were different. And they did not really listen to the teachers as much and I know that it was hard to get through a lesson because the kids were always you know being disruptive. And after a while being there I knew that I was not really going to learn as much as I could. Does it seem unfair to you that your life could be so different and your school would be so different just based on where you live and what school you go to? Yeah I think that is just the dumbest thing ever. Like I just think it is-- like how come I cannot get the same education where I live than people who live three miles away from me? I do not understand like I just do not. I do not think it is fair that I cannot learn as high quality as they can just because I am in a different district. Of course asking about the fairness of this is asking about something that is just built into our education system. It is the premise right? Something that nobody's planning on changing usually not on the table at all. In America local property taxes fund our schools. So if you live in a rich area you get better schools. And the gaps can be huge right? In New York State for instance the richest school districts the top 10 spend 25000 per student which is twice as much as the bottom 10 spends per student. And yes there is federal money targeted to poor students and yes there are a tiny handful of states that have aggressively tried to shift the balance so poor kids get more because poor kids' needs are greater but by and large if you are living in a poor neighborhood chances are your schools will get less money and not be as good. Neighborhood is not destiny all the time for everybody but for a lot of people it comes pretty close. Today on our radio show things did not have to end up this way. In fact there was a moment in our history not that long ago where it seemed like it would not end up this way. A look at how we got to this point. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass stay with us. Act One Rental Gymnastics. Let us go to Nancy Updike who has our story. L.B. is a tall thin man somewhere north of 45 years old. He is soft-spoken but he can be relentless when he is looking for an apartment. He went to one building found the super in the hall. Hi. You looking to live here? Yes I am looking for a one-bedroom apartment for me and my wife. One-bedroom apartment? Yes uh-huh. Oh I do not have. Like you do not have at all? No. No? No. He told me that nothing was available. That is what the super told him. But L.B. knew that with apartment hunting sometimes no just means you have not asked the right question yet. Is there like a waiting list or something that you know-- Can I put my name on a waiting list? No we do not have. Oh you do not? No. There is nothing at all? My wife really likes this building. I kept going back to the fact that my-- how much my wife likes this building that we really want to live-- that she wants to live here and that my wife has the final word. I always say that a lot. You throw that one out because-- Yeah I throw it out yeah. You are absolutely sure there is nothing available because she is going to be mad at me when I get back. Listen do you not have any one-bedrooms? No. None at all? I do not have nothing. Oh god. That is the sound of a man coming to terms with his fate. But just one last question. Can you tell me like how much are the apartments going for how much-- do you know? 1250. 1250? You know well we can afford that. L.B. had to let it go. Except there was an apartment available according to a later lawsuit. L.B. had been sent to the building not by his wife but by a housing organization as a test. L.B. is black and the organization had also sent a white tester Neal. Same income as L.B. also married a little younger. He showed up at the same building talked to the same super. Hello good morning thanks for letting me in. I am interested in a one-bedroom for my wife and I. Do you have anything you can show me? Yes. Thank you sir. The super let him in and they went up to apartment 4F. Looks good looks really good. Oh this is a nice size room huh? Very good. When Neal asked how much the rent was the super said 1150. Neal wrote it down. OK so tell me what is the rent? 1150. One one five oh. That was 100 a month less than what the super had quoted L.B. The housing organization did another test at the same building later with women. An African-American woman named Kaaron went to the building. I buzzed the super's apartment and he answered and I said I am looking for a one-bedroom apartment. Do you have anything available? Come in. He buzzed me in. He let this person he could not see into his building I went upstairs to his apartment. He opened the door. Hi. Hi. I was wondering if you had any one-bedrooms or studio apartments available. No no I do not have. You do not have anything? No. OK. Are you the super? Yeah. When a white woman around the same age showed up there were two studios available. These recordings are from a lawsuit brought by an organization called the Fair Housing Justice Center. The tests were done in 2010 and 2011 in New York City. Housing discrimination based on race is a lot less pervasive than it used to be but it still happens to a degree that surprised me when I started looking into it. It is gotten sneakier so harder to detect and it is not like it makes the news most of the time so it is easy to believe it is not happening at all. The testers like most Americans had zero special interest in housing when they started the work. This is Laurel. She describes her test persona as a generic youngish white woman. I mean I was learning about the laws at the same time that I was being trained to test and I would say part of me thought oh are these laws even still necessary? So when you started you thought we are sort of mopping up here. Yeah exactly. Like maybe I do not know how long this work will last and yeah we will do some systemic testing throughout the city and just get the numbers that the higher-ups need. This was more census type work or something. How is this possible? Why is this necessary? You know we do not live in the boonies. This is Kaaron again. She was one of the testers at the same building L.B. went to. She said she gets a lot of questions from friends in New York about the testing. She grew up in New Orleans. People always think of the South as this you know horrible place where people are always being discriminated against and that all the black people who have come up to the North are escaping something. You have been freed. There is like a new Underground Railroad for some reason. But it is New York City and there is a lot of people here and a lot of people have a lot of different views. And I think it is easy to forget that. And some of those views are not necessarily-- Legal to put into action. Yeah that is a nice way to put it. Kaaron's got this unsinkable vibe. She is actually an actor. The testing is only an occasional job to make some extra money. All the testers at the Fair Housing Justice Center are actors which led me to ask them a bunch of Acting 101 questions like do you spend a lot of time developing your character and back story before going out on a test? Do you think about your motivation? They all politely said it was a lot more straightforward than that. Show up at a place ask what is available just like you would if you were really looking for a home. Kaaron explained that she and the other testers are never told before they go out to a building if there is been a complaint or if it is just a random test. That is the way the Fair Housing Justice Center trained her and trains all its testers. Everyone goes out blind. No making assumptions. You are not there to trap anybody. So Kaaron went to a building in Queens one day August 2009 blind as usual. I am like you know nice business casual as if you were on a lunch. And I am small and perky and I automatically assume that we are all going to get along very well. She asked around the building for the super then ran into him in the elevator. Yeah I am  I am looking for the super. I am the super. Oh hello. How are you? I am good. A gentleman has sent me up here. I am looking for a one-bedroom-- The conversation is hard to hear over the noise of the elevator but the super told Kaaron it was too bad but the department had already been rented to a guy who'd been waiting for it for a long time. He sounded apologetic. It was a pleasant little chat. Kaaron thought nothing about it afterward. Several months later she heard from the Fair Housing Justice Center. I get a call and they are like there is been an issue with a case that you have you done. And really when they called me I thought it was a completely different case. I did not realize at all. Oh. You had someone in mind? You thought oh it is this one? Yeah. And it was not that one. Not him at all. They told her the case was about the building where she would talked to the super in the elevator and Kaaron started replaying their conversation in her head. It was not that she could not believe someone might have discriminated against her in enlightened New York City but she thought of herself as very good at reading people how they were responding to her and she had detected nothing. I was surprised and I was a little-- I was like oh but he was so nice to me. Not-- you know he was cordial. He was not throwing me a party but he was cordial and he was not rushing me out it did not feel like it. I was completely taken off guard. When he told me nothing was available I took him by face value. And I also still did not understand exactly-- I did not know all the other details. I had not been told about what had happened to the white testers. So I was still kind of like well maybe it was not as bad as I thought. Hi. Hello. I was wondering if you had any rentals. This is the recording made by Laurel the tester who calls herself a generic youngish white woman. She would gone to the building the same day as Kaaron and there was an apartment for rent. It would be available in about six weeks. The super had to do some work on it to get it ready but he was eager to get the deal settled as soon as possible so they went to look at the apartment right then. This is great. I guess I will bring my husband back with me and-- You can make it sometime tonight or tomorrow because I am leaving for vacation tomorrow night. Oh OK. So any time tomorrow that is better? You can come until 500 500 in the afternoon. To hear it to hear the tone of voice-- This is Kaaron again. It is jarring. It is very jarring. It was just really confusing because while I am listening I am like well what could I have done that would have changed? Even though-- even now like knowing I am like oh maybe I should have done something differently. Is that what you were thinking when you were listening? Yes. Did she push in a different way that I did not push? Like to see the apartment and I was like no she did not actually push that hard. So I do not really-- it is hard for my brain to realize that there was nothing that I could do. And for a while I had a feeling of like well does that mean I am misjudging other people in my life? What does-- you know are there other people who do not want to be near me because I am black? What does that mean? Am I just completely misjudging the people around me? The lawsuit that Kaaron's recording was part of went on for almost two years and the whole time it ate away at Kaaron. Though they do not stop you from testing in the time that you are part of a case I was not testing. And I think probably for the best because I was going through a lot of doubt about-- and looking at people in a way that I would never done before. And I questioned a lot of my judgment my thought process and even interactions with friends you know people that I have known for years. Like what you know how do you really think of me? What do you really think? And it took some time before I was-- I settled myself down. It is clearly not everyone. Not everyone is like this and you just need to get on with your life. So it was a rough rough time. This is the era we have been in for a while now. If you are discriminated against in getting housing there is a decent chance you do not know it happened. Maybe you do not even suspect it. The whole idea seems like a throwback that a person's charm tenacity and income could count less than their race today when they try to rent or buy a home. And where you live can really matter. Every measure of well-being and opportunity the foundation is where you live. This is Nikole Hannah-Jones. She is a reporter for ProPublica and she is written a lot about housing and the way it can affect every part of a person's life the quality of schools and hospitals also-- Cancer rates asthma rates infant mortality unemployment education access to fresh food access to parks whether or not the city repairs the roads in your neighborhood. Besides that there is also this. Black and white Americans still live substantially apart in this country. It is especially true in cities like Chicago and New York that have large African-American populations. Overall the United States is vastly less segregated than it was 45 years ago. We are a different country. There are almost no all white neighborhoods anymore. But there are plenty that are almost all black. In hundreds of metropolitan areas the average white person lives in a neighborhood that is 75 white and their neighbors who are not white are not likely to be African American. That is according to a study by sociologists at Brown and Florida State universities based on the 2010 census. The most segregated parts of the country are and have been for decades the Northeast and the Midwest. Milwaukee is consistently one of the most segregated cities in the country. In Milwaukee and in other cities including New York the level of black-white segregation by one important measure has declined only by a trickle in 30 years. I have got a map on the wall in my office of Brooklyn that shows a giant red cluster right in the middle where African Americans make up over 80 of the population even though they are only 25 of the city overall and even though on the street New York feels like a very integrated city. This is Nikole Hannah-Jones again. She lives in New York. I think a good way to visualize it in the city is when you ride the subway or the bus. When you get on at certain parts the bus is very integrated. And then as you go to certain neighborhoods all the white people get off and then it is only black people left on the bus. How much of the current level of segregation in New York and other cities is due to discrimination compared to other factors like poverty that is being studied and debated. I will get to that later in the show. But what is clear is that as the country has become less segregated overall there are still large stubborn pockets of racial and economic segregation in major US cities. And that is true nearly half a century after we passed a critical piece of civil rights legislation the Fair Housing Act. It is been 45 years since we declared as a country that housing discrimination was a problem and we needed to solve it. When the law was passed it talked big. It not only banned discrimination in the sale or rental of housing based on race and a bunch of other categories. The first line of the law says quote It is the policy of the United States to provide within constitutional limitations for fair housing throughout the United States. Big. Of course laws are often big talkers and it is a lot easier to talk big than to make effective policy. With housing with lots of issues. But everything that went into creating the Fair Housing Act is worth looking at today 45 years later-- standard middle aged moment to look back-- to try to understand where we are and are not today. Nikole Hannah-Jones the reporter for ProPublica spent a year and a half digging into the Fair Housing Act. Really digging going to presidential archives talking to people in government now and from the time the law was passed looking at demographic data and at policies going back 80 years and what she found was that the story really started back when the biggest housing discriminator in the country was the federal government. It really started after the Great Depression. So in the early to mid '30s the federal government realized that home ownership was going to be a major way to build and fortify the middle class. So the Roosevelt administration starts to back loans. And so you only had to put down 20. And this is when the practice of redlining actually began. The federal government was the one who introduced redlining. Redlining is now pretty well known and the word has become a catch-all for various maneuvers that banks and others have used to deny loans or services based on race. But most people may not know-- I did not know-- that it was not banks that popularized redlining. It was the federal government under President Franklin Roosevelt a Democrat that drew red lines on maps around certain neighborhoods and refused to back home loans there. There were other designations on the maps by the way for areas with Jews and others anyone who was perceived as risky. Banks followed the government's lead in terms of lending and so did big government programs that came out later like the GI bill. It was not just about whether a neighborhood was black or not but whether that neighborhood was integrated and the government wanted to provide a disincentive to live in an integrated neighborhood. So if you were a white homeowner who did not mind living in an integrated neighborhood you could not get a loan. And if you owned a home in an integrated neighborhood you knew that you could not resell your home to other white folks so you had to sell your home to black people and get the hell-- oops excuse me-- get the heck out of there. Because your property values were absolutely going to go down. It had nothing to do with whether the black people in your neighborhood could afford to pay their mortgage or whether-- They mowed their lawns or-- Right exactly not keeping their properties up. It was about the fact that the government was deeming these neighborhoods as less valuable. And so your property values were going to go down because the government had decided that black and integrated neighborhoods were automatically less valuable. The federal government's redlining drove white flight and the government did not see this as a problem. Open racism was mainstream in the 1930s including in the federal government. A manual put out by the Federal Housing Administration warned against undesirable encroachment of inharmonious racial groups. And federal attitudes and policies amplified what was already happening at the local level. There was flat out violence in some places first of all against blacks trying to move into white neighborhoods. There were also racial zoning laws something called racial covenants. These were contracts attached to properties that said things like At no time shall said premises be sold occupied let or leased to anyone of any race other than the Caucasian. But discriminatory policies by the federal government had more reach than any local policy. And what ultimately happens of course between 1934 and 1964 98 of the home loans that are insured by the federal government go to white Americans building up the white middle class by allowing them to get home ownership. And black Americans are largely left out of that process. And if there is one thing that is amazing about all of this is how efficient the federal government was in creating segregation. Around 1930 most black Americans in Northern cities are living in neighborhoods that are about 30 black. By the '60s the neighborhoods of African Americans in the industrial Northeast are 74 percent black and higher. No other racial or ethnic group has ever been that segregated. Even when you had large groups of immigrants coming from Ireland or Poland or Italy even in places where they had Little Italys and things like that. So by 1960 cities have largely been abandoned by white Americans you have massive public housing projects where nearly everyone in there is black and poor and even if you are middle class and black you cannot move out of those neighborhoods. You are still forced to live in those very dead neighborhoods. By 1967 President Lyndon Johnson had already signed into law two civil rights bills but he could not get much traction on a housing law. So he flattered a new young senator Walter Mondale into helping lead the push for a housing bill in the Senate. Now Walter Mondale was picked because everyone else had turned Lyndon B. Johnson down. Everyone else was too smart to take it on. Exactly. Housing was toxic. All of the other civil rights laws they were kind of designed to shake their fingers at the recalcitrant South and make the South behave. And that is exactly what Mondale told you. That is right. The housing bill was considered the first Northern civil rights bill. It was easy for Northern liberals to support the '65 Voting Rights Act and the 1964 Civil Rights Act but they balked. Mondale told Nikole that when he brought up a housing bill some liberal Northern senators told him-- You are embarrassing us with this. You are making us look like hypocrites by introducing this bill and we cannot support it. By exposing our hypocrisy you are making us look like hypocrites. That is exactly right. The idea that housing was a Northern problem as well as a Southern one was also made clear when Reverend Martin Luther King went to Chicago to push for what he called open-housing. When he started moving his movement northward to address housing segregation that is when he began to lose a lot of support. The white liberals who had supported his campaign in the South began to abandon him. When he was marching for housing integration in Chicago an angry mob hit him in the head with a rock. More and more Americans were finding blatant racial discrimination to be gross and unacceptable but that did not mean they were prepared for their own lives to change. What Mondale figured out was that the Senate version of that disconnect if he leveraged it right might work in the Fair Housing Bill's favor. He starts to gather testimony from veterans African Americans who had fought in Vietnam and who were serving in the military and the trouble that they were having after coming back from fighting for this country and then coming home and not being able to find housing because of their race. And one of the testimony that really started to change minds was Carlos Campbell. There is no recording of Campbell's testimony but it is in the written record. He was a lieutenant in the Navy a navigator who'd been serving for eight years and was still on active duty when he was assigned to the Defense Intelligence Agency in Arlington Virginia. He said he spent weeks going to more than 30 apartments in the area wearing his uniform which he described as complete with gold stripes and gold wings. Some places told him flat out we are not integrated. Others turned him away by saying that they had an exceptionally long waiting list or that it would take at least four weeks to process a routine application. Finally the only way that Campbell-- a military officer who had been hired by the Pentagon-- the only way that he was able to find a place for his family to live was by renting the home of a fellow military officer who was being posted elsewhere for a couple of years. Campbell's testimony started changing some Senator's minds even some outright segregationists. Campbell had fought for his country but was being turned away from housing for his family. It seemed un-American. But still the bill did not pass and the country was in the midst of massive upheaval. Starting from '65 until '68 there were riots in black communities in more than 100 cities across the nation.  This is Newark New Jersey in 1967. Some of you probably lived through the riots in your cities but for those who did not this video from Newark looks like scenes from a foreign war where the military is fighting in the streets of a city. Truckloads of men in military uniforms are driving through. And riots were happening in cities all over the country. Los Angeles Chicago Cleveland San Francisco Tampa Buffalo Atlanta Boston Omaha Waukegan Detroit Durham Memphis Milwaukee Minneapolis. I cannot imagine this happening in dozens of cities every year for three years. Tanks rolling through American cities. You have combat troops in American cities. Buildings on fire. President Johnson appointed a commission known as the Kerner Commission Republicans and Democrats to look into the riots which were freaking out the entire country-- no surprise. In debates some members of Congress argued that civil rights legislation including a housing law would reward and encourage rioting. The Kerner Commission's report came out while Congress was debating a fair housing bill for the third time after it had failed to pass twice before. The report was published as a paperback book-- I am looking down at a copy right now-- and it is got three questions emblazoned on the front. These are the questions President Johnson had publicly asked the commission to address. What happened? Why did it happen? What can be done? It sold something like two million copies when it first came out so Americans were actually really interested-- That is a bestseller. --in this report. It was definitely a bestseller and back then it was certainly a bestseller. But you have to understand there had been four years of rioting in cities all across the country. And so I think many Americans were anxious to read an assessment of why this was. The report is more than 600 pages but its conclusion was simple and has been famously and repeatedly quoted since. Quote Our nation is moving toward two societies one black and one white separate and unequal. The commissioners had spent months going to the cities looking at data interviewing people residents police politicians and they concluded that there was one central driving force behind the riots. This is Nikole quoting from the book. She is got her own copy. Segregation and poverty have created in the racial ghetto a destructive environment totally unknown to most white Americans. What white Americans have never fully understood but what the Negro can never forget is that white society is deeply implicated in the ghetto. White institutions created it white institutions maintain it and white society condones it. So I think people tend to think that generally people live like they do. And I think that they took great pains to say we went into these communities-- We the commission. Exactly we the Kerner commission. We are like you. You know we are a largely white male group and we went into those communities and-- They are not living like us. --we found something-- yeah-- that we did not imagine. My fellow citizens Detroit and much of Michigan have just lived through seven days of terror and trouble and tension. This is the governor of Michigan at the time George Romney Mitt Romney's father. George Romney was about to become a huge player in the story of the Fair Housing Act. His state had been hit with one of the worst riots in US history Detroit in 1967. Romney called in the National Guard President Johnson sent in army troops 43 people died over 1000 injured tens of millions of dollars worth of damage. Governor Romney was planning to run for president in the coming year and he gave a live televised speech to the people of Michigan in the aftermath of the Detroit riots. Some white people and public officials advocate the return to states' rights as a way to legalize segregation of the races. White extremist organizations are preaching hate and arming. More and more Negroes are listening to and supporting Negro leaders who advocate a separate black society in America. These militant revolutionists are preaching hate violence and rebellion. Romney believed the country was in danger of splintering and he laid out a whole plan in his speech to fight that. He wanted tough law enforcement moral and religious renewal both very popular ideas. But he also declared that while others were calling for more separation between blacks and whites in response to the riots he Romney was going to lead Michigan in the opposite direction with a special focus on housing. And he did not just throw in a token sentence about it. We must have open housing on a statewide basis. Zoning that creates either large-scale economic or racial segregation should be eliminated. We must provide low cost private housing through nonprofit organizations in all parts of the metropolitan area and throughout the state. We must compel real estate agents to-- I was reading through Romney's papers and he was getting all of these letters from angry white citizens-- After the riots. --after the riots who were on the one hand commending him for his law and order approach-- they called in the National Guard there were actually again army combat troops were brought to quell it-- and they really were applauding him for his use of force in quelling the riots. Some of them wanting him to go even further some of the letters being very openly racist and his response to them I found to be remarkable. Most politicians I think would have played into that for popularity. Thank you for your support. Exactly. I will do it again if I have to. But his answer to them was yes I had to we will not accept lawlessness but at the same time we cannot just look away from what is caused this. And he believed that housing segregation and the conditions created by the ghetto were what led to the riots and that it was his duty to address those. And-- He wrote-- He wrote that in letters over and over. George Romney was way out ahead of the federal government here. The Fair Housing Act had failed to pass Congress in 1966 failed again in 1967 even t