From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Chana Joffe-Walt sitting in for Ira Glass. Ira is here but I am taking over today's show because we are talking about questions that I think are pretty fundamental to all of us at various points in our lives but are especially pressing for me these days. I would like to explain with a brief example of a situation I find myself in all the time lately with my two children feeling deeply lost. It is bath time. Jacob the older one is running a restaurant. He is giving out great prizes-- cups for grownups and also animals. Animals. I want to hug an animal. Jacob says if someone in your family is Christian you can get one of those. But if somebody in your family is Christian you are going to give those to them. What? Is your family Christian? No. Is your mom or your dad Christian? No. Is your brother or your sister Christian? No. They are all Jewish. He snatches the animal and says sorry. Wait. I cannot have any animals unless I am Christian? You cannot have that duck sorry. Why cannot I have the duck? Because you are not Christian. No Jews allowed says my 3 and 12-year-old to my Jewish face. So here is my question-- what am I supposed to say right here? Because I should say something right? I should say that is not OK because-- why? Because I said so? Because you are a Jew? Because Jews like your great grandparents were driven from their communities by exactly the mentality you have just expressed to me my 3 and 12-year-old boy? Or because we live in a majority Christian country and I am worried that I have clearly already failed to provide you with a positive relationship to Judaism? Or is the best approach not to say anything? He is just having a bath. I do not know as you will hear. But sweetie it is not nice to say that somebody cannot have something because they are not Christian. Well you cannot have the animals because you are not Christian. That makes me feel sad though sweetie. Well many people who are Christian can have those animals. In this restaurant that is what the rules are. That is not kind though. Yeah but that is what the rules are at this restaurant. Well there is so many rules in this anti-Semitic restaurant. Sorry. They are kind for some people. He says they are kind for some people just not my kind of people. The problem with talking to kids about anything that is actually important is that they do not know anything. It is your job to teach them about all of the stuff that matters most but you have nothing to work with. They do not know religion. They do not know history. They do not know how to maintain proper hygiene. Also a problem they are little and they have feelings. So you have to be careful about saying well let me tell you a story about a man named Adolf Hitler. He would have liked the way you run your restaurant by the way. We have all been on the kid side of this kind of conversation where a grownup is fumbling through something that is clearly important. The big one most of us remember is when someone told us about sex. And on the adult side whatever the question is-- what is sex what is God or what is ISIS what does transgendered mean-- you know in that moment that what you say could really matter could be the thing this person remembers and carries with them into adulthood could shape the way they feel about their safety or their sexuality. These conversations are how we make our mark on the next generation. They are also very often how we learn how much we do not know. And in today's show we are going to listen in as people take on three of the most difficult things to talk about. We are going to hear teenagers talking very frankly to each other about sex parents talking to their children about race and kids talking to each other about death. Today's show The Birds and the Bees. We have got Jonathan Goldstein comedian W. Kamau Bell. Stay with us.  Act One Some Like It Not On the Neck. To begin I should say throughout this hour we are going to be talking about subject matter that can be difficult to discuss with children. So if you have got kids listening that is something to consider. Also in this next story as Ira says we will be acknowledging the existence of sex and talking a lot about our reluctance to speak of its existence. OK let us start with the beginning. One way a lot of kids learn about the birds and bees is from each other. A couple weeks ago a seven-year-old named Moxie told me a friend of hers this kid Aaron said something to her that bothered her on the bus. He said if he drew a picture of a baby on a piece of paper and put it in her belly that would make a baby. Moxie knew this was incorrect. That is why it bothered her. So a week later at the playground across the street from her house she sat Aaron down. The situation about the paper not working thing. What is that means? On the bus a few days ago you talked about paper and body and about a baby. Oh right right right. That was a silly plan. I am sure it is going to work but I do not know. Uh I am not sure because the baby cannot survive you see? I am just saying. Sorry. You need to make a sperm. And the sperm somehow has to get into my body. And that is how it works. I did not know that. Well now you do. Sorry. When it comes to sex a lot of us learn the wrong thing first and the right thing later. You learn through a series of corrections. You start to find out that half the things your brother told you were not right that that scene in the movie is not realistic that  was lying when she said she did that thing because that thing is not possible. That is basically our system. You learn things wrong test them out and hopefully get the real story from someone named Moxie. This begins on the playground and just continues all the way until you actually start having sex and all the weird information that was not corrected begins to matter. What are you hoping they are going to cover? I hope they cover everything. Deondre is in a classroom at Buffalo State with about 50 other people mostly men mostly his fraternity brothers. He is here for some sex ed. I feel like some stuff people do not know. What do not you know? I do not know. That is a good question you know. This is a voluntary workshop about sexual assault and consent on a Monday night. You would think this event might not win out over say hitting up the Jamba Juice or staring at your van Gogh poster. But this room is packed. The students are wide awake. Knees are bouncing. Hands are shooting up in the air. The instructor Paula Madrigal is talking about the importance of consent. So consent is a verbal and enthusiastic yes OK? Why is it enthusiastic? Because you actually want to do it. Exactly. You want to do it. And sex should be fun right? Yeah. Yeah. I hope so. This kind of workshop was repeated in classrooms all across campus here and throughout the country in the last year. College administrators are panicked about sexual assault as they should be. So they are turning to this kind of education as the answer instead of mostly focusing on protecting women things like rape whistles or travel with a buddy programs. They also want to teach men actual sentences to say. Do you like this? Can I kiss you? But the students here are struggling with the basic premise. They have to learn to speak in this new way because if you do not you are a rapist? Because it is just more virtuous? They have questions right from the start. It is a continuous process of checking up or checking in eitheror. What does that mean? You keep asking her? That is weird. That kind of messes up the mood. I am not trying to be funny but if she says yes and you know she keeps saying yeah I have got to be like hey you sure? Are you really sure? We are about to do this. Every 10 minutes. I am almost there. I am about to go to the drawer to get the protection. No no. You are right. You are right. You are right. And you are like no. No. Obviously I am going to stop. But the re-affirmation of yes over and over again that kind of would mess up the mood. So I feel like should there be a number of times that you should-- you know? He presses them on this. Two? Three? Seven? But that guy is overtaken by his fraternity brothers who also have urgent questions. Does body language count as consent? What if she said yes before you got into the room when you were both sober like in a message on Twitter or something? How many beers is too much to have consent? Again please offer a number. Like you ever heard the term alcohol is liquid courage? Like what if it is in the sense where it is like you were probably nervous and you do not want to be nervous around her. So that is your liquid courage. All right I am not going to be shaky when she come over. You feel me? So you are not using it to get a yes. The next guy over interrupts. What if both parties are drunk? And then across the room-- does the girl need to ask for consent? Another student-- OK what if we have been together for a year? Paula Madrigal replies you always need consent even if you are a woman even if you are a man sleeping with men even if you are in a relationship even if you have sex every day even if you are in the middle sex. Or if you guys are engaging in sexual activity and maybe all of a sudden someone decides I want to try it rough if you guys already started having sex the other person can withdraw that consent. OK? So that is why it is active. What if someone's like I want to have another person here now let us have three people? You are already having sex. So if all of a sudden they are like surprise I have another person you can be like yeah um I did not really sign up for that. I am out of here. OK? Does that make a little bit more sense when we talk about you know checking in and the active process? Those are carefully chosen examples. The vast majority of sexual assault on college campuses occur between two people who know each other. And there is not always physical force. So Paula is trying to say take the picture you have in your mind of a serial predator rapist. Put it to the side for a moment. Imagine instead a person who wakes up in the morning and wonders quietly to himself she was into that right? Yeah she was into that. Imagine that person is wrong. The workshop was supposed to be 45 minutes. It is been an hour. Paula Madrigal is trying to wrap up. So how do you guys then-- you guys are the experts. How do you ask for consent? It does not sound right. It is like you are messing up the whole mood when you ask that. It is been an hour and the students in this room are still fixated on this question of the mood. I do not remember there being a whole lot of mood when it came to sex in college. I do not know maybe you guys all had candle-lit dorm rooms. But there is genuine panic behind that question. It is dismissed in a workshop about sexual assault because of course it is. We are taking about assault. You are talking about the mood. Those are two separate conversations. But these guys are trying to have just one conversation about everything a conversation that takes into account consent but also all of their questions and anxieties when it comes to talking to a person they are sleeping with. It seems like that is a conversation they have never had. That is one of the hardest things ever is to try to find out-- how would you say find out what the other person wants? This is the Nagib Gonzalez a college freshman in Buffalo. I known Nagib from previous reporting. He is lovely. And like every freshman at his school he is been to a consent training in the last year. I feel like if we are going to lay the burden of changing the way we talk about sex at the feet of 18-year-olds people who are already many years into learning weird and bad and confusing information if that is our answer to reduce sexual assault I wanted to know more about what these guys actually know and where they learned it. Men talk about women all the time. I just thought like my roommate always talks to me about his favorite sex position. And then my other friends would tell me their favorite sex positions and then we will just talk about oh that is cool. Oh I will try that one one day. But that is men who are sleeping with women talking about what women like to other men. Yeah. So it is more like we will decide what women do or do not like. But when do you talk to women about what they like? Hmm. Yeah OK it is definitely men talk to men about what women like. I feel like that is how it is. Even if you get told by a woman what she likes you will be like oh I knew that. Lately Nagib's biggest source of information is his roommate Elijah Leslie. He brought Elijah up a lot. Elijah says he first learned about the birds and bees from his cousin. Then you get older. Then you see Sports Illustrated. Then you see the Playboys. Then you see the porn. And then you see the Girls Gone Wild. Then you see those late night-- the Girls Gone Wild the late night commercials and stuff like that. Like 400 in the morning Girls Gone Wild. I think that is when you start learning. Elijah was not the first or the last person I interviewed who told me he learned about sex from porn. So Nagib is learning how to engage with women from other men who are learning from porn. That is like learning Chinese from a white American in Wyoming. You are missing some key primary source information. Every person I talk to who works on sexual assault prevention brought up one thing as particularly troubling about the way men learn about sex and it was not porn. It was baseball that we talk about sex like it is baseball getting a home run as a metaphor for sex. They said think of how many bad lessons are built into that metaphor. You go first base second base third base. There is only one direction to move. And a home run is a win. Not to mention you are on opposing teams. It is competitive. And it is a sport that mostly only men play. Nagib Gonzalez is not attached to sex being like baseball or porn. Nagib just wants to be a good person. He wants to be good to people. He is looking for some guidance. Nagib is always looking for guidance. He solicits advice often. This is an example. I remember my cousin telling me yo you have got to kiss your girl's neck. I do it all the time. Oh my girl loves it and stuff like that. So then that is kind of where you learn. Nagib ever the careful student kissed necks every one of them. Another friend told him women like it when you are funny. He tries to be that. But then Nagib had a girlfriend who told everybody he was a bad kisser. And someone told him please stop kissing my neck. She thought it was gross. And he felt like wait do I know things? Or do I not know things? Definitely when you are younger you think of it more as rules and steps to get laid. When you are younger you think oh I have to do this step. I have to follow these steps. So I have to kiss her in this certain place. Then I have to make out with her. Then I have to-- I do not know-- touch her. I do not know. I do not know grab her butt or something. And then finally we get here. But it is not like that at all. It is less-- it is very-- I do not know. It varies. It is different from person to person. It could be anything. I do not know. Girls vary. Not every girl will like something that you do. Every girl is different. Everyone is different. Girls vary. People vary. What if that was the first thing you learned about sex? What if instead of starting at 18 years old with rape and moving backwards to teach consent what if you just started with people vary? Because if you understand that consent follows. You have to ask questions and talk about what you like and do not like. Otherwise you will never know. You may be with one of those neck people and you may not. For the rest of today's show we are going to leave sex behind and we are going to step forward from the beginning of life to the murky complicated middle the other facts of life that you really do not want to have to explain to children because you wish they were not facts or a part of life at all. Our next story is from W. Kamau Bell. He is a comedian and a father. And recently Kamau's been planning for a conversation he really does not want to have with his children one that is familiar to black parents everywhere in America. Act Two If You See Racism Say Racism. Here's Kamau. I talk about race and racism in my act a lot some would say too much. It was how I was raised. Some families have hardware stores. My family has thinking about racism. So it is no surprise to me that after I became a parent I began to do jokes about race and racism and fatherhood. And people ask me all the time like you are black. You talk about race a lot. And have you talked to your daughter about the fact that she is black? I am like no because she is 3 and 12. I do not want to bum her out yet. You know what I am saying? Being black is great but it is like a big responsibility to know that. My mom waited until I was eight before she told me I was black. And she did it the right way. One night she is like tonight for dinner you can have whatever you want. I was like yay. And she is like you can stay up all night and watch TV. I was like yay. And you are black. I was like hold on a second. That explains everything. I thought every day I was just kind of having a shitty day. It is good to know why now. It is good to know there is a historical context for that. I now have two girls a baby named Juno and an almost four-year-old named Sami. My wife Melissa is white. And Sami calls herself peanut butter. She really does not say much of anything yet. My wife and I have both put our toes or at least our older daughter Sami's toe in the race pool. But we have not even put the slightest hint of a Sami toe into the racism pool. Yes those are separate pools. The race pool is filled with positive stories of black achievement African American role models books and TV shows featuring diverse characters. Our race pool even has Kwanzaa. But Sami's racism pool is completely drained with a lock on the gate. And we run past it every day on the way to the race pool. And every day that goes by I feel guilty. The racism pool is treacherous. It is not fun to swim in. And if you are not careful you drown in the sorrow of the black experience in America. Damn. We live in Berkeley. People have been protesting the police blocks from our house. How do I explain that? This was on my mind recently how to teach Sami about racism when this thing happened. It was January 26 of this year my birthday. I was having a low key celebration just like I like them. I was carrying a children's book I had just bought for Sami The Case for Loving The Fight for Interracial Marriage. Mildred and Richard Loving are the interracial couple responsible for the Supreme Court striking down the laws in 16 states that banned interracial marriage. And if I was going to get into racism with Sami then the Loving story-- which was about a family like ours-- seemed like a great place to start. I was headed to meet up with my wife at the Elmwood Cafe a restaurant she loves. This was her second time eating there that day after we would gone there earlier for breakfast. It is not really my kind of place. It is a little bit too impressed with itself a little too humble braggy about its lattes served in bowls. So I get to the Elmwood Cafe and I see my wife sitting at one of their sidewalk tables with our baby and three other moms and their babies. The four moms all look like they would go out for the same casting call for a white woman mid 30s who has recently had a kid and while exhausted is doing a great job of keeping it together. My wife introduced me to the group. We made small talk. One of the women asked about the book in my hand. So I turned it over and showed it to her. She nodded at the cover. I did not get the sense she knew the story. That is when I heard knock knock knock. It was on the cafe's window coming from inside. I looked up and saw a woman a server who clearly worked at the Elmwood Cafe and she was angry and looking at me. Next she flicked her head and mouthed something. I did not know what but the message was clear. Get! Or maybe it was scram! Seriously what is the difference? I was flooded with thoughts I could barely process. I was stunned. I was pissed. I wanted to run away. I felt like I might pass out. I was actually strangely embarrassed as if I had done something wrong. Maybe I should not have been talking to my wife and her friends. Melissa and I might have exchanged words. We might not have. I think I said something to the effect of a woman told me to get out of here. There were some reallys and a couple of whats. Within seconds another server came out and pretended to do her job. She did not have a water jug. She did not bus any tables. She did not drop or pick up any checks. She just stocked the area. And by the area I mean me. Finally Melissa could not take it. This is my husband. Oh the waitress said looking at nobody in particular. We thought you were selling something. She thought I was selling something? That is my wife and my daughter I said. We just ate here earlier today. Oh we thought you were selling something she said. Sorry. In Berkeley selling something is code for homeless. What she was saying was we thought you were homeless. First of all I was wearing a knit cap a hoodie jeans and sneakers. I was dressed like Mark Zuckerberg in winter. But I knew the part of me that looked homeless was not my clothes. It was my skin specifically how my skin was getting so close to a bunch of white moms and their white babies. But Juno only looks white. She is a double agent. Waitress again I am sorry. Me I bet you are sorry. OK. I am going to take a walk and think about racism. That is actually what I said. I did not yell it but I did not say it into my chest either. Melissa stayed behind to give the waitress a piece of her mind. Then we went home and Melissa cried. We hugged each other and were preoccupied with it really bothered really obsessive and stuck in it. We knew we had to do something. I blogged about the whole thing and posted a picture of myself wearing exactly what I would worn when I was at the Elmwood and also holding my book on the Lovings. Within a couple hours the story had spread around the Bay Area. People online started debating every single point. People debated whether what happened was racist whether or not I was racist. People blamed me for marrying a white woman. It became the righteous indignation story of the week. It is hard to know what to want after something like this happens. I did not want an apology from the owner though we got one. I did not want the waitress to be fired though she was. Melissa and I wanted something more substantial. We wanted a public conversation between us and the cafe owner and the employees involved. We wanted the community to show up and talk about their experiences with things like this. We wanted a reckoning. And we found out a lot of people wanted that. So many people wanted to discuss the Elmwood Cafe that our idea to have a public discussion snowballed. So with our daughters in our mind before I could say Rosa Parks we had a venue and an event planner. The cafe owner was there and a full-on panel of vetted academics and activists. There was a detailed itinerary and a moderator. So I am sure that many of you have heard the story of the incident that happened on January 26. On a Friday in March Melissa and I sat on a stage at a middle school in a packed auditorium. My main concern was that somehow all the planning and structure was going to lead to an event that was careful sanitized and maybe the worst thing boring. It was not due in large part to two amazing women on the panel Kadijah Means-- who we will get to in a minute-- but first Nikki Jones. OK. I will put on my professor voice. Nikki Jones teaches at UC Berkeley. She said something that for me made sense of the world not just about the small racial injustices that happen in cafes but the bigger deadly ones that are happening all around America. She asked us to think of the world in terms of black space and white space. She credits Elijah Anderson for this theory but tonight she made it her main point. Nikki says people have ideas about black spaces. It is tied to blackness and poverty and the ghetto. It is impossible to say the word ghetto in America without thinking about black people. See a black man in a suit your brain does a calculus. What poor neighborhood did he or his parents rise up out of or his parents' parents? It all goes back to the ghetto. And the ghetto itself is believed to be carried on the bodies on and in black people. And that presents special dilemmas when black people are in white space. And what is white space? Well just about everywhere else. Right? She says UC Berkeley where she teaches white space. Almost all education public and private white space. Movie theaters restaurants some of my own stand-up shows-- I am looking at you Spokane-- white space. Public Radio white space. And of course the Elmwood cafe. So in these white spaces black people have a special burden and they face a number of dilemmas. They have to prove that they belong there. The burden is on them to prove that they belong in a particular space. Now let us go back to the incident. Who belongs in that space? What is the presumption about what Kamau is carrying on his body? Of course not belonging can work both ways. A white person in a black space lacks a similar trustworthiness. But think of how rare it is that a white person goes to a black space. Like a tourist in another country you can leave whenever you choose. But the highlight of the night high school senior Kadijah Means. She is 18 and made a name for herself in the Bay Area as an activist. She is an awesome public speaker who importantly to me knows how to open with a joke. So number one I want to say that I have been black all of my life. That is a pretty good amount of motivation for me to be a social justice advocate. And then she said something that made me take extra notice. She talked about being younger than my daughter Sami when she learned about race. I learned about race at a really young age maybe like two or three. My dad has a really good way of teaching about fractions. When he would make me toast he would cut it in half and be like this is half. This is a fourth. So I learned about race in a kind of similar way learning that white did not mean white like paper but it was a construct. Yeah I learned that pretty young. That was weird. My oldest daughter is four. She has just begun to understand that people are different colors. I cannot imagine somehow connecting that to the fact that race itself is a construct. I am not sure I could define the word construct to another adult let alone a four-year-old. Kadijah then closed with a few tips on how we can all be less racist like this one. Focus less on color blindness because honestly you are not going to get a gold star for that. Be more color competent. Be more--  Thanks. And this one. Please do not call people articulate. Do not come up to me after and tell me I am articulate. Please do not do that. And there is a whole bunch of reasons why that we do not have time for. You might want to grab a pen and some paper because she is on a roll. Your mind makes generalizations. That is what it does. It is not bad to that. It is bad to think that that one generalization is what everyone is. You also have to take a step outside of that and remember that people are individuals. People have different lives. Just because I am black does not mean I act like other black people. Black people built this country whether you like it or not. Love us please. Thank you.   I was so impressed by Kadijah. I began to think about her dad the one who taught her about fractions and race. Kadijah was completely versed in the evils of racism. But she was also idealistic about the future. She understood how well-intended people could do racist things but how that does not always make them bad people. She got the broad strokes and the nuances. And Kadijah also knew how to do something that is absolutely essential to your survival as a black person in America. She saw and identified racism in her everyday life and she did not internalize it. But she also did not ignore it. She just judo flipped it and kept walking. I wanted some advice on how to raise a kid like that. Who was this dad? I imagined him to be a mix of '60s era Berkeley hippie and hope and change era Obama. I do not smile a lot. So I am not the smiling black man. Yeah. That is Cliff Means. He is a self-described businessman who means business. I like to imagine that his business card reads on one line Cliff Means and under that Business. In fact when we ask Cliff to do the interview initially he said I do not know you. I do not know your audience. So no. So when my producer Robyn and I met with Cliff and Kadijah I knew he was still reluctant but I was not sure what had changed his mind. I had to ask. Why are you doing this interview then? Kadijah really wanted me to do this is the bottom line. Now had I found out anything too horrific about either one of you then it probably still would have been no. But I could not find anything terrible. Well I tell you one thing that leaned in your favor. I did read something written by you because I was trying to do as much homework as I could because my answer was really no. And your writing had made enough white people angry that I said OK maybe he is actually trying to do something. So it is clear that Cliff is not exactly a why cannot we just get along type of guy. And he has very clear thoughts about what should be taught to kids. How old was Kadijah when you first started explaining race to her? I would imagine four or five years old. She was an early talker. We spent a ton of time together because I asked her does she want to enter a speech for the Martin Luther King celebration at her school. And we co-wrote a speech that people were very enamored with. And I explained to her that Martin Luther King was not killed for the I Have a Dream speech but once he started talking about getting poor whites and poor blacks together then he had to go. But my children I taught you will be going to school and you will be getting told that there is justice for all. And then when you find out there is not then you will be confused. And I do not want my children confused. I want them knowledgeable. So at what age did you get into the history of black people in this country and have to cover things like pre-Civil Rights Movement like Jim Crow and slavery and things like that? At five I taught her about slavery and I taught her as what it is that Europe went to war with West Africa for centuries. Kids used to love Native Americans when I was a kid because they fought back. Why did not black people fight back? Well they did and were slaughtered and terrorized and tortured and murdered and raped-- I probably left out rape at that age for her-- captured kidnapped and brought over Africans to America. And they were here terrorized and murdered. And we go from that stage all the way to being here enslaved. He taught her that at five. Cliff is clearly not afraid to throw his kids into the deep end of the racism pool and let them learn to swim. This is pretty much the opposite of what I had done so far. How deep did their racism pool get? She learned things like white officers following the black migration to northern California to work in the shipping yards in southern California was shipping yards. Hey we would better bring some racist white cops here to keep these people in line. She learned that there were black cooks grinding up glass in the kitchen to make sure that white racist brutal slave masters' intestines would bleed and be open and then he would be gone. What was your question?   Do you want the church thing brought up at all? It is fine. That is Kadijah. I do not know what the church thing is but I can tell it was one of those family stories. Kadijah let my producer Robyn and I in on it. After my dad told me about racism I distinctly remember being angry with white people like how dare you enslave my people. And so we were at church one day. It was not actually at church. It was a church function. It was in the church. It was a church function held after. So I guess I went up onto the pulpit and asked for the mic. And I told the entire congregation that black people and white people should not be together. And that was my synthesis of racism in America and slavery that I