OK. So let us all just pause here for a second for something that is so rare on public radio or you know I guess anywhere actually. Let us pause for something that everyone can agree on. Something that does not divide Republicans and Democrats Sunni and Shia Taylor Swift fans and Katy Perry fans. This something that I found like that everybody can agree on is a graphic. It is a graphic that somebody showed me on the internet. It is an optical illusion created by a professor at MIT who studies vision and the brain. And basically there are two gray boxes. One of them is surrounded by lighter stuff so it looks darker and the other gray box is surrounded by darker stuff so it looks lighter. But in fact the whole point of it is it is an optical illusion. The two gray squares are exactly the same shade of gray. Now that is just a fact. But of course since this graphic is on the internet there is a comment section. And you might think what would you possibly comment on? Right? It does not seem like there is anything really here to discuss. Gray is gray. And I will refrain from a Fifty Shades of Gray joke here and just say when you scroll down through the comments people do find a way to disagree even about this. And I do not know maybe you have been on the internet-- they like to curse about it. One person writes what a load of shit. They are different colors. Another writes not the same  shade. Says a third not convinced. Then people start in with advice. And at first they are like super nice about it right? They are trying to be helpful. They tell the doubters to take their fingers and cover over everything but the two gray squares on their screen and they will see they are the same color. Several people suggested they can open up the file on Photoshop or MS Paint and use the Dropper tool to see the exact RGB values of the colors and they will see that they are the same. By the way 120 120 120 with 160 hue 113 loom. After all of that somebody still writes The second square looks brighter to me. Somebody else replies It is definitely brighter than you. People start calling each other stupid which of course leads to the kind of big overbroad sweeping statement you see in comment sections everywhere. Quote If after reading this thread you refuse to actually test it and choose to stick with your dogmatic belief then you are everything that is wrong with America. You know I think we are all so used to all kinds of ugliness online in comment sections and Twitter and Facebook and everywhere else. At this point most of us do not even give it a second thought. And so today on our radio show we decided well let us give it a second thought. Let us dive into the bile. Let us dive into the hate and look around and see whatever we can understand. Let us ask the dumbest questions. Like why so mad? And if you are so mad why go to the trouble to tell strangers how mad you are? From WBEZ Chicago this is an hour of stories with some very upset anonymous people who we get to know a little bit. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act one Ask Not for Whom the Bell Trolls. It Trolls for Thee. Let us begin with the worst case scenario of things that can happen on the internet with a troll. In fact a kind of exceptional troll. Trolls of course are people who post hate and abuse online. They use comments sections in social media to hound people and shriek at people. Studies show that both men and women are harassed online but women get way more malicious messages. And they are way more likely to be stalked online or sexually harassed. Lindy West is a writer who is written for a lot of places like Jezebel and GQ and The Guardian. Her work is online so she is very familiar with internet trolls and she has our story. Quick warning to podcast listeners. From this point forward we are not going to beep anything in today's show. If you prefer a beeped version of our show you can find that at our website thisamericanlife.org. Here's Lindy. One midsummer afternoon in 2013 I got a message on Twitter from my dead dad. I do not remember what it said exactly and I did not keep a copy for my scrapbook but it was mean. And my dad was never mean so it could not really be from him. Also he was dead. Just 18 months earlier I would watched him turn gray and drown in his own lungs. So I was like 80 sure. And I do not believe in heaven. And even if I did I would hope to god they do not have fucking Twitter there. It is heaven. Go play chocolate badminton on a cloud with Jerry Orbach and your childhood cat. But there was a message. Some context. In the summer of 2013 in certain circles of the internet comedians and feminists were at war over rape jokes. Being both a comedy writer and a committed feminist killjoy I weighed in with an article in which I said that I think a lot of male comedians are careless with the subject of rape. Here's just a sample of the responses I got on social media. A quick warning-- these are internet comments about rape so it is going to suck. I love how the bitch complaining about rape is the exact kind of bitch that would never be raped. Holes like this make me want to commit rape out of anger. I just want to rape her with a traffic cone. No one would want to rape that fat disgusting mess. Kill yourself. I want to put an apple into that mouth of yours and take a huge stick and slide it through your body and roast you. That big bitch is bitter that no one wants to rape her. It went on like that for weeks. It is something I am used to. I have to be. Being insulted and threatened online is part of my job which is not to say it does not hurt. It does. It feels well exactly like you would imagine it would feel to have someone call you a fat cunt every day of your life. When I got that message from my dad it was well into rape joke summer. I was eating 30 rape threats for breakfast at that point. Or more accurately you are fatter than the girls I usually rape threats. And I thought I was coping. But if you get a blade sharp enough it will cut through anything. The account was called PawWestDonezo. Paw West because his name was Paul West. And Donezo because I guess he was done. He was done being alive done doing crossword puzzles done forcing me to sing duets at dinner parties. Done writing little poems on the back of every receipt. Done being my dad. The little bio on Twitter read embarrassed father of an idiot. Other two kids are fine though. His location-- dirt hole in Seattle. The profile photo was a familiar picture of him. He is sitting at his piano smiling in the living room of the house where I grew up. The day they sold that house when I was 25 I sat on the stairs and sobbed harder than I ever had before. Because a place is kind of like a person you know? It felt like death. I would not cry that hard again until December 12 2011 when I would learn that a place is not like a person at all. Only a person is a person. Only a death is really a death. My dad lost consciousness on a Saturday night. That afternoon when we could feel his lucidity slipping we called my brother in Boston. You were such a special little boy he said. I love you very much. He did not say very many things after that. I would give anything for one more sentence. I would give anything for 140 more characters. The person who made the PawWestDonezo account clearly put some time into it. They would researched my father and my family. They would found out his name. And then they figured out which Paul West he was among all the Paul Wests on the internet. They knew that I have a brother and a sister. And if they knew all that they must have known how recently we would lost my dad. Conventional wisdom says never feed the trolls. Do not respond. It is what they want. I do that. It does not help. I could just stop reading comments altogether but sometimes I get threatening ones. Like the other day someone said I should get Charlie Hebdoed. Colleagues of mine have had their addresses published online had trolls actually show up in person at their public events. If I do not read comments how will I know when they have crossed the line? I could just stop writing altogether. I have thought about it. But it seems to me that our silence is what the trolls want. Faced with PawWestDonezo I was stuck with the question what should I do? If I respond I am a sucker. But if I do not respond I am a punching bag. So I did what you are not supposed to do. I fed the troll. I wrote about PawWestDonezo in an article for Jezebel.com. I wrote sadly candidly angrily about how much it hurt. How much that troll had succeeded. And then something amazing happened. The morning after that post went up I got an email. Hey Lindy I do not know why or even when I started trolling you. It was not because of your stance on rape jokes. I do not find them funny either. I think my anger towards you stems from your happiness with your own being. It offended me because it served to highlight my unhappiness with my own self. I have emailed you through two other Gmail accounts just to send you idiotic insults. I apologize for that. I created the  account and Twitter account. I have deleted both. I cannot say sorry enough. It was the lowest thing I had ever done. When you included it in your latest Jezebel article it finally hit me. There is a living breathing human being who is reading this shit. I am attacking someone who never harmed me in any way and for no reason whatsoever. I am done being a troll. Again I apologize. I made a donation in memory to your dad. I wish you the best. They attached a receipt for a 50 donation to Seattle Cancer Care Alliance where my dad was treated. I guess he found that out in his research too. It was designated Memorial Paul West. I did not know what to say. I wrote Is this real? If so thank you. The troll wrote back one more time apologized again and this time he gave me his real name. I could have posted it online which he knew. But I did not and I am not going to be saying it here either. That was almost 18 months ago. But I still think about it all the time. Because I still get trolled every day. If I could get through to one troll-- the meanest one I ever had-- could not I feasibly get through to any of them? All of them? Was he special or did I do something right? I wonder how he would tell me to respond to the people trolling me today. I wish I could ask him. But then I realized I could. I do not know. I guess I am just kind of nervous. But it will be OK right? Yeah. This is me in a studio with producer Chana Joffe-Walt and a phone.   Hello? Hello? Hello. Hi how are you? I got to tell you I am really nervous at the moment. I am a little nervous also. At least I am not alone. No. No not at all. I asked him why he chose me. He would said in his email that it was not because of the rape joke thing. So what exactly did I do? Well it revolved around one issue that you write about a lot which was your being heavy. Uh-huh. The struggles you had regarding being a woman of size or whatever the term may be. You can say fat. That is what I say. OK. Fat. I write a lot about body image. About the stigma and discrimination that fat people face. About being a fat woman. He told me that at the time he was about 75 pounds heavier than he wanted to be. He hated his body. He was miserable. And reading about fat people-- particularly fat women-- accepting and loving themselves as they were infuriated him for reasons he could not articulate at the time. When you talked about being proud of who you are and where you are and where are you are going that kind of stoked that anger that I had. OK. So you found my writing. You found my writing. I found your writing. And you did not like it. Certain aspects of it. Yeah. You used a lot of all caps.   You are just a very-- you almost have no fear when you write. You know? It is like you stand on the desk and you say this is-- I am Lindy West and this is what I believe. And you know fuck you if you do not agree with me. And I-- even though you do not say those words exactly I am like who is this bitch who thinks she knows everything? I asked him if he felt that way because I am a woman. Oh definitely. Definitely. Women are being more forthright in their writing. You know they are not-- there is not a sense of timidity to when they speak or when they write. They are saying it loud. And I think that-- and I think-- for me as well-- it is threatening at first. Right. You must know that I-- that is why I do that. Because people do not expect to hear from women like that. And I want other women to see me do that and I want women's voices to get louder. I understand. I understand. Here's the thing. I work with women all day. And I do not have an issue with anyone. I could have told you back then if someone had said to me oh you are a misogynist. You hate women. And I could say nah-ah. I love my mom I love my sisters. You know I have loved my girlfriends that I have had in my life. But you cannot claim to be OK with women and then you go online and insult them. You know? Seek them out to harm them emotionally. In my experience if you call a troll a misogynist he will almost invariably say oh I do not hate women. I just hate what you are saying. And what that other woman is saying. And that woman. And that one. For totally unrelated reasons. So it was satisfying at least to hear him admit that yeah he hated women. He says he does not troll anymore and that he is really changed. He tells me that period of time-- when he was trolling me for being loud and fat-- was a low point for him. He hated his body. His girlfriend dumped him. He spent every day in front of a computer at an unfulfilling job. A passionless life he called it. And then gradually he changed. He enrolled in graduate school. He found a new relationship. He started teaching little kids. He had a purpose. Slowly his interest in trolling dried up. We verified nearly everything that he told us about himself except did he really stop trolling? I have no way of knowing but I believe him. It felt true. And if this was all a con it is one that cost him a 50 charity donation. We talked for over two hours. And I spent a lot of time trying to get him to walk me through his transgressions in detail. The actual physical and mental steps and how he justified it all to himself. I felt like if I could just get the specifics-- gather them up and hold them in my hands-- then maybe I could start to understand all the people who are still trolling me. How did you even find out that my dad died? How did you-- I went to my computer. I googled you found out you had a father who had passed. I found out that he had-- you had siblings. I forget if it was three total. I have two siblings. So-- Did you read his obituary? I believe I did. I knew he was a musician. Yeah. I wrote that. I wrote his obituary. What I did was this. I created a fake Gmail account using your father's name. Created a fake Twitter account using his name. The biography was something to the effect of my name is-- um sorry I forget the name-- the first name. His name was Paul West. It said-- I wrote my name is Paul West. I have got three kids. Two of them are great and one of them is an idiot. Yeah you said embarrassed father of an idiot. OK. Other two kids are fine though. And then-- That is much more worse. And you got a picture of him. I did get a picture of him. Did you-- do you remember anything about him? Did he-- did you get a sense of him as a human being? I read the obit and I knew he was a dad that loved his kids? How did that make you feel? Not good. I mean I felt horrible almost immediately afterwards. You tweeted something along the lines of good job today society. Or something along those lines. Yeah. It just would not-- for the first time it would not leave my mind. Usually I would put out all this internet hate and oftentimes I would just forget about it. This one would not leave me. It would not leave me. I started thinking about you because I know you had read it. And I am thinking how would she feel? And the next day I wrote you. Yeah. Well I-- And I truly am sorry about that. Yeah I mean-- have you lost anyone? Can you imagine? Can you imagine? I cannot. I cannot. I do not know what else to say except that I am sorry. Well you know I get abuse all day everyday. It is part of my job. And this was the meanest thing anyone's ever done to me. Oh. I mean abso-- I mean it was really fresh. He had just died. But you are also-- you are the only troll who has ever apologized. Not just to me. I have never heard of this happening before. I mean I do not know anyone who is ever-- who is ever gotten an apology. And I just-- I mean you know thank you. I-- I am glad that you have some solace. Honestly I did have some solace. I forgave him. I felt sorry for him. It is so difficult to believe that anyone ever really changes. And he did it. I found immense comfort in that. Toward the end of our conversation I remembered that in his email he confessed that he would harassed me from multiple troll accounts not just PawWestDonezo. Did I ever write back? Was there anything I did not know? He said yeah. One time he would sent something mean from his personal account and I retweeted it to all my 40000 followers. He was mortified. And I am trying to remember what it was about. I think you had mentioned a comedian. You had tweeted about a comedian who had threatened to throw his girlfriend down the stairs. Oh no. He said he wished that I would fall down a flight of stairs. Oh OK. And I think I said like-- I do not know if I retweeted it or I-- what did I say? Oh. Oh my god. I remember you. OK. Oh my god. You said something like I wish I could be the one to push her or something. Or-- Or I thought it was too bad Lindy is not your girlfriend. Oh yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah. Oh my god. I remember you. Yeah. That is me. I am a dick.  I cannot believe-- I mean I-- there is so many trolls. I cannot believe-- I cannot believe I remember you. Yeah that was me. At this point my producer Chana who'd been listening could not stop herself from jumping in. God hearing you guys you sound like you are like oh you went to that high school? I went to that high school too? Holy cow! Yeah. Well you know I mean it is such a normalized part of my life now. I mean honestly-- and it is kind of a relief to talk to someone who really knows what I am talking about even though he is coming at it from the other direction. You know there is almost no one who understands-- Well you know what? As a former troll I never told a single living human being until now that I did this. So it is good in a way to get that off my chest. To get my secret life-- my old life-- I do not know. It just feels good to kind of exorcise these demons. It felt really easy-- comfortable even-- to talk to my troll. I liked him and I did not know what to do with that. It is frightening to discover that he is so normal. He has female co-workers who enjoy his company. He has a real live girlfriend who loves him. They have no idea that he used to go online and traumatize women for fun. Trolls live among us. I have gotten anonymous comments from people saying they met me at a movie theater and I was a bitch or they served me at a restaurant and my boobs are not as big as they look in pictures. People say it does not matter what happens on the internet-- that it is not real life. But thanks to internet trolls I am perpetually reminded that the boundary between the civilized world and our worst selves is just an illusion. Trolls still waste my time and tax my mental health on a daily basis. But honestly I do not wish them any pain. Their pain is what got us here in the first place. That is what I learned from my troll. If what he said is true-- that he just needed to find some meaning in his life-- then what a heartbreaking diagnosis for all the people who are still at it. I cannot give purpose and fulfillment to millions of anonymous strangers. But I can remember not to lose sight of their humanity the way that they lost sight of mine. Humans can be reached. I have proof. Empathy boldness kindness-- those are things I learned from my dad though he never knew how much I would need them. Or maybe he did. He was a jazz musician and when I was born he wrote a song about me. And listening to it now it feels like he wrote it for just this moment. I will give the last word to him. You got a lot of nerve little girl. Bundles of nerve little girl. To come here in a season full of doubt and tattered reason. In a world you do not deserve. You got a lot of nerve little girl. Lindy West in Seattle. So since we first ran Lindy's story a year ago something interesting happened. Her story spurred a discussion inside Twitter that led its CEO at the time Dick Costolo to write a memo to employees that was leaked to the public. It said quote We suck at dealing with abuse and trolls. And we have sucked at it for years. It is no secret. And the rest of the world talks about it every day. I am frankly ashamed of how poorly we have dealt with this issue. It is absurd. There is no excuse for it. In the months since then Twitter has introduced some new anti-bullying tools and policies. They have gotten decidedly mixed reviews like not far enough. Well well well little girl. Act two Freedom Fries. So the comments that we get from our listeners are usually nowhere as vicious as what Lindy West gets on a daily basis. But for a while now the women on our staff have been getting emails like this one. Quote The voice of Chana Joffe-Walt is just too much to bear and I turn off any episode she is on. A quick bit of research found an appropriate description which is vocal fry. How can This American Life have this on the show? It escapes me. Vocal fry has gotten a bit of coverage on Public Radio in the last year but if you have no idea what this is talking about here's a clip of Chana. And Thompson kept hearing that term-- school to prison pipeline. OK. Hear the way that her voice kind of creaks on the word pipeline? That is vocal fry. Pipeline. But it is not just Chana. A man wrote us in November quote Vocal fry is a growing fad among young American women. Miki Meek provides a vivid and grating example of this unfortunate affectation. Miki by the way sounds like this. She would never experienced anything outside the church. And she basically checked out on Will and the kids. Somebody wrote us about Alix Spiegel who is been on our show many many times. Now co-hosts the NPR science program Invisibilia. Quote Perhaps Alix could cover the vocal fry epidemic. It would be really interesting to hear her take as she is clearly a victim herself. For the record here is Alix. Because Roxanne was the only one supporting her young daughter she had to be able to work. Elna Baker Mary Beth Kerschner Starlee Kline Yowei Shaw. When investigative reporter Susan Zalkind was on our show last year with the story of the FBI shooting a man connected to the Boston Marathon bombers she sounded like this. But Ibrahim also got arrested for beating a guy unconscious over a parking space at a mall in Florida. A woman wrote in quote The growl in the woman's voice was so annoying that I turned it off. A man wrote quote Listen I know there is pressure to hire females-- in particular young females just out of college. And besides they are likely to work for less money. But do you have to choose the most irritating voices in the English speaking world? I mean are you forced to? Or maybe as I imagine NPR runs national contests looking for them. The term vocal fry started to get wide usage in 2011 after a study of 34 college students at Long Island University found that 23 of them had it usually at the ends of sentences. A reporter wrote a story about that study at the website of Science Magazine. Gawker Huffington Post Boing Boing and other sites linked to it. And within days it became the most popular article ever published on the Science Magazine website and its 15 years. Other media glommed on. Something called vocal fry that is creeping into the speech patterns of young women. NBC's chief medical editor Dr. Nancy Snyderman is here to explain. This story on The Today Show raises the possibility that talking this way harms young women's voices. Since then many researchers have said this does not seem to be true. The Today Show story also says this only affects women. Is there anything equivalent in men? No there is not. And you know whats interesting-- There is now robust evidence that men do this too. And like a lot of the other coverage The Today Show story pathologizes vocal fry-- says that it is some kind of problem instead of just the way that some people talk. And it teaches viewers to spot it. Today Show host Matt Lauer starts a segment saying that he is never heard of this and ends it saying he would never noticed it before and now he is going to be on the alert for it. That is it. It is that deep. Well that is the first time I actually heard it in Kim Kardashian there. Kim Kardashian really has it. I will start to listen-- You are just not going to be hip enough to be there. I will listen more carefully. The Today Show story and other stories treat vocal fry as if it is a new phenomenon-- on the rise a fad an epidemic. But as a linguist at the University of Pennsylvania Mark Lieberman has pointed out there is still no evidence of that-- pro or con. No evidence that it is more common now than it is always been. What is striking in the dozens of emails about vocal fry that we have gotten here at our radio show is how vehement people are. These are some of the angriest emails we ever get. They call these women's voices unbearable excruciating annoyingly adolescent beyond annoying difficult to pay attention. So severe as to cause discomfort. Cannot stand the pain distractingly disgusting. Could not get over how annoyed I was. I am so appalled. Detracts from the credibility of the journalist. Degrades the value of the reportage. It is a choice-- very unprofessional. Lately every time I get together with female radio producers it is just like comparing war stories. That is Stephanie Foo one of the younger producers here on our show. It is just listing off oh somebody said this about me-- my voice-- this week. Somebody said I sound like a stoner 13-year-old. Somebody said that my voice sounds like driving on gravel. Somebody said they wanted to kill themselves hearing my voice. Listeners have always complained about young women reporting on our show. They used to complain about reporters using the word like and about upspeak which is when you put a question mark at the end of a sentence and talk like this? But we do not get many emails like that anymore. People who do not like listening to young women on the radio have moved on to vocal fry. I just feel like my voice? Really? Like-- This is producer Chana Joffe-Walt. Remember I read a letter from a listener who found her voice too much to bear. Chana says that it is fine with her if somebody has a problem with her reporting or her writing or her interviewing. But her voice? I am just trying to speak. Like literally the way that the voice comes out of my mouth bothers you? What am I supposed to do about that? And like even now as we are speaking about it I am noticing every single time I do it. And then hating every single time I do it and trying not to do it. But trying not to do it is impossible because it is the way that I talk. Because it is my actual voice. It is crazy-making. It is funny. Until we started talking about it for this story I never even noticed it in your voice. And then-- And now you notice it every second. Yeah. Have you noticed that I do it too? Not until right now. Yeah. Yeah. Even as I say these words. And I did not notice it when other women do it either until I started to read about the phenomenon of vocal fry. And then I did notice it. And I find it annoying now when other people do it. I mean I do not notice it all the time but if I am thinking about it and hear other people do it-- other women do it especially-- I become a woman who hates women. Wow. You are like-- it is like you have absorbed the messages of your oppressor. I hear it in you now. Yeah. I get criticized for a lot of things in the emails to the show. No one has ever pointed this out. That is completely unsurprising. Do not you think it is just sexism? Yes. I think it taps into some deep part of people's selves where they do not want to hear young women-- including me. Like it taps into that in me. A few years ago a linguist named Penny Eckert from Stanford University heard a young woman at NPR and was surprised to hear somebody speaking in such a casual style with so much vocal fry about serious news. And she thought well she should not be on NPR. She does not sound authoritative. When I played it for my students and asked them how they thought she sounded they said she sounded great. And they thought she sounded authoritative. Then I knew that I was behind the curve. So she did a little study-- a preliminary study. She played clips of a Marketplace reporter named Sally Herships for 584 people. And she asked them to rate how authoritative the reporter sounded. The results-- people under 40 heard it very differently than people over 40. The younger people found that quite authoritative and the older people did not. So if people are having a problem with these reporters on the radio what it means is they are old. Yeah. I think old people tend to get cranky about this stuff anyway. But-- but the media are just all over it. I mean I am constantly getting requests from media. And they want to talk about the crazy ways that young women are speaking. And the first thing they do is attribute it to young women even though young men are doing it too. So that is why-- it is a policing of young people but I think most particularly young women. She says the same thing happened with upspeak and with the word like. Reporters would call her about these things. They would point to them as a problem with young women when young men do all that also. She says people get worked up about this stuff but it is just part of life. As we age we fall out of touch with how younger people speak. Her advice to everybody including herself? Get over it. Coming up. You know what people really love on the internet? Little baby animals. So why would they be yelling at each other about that? That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show-- and are you only listening to the vocal fry in my voice right now and not the actual words that I am saying? Today's show-- If You Do not Have Anything Nice to Say Say It in All Caps. This story's about internet commenters. We have arrived at act three of our program. Act three Words of Prey. So every few months it seems there is some study that gets released saying that something like 15 of the internet is just cats-- cat videos cat pictures. Or maybe it is 1 is cats or maybe it is some other number that really just seems crazy. My point is the internet loves animals. With that in mind here's Jonathan Menjivar with this story that we first broadcast a year ago. In the world of wildlife animal cams the Woods Hole Osprey cam is a bit player. It is certainly no Panda Cam. All over the Earth there are web cams trained on bison penguins-- I just watched a jellyfish one that is useful if you want to feel stoned at your desk. But until last summer the Osprey Cam at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution-- most people just call it WHOI-- their camera did not get much traffic. The cam was started about a decade ago as a kind of pet project of a woman who worked at WHOI. She died in 2009. Her name was Sherri and she was deeply involved in the Osprey. Loved animals. This is Jeffrey Brodeur. He works at WHOI. And in fact we named one of the osprey after her which-- one of the worst parts was that the bird we named got hit by a car. The bird died and then that winter she died. Sherri was only 41. After her death Jeffrey took over responsibility for the camera. And for three years no bird showed up. Kind of this empty pallor hung over this nest for a while where season after season we did not have anything. One year a male and female showed up. But they did not breed. They returned a year later. And on April 19 2014 at 3 oclock in the afternoon the first egg arrived. At least that is according to one account on a message board. Excitement around the nest grew on the internet