Mariya is always a little embarrassed to admit how much she loved high school. But the truth is she really loved it. This is outside Houston. She had friends. Liked her classes and Friday night football and backyard pool parties. She was editor-in-chief of the school paper. Felt a lot of freedom. And then this disquieting thing happened during her senior year when everybody was applying to colleges. When you apply to a state school in Texas Mariya explained to me Texas has their own Common App. And it is only for people applying to a public university in Texas. But there were four different essay prompts. And one of those was Essay B. Essay topic B like A B C D. Do you want me to read it? Sure. OK. Many students expand their view of the world during their time in college. Such growth often results from encounters between students who have lived different cultural economic or academic experiences. With your future growth in mind describe a potential classmate that you believe you could learn from either within or outside a formal classroom environment. Wait wait. So they are asking a potential classmate. In other words make up a classmate who you have not met. Yeah. Imagine a hypothetical person who is different from you in some way. Mariya never actually answered Essay Topic B because she wanted to go to college out of state and she applied early admission. But there were a few days in her English class during that year where the rest of the class that was applying to state schools wrote and worked on their college essays. Because Mariya did not need to write any essays to get into Texas schools the teacher asked her to help edit them. Mariya ran the school paper so she had some skills. So I was sitting in this class and I was reading all of these essays about a future hypothetical person that helps them grow. And they did not actually write about a future hypothetical person. They all wrote about me. They all wrote about you? Yeah. Wait. They were writing about you as if they had not met you and someday might meet someone like you? Yeah exactly. And then they explained all the important lessons they were going to learn from future imaginary you? Yes. But before they did that they had to describe me. And so I was reading these sentences about myself. Two key facts all of her classmates dwelled upon. Mariya is from Pakistan and she is Muslim at a high school that was mostly white and not Muslim. In a lot of the classes I was the only nonwhite person. And a lot of times outside of school I would go to parties or social gatherings and I would be the only nonwhite person there. So I am picturing you have a stack of a couple dozen essays and you are going through them and everyone is talking about you? I mean there were some people who did not write about me. They did actually come up with a hypothetical future person and wrote about those people offensively. There was one in particular in which the guy wrote about his roommate who had super super greasy hair and smelled like sandalwood. What does that mean? What is that referring to? Yeah. He was like some Indian kid who managed to find common ground. I think the common ground was like video games. I am not kidding. Mariya brought to the studio a couple of the essays written about her by her high school friends including one written by one of her best friends at the time Jenna who is still one of her best friends. Mariya was a bridesmaid at her wedding. All of Mariya's winter stuff is stored in Jenna's garage right now. Here's Jenna's Essay B. OK. I will just start. As-salamu alaykum. Hello. It is a customary Islamic greeting and so much fun to pronounce. That is the opener? Yes. OK. Almost every evening when my cell phone rings I will see Mari's name on the caller ID flip open the phone and hastily cry as-salamu alaykum. And this is a real person writing about me. I am Mari. And I can guarantee that I do not think that anyone who is white has ever answered the phone and said as-salamu alaykum to me. And then she explains. I am not Muslim. For that matter I am also not Middle Eastern or South Asian. And I certainly cannot speak the tongue of those regions. Jenna then describes how someday she is going to meet this fictional Mari at college on the first day of Intro to Psychology in the middle of a sea of kids who were wearing T-shirts. My eye caught the gorgeous intricate beading of a handmade sari. At the time I had not the faintest idea what a sari was. I was merely awestruck by someone who would willingly wear such a bold outfit. And did you wear a sari all the time? No. I have worn a sari-- I am almost 30 and I have worn a sari maybe twice in my life. And then she goes on. She says Her dark daring South Asian eyes met mine and she smiled. Her dark daring South Asian eyes? Yep. Yep. Followed by She was not the typical Indian woman I had seen in National Geographic. What does that mean? I do not know. I am wearing a sari. Was it weird that suddenly you realized that they are seeing you as their exotic friend? Yeah it was super weird. I did not know that they saw me that way until I read about it in these essays. Because how did you see yourself? I saw myself as having fully fit in into this super white high school. This in fact had been a determined calculated five-year campaign on Mariya's part starting when she was 12 years old and her family moved from Pakistan. She carried around a little notebook where she would record important details like at her friend's house the family drank milk with dinner. Mariya wrote in the notebook Americans drink milk with dinner then tried to get her parents to serve it. To get rid of her Pakistani accent she embarked on a project that took hours every day after middle school. On the VCR in the family game room she would record her favorite TV show Lizzie McGuire. And then play back Hilary Duff speaking. And then I would repeat what she had said and record it. On the family computer using Windows Media Player. And then play them simultaneously hear the differences and then fix my accent. So I basically copied Hilary Duff's accent. So even now I sound a lot like a 13-year-old Hilary Duff. Now as an adult I am able to look back at all those things that I did to be more American and say I was not really trying to be more American. I was trying to be more white. And then all of a sudden I was confronted with these essays and they were all like and you are not! Yeah. That is a really sobering moment huh? Yeah. Yeah. Because you have this project you have been working on for years. You think you are killing it. You are doing such an amazing job. You feel so close to these people like you are totally integrated. Then you learn like-- Yeah. It was not fun. And it was not pleasant. And I was in this classroom setting and my friends were willingly giving me their essays to read and everyone around me was acting as though it was this giant compliment. Wait. Why was it a compliment? Because they would all written about me like how great that I was immortalized in all of these college applications. I know. But it is like they are saying oh you are our cute little mascot. Yeah. It is a little bit like that. Yeah. Like my Pakistani friend Mariya. And if you had asked me to describe my best friends it is not like I would have been like yeah my friend Katie who is a white Southern Baptist from Texas. Those are not identifiers I would have used. I would have just said my friend Katie. Mariya is the first to say her friends were just trying to give the answer that Essay Topic B seemed to be asking for. It is a really weird essay prompt. It is basically telling 17-year-olds to imagine a stereotype of somebody who is different from them and then explain how they would learn the right lessons from this stereotyped person. The kids were basically writing what they think some admissions office wants to hear. And of everything in all these essays there was one section of one essay that got to Mariya the most. It was in the Essay B that her best friend Jenna wrote. Jenna has a scene in her essay where she pictures someday studying for a psychology final with this supposedly fictional girl Mari that she imagines meeting at college and befriending. This moment is not a hypothetical. It is not a fake moment. It is an actual thing that happened between us. OK. Let us hear. So she describes herself. I am sitting cross-legged in my favorite gray sweats on my extra-long twin scattered with a frightening number of psych notes. My faithful study buddy Mari leans against the bed her knees pulled close to her chest a mug of chai between her hands. I would not have been drinking chai. OK. What would you have been drinking? Coffee. And it would have been like a basic white girl like Frappuccino pumpkin spice drink too. OK. I am flipping through the pages of my textbook when I run across a striking quote from the social psych chapter. The essay goes on to quote from the textbook which says that the DNA that all humans share is mostly alike. And then when people are different races or ethnicities the difference is less than 0.2 of their DNA. Here's Mariya reading more of Jenna's essay. I read the stats aloud to Mari then I excitedly spilled the thoughts running through my head. 'That makes so much sense. So much sense. You know I have heard we all smile in the same language but it goes so far beyond that and I never realized it was possible until I met you Mari. I had no idea I could connect with someone so completely opposite of me on such a deep level. We can read each other's looks. And no wonder. There is only a 0.2 difference between us.' And this like killed me reading this. It kills me now because it is like I did not need science to tell us that we were the same and she did. And she was supposed to be my best friend. And it was not until she read a quote in a social psych chapter that she realized that the genetic differences between us was so slim that it made sense that we could be friends. They did not talk about it. Mariya did not know how. She was in this situation where their teacher and everybody else acted like this was normal what they were all writing in their essays and it was hard for her at the time to put her finger on what her problem with it was. I will just say that for 10 years or something like that I carried this moment in writing along with me and I would reflect back upon it about the fact that my best friend had to have science prove to her that we were similar enough to be able to be friends. Just this week Mariya finally discussed all this with Jenna. She asked Jenna to go back and read her old high school Essay Topic B and then go into a studio to talk about it. And Jenna felt really bad about it. Here she is. I got this out to read it and I was like womp-womp it is going to be just something that I wrote when I was 17. And then I was like oh I get it. I get why this hurt. Yeah. It was hard for me to read. The parts that were especially hard for her to read were the fact that she made up that I wore saris that she used my real name the National Geographic bit. That was especially horrifying to her. And did you guys talk about the DNA statistic? Yeah. I told her that it made me feel like she needed science to validate our friendship. I never intended that. I do not know why I used the word opposite so many times in this essay. Maybe because the prompt asked you to. Yeah. Yeah maybe so. I do not think about you-- like I never never have. Even when I wrote this I did not think of you as someone who was opposite. Jenna said that in the essay she was trying to say that the DNA science just confirmed something she already knew from our friendship. It honestly did. Whether I express it well in the essay or not it just clicked. I was like yeah of course. This is my experience. We are the same and we can still relate in every way imaginable. During the conversation there was one moment where Jenna asked me something.  Did you literally think that this is how I saw you? After the essay a little bit yes. There was a brief two-year period in which I did. That is not very brief. But now I do not. A version of Essay Topic B is still on the website with the Texas Common App but instead of asking you to imagine a person who you are going to meet in college someday who is going to change you in some way it asks you about somebody who you have already met whose quote experiences andor beliefs differ from yours. The old Essay B went further than that of course. It asked how somebody from a different culture or economic background would benefit a student's quote future growth which Mariya points out seems to assume something about the applicant. Even when I was in high school and I was reading this prompt I remember being very aware of the fact that that question was not meant for me. Every time I read it I had to think like who on Earth am I going to write about? Who is different from me? I just cannot get around the idea that the question is only for white people. It says With your future growth in mind describe a potential classmate that you believe you could learn from. When it is saying Your future growth in mind who is the your in that context? In my opinion it is white people. Who else needs to learn and grow from people different from them? It is like the prompt is saying that college is for white people and everyone else is here for the benefit of white people. There are different ways to talk about why it is important to have a mix of people in a school together. Way back in the 1950s when the Supreme Court decision mandated school desegregation the language used was that this is the fair and democratic thing to do. It was just right for everybody to be treated the same. But in the years since then another idea has come forward that you run into all the time in schools and in lots of other settings that diversity is important because it is good for the majority. It is good for white people. It is not always said that way flat out. Often it is kind of implicit like in Essay Topic B. Today on our program we have a story of a program from back in the 1960s that ran all across the South. It was started for a bunch of reasons but the primary one was this one-- to change the thinking of white people. Today on our show we hear how that played out over decades in real life. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act 1 How to Win Friends and Influence White People. OK. So 35 years before Mariya had that experience in her high school some black kids were drafted into a project created by a small group called The Stouffer Foundation. They would be the children whose presence in the lives of white kids would impart valuable lessons to the white kids. And before they got to do that they had to go through an admissions interview. Testing testing. One two three. Some of these were recorded. This is a 14-year-old named Doug. And the person that he is being interviewed by was kind of a random semi-celebrity back then a British stage actress named Rosemary Harris. She is in film sometimes too. You may have seen her decades later playing Aunt May in Spider-Man. Anyway in this interview Rosemary and Doug talk about his grades. He is mostly getting As and Bs one C. They talk about his science fair project what he thinks makes a good teacher. Our French teacher he is a good teacher but he just cannot keep a quiet class. Most of the class is quiet until they get in French. They do not like French. Well his classes are kind of boring. Are they? Do you like French? Yes. How many years have you done French? I think this will be my sixth. Oh you have done a lot of French. Can you speak any? Say anything?   Very good. Good accent and well pronounced. Better than mine I think. The fact that this nice lady is complimenting a teenager on his terrible accent that is just her personal style. That is not part of the educational program. Mosi Secret has been looking into this program and he explains what it was all about. This interview was part of an experiment started by a white heiress from the South named Anne Forsyth. She was the granddaughter of a tobacco magnate RJ Reynolds and she saw that integration was happening all around the country except at prep schools in the South and she wanted to do something about it. The students in these schools grow up to be the leaders of the South she told Ebony magazine. Teach them to be less bigoted and they would carry that attitude into the institutions they would run someday. A small investment in an individual change could have a big effect. Meanwhile the black student she would send into these boarding schools would get a top-notch education. So her little foundation set out to find the best of the best black students pluck them from their neighborhoods convince previously all-white boarding schools to take them and then send the students in as ambassadors. Forsyth hired a man named John Ehle to lead the effort. John was a novelist from North Carolina who in his 40s turned his imagination to solving social problems with rich people's money. Rosemary Harris the actress was his wife. They went all over the South looking for applicants interviewing them in their schools. John could be kind of gruff even when he first sat down with someone. He talked to one boy who told John that his hobbies were chemistry and eating. That is a hobby? John asked. I love to eat. What do you like to eat most? Well I like to eat pizza. What-- pizza. Oh yeah excuse me. French fries cheeseburger milk shakes. Your taste in eating is no account at all is it? Oh my. Another boy told John he was worried about the effects of studying too hard. But I believe I should study hard but do not push myself to exhaustion till I get a nervous breakdown. You do not look like you are going to have one if I may say so.   You do not feel like you are going to have one soon do you? Mm-mm. I agree with you. Now these prep schools are harder than public schools. All these kids you are hearing they were all chosen. They went on to prep schools. And later in life they became entrepreneurs and lawyers and engineers. But here they were at a moment of great transition about to become transplants who might or might not take. John and Rosemary do not tell the kids that this is an effort to change the minds of white students. The white students were not told it either. In fact they wait until the end of these interviews to even bring up the fact that the candidates will be integrating white schools. They mention race but they kind of back into it. You want to go away to school? Yes. You would not be homesick at school would you? I do not think so. Are you worried at all about going to a-- because these are all-- these prep schools in the South are really all white. Does that idea bother you at all? No. What experience have you had with integration? This school is not very integrated is it? No. In the sixth grade I had a friend named Freedom and he acts about as crazy as I do sometimes. Uh-huh. Was he white? Yes. What was his name? Freedom. Oh that is rather a nice name. So you really do not find any difference between a white boy and a black boy? No. If he is got the right qualities. That is good. Mm-mm. Go ahead and talk to Karen a minute will you? OK. John Ehle wanted this integration effort to happen quietly. No fuss no big moments for the news cameras. Stay out of the damn papers he said. The first Stouffer recipients entered schools in the fall of 1967 13 years after Brown versus Board of Education. There were 20 black teenagers placed in seven private prep schools that year in small-town Virginia in the mountains of Tennessee and North Carolina on the affluent side of Atlanta all schools that had historically only accepted white kids. Does it bother you the thought of going to a predominantly white boarding school? No. I find that if you have a good sense of humor and you can get along with people well it does not make any difference what race it is. If you can get along with people get along with any type of people. Sure. And if anybody is kind of unpleasant you feel you can rise above it? Yes. Good. Not that you are going to have any difficulty but. Not that you are going to have any difficulty Rosemary says but. Then her voice trails off. So did this experiment work? Did it make white students less bigoted? And how did it turn out for the black students? In order to answer those questions I focused in on one school that took part in the Stouffer experiment Virginia Episcopal School in Lynchburg Virginia. People call it VES. When the Supreme Court mandated the desegregation of public schools lawmakers in Virginia actually closed public schools rather than integrate in Charlottesville Norfolk and elsewhere displacing more than 10000 students. And white families enrolled their children in private schools in droves. VES was one of those schools. It was a haven for white families fleeing integration. That is what two black Stouffer scholars were walking into when they arrived in 1967. Bill Alexander was one of them. He was 14 from a middle-class family in segregated Nashville the son of a prominent pastor and a boy who John Ehle thought was perfect for Stouffer. After interviewing Bill he wrote William Alexander Jr. looks like a prep school student dresses like one and talks like one. In the fall of 1967 Bill flew to Lynchburg walked outside the airport and hailed a cab. It was a black cab driver. And I tell the cab driver take me to VES Virginia Episcopal School on VES Road. The cab driver drives off and takes me to downtown Lynchburg to an African-American Baptist seminary. Not VES. He pulls up and because I would been up there I knew where the school was. I said well sir I said Virginia Episcopal School. He said you are going there? He could not believe it. He could not process that. Eventually Bill made his way to VES where he got a warm welcome. They knew I was coming. They came down. They had some guys come get my bags and stuff. The leaders of the school came down. They said welcome Bill. Let me take you to your room. Bill's new roommate Marvin Barnard arrived in Lynchburg by bus. He would come by himself 100 miles from the black side of Richmond. He had one suitcase. He was wearing a sports jacket a little blue cap. He would never seen a place like VES before. It had a bell tower. The bell tower I thought was beautiful. I never had a bell tower in the community where I came from. The lawn was rolling. The mountains in the background. It was so peaceful. And I felt like OK I can do this. Of course I had no idea. I did not really realize how big an issue this really was in terms of integrating the school. I was not thinking along that line at 13 and 14 years old. I was thinking that it is a big experiment. People want you to come. People in my community wanted me to go. I am ready to go. Let us get it going. Marvin was smiley 5 2' 100 pounds. During his interview with John Ehle he told John I get along with everyone which was true. He did. Unfortunately there are not recordings of Bill and Marvin's interviews. In many ways Marvin was Bill's opposite warm-blooded to Bill's cool short to Bill's tall. Marvin grew up in a three-room shack with an outside toilet not a middle-class home like Bill. A teacher would come to call the duo of Marvin and Bill Fire and Ice. Both Bill and Marvin had a vague sense a 14-year-old sense that integrating VES was a small way they could participate in the civil rights movement they saw happening all around them. 1967 was the year that riots broke out in more than 100 cities across the country. The Supreme Court decided Loving versus the State of Virginia which ended laws against interracial marriage. John Ehle told Marvin that this was a chance to prove that black students could perform as well as any white students if the playing field were level. VES was a vestige of a Jim Crow South on land that had once been a plantation. A decade or so before Bill and Marvin arrived VES had decided to tear down the remaining slave cabin on campus. But they had a new headmaster a guy from the north who had opened the door when The Stouffer Foundation came knocking. Resistance came from parents and some of the board. Why why why have you done this cruel thing to our beloved school? one parent wrote. A private boarding school like VES is an extension a part of the family. We have no intention whatsoever of integrating those of another race into our family. Stouffer was not blind to the immense challenges Marvin and Bill would face. So as a way to prep them all 20 Stouffer scholars did a summer program at Duke. They learned both academics and manners how to read classic books do advanced math hold a tennis racket swim. Here's Marvin. Socially they really gave us a heads-up in terms of what dormitory life may be like in a dormitory where there were obviously white students and they may pull pranks on you. And I was not used to-- like what is a prank? A prank's you know you do your little things and it sort of jokes around and they laugh about it. And I am like meh OK. But my main thing is like I have got to be a good student. So it sounds like you are saying there was very little discussion of race there despite what you were going off to do. Yeah. I do not recall that. Instead they were told if someone pranks you do not assume that it is about race. They left it up to the kids to figure out. Sort of try to feel out whether things were primarily because you were a new student versus is certain things happening because you are a black student. Freshmen at VES were known as newboys or rats. And once they were at VES Marvin and Bill experienced some of the same mild hazing that happened to white freshmen. Seniors would tell them to get in the back of the line in the cafeteria. They would make them do their laundry. They rolled with it but it never escaped their minds that they were the only two black students on campus. They became a team friends and roommates who were going to shine. Here's Marvin. I felt that if I was a good student to be the best student I could be then there would be success. And Bill and I both knew then-- I think everybody else-- we wanted to be good students in as many things as possible. Not just in the classroom but in the dorms on the field whatever we could do. Right out of the gate Bill and Marvin did more than anyone thought they could ever do. After a month into the first semester the school's headmaster Austin Montgomery wrote a letter to the Foundation with an update on the boy's progress. It started As I write the two are playing touch with a dozen others out on the lovely front campus. I thought you might be interested that Friday unbeknownst to me the freshmen held class elections. Austin explained that the white kids had chosen Bill to be freshman class president and that was after losing the black vote. Marvin had voted for someone else. After the end of the first semester when everyone gathered around the bulletin board in Jett Hall to look at their grades and see where they stood Bill and Marvin were out ahead tied for number one more than 40 white boys in their class in line behind them. I am sure several were shocked. Yeah there was a little competition going on. Things continued like this into the next semester. Mostly great but not entirely. There may have been different events where you may hear individuals use the n-word while you are walking down the hall and you turn around and nobody would say anything and everybody looking like well who said that? Or you go into a study hall in the classroom where you normally sit-- most people have habits of where they sit and where they study or whatever-- and there is a little note that has the n-word on it. So those were minor trivial types of things that I really did not put a lot of stock in at all. Marvin said he would been told by the uncle who raised him not to worry about words. As long as they do not get physical with you. Do not let them hit my son now. Marvin says when these things would happen he would think to himself is that the best you got? Then a Thursday night April 4 1968 and Bill and Marvin were in their dorm room. And then the announcement came over the radio that Martin Luther King had been shot. He entered to the hospital emergency room with his face covered with a towel. The exact extent of his injuries not known at this time. And when it was announced over the radio all of a sudden I could hear nothing but laughter all throughout the dormitory halls. And it sort of resonated not only in our hallway but it seemed like it was resonating through all the dorms. At least that is what it sounded like to Marvin. I mean when I heard that I just got so angry and hurt by it because it was so pervasive. I thought it was very disrespectful. Why are you laughing when he is announcing that someone has been killed? And it is like why are you like joyous? You are celebrating. One of the guys on the floor he came and he was laughing. Came by the room and was taunting. This is Bill. He does not remember exactly what was said. No I do not remember but I mean ah he is dead. Ha ha ha ha ha ha. It was probably that. He is dead. Good. I am glad he was killed. They were happy. Them people were happy. They were glad he was shot. And with all that laughter going on I remember looking at Bill and it was like I cannot let this go. And I went out into the hallway and I demanded that anybody that thinks that this is funny that you need to come out and face me now. If you think this is funny and you want to laugh come out and face me now. And there was silence. Nothing happened. The night of Martin Luther King's assassination there was one person who stood up for Bill and Marvin someone who stepped up in a way that even now when they look back on it feels significant their headmaster Austin Montgomery. Austin died in 1995. But that night he called all the students into the chapel. Again here's Bill. We have gone to bed. We are in our PJs. And then we get the call. Everybody come to chapel. So all the guys are in chapel in their PJs. And Mr. Montgomery gave one of the best speeches I have ever seen in my life. In short he was saying that the life of any man should not be one that there should be laughter or joy over and this is not the VES way. And we are not going to have this here. He said we are better than this. And he was not going to tolerate that foolishness. That night had a profound effect on Bill and Marvin. Here's Marvin. It did carve-- it carved something deep inside of me because these are some of the same people that we had quote unquote been friendly with and everything else and why would they do that? Is there something that I do not know? Was I being just deceived or deluded in how I was thinking? That is where the whole aspect in terms of the young smiley face great experiment everybody's buying into it that took a different shade that evening. Marvin's roommate Bill was angry too. But true to form Ice kept it to himself. And he had this additional reaction to it. He found the incident clarifying. How can I say this at my age? I did not have an expectation that I am coming to VES and that it is going to be a post-racial experience. I think we could make things different and hopefully for the better sure but I am not going to take that weight on. Oh my God you do not like me. Or you expressed your bias against African-Americans because you laughed when Dr. King was assassinated. OK well I know who you are. OK. We are good. That summer Marvin returned home back to his old life back to the shotgun house he grew up in in Fulton a neighborhood in Richmond Virginia. Some people called it Fulton Bottom because it was at the bottom of a hill on the banks of the James River. White people seldom came down the hill. One night Marvin was in his house where he lived with his uncle. His aunt had died a few years before. Marvin was laying on the couch watching his uncle the man who had raised him the man he called dad smoke a cigarette on the front porch. And I could see his body his silhouette outside the window. A little breeze coming on a warm July night. The screen door opens and he comes in. He is walking real slow. And he just sort of flops down. And as he flops down I had to sort of pull my legs up real quick otherwise he would have sat on my legs. And I am thinking Dad would not just sit on my legs like that. What is wrong? And then he says you know you are doing very well. He says I am proud of you. You are a good young man. And I said well thanks Dad. So he say