It is been the kind of summer that makes it seem like the alarmists were right about everything. Heat waves and drought and wildfires across the West hurricanes along the East Coast drowning people in their cars in New Jersey and in their basement apartments in New York. So yeah climate change is real. And most Americans believe that is what we are seeing right now. But for most of us including me knowing that that is our future-- it does not change much for us. It is like knowing that you are going to die someday. Like sure. True. And then you put it aside go on with your day. But there are people out there who look at the same evidence that the rest of us do and they just take it to heart in a way that most of us do not. They have a wake-up moment. Rebecca Huntley had one. Totally took her by surprise. So I am a really early riser. I am like a 530 AM riser as I think a lot of moms are because it is sometimes the only time that you have any quiet time. Everyone is asleep. Make the first of 10 coffees that I will consume that day. Sit on the couch. Turn the TV on. And I just see all of these young Australians-- thousands of them-- walking on the streets of Sydney which is where I live all of them looking like they could be friends of my oldest daughter. It was a massive climate strike-- young people skipping school to protest inspired by Greta Thunberg and her protests. And they were carrying all these signs most of them handmade saying we cannot vote. We do not have a lot of money. We do not have a lot of power individually or even as a group. Do something. She says it felt like they were pleading for action their generation to hers. And the fact that they seemed exactly like her own children-- it just got to her in this way that was new. And I realized actually these kids are talking directly to me specifically to me. It felt so personal. And I need to do something. And something in me shifted at that exact moment. And it felt physical. I felt an internal physical sensation. And even now as I talk about it-- and I am not a crier-- I actually well up with tears thinking about it because it was this genuine sense of I can think about my kids and the things that I do for them every day. I make sure they brush their teeth and I make sure they do their maths homework. And this is one of those things. Suddenly the fact that we have got a very limited period of time to turn this around-- the scientists talk about 10 years. They talk about 2030. So we have got the next decade. And in the next decade my youngest kids will not yet have finished high school. And it just suddenly seemed so extraordinarily urgent critically important. And I remember finishing my coffee getting up off the couch. And I went straight to my study and I logged into my-- you would describe it as a pension fund but we call it superannuation. And within 10 minutes I would divested my superannuation completely away from fossil fuels. And so that was one of hundreds of different things that I started to do from that point on triggered by that moment. Rebecca actually talked to one of our producers Aviva DeKornfeld who in the last few months has interviewed dozens of people who have had these wake-up moments. Hey there Aviva. Hey Ira. So these happen in all kinds of different ways right? Yeah. Yeah to all kinds of different people all of whom actually made a point to tell me they did not consider themselves environmentalists in any way prior to their wake-up moment. Oh wow. Yeah. It is more like they were just walking around and got bonked on the head and then everything changed. People describe it like waking up in a bizarro world where everything is the same but the way they feel about it is totally different. The wake-up reorganizes their priorities completely. In fact lots of support groups have popped up in the past few years to help people deal with the immensity of these new feelings. What happened to Rebecca? In Rebecca's case she totally changed the focus of her career pivoted it to climate issues. She also cut back on eating meat decided she needed to get an electric car or have no car. And those are the kind of things that would affect the rest of her family-- her husband and her kids. And what I found in these interviews is that this is where the trouble comes in for so many people-- when their families have not undergone the same transformation that they have. Right. That makes sense. Yeah. Everyone mentions some version of this. Like this one guy Glen Schleyer I talked to-- after his wake-up moment he tried to convince his whole family-- brothers sisters nieces nephews-- to all see this the way that he now did and to come to climate rallies with him. The common reaction that I got was wow I did not know you were so passionate about this environmental stuff. Or like you are really into this. It is really interesting. It is great. It is great. I really support you. It is great that you are into this. And that was so frustrating to me because I am like I am not into this. It is just what is happening. It is like if there was a truck barreling toward us and I was trying to get us out of the way you would not be like wow you are super passionate about trucks. I just did not know you are so into trucks. Was this always a thing? I think it is really great that you have this interest. It is like no this is just what is happening. So I was like do you just keep running back and forth yelling at people? Do you ruin your relationships? And I realized that I was potentially impacting relationships that are the most important thing to me in the world for no benefit. No benefit because? Because it was not changing anyone's mind. It was not working. So Glen decided to leave his family alone. But other people told me that they could not back off in the same way and it is had a huge impact on some of their closest relationships. And that actually brings us to today's program. The idea for our show today came from Aviva's interest in these families where one person sees something that feels big and important and urgent and they try to bring everybody along and it is just bad for everyone. We have one story like that plus a story about a surprisingly effective way to deal with the problems of the world large and small. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One 1.5 Degrees of Separation. So Aviva was interested in the toll that having a wake-up moment like this could have on a family. And she heard about somebody who had a moment like this over a decade ago. And it led him to quit his job dedicate his life to activism. He tried to pull his family into it. And what unfolded was the most extreme example of things going badly in a family that Aviva heard of. It pretty much destroyed his family. He ended up estranged from them. The guy is named Michael Foster. And when Aviva reached out and asked him if he would talk about how his climate activism had damaged his relationship with his wife and children he was totally up for it. But he told Aviva that he thought his kids' side of the story was actually more important than his. He thought it was crucial that she talked to them which of course Aviva wanted to do. Both children are now young adults. They were glad to talk. What happened in their family is not necessarily typical of climate activists. Mike's activism shifted the whole center of gravity of their family in ways that are definitely particular to his personality. But the immense end of the world stakes of the issue were what sent Mike and his wife Malinda and their kids down the path they went. Here's Aviva. Mike and Malinda were never the kind of couple who saw eye-to-eye on the big stuff. They met when they were in high school in Texas. They both did speech and debate and would see one another at the competitions though they were not really friends. Mike who was an evangelical Christian at the time carried a Bible everywhere and led prayer circles before the tournaments while Malinda and her friends would smoke weed out back. His story is that the first time he really remembers meeting me was when he had just finished leading a prayer circle. And he met me. And I had a button. This was back when you wore buttons. And it said not saved. And his mind just melted that someone would proudly wear a not-saved button. That is my story. How dare she tell my story. My mind melted. I did not know that there were people out there who could just be happy and funny and saying yeah I am not saved. Each felt like the other was this kind of exotic bird or something-- totally foreign to them but also mesmerizing. And so when they went to the same college nearby they started dating. Mike was no longer an evangelical Christian at that point. But Malinda says their relationship was still very rom-com opposites attract. They broke up and got back together all throughout college and then found each other again in their late 20s. At that point Mike was a child and family therapist taking kids to the outdoors to do a kind of wilderness therapy. And Malinda had a corporate job was making good money. So we were together for a few years. He had asked me to marry him a few times. And I was like I do not think it is a good idea for us to get married. We are just too different. But Mike felt familiar in a way that only first loves can. So eventually Malinda said yes to Mike's proposal. They got married had two kids Emrys and Stella lived in Seattle. At this point climate change was not a big part of their lives beyond the basic stuff. We were really green. We were your cartoon green Seattle family. So whatever stereotype you have that was what we were doing.  They recycled composted. They used energy-efficient light bulbs. And then one day Mike heard about this new documentary he wanted to go see--  I am Al Gore. I used to be the next president of the United States of America.  --An Inconvenient Truth. Mike convinced Malinda to go see it with him for their date night. Sitting there in the dark Mike felt like Al Gore had taken all the dots of information about climate change that Mike had picked up over the past couple decades and arranged them into a pointillist painting of our future. And the picture was grimmer and more dramatic than he thought. And then at the end of it it has the credits roll. And during the credits it will on this black screen have these little white letters that say things like plant a tree. Change your light bulbs. Drive less. And that is it right? So you have just spent an hour and a half learning that the world is ending and nobody is doing anything and you are supposed to plant a tree. So there was this major major disconnect of wait a minute. That is not going to do it. That is not even close. Before the documentary Mike thought we had time. Now it seemed clear to him we were just a few decades away from a radically different planet. Mike started poring over climate research reading every day. He traveled to California to go to a training led by Al Gore himself where he learned to give a slideshow about climate change. When he came back from the training Mike showed his kids the slideshow and presented it at their schools. Emrys Mike's older kid who by the way uses the pronouns theythem remembers being excited by that. And this was in 2012. Emrys was 10 at the time. It felt like minor celebrity status right? Because my dad was a guest speaker. And I needed everyone to know that that was my dad. It is like you know the presentation we are having today? Yeah my dad is doing that. Or like I heard that my dad is going to be coming next week to do a presentation in class. Mike and his kids start climate clubs at their schools. Mike also teaches Emrys and Stella the slideshow and they all start going around to teach it together. Both kids threw themselves into the work. For Emrys the importance of the topic immediately resonated. But Stella who is eight had a much simpler reason. It was a way for me to get his attention. If I asked a question he would be paying attention to just me rather than the family which I guess is selfish. But at the time I was like Dad look over here. I can ask questions about climate change. I am smart. News of Mike's slideshow spread and he started being invited to present at other schools. Pretty early on Mike decided that kids were the answer. His activism would focus on them. That was already his specialty as a therapist. And he figured children have the most at stake here. They are open to the message. And adults will be able to hear the science from them differently than they will hear it from other adults. So Mike's first big step down that path-- he organized a march with a national kid-centered climate group called I Matter. He says the Seattle police gave the marchers a 14-motorcycle escort to Pike Place Market. Emrys and Stella both spoke at the march. Emrys said they would never talked in front of so many people before. He helped me write my speech and he had me practice it a ton. I was super excited to speak there because everybody's attention was on me. Stella the younger one found all the attention a little overwhelming.  Stella! The main thing I remember was looking at my dad to focus my gaze. To steady you. Yeah. And I really looked at him to not freak out. In this speech and all the ones after it Emrys says that Mike gave each of them specific roles to fill roles that Emrys says they naturally fit into. Stella was the one that would make the audience go oh my gosh. She is so cute. Hi. I am Stella Foster and I am nine years old. And then I was the one who was supposed to make the audience go like oh OK. Wow.  It was like a one-two punch. Like Stella disarmed them and then you went in for the kill. Yeah.  Basically yeah. I think I was a little bit supposed to scare people. We just need the adults to get their acts together and realize that each year they wait is 30 more years of floods fires droughts famines and extinctions. For Malinda watching Mike and the kids give speeches and spend so much time together-- it was really nice. They are having fun and working on something that felt so important. She was not around much to help. She had a big job at a telecommunications company that kept her busy and on the road a lot of the time. But she jumped in where she could. She made a website for Mike and did a lot of the behind-the-scenes logistics stuff she is good at. Mike got more ambitious and brought the kids along. They started organizing for Plant-for-the-Planet a kid-run organization with a goal of planting a trillion trees. The whole family recruited friends to join. Mike quit his job to focus on climate work. Emrys and Stella met the governor and the mayor. They were lead plaintiffs in a lawsuit against the state of Washington to curb emissions. They were in an HBO documentary about kid climate activists. But none of that stuff felt like enough to Mike. He was thinking more about the way he and the family were living at home. Malinda and I had an agreement. I was the vegetarian. I was the one doing the make the world better stuff. And she was the one who was working at the corporate giant paying the bills. And I was fine with that. But when I am doing these climate talks-- and I mean like one day would be five talks-- and I am hearing myself going over this material and really grasping at what I am saying it became harder for me to be OK with the trip to Hawaii. Harder for Mike to be OK because airplanes emit so much carbon dioxide. So I went out on a limb. And I was like this has no integrity for me anymore. I cannot just go along with our agreement. Other people I talked to who went through a wake-up moment-- they also got to this point. They came to believe that we have to change our behavior in all kinds of ways to avoid the worst-case scenarios. And we have to do that knowing individual action will not be enough. One family driving an electric car or giving up plastic straws is not going to do the job. Any serious climate solution will require an overhaul of our energy sources at a global level. But it will also require us to live differently. Without that the situation will not change. And that is where things get messy-- deciding where to draw the line in your own family. The kids really wanted to get a cat. And I was like well I grew up with pets. I think that would be great. And he said no we cannot do that. And I am trying to understand why. He says the carbon footprint of a domesticated house pet are ridiculous. That is all the processed meat the pets eat and the cans and plastic the food comes in plus cat litter dog toys trips to the vet. We are not going to support that. There cannot be pets in this house. The family ended up settling on getting chickens which turned out to be a good compromise because the kids loved the chickens. And Mike was happy the chickens produced eggs because it meant they would not be supporting factory farms that produce supermarket eggs. But flying on planes became a real point of contention in the family. Malinda wanted to take the kids to Disney World for vacation. He is like we are not going. We are not? He is like no we are never getting on a plane again. We are not? I missed that memo. What? What? And I made the mistake of saying but I fly for work. And he was like exactly. And maybe if you did not fly the world would be a better place. To Mike flying felt like an existential threat to his kids' futures and to everyone's. It was unbearable for me to continue doing the things that were going to make their life impossible-- actually impossible-- in the near future. At the time did you have any doubts about the lifestyle changes you were making? Because you are having to balance really believing in the cause and also accepting that you are a dad with two kids. And maybe one pet does not actually make that big of a difference in the grand scheme of things but it does make a really big difference in my kids' lives. How did you balance that? That was really impossible to balance because I am not talking about a cause because I am talking about their survival and the things they are going to suffer when they get older. So anyway so I am sorry. I am getting into the preaching mode and we are trying to talk family here. But to me it is the same thing. So Malinda kept flying for work but nobody else flew. And Malinda did not like all these changes. But she did not disagree exactly. Climate change is a noble cause. That was what I was telling myself. This is for the world. This is for a better future for my children and their children. Why am I being such a bitch about it? One of the biggest ways climate activism changed this family is that it turned Mike into a kind of stage dad performing with his kids all the time with all the tension and friction that comes with that. It was especially intense because Mike's climate work was all about kids so he needed his kids to be the face of it. Here's Emrys. I started having issues with my dad when it was-- he started feeling more like a coach than a dad. And he was just bringing more and more and more things. It is like I would wake up in the morning and he would be like we are leaving in two hours. There is a presentation. Here's your notes. You have to speak. Write a speech now. Emrys had always liked giving speeches liked writing them. But Mike wanted to see their speeches ahead of time and practice and would get angry if they did not let him and get mad afterwards if he thought they did not hit the right points. In front of crowds Mike was always complimentary of their speeches. It is like if you are in a theater production and the director gives a talk after the show or something. I was the actor. I played my little part. And then he would come out and be like oh I am so proud. They did an amazing job. My name is Michael Foster and I am a proud papa right now.  I do not know what to say. They blow me away every single time. And then once the audience leaves it is time for notes. Once they are not looking then you talk about what you did wrong and everything that you have to do better next time to put it politely. Since Malinda was off working so much at the time supporting the family she had no real sense that increasingly this had become Emrys and Mike's dynamic until one day the kids had a speech far outside of town. Malinda drove the family to and from the speech since she had a hybrid car and Mike's electric car could not make it that far. Emrys had given a speech. And I thought it was brilliant. I am the mom. And we got in the car and I was driving. And Mike was in the seat next to me and the kids were in the back. And he was yelling because Emrys had not let him read the speech before they gave it. And he was saying you should have let me read that speech before because I would have told you at the time. I would have told you that you were missing these points. And goddammit. If you had let me see that you would have done a better job. You missed your opportunity. You fucked it up and you missed your opportunity. And I am driving going whoa. So let me just say I thought it was great. Well what do you know? You do not even listen half the time. And I was like whoa. Looking back Malinda points to this moment as one of her failures that she let her kids give speeches after this. But at the time Mike was so confident in what was right. And Malinda did not trust the feeling that told her otherwise. So I would-- like well maybe this is their dynamic. Maybe this is how they communicate that they flare up and they-- not that the kids ever yelled but maybe Mike yells. But maybe that is how it works because the next day they are working on it again. And he is a family therapist or child therapist. And he is a child and family therapist. So there is that hanging over my head too of he knows. He is the expert. This is just the beginning of their family breaking apart. And one of the reasons Mike was eager to speak with me is because he feels pretty in the dark about what happened what split his family up and left his kids so bitter that at this point they have not spoken to him in years. He does not get what he could have done that was so bad his family still wants nothing to do with him. He said he feels like he is in an Agatha Christie novel. He knows he is the killer. He just has no idea how he did it. When we spoke Mike never contested anyone's memories of what went down. He told me if they said it I believe it. He knows he has a temper. Malinda said he is always had one. In college he would have blow-ups though she always knew how to calm him down. But Mike and Malinda and the kids all agree-- the outbursts ramped up considerably after Mike got into climate activism. Malinda said he was never physically violent with her or the kids. But the frequency and the focus of the blow-ups changed. I would just go from like 0 to 90 and you would not see it coming. And all of a sudden it was like inside me it felt like OK the world is going to end because of this  right? Because climate? Because of something somebody did or said or whatever. Like if we cannot-- if our family or you and me cannot do this one simple thing then how does the world get to remain living right? Because we are-- The stakes always felt that high. Yeah. Sometimes it would just be like OK we-- I am this person who is in this role trying to say here's how we get to live on Earth for the next 10000 years. And I cannot persuade my family to let go of the Starbucks cup or whatever the thing was at the moment. OK so then the world ends. That is what it actually felt like to you. Yeah. More than once Mike called Stella a fucking bitch and a cunt. Stella said before Mike got into climate activism he would yell at her about the kind of stuff any parent might-- for lying about brushing her teeth or staying up late past bedtime. But in those instances Stella knew her dad still loved her. Now she worried about that. I had a good father for years before the climate change started. There were flaws. But it was only once it was climate change where he put so much of himself into it and wanted me to put so much of myself into it that I really got the feeling that his love was completely conditional. Stella remembers when she realized she was over climate activism. It was her nine and a half birthday. They celebrate half birthdays in their family. And in celebration they would planned a dinner at one of Stella's favorite restaurants. But before they left the house something happened to set Mike off and he started ranting about the state of the world. Stella said that when her dad got into climate-talk mode there was nothing to do but listen. 15 minutes ticked by then 30 then 45. I just remember thinking like I just want to talk about what we did at school today. I want to talk about this cat I saw on the walk home. I want to talk on my half birthday-- and feeling like it was not an option for me to talk because he was talking. Stella never told anyone she wanted to quit activism because deep down she felt like she had this personal responsibility to stop climate change. Secretly Emrys was feeling the same way. The more I started realizing that I did not want to do it the worse a person I was. Like horrible things are going to happen to people because I am not willing to do this. It felt like I was the worst person in the world. It was all guilt all the time and fear. It was fear of him and fear of the apocalypse. Stella's carbon footprint started to haunt her. When her mom drove her to school when she drank a glass of milk even when she exhaled sometimes she would think all I am doing is putting more carbon dioxide into the air. She started having nightmares every night of the world burning or of oceans rising and flooding her house or going to the grocery store and finding the shelves completely bare because droughts had killed off all the plants. Mike and Malinda both told me they had no idea the kids were feeling this way at the time which Emrys and Stella said makes sense. They were good at hiding it. When I asked Mike about how bad the kids felt he said he never meant to make his kids feel as bad as they did. But he also defended guilt as a tactic. Guilt is seriously underrated. Guilt and shame keep people from murdering each other. And honestly guilt may be one of the few things that could keep life on Earth going for the next 10000 years. If we cannot feel guilt or shame about what we are doing and learn how to do something else it was over a long time ago. One way to hear this story is that it is not about climate change but about a dad who goes off the deep end for reasons that have more to do with his own personality than anything else. But I cannot dismiss the role climate change plays in this story. I think the grim picture of the future that Mike carries in his head is actually more accurate than the picture most of us carry around. And it is genuinely hard to figure out the right way to have feelings about climate change. It is easy to lose perspective when the problem is so vast and woven into every part of how we live how we get to work what we eat and the stakes are so high. I talked to other people who had wake-up moments many of whom are reasonable and kind and not alarmist by nature who alienated their families and in lots of cases lost their families in the wake of their newfound clarity. Malinda and the kids see all that but also believe it did not have to go this way. Malinda said that to me in our very first conversation. Mike could have done his climate work without torturing his family. That is he did not need to cuss out his kids. Coming up how the most ambitious arguably most successful thing you ever do as a political activist could also be the worst thing that you do for your family. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program-- The End of the World As We Know It. If you are just tuning in we are in the middle of Aviva DeKornfeld's story about Mike Foster and his family and how his climate activism led to changes in their family and ultimately divorce and his estrangement from his two kids who he has not spoken with in years. We will pick up where we left off. Both of his kids Stella and Emrys want to quit doing activism with their dad. Again here's Aviva. It takes about two years of going to climate meetings and speaking at rallies with their dad before Stella and Emrys confided in each other about how they really felt about it and what they actually wanted. Here's Emrys. I remember we were out on the back porch going inside and Stella stopped me. And she whispered do you think Mom and Dad are going to get a divorce? And I was like I do not know but I kind of hope so. And she was like me too. And yeah after that it was better because we had that solidarity. Stella started doing secret research about parental custody to figure out the odds that she and Emrys would get to live with their mom in the event that her parents did get divorced. And she started dropping hints. She was just beginning sixth grade around this time and her school offered these elective support groups. There were a bunch of different options and one of the groups was for kids with divorced parents. That was a group Stella signed up for. When Malinda found out which group Stella had joined and asked her about it Stella shrugged and said just in case. Things continued like this for a while-- everyone going through the motions-- until it all came to a head one night. Emrys wanted to go to a Fall Out Boy concert. Mike insisted they come to the monthly Plant-for-the-Planet meeting instead. When the meeting was over Emrys and Stella waited by the car for 45 minutes in the cold before he came out. We started driving home. I think I was very obviously sulking. And ultimately I told him that I was annoyed that he had taken so long to come back and that I had not really wanted to go to the meeting in the first place. And he just lost it. He got so mad. Stella remembers this night too. He was shouting in this car just yelling like you are ungrateful. You do not realize how much I do for you. Why cannot you just go along with it for one night? What is your problem? What is so important about this fucking concert? And he was driving erratically. He would pull the car over super fast and turn and start yelling at us again unprompted. And what are you guys doing at that point? We are literally-- both of us are just sitting in the back seat mouths closed eyes wide crying absolutely terrified. I would never seen him that angry and I would seen him get angry a lot. And so yeah when we came home we just got out of the car as fast as we possibly could and ran inside to get to our mom because it was like the safe zone in a game of tag or something. It was like she meant protection from him. I was in the family room and the door flew open. The kids came running in crying sobbing. And their dad came running in after them screaming at the top of his lungs. And I am like whoa whoa whoa. What is happening here? What is going on? And I went upstairs to talk to the kids. And they said they were afraid that they were going to die in the car. I am like what the hell happened? Malinda made up her mind. Not long after that night she told Mike she wanted a divorce. Mike calls it a climate divorce. Malinda says no. If anything climate change kept them together longer than they should have been. I feel like I looked past and accepted so much more of what was bad because it was in service of climate change. If he had been a QAnon conspirator it would have been so easy for me to say no not doing that. But it is climate change.  Mike and Malinda get divorced and Mike moves just a few blocks away. The kids get to live with their mom full-time as they would hoped. And to establish some sort of new relationship with Mike they try a couple rounds of family therapy. But according to the therapist notes the first round crashes and burns because Mike keeps interrupting to explain climate change and the importance of his work to the therapist. When they try again months later Stella gets up the courage to tell Mike her big secret for the first time-- that she does not want to be a climate activist anymore that she was only doing it because she felt he gave her no choice. Stella figured he would say he was sorry and she prepared herself to forgive him. But instead Mike seemed angry. He did apologize. But the thing he apologized for was that he had not invited her to more climate events so that she would be more emotionally i