I do not know when I got this idea that a captain's log be pretty interesting to read. Probably it was from watching Star Trek as a kid. You know they do that whole captain's log star date thing. But in fact in real life here on planet earth most captain's logs-- Usually they are incredibly boring. I mean it is like you know it is really primarily meant to be a record of ships' positions weather. That is the story on Erik Larson. He ran into this when he was writing a book about this hurricane that destroyed the city of Galveston in 1900. He thought that ships at sea might have interesting observations about the formation of this historic weather event this storm. So he looked at lots of ships' logs. And I found it very frustrating very frustrating. It was just like routine references. And meanwhile here's this gigantic storm looming on the horizon. And why? What would they way in their logs? Nothing. They would just list you know some wind speed wind direction. Sometimes I think that a ship could be passing Krakatoa when it was blowing up and there would be no reference except maybe a sudden change in the air temperature. A ship's log does record anything unusual that happens on the ship itself any damage to the ship. But really it is about legal and administrative responsibilities. If cargo's damaged insurers are going to need a record that kind of thing. Which is why this one captain's log that Larson found really stood out. He was researching the sinking of the Lusitania for his book Dead Wake. And he got his hands on the captain's log for the U-boat that sunk the Lusitania in 1915. The prose is businesslike and direct just like most logs even in translation from the German. But this captain just includes way more stuff like way more detail than other logs that Larson had read. When Captain Walter Schwieger spots the Lusitania at 220 submarine time he notes four funnels and two masts. You know starboard ahead coming from south to southwest it is steered towards Galley Head which is a Maritime landmark there in the Irish sea. The ship is made out to be a large passenger steamer. Then he says submerged to a depth of 11 meters and at full speed took a course converging. So so far very matter of fact. Very matter of fact. Now what is important to know here as well is that meanwhile what is happening aboard his submarine is total chaos. He is doing a fast dive which depending on conditions sometimes involved having members of the crew race to the bow run to the front of the submarine to add ballast. To add that extra weight. Yes. So he is doing this very fast dive. There is chaos aboard the submarine. There is a lot of energy a lot of excitement. That human drama does not make it into the log even this one. 235 PM submarine time the ship that he is chasing turns starboard towards a town called Queenstown. He runs at the ship at high speed which Larson says was actually not very fast at all. 310 PM submarine time the log says he takes a clean bow shot at a distance of 700 meters. He names the kind of torpedo he uses and the depth adjustment he makes the angle. Torpedo hits starboard side right behind the bridge. There it is. That is the actual firing of the torpedo in the attack. Then though he starts in with a fairly elaborate-- at least for a German submarine commander-- narrative. He is watching this now through his periscope. An usually strong explosion or detonation takes place with a very strong explosive cloud. The cloud reaches far beyond the front funnel. The explosion of the torpedo must have been accompanied by a second one parentheses boiler or coal or powder? Question mark. The superstructure right above the point of the impact and the bridge are torn asunder. Fire breaks out and the smoke envelops the high bridge. The ship stops. He is incorrect there by the way. The ship continued at 18 knots because its engines were knocked out and you need engines in order to stop a ship. The ship stops immediately and heels over to starboard very quickly. And he says immersing simultaneously at the bowel. Great confusion ensues on board. The boats are made clear and some of them are lowered to the water. He means the lifeboats there. Yes the lifeboats. In doing so some must have lost their heads. Some boats full to the capacity are lowered touch the water with either stem or stern first and founder immediately. This is actually happening as they are filling with water capsizing sinking. It is a grisly scene-- people throwing themselves off the ship into the water and getting sucked underneath the sinking vessel people getting crushed by the lifeboats. 1198 died. Captain Schwieger watches through his periscope and he cannot actually hear anything. What he is seeing is like this terrible silent movie. 325 PM submarine time in the log. As it seems as if the steamer will keep above water only a short time we dived to a depth of 24 meters and ran out to sea. Now what he means there is he does not have to hang around and fire another torpedo. However here he says the most controversial statement in is log. It would have been impossible for me anyhow to fire a second torpedo into this crushing crowd of humanity trying to save their lives. It would have been impossible for me to fire a second torpedo into this crushing crowd of humanity trying to save their lives. This sentence is controversial because he is never like this anywhere else in the log never sympathetic to his enemies this way. He never expresses feelings like this in this log that is going to be read you know by his superior officers. Why say this? I do not know what to think. I would like to think that this captain had that level of remorse right and that he acknowledged it right there at the time. I do not think so. My money is on a post-patrol revision that he may have added that after the fact after everybody recognized how much the world had been repulsed by this attack on men women and children on an unarmed passenger ship. But if you think about it even this it does not totally add up. Like OK sure the rest of the world was horrified by the sinking of the Lusitania. But Schwieger lived in Germany where this was celebrated a huge victory. Did he want to change the log because he thought like OK maybe they would actually lose the war and he worried about how this was going to look? Did he just not want this to be his legacy how he would be talked about 100 years later as you know I am doing right this second? Well today on our program we bring you captain's logs of various sorts. For every story in today's show we found a terse businesslike record of some kind of some event in the past. Some of these are historic events. Some of them are small and personal. And what we are going to do is we are going to go back and reconstruct what really happened which is way more complicated and emotional than the logs. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us mateys. Act 1 Cookies and Monsters. So part of what is interesting about reading captain's logs is then going back and piecing together the true story that they are only sort of telling. And that is what PJ Vogt does in this next story. He starts picking something apart and asking questions and he ends up somewhere very different from where he starts. Here's PJ. I have got a friend let us call him Dale. Dale has a Gmail address that is pretty generic like  And people with email addresses like these get a lot of emails that just are not meant for them like email wrong numbers. And this happens to him all the time. Last time I saw him he would just gotten an email written completely in Spanish from a kid somewhere asking if he could turn in some work late. Dale's a nice guy but he likes to play pranks. He likes to mess with people. So he answers the emails. Here's one he got a while back. I think it started off Hey ladies. To all Calgary area district commissioners and district cookie advisers. And then it started talking about how they had a bunch of stale cookies that they did not know what to do with and we have got to move them off the shelves. And if they are past the expiration date then we cannot use them in the next cookie campaign. The emails continue. And Dale learns that the world of professional cookie advising it is surprisingly bureaucratic. At the top there is a national cookie adviser. But beneath her there are provincial cookie advisers who report up. And then beneath them there are district cookie advisers. Dale has no idea what is going on here. But he decides the best thing he could do would be to reply with an intentionally stupid email detailing a bunch of asinine solutions to the stale cookie problem. He suggests the advisers Sharpie over the expiration dates on the packages. He suggests they eat all the stale cookies themselves. In my mind I was thinking no one's going to believe this. What a stupid email to write to somebody. Who would hire a person with suggestions like these? Cynthia who is the Calgary area cookie adviser responds to Dale's email with complete polite cheerfulness. She sends him a cookie freshness calculator to help him sort his stale cookies from his fresh cookies. So Dale responds with even stupider messages. He was trying to make it more obvious that he was just kidding. I said What is the status on the cookies? Yarr. Me so hungry with a picture of Cookie Monster. And I think she responded something along lines of Those orders were supposed to go in a month ago. Or did I misunderstand your question? Rather than clarifying Dale asks her why are we even in the cookie advising business? He says his clients they are all about chocolate bars now. And Cynthia responded Chocolate bars???? Question mark question mark question mark question mark. All of my other suggestions were met with like oh maybe I misunderstood or something. But this one was very emphatic. It was like Chocolate bars? It actually seemed like Dale had maybe touched a nerve. Because after that cookie advisor world went completely quiet. Dale was bothered by this. The original email he would gotten had been meant for a woman named Debbie. What if he had gotten Debbie in trouble or even just made her look bad? I am a little afraid. I would like to think that oh they just got it sorted out and now it is funny and Debbie is in on the joke-- just people trying to do their cookie job. I reached out to the woman who'd been trying to email Debbie Cynthia because I wanted to find out if Dale's prank had hurt anybody. Hello? Hello. Hi Cynthia? Yes it is me. Hi it is PJ. Cynthia has multiple sclerosis and it can be hard for her to talk. So her friend Sheila volunteered to help out. I read them the emails. And of course the obvious solution is to eat them during our next member meeting. Please discuss with the rest of area and I will forward your decision on to national. Thanks so much. Do you remember getting that? You know I do not but-- We get a lot of questions all across Alberta at Cookie Time. Often they have suggestions that do not always fly. So we find a way to respond do them as best we can. Cynthia and Sheila explained that they were part of Girl Guides. In the US we have Girl Scouts. Most everywhere else in the world they call them Girl Guides. If you know anything about Girl Scouts you will not be too surprised by this. But Cynthia and Sheila have a way of talking that is just unrelenting positive. It is just the Girl Guide way. That is why Cynthia was so patient with Dale. It was her job. But she was also very patient with me even as-- for reasons that I do not quite understand-- I found myself explaining to her the entire pattern of events that had led Dale to email her. I guess the email was meant for Debbie but it went to a Dale. Oh. Now it is starting to make a little bit of sense. This helpful sunny tone this Girl Guide voice is hardwired into their original mission statement which reads quote A guide smiles and sings under all difficulties end quote. Smiling and singing under all difficulties. This sounds ridiculous to me or at least it did until I heard a truly crazy story about this exact thing Girl Guides smiling and singing through incredibly extreme circumstances. I first heard about it from a woman named Janie Hampton. She is kind of a Girl Guide expert. She wrote a book about them. Now I have to admit when I started writing the book I thought you know I am going to make this a bit of a satire and laugh at them. She says laughing at Girl Guides is pretty easy because most people think of them as not particularly cool too sincere. What we call naff nowadays. What is naff? Sort of unfashionable nerdy. So Janie sets out to tease some nerds. But then she starts researching. And one day she is deep in the Girl Guides' archive in their London headquarters and she finds this old notebook. It is small 7 by 10. And the book's a handwritten log of nearly everything one Girl Guide troop did years ago. And it said we did skipping and we did knots and we did all sorts of jolly things. And then I came across this song that they would written. And it said We sang our song yesterday. And it went 'We might have been shipped to Timbuktu. We might have been shipped to Kalamazoo. It is not repatriation nor is it yet starvation. It is simply concentration in Chefoo. And I thought what on earth does that mean? Concentration in Chefoo? Janie does not know where Chefoo is. But she is sure it is not in England so she looks it up. Chefoo is-- was-- a place in China a coastal city. It is a good 7000 miles from London. According to the guide's logbook the song had been written and performed by a group of Girl Guides for a concert on Christmas day 1942. The Christmas concert Janie discovers was held in Chefoo but not at a school. The Girl Guides sang their song in a concentration camp. Janie was baffled. Why would a concentration camp in China have a singing Girl Guide troop? So Janie starts digging. And she finds someone who was there an actual witness born in China who ended up in the same camp as these Girl Guides this Belgian guy. Leopold Pander 74 years old. The problem is it turns out he has absolutely no memory of his time there. I tried to remember something but nothing comes back to me. Nothing except for this nightmare he used to have when he was a kid. At the time it had not made sense to him. But later he thought it must have taken place at the camp. What was the dream that you would have? Well I am there in the hot sun the blue sky. It is a brown slope. It is a browned earth. And there are big stones next to myself dirty earth and people running all over the place. Are there sounds? No sound absolutely no sound. Somebody picks me up and then I wake up. That is all I remember. That dream came back very often. Leopold grows up. And as an adult he wants to know about this place that he used to dream about and so he builds a website. He invites people to write in with memories of the camp. And the story he learns is pretty crazy. Japan's latest invasion of China which has already lasted two years is war on a huge scale. So I did not know this but during World War II when Japan occupied China they built concentration camps that were filled with American and British and other European civilians. Japanese put their prisoners of war to work. Civilians who had been living in China. One of those camps was called Weihsien. That was Leopold's camp. And among the inmates at Weihsien were a group of children. They were American and British. They were mostly the kids of missionaries. And they would been studying at a boarding school called Chefoo. Japanese troops invaded Chefoo and captured the kids and eventually brought them to Weihsien. With their teachers but no parents. So about 150 children who for four years were in this camp and the teachers had very sensibly taken with them books paper musical instruments. And of course one more thing. Brownie uniforms guide uniforms all the things they thought we are going to need this sort of thing to keep the kids occupied. In the Japanese camps there was very little food. Prisoners died of starvation. In Weihsien imprisoned monks would smuggle in eggs and then everybody would share them. And then they would also have the kids eat the ground up egg shells just to get some extra calcium. The log book Janie had found was the record kept by one of the Girl Guides' leaders. The leaders were called Brown Owls. This one was a woman in her 20s. And the tone of her writing was the exact same cheerful impervious to bad news tone that Dale's cookie adviser email thread had had. This is the entry from the day they were marched into the camp. Hello. What is this? Behind bars. Yes. It is Weihsien camp. Well I guess there is a good deal of fun to be got out of this. Just the place to earn some badges. According to the logbook the Brown Owl ran the troop as if it were any other Girl Guide unit concentration camp or not. They were all told it does not matter how disgusting the food is we still want good table manners. It does not matter how hungry you are you are not going to steal. You are still going to do a good deed every day and help other people. Obviously the grim sadness of life in a concentration camp should have overpowered this miniature world that the Brown Owls were trying to build for their young girls. But according to Janie that is not what happened. Instead it was the Girl Guides who started to exert an influence on the adults around them. They lead by example. It made a difference to all the adults in this camp and kept them going. The whole atmosphere was better because they had this very strong promise that they would not stop smiling. They would not give up. They would carry on singing songs. They would insist on everybody washing. This is the point where I wondered was this true? I did not think that anybody was necessarily lying to me. I just thought probably the Brown Owl had left the bad stuff out of her log book. I figured she would put the best possible spin on an awful situation. That is what Girl Guides do right? Oh the door's open. Oh hello. Come on in. Fortunately there is a woman who is still alive and remembers Weihsien. Her name is Mary Previte. She lives in New Jersey. I visit her with my producer Phia Bennin. What can I tell you? Oh by the way can I pour you some tea? I am so bad about this. I get so busy talking that-- Mary Previte is a small beautiful 82-year-old woman. She is also one of the happiest people I have ever met. I do not know if anybody I have interviewed has ever fully broken into song unprompted. Mary did-- seven times. Also unlike Leopold Mary has a phenomenal memory. She told me about the day that Japanese troops arrived at her boarding school. The day after Pearl Harbor was attacked the Japanese showed up on the doorstep of our school. They put seals with Japanese writing on everything-- the tables the chairs the pianos the desks. Everything belonged to the Great Emperor of Japan. And then they put arm bands on us. Everyone had to wear an arm band. A for American B for British whatever our nationality was. The girls were eventually transferred into Weihsien. Mary became a concentration camp Girl Guide. This was over 70 years ago. But when Mary talks about the camp she sounds like she is still there like she is 12 years old again. She said this story about the Brown Owls insisting on good table manners absolutely true. So you are eating some kind of glop out of a maybe boiled animal grain-- because  is a broomcorn that the Chinese feed to their animals-- was often what they fed us. And you are eating it out of a soap dish or a tin can. And here comes Miss Stark up behind us-- one of our teachers. Mary Taylor do not slouch over your food while you are eating. Do not talk while you have food in your mouth. And there are not two sets of manners one set of manners for the princesses in Buckingham Palace and another set of manners for the Weihsien concentration camp. Mary was separated from her parents unsure of when she would BE released surrounded by pack dogs and men with guns. She says that she spent a lot of her time just thinking about earning merit badges. In the winter it would get cold freezing. But no heat was provided to the prisoners by the guards. Instead Mary and her friends had to go collect leftover coal shavings from the guards' quarters. I remember now the ritual of going to Japanese quarters to get the coal dust and carry it back. Like making a new pencil from pencil shavings except the coal is heavy. And it had to be passed bucket by bucket in a line of Girl Guides. Then the shavings were mixed with dust and water and dried in the sun. It was long hard work. And then at the end of it you still had to go use that recycled coal in a pot-bellied stove and keep the stove lit so that everybody would be warm. It sounded horrible like a childhood from a Charles Dickens novel. Except Mary remembers it as being surprisingly fun a game she could win. I and my partner Marjorie Harrison we won the competition in our dormitory of which stove lighting team made the pot-bellied stove in the winter turn red hot more times than any other girl in the camp. Well you know here I am 82 years old and what do I choose to tell you? I won. The pot-belly turned red more times with me and Marjorie Harrison than any other girl in our dorm. When you describe it it sounds like you are describing summer camp instead of describing a concentration camp. Did it feel like summer camp? Did you ever-- Well I never was in a summer camp. So I cannot give you a-- no no no absolutely not. When you had guard dogs bayonet drills electrified wires barrier walls pill boxes with armed guards in them you were not in a summer camp. Do not misunderstand me. I am not saying this was Fun City. I am telling you we lived a miracle where grownups preserved our childhood. There is reference in the logbook to the trouble the adults were having keeping it together but you would have to know to look for it. A scout leader writes one entry that reads Dear me what a tragedy. Brown Owl had an attack of neuralgia. Let us hope he is better for our meeting. Neuralgia's a nerve disorder. But what that actually meant was that the Brown Owl was having a nervous breakdown. Years later Mary went and tracked down one of the grownups. I said Miss Carr what were you feeling when we were in a concentration camp? Well all the grownups in the camp knew about the rape of Nanking the atrocities that the soldiers had done when they came to the southern city of Nanking. Japanese soldiers went door to door systematically raping and killing tens of thousands of Chinese civilians. So they knew what could happen. The teachers knew what could happen. So I said to Miss Carr what were you feeling? She said well I would pray to God that when they lined us up along the death trenches-- and they were outside the camp-- when they lined us up to shoot us so our bodies would fall into the death pits that I would be one of the first so I did not have to see it. So there were two sets of prayers. At night the grownups many of them not much older than the kids themselves prayed grimly for a fast death. And then they woke up in the morning and they sang songs with the kids set the bouncy camp melodies. It was like you were not going to be afraid if you could sing about it. We would sing SINGING Day is done. Gone the sun from the sea from the hills from the sky. All is well safely rest. God is nigh. How could you be afraid when you are singing about all is well safely rest God is nigh? How could you be afraid of that? So we were constantly putting things into music. Often you know there was a little bit of a twist of fun to it. One of the songs that we sang was SINGING We might have been shipped to Timbuktu. We might have been shipped to Kalamazoo. It is not repatriation or is not yet stagnation. It is only concentration in Chefoo. There probably are not many places on earth where you have less reason to be cheerful than a concentration camp. But it turns out in a place like that being able to be cheerful to have a positive outlook it is not dopey or silly. It is how you survive. How you tell the story matters. For example one of the things that we sang when the Japanese were marching us into concentration camp was the first verse of Psalm 46. SINGING God is our refuge our refuge and our strength. And on it goes. In trouble we will not be afraid. All of these words just sung into our hearts. That sticks. It is like you have got a groove sticking in the gramophone record. I am safe. I am safe. I am safe. That was just profound. The first Chefoo brownies warded off despair for four years until finally on August 17 1945 they were rescued. It was a windy day. Mary remembers the American plane flying low over the camp. And the parachutes falling from the sky. All I knew was I was running to find whoever it was that was dropping out of the sky beyond the barrier walls. I am there in the hot sun. It is a blue sky. It is a brown slope. It is a browned earth. And the people went berserk. People running all over the place. People were crying screaming dancing. Somebody picks me up and then I wake up. Leopold says that the nightmare that used to haunt him is just his memory of that day of being a four-year-old lost and wandering around a riot of freed concentration camp survivors. Most of the people who are there on liberation day are now dead. One of the dormitories at Weihsien's a memorial but mostly this place exists as a footnote in some books on a website designed by a Belgian man and in the memories of the remaining survivors. It is a half disappeared world with a strong pull on the people who do still remember it. A couple weeks ago at the grocery store I watched a gang of Brownie Scouts rush down the pet food aisle. They had their uniforms on covered in merit badges for public speaking and backyard astronomy. They were happy and safe in their own world a million miles from Weihsien. I wondered if they knew what they might be capable of. PJ Vogt. He is the co-host of the podcast Reply All where this story came from and which I am a big fan of. You can subscribe to Reply All on iTunes or wherever you get your podcasts. On July 28 Reply All is going to be appearing in Cast Party which is a podcast festival broadcast live to movie theaters across the country. It also features Radiolab and Invisibilia. Info and tickets at castparty.org. Coming up Aziz Ansari thinks you do not know how to text. And when he makes the case I have to say I think you are going to believe him. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose a theme. We bring you different stories on that theme. Today's show Captain's Log stories where we take the unemotional facts in logs and records of various sorts and we look behind them at the much more emotional complicated stories that they are so stoically documenting. We have arrived at Act Two of our program Act Two Romancing the Phone. Recently my wife and I we were texting some things to each other that were so intense that at the end she suggested we just delete all of our texts that we had ever written to each other ever. And it was not like we thought that anybody else was going to see our texts. It is like we just did not want them to exist in this world any more. We wanted that history of our conversation to vanish forever from the face of the earth never think about it again. You know it is like text messages are this little history. It is like they are our logbook of our interactions with people. And of course usually they are not so emotional. Usually they are pretty terse which totally makes them perfect for today's program because their terseness behind it there can be a whole story. And recently a sociologist started to study this. This was not very traditional sociology. The sociologist Eric Klinenberg at NYU teamed up with a comedian Aziz Ansari to examine the texts that people send to each other right when they start dating. And they put out a book with her findings. It is called Modern Romance. And what they did they spoke to a few hundred people. Their research was conducted in focus groups like 10 to 20 people in a room in eight different cities. And then sometimes they would do a version of these focus groups on stage in front of audiences in New York and Los Angeles. What they would do is Aziz would get up and he would do a little stand up. And then he would introduce Eric like Eric was the next comic who was coming on stage. Ladies and gentlemen please welcome Mr. Eric Klinenberg. So Eric would come up and he would talk a little bit about previous work that he would done. And he would drop this statistic that in 1950 23 of American adults were single. And today about half of all adults are single. About half of all of adults are single. And I live in Manhattan. And in Manhattan one out of every two households has just one person. Several people in the audience go hmm. See I got a hmm Aziz. Those are like big laughs for sociologists when people are like whoo. Gasps. I imagine backstage at sociology conferences it is just like man I got so many gasps. Like did you hear how many gasps there were? You hear how many rumblings there were after I dropped that statistic? Those are good stats man. Those are great stats. Now what Eric and Aziz were interested in was exactly what it is that people say to each other when they want to ask somebody out on a date. So at these shows Aziz and Eric would ask people for their phones and then they would take their phones and they would read their text messages out loud to the crowd. Those texts that log that was the raw data for their research. And if you think about it from a research perspective texts are great because they are a real time record of what actually transpired which is way more reliable and accurate than asking people later on to recall what happened. One of our producers Jonathan Manjivar dove into that data and he now explains how those shows would go. A quick warning before he starts we are talking about dating. So there is nothing explicit in this story at all but we acknowledge the existence of sex. Now here's Jonathan. This particular focus groups slash comedy show was recorded at the Upright Citizens Brigade theater in New York. The room had been split up so that all the guys were on one side. The girls were on the other. And pretty quickly into the show Aziz asked for volunteers to come up on stage. He and Eric specifically wanted guys who had recently made first contact with a woman they were interested in. How had the guys made their initial approach? So four guys get up on stage. And then one by one they hand over their phones to Aziz. Pull up your text message exchange with these women. And what we want you to do is scroll to the very first message you sent to the women. Aziz starts reading texts. And the first guy he would been set up by his boss not over text but over email. The email was sent to both him and his potential date. And it just said Cocktails go get some. So this guy emailed the woman. You said Hey Jared that is his boss sure has a way of setting things up dot dot dot LOL. Would love to get a drink. When is it good for you early next week or following Thanksgiving? My number is blah blah blah by the way if that is an easier way of communicating. And then she texted you correct? A week later. A week-- a week later? Everyone's like  that  why'd you do that? So OK so she said Hey Zach exclamation. It is Collette Jared's friend. I am so so sorry. I completely lost track of your email and forgot to respond. But-- no one believes her. How many people do not believe that she really lost track? No hands go up. That is insane. There is not one person that believes that someone could lose track of something anymore. OK. So she said I am sorry. I lost track of your email and forgot to respond but I would love to grab a drink if you are free this week. So she wrote that on Friday at 1245. So the guy wrote back. Hey Collette dot dot dot. Would love to get a drink dot dot dot. Wednesday works well for me dot dot dot. How about you? Question mark. OK. OK so Aziz moves on to guy number two because what is about to happen is that we are going to hear all of their initial attempts. And then the women in the audience are going to vote on who did it best. Guy number two met a woman on the train one night. The next morning he sent the message. This is what he said. Hey Audrey. This is Joe. Nice meeting you real