Biba Struja was in high school in Serbia when he learned he was different from other people. . We talked about it through an interpreter. He was on the phone from Serbia. He said it was a rainy day. They were going in to weld gates and fences. And his friend touched the fence they were working on and got a shock. . He told me not to touch anything because there was electricity there. But I touched it with my bare hand and I did not feel anything. Nothing happened. Nothing happened. So he did not believe me that I did not feel anything that there was no electricity in the fence. So he touched it again but he was shocked again. Then another guy touches the fence and he was shocked. Biba sees this and he thinks oh it is a prank. They are pretending. . So I touched the fence with both hands again and I did not feel anything. And we started fighting. I did not believe them and they thought that I was lying. Biba has a genetic mutation where he does not sweat. That means his skin has a lot less water and so a higher resistance to electricity. He says he does not feel currents that would shock most of us. And scientists say yeah that might be possible. This super power does come with that huge downside of not sweating ever. Having a body that cannot cool itself is really really miserable.  From May until September I am a dead man basically. Because of the heat. . . Yes. I need to be next to an air conditioner all day or I need to be in a wet t-shirt or next to water or something. But the biggest problem with having a special talent like a high resistance to electricity is figuring out what exactly you do with that talent. You cannot just put on a costume and join the X-Men. Until the day that mankind is threatened by an alien race whose bodies are electric charges you really are not much use as a superhero. Biba's brother has the same genetic mutation and he decided to do nothing with it. He stayed on the family farm. But Biba was sure there must be a way to monetize this. So he went into show business created a little act doing electricity tricks like this one-- he sticks a fork in each end of a hot dog holds the hot dog in midair in front of his face one hand on each fork and then-- OK it is not clear exactly what is going on or whether you actually need a genetic mutation to do this trick but electricity is pumped through the forks and cooks the hot dog. . This is from a really good film that was made about Biba called Battery Man Biba saying am I the fastest grill or not? It just takes a minute or so to cook a hot dog this way. He toured around Europe doing this act mostly in discos he says sometimes on TV. It is not much of a living. He is got kids. So he supplements that with a job that also sounds like it is kind of a grind for him-- he does therapeutic massages with electricity up to 20 a day. . I have a certificate as an electrobiotherapist. In English anyway this word electrobiotherapist has the unusual distinction of producing not one hit when you Google it. Mostly you are probably getting the picture-- Biba's special talent does not seem to make him very happy. When we talked he complained about the injustice of being born in Serbia where people do not understand his special gift. In the movie about him he says sometimes his talent feels like a curse. But when I asked him about that he said we are all cursed. All of us on this planet are in some kind of jail doing time here. It just depends how long. It depends on the punishment you get how long you are on this planet. That is what having a talent like this does to you. You end up saying stuff like that. It seems sometimes like our entire culture is about glorifying people who have incredible special abilities. We have superhero films. We have magazine articles on inspiringly great musicians and writers then tech billionaires who invent whole new kinds of businesses. Today we are not going to be talking about those people. For once let us look at the less fortunate super-talented-- and by that I mean people who are gifted but gifted with skills that just do not help anyone that much. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today on our program My Undesirable Talent. Stay with us. Act one Climb Spree. So we begin today with a man whose special skill was in the criminal arts. Is that a phrase? Like I said that suddenly it felt very Hogwarts School. Anyway I am trying to say he had a real gift for committing crimes. Karen Duffin explains. Lou Bronfeld was a cop in San Francisco for 42 years. He spent 16 of those in the burglary unit. And when he talks about his most memorable cases there is the one where two teenagers stole koalas from the zoo to impress their girlfriends and there was a series of remarkable burglaries that all happened in the spring of 2002. They all fit the same pattern. The suspect would get into a variety of businesses at night via a skylight or the loft or the attic and then lowering themselves down in some of these businesses and would take the valuables and then raise themselves back up almost like right out of a James Bond movie. He appeared to be a career criminal often left no trace. Businesses sometimes did not even know they would been burglarized until they opened the safe or cash register. But it was not just his methods. It was the volume. Within a month he would pulled off dozens of burglaries. You know we are asking ourselves at work how is this guy pulling this off? He must be something. I mean he must be Spider-Man. They assigned more cops later at night to the neighborhood Spider-Man mostly hit. It took two months to catch him. But in those two months he would done 63 burglaries. Lou thinks it was the largest burglary count ever charged by the San Francisco DA's office. Spider-Man had done so much so unusually and in such little time the cops were anxious to finally meet him. They had a sense for who he would probably be. Really heavily addicted to a narcotic or he is criminally sophisticated maybe on parole with a lot of priors. We meet this guy and he did not fit any of that. The guy had no prior arrests did not appear criminally sophisticated at all-- rather a little naive. Lou says he was a gentleman-- quiet polite seemed relieved to have been caught. They had a hard time connecting the Spider-Man in their heads with the person in front of them which is a feeling I understand. Spider-Man is a friend of mine. During his crime spree we knew each other from church. I was Mormon at the time. He still is. The idea that the guy who sat next to me singing Choose the Right When a Choice Is Placed Before You was going out every night and lowering himself into stores on ropes? How did that make any sense at all? You were like last on the list of people I would peg for this you know? Yeah. Everyone was surprised. I was a missionary for my church just over a year before this or so. Like a year and a half before this. It was the furthest thing from everyone's mind. Yeah. I know everyone always says I did not see it coming. But nobody who knew him saw it coming. He is super capable in this effortless way-- cooking singing dancing sports. If he was not so nice it would be easy to hate him for it which is to say it just felt so unnecessary. He had so many ways to make money. Why would he steal it? He was so well dressed so perfectly put together that the one clue his best friend Juliann spotted that something might be wrong was this-- I noticed that he had dirt under his fingernails. And I asked him about it because it was very uncharacteristic of him. She was alarmed because he had dirt under his fingernails. At church people called him the guy with the Italian shoes. He is extremely detailed. He is more put together than most people feel like they need to be. Even when he was living in his car he would have his clothes dry-cleaned. He does not want to use his name here on the radio so we thought we would call him Peter Parker or maybe Peter Parkour since that is his MO. He proposed Peter Park. Sounds more Korean he said which he is. We decided to go with just Peter. Hey. Hi. I am on the second floor. OK cool. I have been friends with Peter for 15 years. And all that time my understanding of him has had this gap like a blurry patch on a photo when it comes to Spider-Man. There are so many things I have wondered and just never asked. Now I would finally get my chance. Hey. Hi. Hi! This is so beautiful! Thanks. We are in his apartment in San Francisco-- floor-to-ceiling windows open kitchen great neighborhood. He works in sales now makes good money has a girlfriend. Peter and I talked for hours. And even before this conversation I knew he became Spider-Man because he had a gambling problem and wanted money for it. But I had no idea how extreme his gambling was. A week before he left for college he lost his entire college fund thousands of dollars. In his early 20s he was going to the casino almost every day losing every last penny. My whole mindset was what am I gonna eat? How will I pay my rent? Can I still put gas in the car to get to the casino? That became a baseline necessity for me. Food water gambling. Food water gambling. And food and water went away. At least I still had gambling. If shelter went away at least I would still have gambling. That honestly became the center and the focus of my life. Of course lots of people have gambling problems and lots of people resort to stealing to feed that addiction. But lots of people do not embark on crime sprees so spectacular the cops give them a superhero nickname. Peter explains what happened this way-- he found himself penniless and weeks behind on rent. One night he was closing up at the health club where he worked and he went to transfer the cash to the safe like every night. But that night he thought oh I could just borrow this gamble it win enough to pay back my landlord and then replace it by morning. And so I took it out before I put the money in the safe and took 200 to the casino and promptly lost it. So that night I walked out of the casino thinking am I going to jail? For taking the 200. That was a big turning point. So I was driving home probably around 200 AM. The bridge was really empty and I am thinking do I jump off the bridge and just end this now? Or can I figure out a way of scraping together 200? How can I do that? So I started-- I do not know how the idea entered my head. But Mission Impossible came to mind the scene of Tom Cruise entering from the rooftop and being lowered down on some ropes. And then he remembered this concession stand at his school the City College of San Francisco. He would bought snacks there. It is remote probably easy to break into. He also remembered that when he worked at a restaurant they did not lock the safe. He hoped the concession stand did not either. And so I went home got dressed in dark clothes grabbed mittens because I did not have any gloves. So I was wearing these-- basically like snowboarding mittens. Like without fingers? No fingers. No fingers. Just mittens. Are you nervous? Are you excited? Are you scared? Oh I am incredibly nervous. Never done anything like this. This idea has never crossed my mind to do anything of this nature. Honestly I have not been back here since that burglary. Really? Yeah. Wow. We are driving up to the concession stand. We are looking down into the stadium. And so just ahead of us now is this concession stand. We can probably just pull over right in front of this thing. It is a one-story building maybe 15 by 15 fully concrete with a rolling window in front where vendors hand out hot dogs and beers during games. And I had always been a really good climber climbed tons of trees as a kid and always loved climbing things. So I thought I can probably find a way to climb on top of this building. He did. He found a hatch on top like a skylight but it is steel. He turned the handle. It was unlocked. He opened it and he dropped 10 feet into the darkness. No rope just jumped. Had no idea what he was dropping into. He would never been in there before. Pretty soon bingo. There was the safe. And it was open. And there was 5500 in cash and coins. And so I bundled it all up and I took the sweater off that I had brought. I had not brought a backpack with me. Poor planning. Took my mittens off so that I could actually grab all the money bundled all of the money up in the sweater that I kind of tied the sleeves of the sweater together. And my heart was pumping out of my chest. He climbed on a table and out the hatch drove straight back to his work put the 200 he would stolen earlier that night into the safe and went home. What is going through your head as you lay down to sleep that night with 5500 in your bundled-up sweater? I was really excited. I mean I would figured out a way of doing this. Also thinking that is the only time that I am going to do this because now I will go back to the casino and I will win all kinds of money. And I will just be able to probably not even gamble again. It kind of felt I guess at that moment like all of my problems had been solved. This plan of course is crazy. When he took the money to the casino it did not turn into permanent financial stability. He lost it all of it. But now he had a way to get it back. Now this door had been opened and I knew that I could do this thing to get money. And with this thought everything changed. The transformation from being one of us to being Spider-Man was as simple as he stumbled onto something that worked. And once he found it he did not let it go. He started looking at the city with different eyes. I was now being more observant as I was driving around the city. I would just take a look at the one-story shops. Places he could easily climb on top of. Like in the next five or so blocks I did a bunch of burglaries. We are in the Sunset District. And I knew how many places he would robbed but seeing him point to one after another after another kind of blew my mind made the scale of it seem so much bigger-- a flower shop a burger joint a comic book store a kickboxing gym he climbed into through the skylight. Yeah I just imagined all of the students being very angry and coming and kicking my butt with Thai kickboxing. Further down the block he points to a series of buildings. One of these places I had to jump across an alleyway from one building to the other. Almost every news article mentioned that one. They say he leapt 10 feet between the two buildings. And on the side of one of those buildings-- I was hanging onto a pipe with one hand and then trying to climb in through these really thin windows that could probably not support my weight. And I thought I would probably fall and die. He is pointing at places I have been to in a neighborhood where I used to live including a cafe we used to go to together. I had no idea he would stolen something from that place. Somehow that never came up. At the Noriega Produce Market just a few blocks away-- I actually took a break in the middle of this burglary to eat an ice cream bar. I guess I had gotten so comfortable at this point where I am like union break right in the middle of this thing. But they wrote it in actually. Yeah they wrote it into the police report that I had taken an ice cream bar. Peter's police report says that quote The manner in which the crimes were carried out indicates planning and sophistication. But if you ask Peter his primary method was winging it. He wore whatever he had on did not case the interiors of the store in advance-- just chose a place and figured out how to break in. He assembled a backpack of misfit tools he would picked up at random-- garden hose a carjack a meat cleaver he used to cut through walls. Was there any part of it that was also exciting? Like fun? Like you are good at this. It was not honestly. What I remember about that time in my life is fear constant fear. And I did not want to have to wake up to do these. Again every time I did this it was feeling like I do not want to do this again. This is the last time. This is it. I am done. I am done. He built himself a double life-- worked at the health club during the day church on Sundays with us friends on weekends and an alarm set for 100 or 200 AM almost every night when he would become Spider-Man. If he found money he would come home shower and go straight to the casino immediately. If he did not he would go back to bed and sleep all day. As his friend it was hard to hear that he would trapped himself in this terrible life. He says he did not see it. I do not recall taking a step back and just asking myself what the heck are you doing? How is that possible? Like how is it possible that at no point were you like what am I doing? That is a good question. I am not really sure. What I know is I did not want to look at it honestly. I think that was such a frightening thought to even look into that chasm because there was not another option. It was just keep doing this and do as many of these as you have to get some money so that you can go back to the casino. And this time maybe you can win enough money so that you can stop doing this. But there were so many other options actually. No it is true. I think I wanted the easiest way possible. I mean I certainly wanted to take the path of least resistance. But do you hear what you are saying? Because the path of least resistance does not include climbing through skylights. That is not the path of least resistance. That is true. It took a lot to get me there. That was not something that I just wanted to go do. But once I was there that became the path of least resistance. It became like a job but not a good job. He got injured all the time. That is Hotei. Oh this is the old Japanese restaurant. Yeah. That is the Japanese restaurant right there. One night he got into this restaurant with another ad-libbed tool. He cut the cord off a vacuum cleaner he found tied it to the roof and used it to climb down through the skylight. He landed on the floor looked out the window and saw a police car. So there are two really large windows in the front of the restaurant. Those are huge windows. This is not just like oh if you peeked out the window-- and the restaurant is not big either. So you are screwed. He crawls to the register gets the cash. Worried he is tripped a silent alarm he tries climbing back up but loses his grip and falls 10 feet breaking a table and some chairs. His only option now is the front door. And so I walk over to the front door. I unlock it and open it up. I take a step out the door. And to my left there is a police officer. Immediately I just reach into the pocket of my jeans pull out my keys and act like I am locking the door. And I say hey good evening officer. And then I walk down the street. As he told me these stories I could see why Peter would be good at this-- the guy who thinks quickly on his feet cool under pressure intuitive. That night he went to his best friend Juliann's house the one who'd notice the dirt under his fingernails. I showed up at her house limping and hunched over and just told her I just need to sleep on your couch. And so she knew there was something going on. She just did not know what it was. And I was not about to tell anyone what I was doing. Did you want to? I did not. I did not want anyone to know. He did not want anyone to know for all the obvious reasons. He was ashamed. But also he told me he was used to pretending he was in control to pretending he was like everyone else. Peter was adopted from Korea into a tiny town in Iowa mostly white raised by white parents. Honestly I would forget that I was Korean until someone would point it out and just kind of snap me back into reality sometimes. It left him always feeling like an outsider. He put on the Italian shoes kept his feelings to himself and hoped no one would notice he was different. And this is the thing that struck me talking to him about all this. At church we were all so impressed by how composed Peter was how well put together without realizing it was because he was trying so hard to be composed and well put together. Peter was a really great thief in some ways and a really dumb one in others. He never stopped to think five dozen burglaries in a row in the same neighborhood during the same hours every day-- would not the cops catch on? They did and caught him. He confessed everything immediately. He served some time came out. And now of course we all knew he was Spider-Man and we rallied around him and rooted for him as he built this new life and went to meetings for his gambling addiction. He was more involved in church than ever. But within a year secretly he started going back to the casino. He started stealing again. And this time he really started to unravel. Any kind of stealing is pretty tawdry. But because Peter never saw his victims face-to-face the crime felt a little abstract like robbing a business and not a person. But one afternoon he finally committed a crime where he could not ignore how ugly it was. After a failed burglary the night before he drove around looking for something to swipe in broad daylight. He hoped to find a stray purse or wallet but he could not. So when he spotted a young woman walking down the sidewalk with a purse he made a decision. And so I started walking up behind her. And the sun was shining towards us. So she could not see my shadow as I came up behind her. And I was just walking quickly to try and catch up with her the whole time just kind of having this inward battle where I was getting close and then I slowed down a little bit and then speeding up. And so finally I just walked up right behind her. And it is almost as though the second before I touched her purse it is almost as though I was not in my body when this happened. And I observed this from another angle. He grabbed the purse and to his horror she would not let go. So he spun her around and she fell to the ground and he ran off with her purse. This is really awful. The fact that I victimized another human being it is still such a source of shame. The next day he tried to steal another purse from a table at Canvas Cafe the restaurant that he and I used to go to together sometimes. He was arrested and thrown into jail a second time. While Peter was behind bars the guards had heard all about his escapades. They were a little enamored of him. So they took him to an empty corner of the jail one day and dropped a rope down from the ceiling. They wanted to see Spider-Man climb. He was in he says the best shape of his life was doing hundreds of pull-ups and sit-ups every day. But I could not climb up this rope. And it shocked me actually. It shocked me based on how strong I was at that point that I could not do something that simple when I had climbed much much more than that. When I asked him what he thought the difference was he said desperation. Sheer desperation. That is how he was able to climb up and down ropes and into buildings. That is how Peter became Spider-Man. Karen Duffin is one of the producers of our program. Her friend Peter by the way got heavy-duty treatment for his addiction. He has not gambled since 2004. Coming up discovering you can out-Eddie-Murphy Eddie Murphy. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's program My Undesirable Talent stories of people who find they have a special skill that has some upsides but in the end vexingly more bad than good. We have arrived at Act Two of our program. Act Two Uganda Be Kidding Me. So in this act as in the first act we have another guy who tried something once kind of almost by accident sort of stumbled onto his special skill and then ran with it for a while until the problems with it became clear. Neil Drumming explains. This story begins when Zora Bikangaga is about to start at a new college. My roommate emailed me first because he was really eager to get to know me. And the first question he asked was your name is awesome man. Zora Bikangaga. Where does it come from? Uganda. Zora's parents are Ugandan. Zora was born in Fresno. It was the summer before he transferred into Westmont College a small Christian liberal arts school in Santa Barbara. Zora was sitting around with his high school buddies talking about this enthusiastic email he had received. The guy was apparently very excited to meet someone like Zora. Zora's friends who'd known him for years found this hilarious. They were like dude he probably thinks you are an international student or something. You know? Zora Bikangaga. Who has a name like that? You should totally act like you are from Africa. And so he called me. I answered the phone. AFRICAN ACCENT Hello? Reed! Reed Stoker? You are my roommate huh? The accent was sort of a hybrid of Zora's dad and Eddie Murphy in Coming to America Zora's favorite movie. Up until then Zora had only used it to toy with waiters and crack his friends up. It was a joke. Quick comparison-- here's Eddie Murphy. Hello. I am Akeem. I am a student. And now here's Zora. AFRICAN ACCENT Hello? Reed! Anyway back to our story. Wow this is crazy. This dude is straight out of Africa. This is Zora's roommate. His name is Reed. Even now he is pretty stoked when he remembers the call. I was like check this guy's accent. He is like some prince of some lake region. So I was excited that I got a very unique roommate to go alongside of my general excitement for going away to college. Zora could have shown up on the first day of school speaking in his regular voice. But his friends back home wanted to see if he could fool Reed face-to-face. For that he would need more than an accent. I had this shirt on that I got in Uganda. It was a very traditional vibrant print shirt that I got in Kampala. And I was like all right. I am gonna wear this shirt and these sandals that I got in Africa to look the part. He figured he would mess with the guy for a few minutes at the most. But when Zara got to the dorm Reed was not alone. He was there with his dad and his little sister this white family from Orange County. And immediately they were so warm to me and so friendly. And I remember his little sister was 13 or 14 at the time. And she was so interested in Uganda. And she was so endearing and fascinated by my background. I had never had someone react to me in that way. Zora pulled from his parents' experiences and his limited knowledge of Africa to dazzle Reed's family with descriptions of tribes and exotic animals. Again it could have stopped there. But it was the first day of school and there were a lot of people who wanted to meet him. Everyone's around you. My RA came in. The neighbors came in. We were meeting so many people to where I did not have time to drop the character. It snowballed. Zora stayed in character. He met a bunch of people all of whom seemed delighted to get to know him. He was enjoying the warm reception so much that he felt a pang of regret when he was introduced to two Kenyan students actual African students. He knew the game was over. And I was like all right. This is it. I was introduced to them. And they are like oh man you are from Uganda. I went to Kampala. And we started to talk about Nairobi. And I know about Nairobi because my mom lived there as a teenager. She actually went to school there. And I spoke a little Swahili. And they knew a little bit of Luganda which is not even my parents' language but it is the main language in Uganda. And I guess I knew enough about Uganda to the point where it is like yeah. They were like all right. Yeah he is from-- OK. He is from Uganda. And I look like I am from Uganda. That is when it got real to me. And I was like these two guys think that I am from Uganda these two Kenyans. This is a real thing. I can do this for a long time. Actually I could probably get away with this forever. Zora was thrilled and also a bit terrified by his new superpower. He was part Storm part Mystique but a dude. He needed to talk to the only people who knew his secret identity. The first thing I did was I called my best friends back home. And I was like they bought it. And they are like oh that is hilarious! And I was like no no no no no no no no. You do not understand. Everyone thinks that I am this guy. I was kind of freaking out on the phone with them. And they were like no this is-- they thought it was so funny. And I was like no you do not understand. This is a small school. And the orientation leaders think that I am this guy. I met like a couple professors. You do not understand. And they are like you got to keep going with this. You can be a completely different person. You can have so much fun with this. Do you understand what you have done? You have got to see how long you can do it. This is not good advice. These are your good friends? Yeah. Yeah I mean these were guys that I grew up with that I was close with. But again they were 18. I mean I saw the fun in it. Did I want to have the same experience as I did in high school? No of course not. High school was rough. It was rough for me. Zora spent most of his childhood in a small very white town in wine country northern California called Healdsburg. His father was a cardiovascular surgeon. And Healdsburg was exactly the kind of place where you would expect the son of a successful doctor to blend in and thrive. Zora spoke like the other kids in the neighborhood. He played like the other kids in the neighborhood. He just did not look like the other kids in the neighborhood. And then there was one other black kid in the town that was adopted Ben Jackson. And he had one arm. We always used to joke that I was the black kid with two arms and he was the black kid with one arm like we did not have a name. You know? It was like what up one arm? What up two arms? That kind of thing. I felt bad for him. As one of the few black kids around Zora stomached his share of snubs. He was called colorful names like porch monkey coon and spear chucker. Oh and . Once a playmate refused to let him use his bathroom for fear his skin color would rub off in the toilet. These slights baffled Zora because for the most part he did not see himself as being different from his friends. And because he never talked to his parents about this stuff it sometimes weirdly fell to his white friends to explain to him exactly what the hell was going on. Like that time in middle school when he was hanging out with his buddies at a neighborhood store and the clerk made Zora-- only Zora-- empty his pockets to see if he was stealing. My best friend at the time was like I cannot believe he did that because you are black. And it dawned on me-- that was because I was black. I really did not see myself as different than everyone else in that way. And it was just moments like that that was like you are black. You are black. You are black. In high school Zora hit it off with a white girl but the romance was over before it started. She told her dad that she liked me or whatever. And her dad said if you go out with him do not ever bother coming back home. And I was like wait she would be disowned for talking to me? I am just like my friend Brian. If she went out with my friend Brian it would have been fine. Zora went from being frustrated by all the indignities and exclusion to being guarded and distrustful of most people. Personality-wise I am naturally very extroverted. But I had to put this barrier around me I think. I mean not that I was losing my temper all the time or anything like that. But I was more closed off for sure. Zora was not happy with this unhappy person he would become. So when he got to Westmont and the opportunity arose to become yet another new person someone who drew others to him rather than repulsing them Zora seized it. I could be extroverted. I could be open and friendly and talk to a lot of different kinds of people and be gregarious and funny make people laugh. And people loved this guy. And as it went along I felt conflicted about it. But I was also kind of like this guy is me. There is a part of me in this guy in that whatever people love about this guy they love me. The way that I say my name in American English would be Zora Beacon-gaga or Zora Be-con-gaga. But the way that I would say my full name would be AFRICAN ACCENT Zora Bikangaga or Muzora Bikangaga which is the full name. Muzora Bikangaga. I remember seeing him walk into campus. And I was like yes! Because we always feel that way. Yes another black person! A black guy! That is awesome! This is Angie. She says every