Well it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. And I am joined in the studio right now by one of our producers Sean Cole. Hey there Sean. Hello Ira. So Sean where do we start? With Run the Jewels. Do you know Run the Jewels? Little bit. They are so good. It is a rap group. It is two guys really-- Killer Mike and El-P. And this is from their latest record.  Look like a man but I am animal raw. We are the murderous pair that went to jail and we murdered the murderers there. So one day I was looking around for videos of them on YouTube. And there is a lot of videos of them being interviewed and most of them are like this. We make some  that is going to make you want to  tear the rafters out of the building. And then there is this one that is different. So just to say what we are looking at. They are sitting in a house together quietly. And we are Run the Jewels. We are. Looking directly into the web camera and answering the advice questions of teenage girls. This question is from Blue and she is 13 and from Seattle. She says I think I might be in love with one of my close friends. How do I know if I am in love with him or just naive? It is a good question. I will be honest Blue. To be in love period makes you feel kind of naive. You never know. There is no manual that says hey I am in love and I am going to tell you-- It is 17 minutes long and I was spellbound. Within the first minute and a half El-P realizes he is still wearing his sunglasses and takes them off all of the sudden out of politeness. But at about 12 13 years old you probably definitely have some of your first loves. I am not going to say you are not in love. I am probably gonna say you probably are. But I am probably going to warn you that if you are in love it is supposed to make you feel better and want to do better. It is not supposed to make you feel bad. So if any love starts to feel bad definitely pull away from it. So this video was part of a series that was originally called Ask a Grown Man which is done by the online magazine Rookie which is mainly aimed at teen and tween girls. I have to say I know this series well. Full disclosure my wife worked for Rookie a few years ago. In the Run the Jewels video all the questions are about love and relationships. This one girl for example she is 16 years old. Priscilla in Colorado Springs. She says she is never been in a relationship and never been kissed in fact. I am worried that this means men are not attracted to me and that I will end up an old cat lady. That is pretty funny Priscilla. You are already good because you are funny. And so then she gets to her question which is should I tell whoever I end up kissing for the first time that I have never done this before? And Run the Jewels says yeah that is probably the best idea. And then Killer Mike says-- I would be honored to be your first kiss. And El-P just looks at him like the hell? If we were your age. Yeah if we were your age. If you are lucky enough. Should be specified. Yes. I mean just seeing Run the Jewels do this-- or sometimes very famous TV people Jimmy Fallon or Paul Rudd. Ad-Rock does one from the Beastie Boys-- leaving their public persona and doing what is a very sincere thing actually trying to be helpful to a kid that they do not know in real time. There is almost never any edits to them. And then some of the questions are kind of hard and often they come up with really good answers. And case in point. At the end of the Run the Jewels video there is this one question which is just-- I think I would be nervous answering it. So we are on the last one now. Oh no. This is a real one. Yeah OK. Go for it. I have had a huge crush on an amazing guy for quite a while but it is problematic because he is in his mid-20s. Makes me feel really special but I think he has this effect on everyone. Do you have advice for a question on older people? And this is from G who is 14 and in London. And then Mike sort of pauses for a second and then pointedly looks at the camera. That is too big of an age gap. And that is not saying that you are not capable of loving someone. That is not saying you will not love older people when you get older. But at 14 years old your priorities and world perspective is not at the same place a person in their mid-20s is. You should always do things for the next few years that are age-appropriate. Between 14 and 18 years old-- And even then Mike has the wherewithal to affirm how this girl feels. I cannot tell you your feelings for someone are wrong because feelings are just feelings. You cannot control them. But if you or this person ever acted on those feelings it would put the person that you like behind bars. And it would probably put you emotionally in a place that you do not deserve to be just because you have not matured to the level that you are going to one day. One thing that is interesting to think about who else could this 14-year-old turn to for advice on this subject? I mean I guess her friends right? Though they are not going to know much more about this than she does. And it is not something that you would want to ask your parents right? Like hey I am in love with a 25-year-old. Is it OK if I date him? I mean it is just like-- Yeah. You know where is that is going to go. It would go to you are grounded for the next 13 years. This is a situation that needs somebody who is wiser than you are and sympathetic to you. It needs a grown-up. I think that is actually the best way to say it. It needs a grown-up. Somebody mature and thoughtful and nice. Well from WBEZ Chicago our program today is about situations like this one where you need to step back from the chaos and drama of your troubles and feelings and call in somebody to get perspective-- situations where you call in an adult. We have all kinds of stories this hour including an enemy of the people trying to make peace with some of the people. Stay with us. Act One Are You There Ad-Rock? It is Me Margaret. So here are some of those videos where I am beeping a couple words in this story here in the internet version of the show. There is a beeped version on our website if you prefer that. It is really interesting seeing the variety of questions and answers on the Ask A Grown Man series partly because the drama the kids are going through is just interesting in and of itself and partly like we said because you see the famous people in such a different light. Here's Sean again. You see them in a different light literally in some cases. They are usually on hazy laptop cameras. The sound is terrible. One morning someone came into my office here at the show and thought I was Skyping with Seth Rogen. Hi! Oop there is someone behind me. There is people everywhere. There is a head right here-- And this is not the point of the series but often you find yourself even more endeared to the guys in the videos. And one thing that comes up over and over is they are not sure they are worthy of the designation grown man. Run the Jewels said as much. Being grown is debatable. And Stephen Colbert. I am honored to be considered a grown man. These two guys from Vampire Weekend. Ezra do you feel like a grown man? Not today. Not particularly. And occasionally they do not say they are not grown up as much as just provide evidence to the fact. Hi I am Hannibal Buress. This is Ask a Grown Man. I just figured out how to use the Effects button so I am going to have this whole video in the Mirror effect and I do not care what you think about it. I got a s-- oh no. Oh man. I got two heads. Rahh! I mean look we are dealing with comedians and musicians. They are not maybe the greatest grown men. Tavi Gevinson is the creator and editor-in-chief of Rookie Mag. Ask a Grown Man was her idea which is ironic because Tavi was pretty much a grown-up even when she was a kid. Rookie Mag grew out of her fashion blog Style Rookie which she founded when she was 11. And it got a huge amount of attention. Pretty soon she was being flown around the world to fashion shows written about in the press. And then after founding Rookie Mag at 15 she remembered this advice column she had read in her back issues of Sassy magazine called Dear Boy. And she thought why do not we do something like that? Though it is not really a series she would naturally gravitate toward herself. At least when I was younger I did not really want advice from adults because I was so stubborn and defensive and was like you could never possibly understand what I am going through. But sometimes adults have really valuable advice. And if it is kind of presented to you by someone who you think is cool you are like OK I will take the good advice. There is something really special too about like-- I think in one of the Sassy columns I think a girl wrote in about a guy who was mean to her and Thurston Moore was like tell him I am going to kick his ass. Thurston more from Sonic Youth. And it is like if someone who you think is really cool says like I am on your team that stays with you. Rookie's posted more than 50 of these videos now and not all of them with men. There is also Ask a Grown Woman which many times is aimed at queer readers. So there are videos from entertainers like Tig Notaro Cameron Esposito Tegan and Sara and some straight women too. These days they just refer to the series as Ask a Grown. But the thing about the grown men videos is that you have got these much older celebrities who suddenly magically become proxies for teen boys-- the sullen awkward often confusing boys that Rookie readers are dealing with at school every day. Every grown-up answers four or five questions give or take sent in ahead of time. And a good number of them boil down to some version of so he said this and I said this and he said this and did this and I said this and he did this. Does he like me? Here's a question that was posed to Tunde Adebimpe from the band TV On the Radio. My best friend made me a mixtape and about 99 of the songs on it are love songs. Is he trying to hint that he has feelings for me? Well if he actually made you a cassette tape and played songs and recorded them onto an actual physical cassette tape then he is absolutely and completely in love with you because who does that? So that is an easy answer. But some of the does he like me? questions are harder-- occasionally in a zen koan-ish kind of way. Does the amount of kisses on the end of a text show how much a guy likes you? This is BJ Novak from The Office and a bunch of other stuff. I have been texting a boy I like for about three months and he sends five to seven kisses even though I always send four. OK. If you have been texting for about three months and you still have no idea how either of you feels about the other that is a sign that texting is not telling you very much information. If three months go by six months go by a year goes by and you are still wondering what the other person thinks it does show you that maybe you can inch towards more direct communication even if it is over text. So your actual question five to seven kisses you always send four. Who knows? Sometimes people overcompensate. So if he does not like you that way maybe he is trying to be very affectionate to balance things out. Always think of the opposite reason that a thing can be happening because often that is how humans work. I feel like this is when the series works best-- when it acts as a kind of handbook for human behavior handed from an adult to a kid. The idea that sometimes people behave in the opposite way from what they are feeling-- when you are a grown-up that seems like something you always knew. But of course there was a time when you did not when just being alive every day felt like being in a country where you did not speak the language especially regarding the opposite sex. I feel crazy saying this-- Again Tavi Gevinson. --because I am like oh my god why does it sound like I grew up in a box where I was not allowed to ever have contact with another boy or something? But I really do think if I think really hard back to middle school and high school even-- High school which for Tavi was about three years ago. --it did feel like I needed a translator for what those guys were thinking. Like a girl's like why is this guy teasing me? And an adult man will be like because he likes you. And a guy her own age will be like because you are stupid. Because it makes sense. Apart from that does he like me? line of questioning you can organize most of the other love-related questions into just a handful of subcategories. There are a bunch of questions about kissing. Do you think it is possible to kiss someone and remain just friends? How do you go about kissing someone for the first time anyway? Still a good question. And there is the subcategory of how do I meet people that I find attractive? And sub-subcategory once I do what is my move? How do you flirt with a really shy boy? This is Jimmy Fallon. Perfect person to ask. I have flirted with so many shy boys growing up. Do not be too aggressive. Maybe he is shy because he thinks that you are going to hurt him in the end or you are going to embarrass him in front of his friends or something. Then there is the troubling subcategory of I feel like I am too shorttallfatunattractive in some way. How will I get boys to like me? And of course all the grown men are reassuring and say attractiveness is subjective. Wildly subjective. You are beautiful the way you are. I think everybody's beautiful. All the things you would expect them to say. But then there is this one moment in the video with Thom Yorke and Nigel Godrich of Radiohead that is really the platonic version of the answer you would want. A girl asks about a scar she has in the middle of her chest. She had surgery. And she says I am afraid that no one will find me attractive and they will think it is ugly. And Thom Yorke points out one of his eyes. This does not work properly. When I was born I had several operations because I was born with this one completely shut. And now it sort of opens but when I do this I cannot-- so. It is wonky. It does not work the same way. When I was your age I was convinced that girls would think that was really not very nice at all. That is all right. That is fine. And I worked in this pub and this old woman she was so funny. She used to come in all the time. She was the first person who really said to me it is the nicest thing about you. So you would be surprised. She was a sage. She spoke the truth. She did actually. A bit. So everyone is imperfect. No one has a symmetrical face. No one's body is perfect. Do not worry. Not all of the grown men do this good a job. Tavi told me every now and they have had to edit out someone saying eh none of this will matter in a couple of years. You are just a kid. What do you know? And then occasionally the guys just do not know what to say or they say something kind of questionable. Ruby from England wrote in to ask why porn is so degrading to women and Seth Rogen said well a lot of it is degrading to women. But I think there is a lot of pornography that I would say is on the more romantic side of things on the grand scale of pornography. If what you are looking for is that I would suggest browsing the female-friendly categories of the free porn websites on the internet. Female-friendly. Yeah I would say that is not a good answer. Probably the most confident question answerers are the dads like Killer Mike from Run the Jewels. Also Judd Apatow Terry Crews Stephen Colbert. This question clearly pushed a couple of buttons for Colbert. My dad will not let me sleep at my boyfriend's house and there is no real reason for that. I assume it is because he is very close-minded about sex but when I try to discuss it with him he gets very angry and refuses to talk about it. I have been with my boyfriend for a year and my whole family approves of him. What do you think is the best way to talk to a dad like this to convince him to let me sleep at my boyfriend's house? Eve age 19. Eve I am going to disappoint you here. He might have his own reasons so give your father that much credit. I do not know your dad. I do not know what his reasons are. One reason could be that while he may not actually be close-minded about sex-- after all you exist so he is fairly open-minded about it-- but he may think that sex and a relationship are not the same thing. And he might be someone who is traditional and wants you to be married or even be older before he is comfortable with you having a physical relationship with a boy or a girl. When you try to discuss it with him he gets very angry and refuses to talk about it. Well I mean maybe he is embarrassed to talk about sex with his daughter because it is a very intimate thing. And that is not unusual. Your dad's not off the reservation here. And I realize I just made a reference to reservations which is probably insensitive to Native Americans. OK. Yeah I do think the best ones are when they are dads so their angle is more paternal. Well it is like these girls are like almost proxies. The same way that the men are like proxies for the boys that they are having to deal with these girls are like proxies for their daughters practically. Ugh. Yeah. No you are right. It made it all sound really creepy but you are right. And then there is what might be the most moving moment in the Ask a Grown videos which is not from one of the guys nor is it about boy trouble. And it also makes you realize that the distance between what the teens are going through and what the grown-ups are going through is not always so vast. This girl wrote in and said my mom recently passed away and I feel like I cannot imagine someone ever loving me as much as she did and now I have lost that. I keep wondering when someone dies where does that love go? I just feel completely alone and unloved which is horrible because I used to be reminded every day that someone loves me. And Tig Notaro has-- a lot of her work has been about coping with her mom's death and so we sent her that question as some of the ones she could choose from. Everything seems pointless because the only person who had real love for me is gone and I did not make the most of it when I could. Is there any way to come to terms with that? Signed The Letter C. The Letter C first of all I am very sorry about your mother. As far as your mother being the only person that truly loved you I am certain other people in your life love you tremendously and that is where the love can go. And a really great gift to give your mother is to truly spend time with good people around you and cherish the time you have with them and appreciate who they are and what they are in your life. That is a really great gift to you your mother and other people. So being present and aware of your time with people-- that is really where the love can go. That is what I am doing and it is helpful. I hope this has been helpful. Thankfully the girl who asked that question actually found Tig's video and watched it and she commented on the website. If you go to the page you can read it. She said in part I sent that question to Rookie about my mother a few months ago. I eagerly and perhaps naively clicked upon every Ask article that appeared expecting an answer or just an indication that I had been heard. After a bit my enthusiasm began to wane as my question was not featured. I completely forgot about it in fact until this video. I am now shaking and crying. The mere fact that someone has replied is amazing but the enormous deal that Tig Notaro has answered is fucking mind-blowing. I have been through so much shit and been stuck in this tiny bubble of despair and self-hatred feeling so small and weak and the fact that someone cares is crazy and has kind of taken me out of that. So I would just like to say a major thank you from the bottom of my heart. You have no idea how much you have helped me. Sean Cole is one of the producers of our program. Rookie is starting a podcast next month. If you have a teenage girl in your life or you are a teenage girl I have to say Rookie is amazing. rookiemag.com. The other Ask a Grown videos are there. I made one by the way years ago. It was explained to me that I was not so well-known to the teenage readers and could I make animal balloons to keep the interest level up. So that is there. Act Two Enemy of the People vs. The People. It is a sign of adulthood that you are actually a functioning normal adult to find yourself asking questions like what am I doing wrong? Why are you so upset with me? Small children do not ask these questions. These questions are for adults. They are hard and often you are not going to like the answers. In this next story a grown-up turns to other grown-ups with just these questions. Here's David Kestenbaum. Mike Wilson is the editor of the Dallas Morning News the newspaper and about six months ago he started to make a pretty serious effort to try to talk to the people who hate his guts. They were easy to find. Right outside his window holding signs. They said things like boycott Dallas Morning News sort of chanting and obviously upset with us. Had that ever happened before? Oh no. No. The protesters were angry at the paper because the editorial board had just endorsed Hillary Clinton which was the first time the paper had endorsed a Democrat for president in oh quite a while. Yes. It was at least since the Roosevelt administration. Like 75 years or something. Yes. Some papers the readers are largely Democrat or largely Republican. But the Dallas Morning News there is a split in a pretty serious way. Readers in Dallas tend to be Democrats but the surrounding region is very red very conservative. And apparently now pretty angry with the newspaper. So I went and got on the elevator and walked out there and introduced myself. And I was curious. I wanted to know what would they say about what we would written and would they be interested in hearing any of my point of view about it? The answer? Sort of. He walked up to the crowd introduced himself said he was the editor of the paper. There was shouting then talking. It was civil. It ended with selfies with the editor. Then Mike came back inside and they kept protesting. Things did not get any better after the election. In fact Mike began to worry that some readers were losing faith in the paper. They were not just upset with the editorial stance. They were upset with the day-to-day journalism. Around this time President Trump was tweeting things like the fake news media is going crazy with their conspiracy theories and blind hatred. And he called the media the enemy of the people. So in response Mike wrote a column which was lighthearted in parts but also pointed. Quote in my job I oversee about 250 enemies of the people. We have enemies of the people who make maps cover high school baseball send tweets about the Cowboys assign book reviews critique restaurants track North Texas home prices and write profiles of tech entrepreneurs. One enemy of the people spends his days talking to grieving families and carefully crafting stories of the dead. Email responses poured in like this one. Please pass the tissue so I can wipe away the tears for the media. President Trump was obviously specifically referring to the political reporting from the mainstream media regarding his presidency. His comment may have been overbroad but here is the point. The mainstream media including the Dallas Morning News are the propaganda arm of the Democratic Party. There were positive ones too but it was a punishing experience reading the emails that morning. And Mike did not want to just ignore the bad ones. So he decided to write back to that guy. I saw it as kind of an invitation. It is a bit of an angry invitation. Yeah. He might not have meant it as an invitation but I tried to take it as one. So Mike-- who remember is the editor of the paper he is got meetings and stuff going on all day long-- he starts corresponding with a bunch of the people who'd written in with kind of limited success. I am having a lot of conversations with readers where they say you are not fair. And I say am too. And they say are not. And I feel like that is kind of not working. And here Mike does this thing that just seems so rare in situations where people do not agree about something. He invites the other side to come in and talk face to face. I love this as a strategy for healing the divides of our nation. I just do not know how well it works. The first person he asked said no but the guy who wrote the please pass the tissue email agreed to come in. And so did this other reader who was so upset when the paper sent him a renewal notice that he would thrown it in the trash. Mike wanted these guys to understand more about the newspaper they were so angry with. He wanted them to sit in on an editorial meeting where the senior staff discusses what goes on the front page. But also he wanted to understand more about them. He wanted to know who they were not just as angry emailers. As people. I wanted to know too so I went to visit them before they came in. It turns out the two people Mike invited in they do not think the Dallas Morning News is the enemy of the people. They love the paper. Or they used to. The guy who wrote saying he was thinking of giving up his subscription is also named Mike. Mike Standish. He is 60 years old. Businessman. Blunt but tries to be polite. Uses the word stupid then apologizes for it. I asked him how long he would been reading the paper. Oh gosh. Since I was young. I mean I remember when the Dallas Morning News did not show up at 530 in the morning I would literally sit out in a lawn chair eating my Wheaties waiting for the guy to show up and then giving him a hard time when he was late. Before that when he was a boy he told me he used to throw the paper meaning deliver it on his Stingray bicycle bag stuffed with giant Sunday papers tossing them at house after house. The other man is a doctor. His name is Stace Bradshaw and he is also the kind of reader newspaper editors dream of. He gets the actual physical newspaper delivered. Reads it after he is walked the dog before he gets his daughter up for school. Though these days the newspaper's kind of been driving him nuts. He finds himself writing notes in the margins in pen and also writing that please pass the tissue email. I admit I was a little snarky at first because I guess I was a little upset. It felt good to write though. It was a catharsis. It was cathartic to write it and hit send. And I thought it would just go off into the ether and I would never hear anything back from him but at least I felt good about it. And then when I got a response back-- How long? Let us see. What is the time on this? I think I sent it at 931 and the first response I got back was at 949. So literally 18 minutes later I got a response. And then we exchanged several emails back and forth. And I was very impressed with that that the editor would take the time to respond back to me. Stace and Mike told me they are fine with stories that are tough on Trump. They just feel like the mainstream media coverage of things feels skewed these days. There are stories about protests against the pipeline but not so many about the argument for the pipeline or on education. Mike Standish showed me a recent edition of the Dallas Morning News. The lead story on the opinion section was headlined Public School Saved My Special Needs Kid. There was a colorful illustration of a little girl with giant butterfly wings. There was an opposing piece below making a school choice argument but the headline was a lot smaller. Mike and Stace say as a whole the newspaper just feels like it is coming from a particular mindset. They feel like it is put together by liberals who are trying not to be biased but they just have this blind spot like they have a hard time seeing how the stuff they write can come across to conservatives. Just before 3 oclock last Tuesday afternoon Stace and Mike both arrived at the Dallas Morning News building. And just a quick note about the building. The entire middle section the main architectural feature is what looks like an enormous stone tablet 3 stories high with a quote on it from the newspaper's founder in giant letters. It is as if Moses had brought back a second lesser-known set of commandments for journalists. We crane our necks back. Mike Standish reads the last line. Acknowledge the right of the people to get from the newspaper both sides of every important question. They need to circle that one. That last part. Uh-huh. Hey I am Mike. I am Stace Bradshaw. Good to meet you. Hey Doctor. Nice to meet you. Mike Standish. Mike. Hey Mike nice to meet you too. You guys want to come in for a few minutes? When they meet with Mike Wilson the editor everyone is on their best behavior. They immediately talk about the one part of the paper they all agree is truly excellent the sports section. Especially football season. And then Mike Wilson leads the way to a conference room for the front page editors meeting. There are worn-out chairs a long table and about a dozen people. Everyone sits down and the meeting starts. Well any thoughts on the paper today? I really appreciated the-- The editors of the various sections go over the stories of the day and the ones they think could run on the front page. There is a story a reporter had uncovered about a secret executive retreat that Toyota was building up in the hills complete with a private racetrack. They had aerial photos of it. There was a story about the fire and police pension fund. One about a theater director who had been shot through the mouth but was returning to the stage. Wire stories about the WikiLeaks CIA document and the Republican health care bill. And then there was this one. Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly was in town today. We really did not know what he was going to talk about. It was kind of an unannounced meeting as he was making a swing down toward the border. He talked about a lot of stuff that we could not use. But then he confirmed what he confirmed to CNN yesterday that the Department is looking at a plan to separate children from their parents at the border as a way to kind of deter refugees from trying to come into the US. Essentially it is kind of a plan that uses fear as a deterrent. So there is a bit of irony in it because a lot of the families that are coming up here obviously are trying to flee extreme violence. A little bit of fear is maybe not going to work with them. I looked over but I could not get a read on how this was all playing with the two visitors. The editors voted on what they thought should go on the front page. Mike would make the final decisions later. And the meeting broke up. I pulled Stace Bradshaw the doctor aside. He told me that story about how the US might start separating children from their parents at the border he worried about how that might get portrayed in the paper. I am thinking there is got to be a lot more behind that. That sounds terrible. That sounds very nefarious and I find it hard to believe that that is really what it is. There is got to be something a lot more that is out there being misinterpreted. But I am sitting there thinking OK I can see what kind of articles and what kind of headlines this is going to generate. And it is probably going to be with incomplete information and probably not fair. But overall he said the meaning seemed surprisingly boring. He meant that in a good way like professional. I was just struck by how ordinary matter of fact it was. You see that they do not have horns and they are not out to be sinister. Did you really think they were? Well again I have had visions of them all sitting around the water cooler and ripping on Republicans and ripping on Trump. And also it is good to talk to people one on one and realize that they do not even realize necessarily what you are thinking. Stace went in to sit down with Mike Wilson the editor in his office. Two people trying to talk through this thing our country seems to be wrestling with. Is the mainstream media biased? They started with smaller stuff. Where are you from? Do you have kids? And then Mike Wilson brought up their email exchange. So let me ask you about how our conversation began. I started. I wrote this article about defending my people against being called enemies of the people by the president. And I got a lot of letters about that. Yours struck me because you started with a pretty I thought funny line. Please pass the tissues so I can wipe away the tears for the media. I spoke to a lot of readers during the campaign