From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. How many shows do you think you have started by saying So tell me what happened? It is actually very few. That is Chana Joffe-Walt one of our producers. But this week when she came into the studio with me she did call this one correctly. What else could I say? So what did happen? OK so this was a few weeks ago. Elementary and middle schools in East Harlem all got together in an auditorium for a talent show a school talent show. So little kids are coming up to the stage to do orchestra performances and band and dance performances. And at the end of the night there is one more act on the program. It says special surprise performance. And a drag queen comes out on stage a grown-up. She is wearing this long red wig and a black sequined leotard that has sheer arms with feathers around her wrists. And she comes out and does an Iris Chacn number this Puerto Rican icon.  And this is the sound of that? So this is the sound of that. This is actually the sound of when she gets down on the ground and rolls over onto all fours then rolls back onto her back and puts her two legs up in the air and then opens them. And you can see her underwear.  So just to be clear there are elementary school kids here? Yes! Yes. This is a school performance. There are tons of kids. And on the program it does not say who this person is but it turns out a lot of people in this school know this person because he is a well-known dad in the school. He is the president of the PTA. Longtime president. This is actually his very last term as PTA president. He is the outgoing PTA president. Chana tried to reach the guy but never talked to him. She actually heard about this story in a tabloid newspaper The Daily News under this headline-- Parents Horrified After Man Performs Surprise Drag Show at Manhattan School Talent Event. And that article has descriptions like Parents said families' laughter turned to disbelief and then dismay as Quinones-- the PTA dad-- opened his mouth and exercised his tongue in a suggestive manner while lip-syncing the Chacn number. School talent show in Manhattan taking a raunchy turn-- So the story spreads to TV. It has a brief enthusiastic moment on local TV. This outlandish drag performance put on by the PTA president-- And all the TV reporters talked to this same mother the one who complained about it. He laid on his back. He raised his legs. Opened his legs wide open. What made you in your head think that that was appropriate for elementary school students? Mrs. Morales' report card for both the school and the district? An F and a triple X. That is perfect local TV newswriting I have to say. It was like she was waiting for the chance. Yeah. It was clear from some of the other coverage that lots of people in the school like this guy know him really well and that some people liked the performance. The performance was spot-on. Spot on. He did everything like Iris Chacn would have done. Was it OK in this environment? I think they have seen a lot worse. Have they? From East Harlem Vanessa Murdock CBS2 News. OK. So you heard about this thing that happened and it interested you. It hit something in you and your reaction was different. It totally captivated me. I thought about him so much. And I did not have any of those reactions. It did not feel like it was super scandalous. I just felt totally taken by it because I spend a lot of time watching shows like this. I have two young kids. I have younger sisters. I do reporting in schools. In fact in that same month as the drag performance Chana went to a preschool end of the year ceremony and performance a kindergarten stepping up ceremony a middle school graduation a middle school talent show and a magic after-school program performance. That was just June. And that was when I saw this video. And I feel like I spend most of the time sitting through those shows just waiting for something like this to happen like maybe something exciting and unexpected will happen. Because those shows are pretty boring. They are mind-numbing. And then there is the one tiny tiny moment where your kid does something and no matter what they do that is amazing but then you have to continue to perform to be as amazed at every other kid for the next sometimes three hours. So all I ever hope for is something in one of these shows will happen that is unexpected. And I know this is not the surprise that people in this school wanted. Like I get that. It is sexual. There are children. It is drag. It is gay which is probably even scarier to some parents. That whole thing I understand. I get that. But. But I feel like the thing I liked about it is not just that it is surprising but it is him. Like it is this guy. This is a real thing that is happening. He is getting on stage and sharing a part of himself with his community. He is being real. He is being real. Yeah he is being real. And that is what you want right? He is kind of modeling the thing that you want from these shows is that some kid will get up there and do some weird strange thing that is just themselves that is just true just feels like who they are. You are saying that because you have actually seen that? Well I was thinking after watching this video that one of the most moving things I have ever seen on stage actually was at a school talent show years ago that I had not thought about for a long time where this girl got up. She was maybe 10 and she was super shy. She was like one of those kids that you are kind of surprised that she is getting on stage in the first place. And she seemed nervous. And then the music comes on and she very confidently moves into this strange interpretive dance of Billie Jean where she is-- Michael Jackson. Yeah Michael Jackson but she is not wearing a fedora. She is wearing a beret. The most striking part of it was just that she was super confident. And she is kind of leaning over like she is like an elderly person and moving her arms back and forth like octopus arms. I remember she had braids purple braids that were also swinging back and forth. And people lost it. Everybody went totally crazy for her. Not because she was good. She was not doing the moves very well. But it was her. This was a true thing that was happening. This was a person who the stage gave her a place to perform something that she is interested in something who she really is something that just is real is true. Well today on our radio program that is what we aspire to. That is where we are heading. We are leaving behind the obligatory the half-baked the phoned-in the superficial. We leave behind the meh. And we turn our backs on the word meh because the word meh is meh itself. And instead we have stories of people seeking out what is real what is true in some places you might not expect that. What you find what you feel what you know to be real. Stay with us. Act One How I Learned to Start Worrying and Fear the Bomb. You probably heard a few weeks ago North Korea fired an intercontinental ballistic missile one powerful enough news reports said to reach Alaska with a nuclear warhead. And it was big news. People were shocked North Korea being on the verge of being able to nuke us. Which was strange to one of our producers here at our show David Kestenbaum. He used to be a reporter for National Public Radio. When I was at NPR one of the things I helped cover was nuclear weapons policy around the world. And when it came to North Korea I have talked to people various experts and they would say something like we have a decade. It is going to take them a while to get there. And then how long ago was that? About a decade ago. So right on time. We are exactly on schedule. Right. We said that 10 years ago it would take 10 years. Here we are. Yeah. Yeah. And I just thought how did we let this happen? How did we get here? How did we get here? All of us David included were not being real with ourselves about what was going on with North Korea. To remedy that and to get some answers about how we let this happen David turned to a trusted source on iTunes. Quick warning. There are a couple curse words in his story and in one other story in today's program that we have unbeeped here on the internet version of our program. If you do not want to hear those words maybe you are listening with kids there is a beeped version at our website. Here's David. Back when I was covering this stuff we reporters all had a short list of people we would call to comment when there was news. And often this thing would happen. When the interview started and we were recording the person would get super serious because you know nuclear weapons. The world could end. The thing is that is not how a lot of them actually talked about this stuff. The way they actually talked off mic was more like this. Kim Jong Un posed with a nuclear weapon! We saw everything. This is from a podcast called Arms Control Wonk. It is helped me understand North Korea in a way that I never had. It was started by Jeffrey Lewis. He is a nuclear policy expert and also director of the East Asia Nonproliferation Program at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies at Monterey. He says frankly he was tired of all the formal diplomat speak. I was giving a talk to the board of Middlebury College. This was a pretty big talk to have to give to show off the research of the center. And at some point we were talking about a photograph of Kim Jong Un that had been digitally altered. Something had been done to his ears. And we see this a lot. And what I said was they always fuck with his ears. And everybody was looking at me like uh did you just say that? Wait. Why do they mess with his ears? We think they make them smaller. So I guess he feels like his ears are too big? I do not know. It is a weird thing to be worried about. That is the kind of microanalysis Jeffrey and the people he works with do-- not just with Kim Jong Un's ears. Whenever there are new photos of a missile or there is been a nuclear test they dig through the data in a really smart way. I have even gotten attached to the theme song which has this upbeat time bomb thing going on. It is from a German punk band. You are listening to the Arms Control Wonk podcast the leading podcast on arms control nonproliferation and disarmament. One of the things they spend a lot of time trying to sort out on the podcast is what is real. It can be hard to tell. North Korea will put out some propaganda video saying Another successful missile launch. But if you look closer it is not always what it seems. Here's a clip from the podcast where Jeffrey is talking to one of his grad students. So this Korean group in Japan that releases all this North Korean propaganda released a little video which they claimed to be footage of the submarine launch but turned out was not. Launching a missile from a submarine would be a big deal because if they can put a nuclear weapon on a sub it is harder to destroy. And they might be able to sneak it closer to US shores. So the video gets posted online and Jeffrey says looks pretty impressive. They basically show the top of the tube where the missile is underwater. And the hatch is open and the missile pops up and it goes rushing through the water. But the grad student Dave Schmerler looks at this and thinks something does not seem right. So he just starts googling submarine launch footage. And one of the first things he finds on YouTube is this thing that looks very similar. And I mean very similar. Jeffrey showed me the video clip so I could compare. OK so here's the North Korean one.   Oh so it is footage from underwater. Yeah. Wow. It is this crazy underwater. That is impressive. It looks cool right? Yeah yeah. It looks cool. OK. So here's the other one. --and a new submarine faster quieter-- The other one is an old video of a US missile launch. They took our footage. --then the Poseidon or C3 missile-- Yeah. It is the same right? I mean it is exactly the same. Oh yeah. And they do this all the time. Do you think they actually launched a missile from a submarine that day? I think they may have popped up a missile from a barge but I do not think it flew. I do not think it worked. I do not think it involved a submarine. So basically none of what they were saying happened happened? Right. You can see why it would be easy not to take them too seriously. The thing that Jeffrey has noticed about North Korea's claims though is that there is always some truth to them. Like OK maybe they did not launch a missile from a sub but they are working on it. And maybe that was not an actual hydrogen bomb they tested but it was probably something else worrying. In listening to this podcast you realize how relentlessly the North Koreans have been working at this stuff over the years. It is this running audio diary of North Korea's military program. Missile test after missile test. This is from 2014. The pace at which they are testing is totally unprecedented. It is a little bit hard to count them all up because there have been so many tests. More of those tests this year than certainly any year I know and maybe than ever. I mean it is a lot of missile tests. I had always imagined we would figure something out. We would reach some agreement with North Korea or we would do something before things got this bad. How did we get here? This was a half hour discussion but I will distill it down for you. Jeffrey says our best chance to stop this was probably in the late '90s. This was before North Korea had nuclear bombs. Jeffrey points out it is always easier to get someone to give up something that they do not have yet. The US-- this was the Clinton administration-- and North Korea had negotiated something called the Agreed Framework. North Korea would shut down its nuclear reactor that could produce plutonium for bombs. In exchange they would get two new nuclear power plants a different type that would make electricity and would be harder to get plutonium out of for bombs. North Korea would also get fuel oil to tide them over until the new reactors could be built. And we would try to resume normal economic and diplomatic relations. But some Republican members of Congress felt like we were appeasing what was a brutal regime so ending sanctions was a nonstarter. We were slow in fulfilling our part of the deal. Oil shipments were late. There were also delays building the new reactors which were to be paid for mostly by South Korea and Japan. On the North Korea side it looked like they might still be working on a bomb. In 2002 the CIA said North Korea was building centrifuges big spinning tubes that could enrich uranium. They certainly had them by 2010 when a US weapons scientist Sig Hecker was invited over for a visit. The North Koreans actually had him over a bunch. They took him to this huge building as long as a football field. It was filled with centrifuges. This is from a talk he is given. When I went up to the second floor and I looked into the centrifuge hall through this glass I said wow 2000 centrifuges in there. They must have noticed that my jaw dropped all the way down to here. It was just totally mind-boggling. I thought it was more like a garage operation where they had made a few of their own or whatever. Instead this was different. Control room all flat-paneled LEDs display flat-panel computers. It was unbelievable. Jeffrey Lewis says looking back we should have found some way to make the agreement work. We blew it. Yeah we blew it in a pretty comprehensive complex way. They did not help things because they did not trust us and they definitely-- cheated is a word with a bunch of moral tones to it but they did not make it easy. So now I think we are at a point where they have these nuclear weapons and they are not giving them up. There have been attempts at negotiation over the years but usually the US has insisted that North Korea give up its nukes basically wanting to go back to those days before North Korea had a bomb. North Korea understandably has said no. Jeffrey says Kim Jong Un believes that as long as he has nukes and missiles to launch them no one will mess with him. And he is kind of right. When North Korea did its first nuclear test in 2006 it was basically a dud. Jeffrey says his reaction at the time was they are the worst ever at this. But they have gotten better and done more tests since then. North Korea has been pretty clear about what it wants to be able to do with its bombs. A few years ago North Korea released this propaganda photo. It was taken inside some military facility. And in the background on the wall was this map. If you zoomed in you could see these lines that terminate at cities in the US presumably the ones North Korea would like to be able to strike with nuclear missiles. The photo is well-known in analyst circles. It is sometimes called the Map of Death. And then earlier this year North Korea released an even more remarkable photo-- Kim Jong Un posing with this shiny thing. I was like holy shit that is a nuclear weapon. Foreign leaders do not pose with nuclear weapons. That is just not a thing. Just describe what the photo looks like. Yeah. He is in a missile plant. And he is in this crazy getup which is kind of an allusion to his grandfather. So he is got like the Russian fur hat and this big coat with this fur collar. And he got these silly eyeglasses that sometimes he wears. And so he looks ridiculous. And in front of him is this spherical object. Actually it is not spherical. It is a specific type of geometric pattern but whatever. It is this big-- it looks like a disco ball. If that is an actual bomb he says it is small enough to fit on a missile. This picture of course merited an entire podcast and included a rant Jeffrey delivers in lots of them about denial. You know what my favorite part about this whole conversation has been? What? I have noticed that there is this incredible reluctance to believe that the North Koreans have actually developed nuclear weapons. So every time the North does a nuclear test-- you know I have some South Korean reporter asking me like well is it possible that they just filled a mountain with conventional explosives? And when you step back from it it is like oh wow. They have done four nuclear tests. Three times they have paraded road mobile ICBMs down the streets of Pyongyang. They put up a map of the United States with targets on it that said Mainland Strike Plan. And now Kim Jong Un is standing in front of-- it is probably a mockup but nonetheless-- a nuclear weapon. And people are like what do you think they are saying? It seems pretty frickin clear to me. Jeffrey says through all this we have kind of underestimated the North Koreans maybe because they seem so goofy. Or maybe because it is easier to do that than to admit the truth. I actually had a big argument with-- I should not call it an argument. I had a big conversation with a Japanese government official about this where we were talking about oh I do not know some missile test. I mean there have been so many at this point. And he was sort of saying like well we are going to have to give sanctions some more time to work. I am just like you do not have more time. It is like no I think we will give it a couple of years and you know we will see where we are. And it is like in a couple of years they could have a thermonuclear weapon on an ICBM. Maybe it will not be all worked out. Maybe there will still be some problems with it but I do not think you have got a couple of years chief. I was kind of beating him up and he was taking it pretty well. And I think the reason he was taking it pretty well is because he is a government official. He is got a job to do. And I think he kind of knows that they do not actually know what the heck they are doing. But what kind of government trots out before its citizens and says hey you know this really tough problem that terrifies you? We do not have the slightest idea what to do. Nobody does that. Earlier this month when North Korea for the first time tested an actual intercontinental ballistic missile that could reach Alaska it was all over the news. Everyone was kind of freaking out. The new provocation from North Korea. North Korea's recent test launch of a missile that could reach the US. This is North Korea's most successful missile test-- --which Kim Jong Un called a birthday gift to the US. But regular listeners to the podcast kind of knew it was coming because just two months ago North Korea had tested a missile that went pretty damn far-- 1300 miles up into space and back. So when the ICBM test actually came I figured Jeffrey's reaction would be a shrug. Like we told you so. But he was kind of shocked too. Even though he knew it was coming just the reality of it was shocking. This one can hit the United States with a nuclear weapon. People keep saying Alaska but that is people making themselves feel better. It demonstrated the range to go to Alaska. That does not mean that that is its maximum range. We have been modeling it and it looks a lot better than that. Meaning it can go further? Yeah it probably can hit New York. It probably can hit New York? Yeah. This last one went seven times higher than the ISS. Seven times higher than the International Space Station? Yeah seven times higher. So this was significantly further than that other one? Oh yeah. Oh yeah. This is a hell of a missile. It seems like North Korea might just keep doing this-- setting off bigger and bigger atomic bombs launching huge missiles. Talking to Jeffrey I realized I had this question. What exactly does North Korea want? North Korea wants to be treated like a normal country. Meaning what? Meaning diplomatic recognition and no sanctions and Kim Jong Un gets invited to state dinners. They just want to be-- they want the Kim family to be treated like a legitimate leadership. And that is the impossible spot we are in. This is a government the United Nations Human Rights Council says is guilty of crimes against humanity including extermination murder enslavement torture imprisonment rape. The list goes on. Kim Jong Un's people are starving. They are cut off from the outside world. We just ignore all that? Invite him to the White House for a state dinner? Jeffrey comes down firmly on one side of that question. I think the answer is you have to do it right? That if you are not going to topple the regime-- and there would be all kinds of reasons you would not want to do that-- then you have just got to suck it up and do it. But the politics of it stink. And you can see why no president is willing to do it. Yeah. That is just like-- I mean that is just terrible. Yeah. Welcome to my world! So I settle for things like hey how about this? How about we knock off some of the military exercises and we just see if they will stop testing nuclear weapons and missiles? How about we do that? It would just try to avoid a nuclear war for the next couple of years. And even then people are like we cannot stop military exercises. You are giving into a terrible dictator. Well yeah I guess I kind of am. Do you think you are more comfortable with the idea of being blackmailed than other people? Yeah of course I am. Blackmail is this very specific word that has a very specific moral connotation to it. But the reality is that the North Koreans have interests and they are very ruthless in pursuing those interests. And as unpleasant as they are-- and they are unpleasant-- we do not have the ability to make them go away. After nuclear weapons came along in World War II there were two views. One was that hey these are just bigger bombs. But the other view was no these are an entirely different category of weapon. You build them precisely so that no one will use them. Which is a strange idea but it is worked so far and presumably it would be the same with North Korea. In a way where you stand on this issue comes down to the question how crazy do you think Kim Jong Un is? Jeffrey says he does not stay up at night worrying about North Korea launching a nuclear missile at a US city. From everything he is seen Kim Jong Un seems to be pretty rational. Ruthless and determined to stay in power but rational. All the tests seem well-planned out like the countries before that have pursued nuclear weapons. The Map of Death him posing with the disco ball that all seems very calculated an attempt to show the world and the people of North Korea that he is in charge and he is not going away. Jeffrey says the real people in danger here are probably not us. It is the people stuck living in North Korea. That is another thing nuclear weapons can do. They change the diplomatic calculus in a way I think that means the bad guys sometimes win. David Kestenbaum is one of the producers of our program. The podcast Arms Control Wonk does seem to have at least a few listeners in North Korea. Their episode Another North Korean Nuclear Test was downloaded five times from there.   Coming up Jon Ronson gets real with people who are specifically paid not to get real. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program To Be Real. We have stories about people breaking through the polite boring everyday fog of social acceptability and polite denial of things that none of us really want to face and getting real. We have arrived at Act Two of our program. Act Two The Lie Becomes the Truth. A couple of weeks ago when we did an episode of our show on magicians researching what is going on in that world I was fascinated by a few magicians who take the premise of magic that it is all about deception and try to stand that on its head to get to something utterly real unfaked emotional truthful. There are two magicians in particular I was interested in. The first was David Blaine who I think you might know who this is. He is been doing TV specials for 20 years. And I was hanging around Blaine one night at dinner at a restaurant and there was this moment where a friend of his said to him something like David you have told me that some of your tricks these days are not even tricks like when you eat glass. And Blaine was like yeah. And he picks up the nearest wine glass at the table-- this was not his glass somebody else had been drinking out of it-- and he poured their wine into another glass on the table. And then he raised the wine glass to his mouth and bit off a chunk of the glass. And then he chewed like really big chews like chomp chomp chomp chomp chomp. And it took a little time actually like chomp chomp chomp chomp chomp. And then he took a huge drink of water and he swallowed. And then he opened his mouth to show us you know all gone. It is not a trick. He just eats glass grinds it down to little specks I guess and swallows it. He said the inside of your mouth gets a little cut up but it is not too bad. And there is a scene that they filmed for Blaine's most recent TV special where he is sitting in a dentist chair and he talks to his dentist about what this is doing to his teeth. And they are getting bad. Yes. Because I feel hot and cold much stronger now. Well that is because glass is not a normal food that you are supposed to eat. The dentist peers into Blaine's mouth. So have you been eating this on your right side of your mouth more than your left? Yeah only on the right side. That is so weird. You have worn your teeth down on the right much worse than the left. Wow. Much worse. Yeah it started shifting to the right because the left was hurting so much. Well your right is much worse than your left. This is totally worn away. All the enamel's gone from the tooth and his nerve is almost exposed. Blaine turns to the camera crew. He did not believe me-- I did not believe him either. --in the beginning. I really did not. I did not believe him. I have never seen anyone do it and I thought it was a h-- I thought there was some sort of trick to it but he is eating glass. So is eating glass a thing that you know that you only can do a certain number of times in your life because you will gradually grind-- Like I was saying to the dentist every time I drink or eat everything hot and cold it is a nightmare. So it is a trick like I get to do this a certain number of times left in my life so I have got to choose my spots. No. No. No no. I still do it whenever I want. You still do it? Really? Yeah. I would not really want to do with that glass because it is so thick. No but I have done it with way thicker glasses than that. But my teeth are so bad now that I prefer wineglasses like delicate ones. And this is the kind of magic Blaine's been cultivating for years now. He still does card tricks and all kinds of regular closeup magic but he is also doing a bunch of effects that are like eating glass. There is no trick to it. He just really does this stuff. It is real. He was sealed in a box suspended above the Thames River for 44 days. He lived in a block of ice for over 60 hours. He held his breath for 17 minutes underwater and then explained his techniques for doing it in a Ted Talk. He works on these things for years trains his body to do this stuff. And then this funny thing happens. Because he is a professional magician which is to say his job is to deceive people when he is actually doing these incredible physical feats that are not tricks people often think they are. Like he is caught a bullet in his mouth on stage-- a real bullet fired from a real gun. He caught it in this metal cup that he held in his mouth filmed the bullet traveling in slow motion filmed his friends seeming actually upset with him for even trying this and still some people think nah that is not real. And there is this one moment. There is a video of this online where Blaine makes use of this confusion over what is real and what is not real kind of brilliantly. Yeah could we just watch that together and-- Yeah. --just narrate what is happening? Because it is such an amazing thing. Hold on. In the video Blaine is sitting down at a little table with Ricky Gervais the comedian and actor. And just before what I am about to play you happens David Blaine has shown Ricky Gervais how to do this famous trick called needle through arm. And to be clear that is a trick. You are not actually putting a needle through your arm. And David is like I am going to teach you to be a magician. And then he does the trick with Ricky Gervais' arm. So Ricky Gervais can see how you can make it look like a needle is going through your arm. OK. Then Blaine picks up a needle roughly the size of a knitting needle and starts to push the tip of it into his own arm. See how the needle looks? See how it looks-- Yeah. --like it is going into the arm? You see that? Yeah. So this is like a silver needle. It is like a foot-long-- Stainless steel yeah. --stainless steel. And basically the point of it is going straight-- Through the bicep. --into your bicep just the very tip of it. And Ricky Gervais is giving you this look like wh-- wh-- wha? See how it really looks-- Yeah. Yeah it does. --like the needle is actually going-- What I love about it is the stillness of it. It is very slow and still.   And then he comes to life. Oh n-- what the fuck? Seriously. This is mental. We are seeing a needle being pushed straight through the middle of my arm. OK just to be completely clear here Blaine is actually pushing a needle through his arm for real. There is a way to do this. He is taught himself. But there is no blood. So it looks like a magic trick but it does not make sense that it could be a magic trick because you are clearly seeing it go through the arm. And he is holding my shoulder so I could not have a fake arm or a prosthetic on. What? Th-- this-- this stuff's mental. See how it really looks-- So-- sorry David seriously. Ha-- this is not a trick. And so the needle is popping out the other side of your arm. How the fuck are you-- wait. What you-- what you do you mean how are you doing it? You have stuck a needle through your fucking arm! It looks pretty real right? Sorry I do not understand. How is that not real? What do you mean it looks pretty real? It is the same as what I just did to you. What? This is all glue? What I love about this is that you are being so deadpan but you are so happy here you are breaking character and you start to laugh. You are having trouble not laughing all the way through this video.   It looks really real right? Is that needle going through your arm? Well pull it out and you will see how it works. Pull it. Oh fuck me. I do not understand! Pull. I feel like you are seeing such a naked version of him you know? I do not-- th