A couple months ago I got into a plane in San Diego. It was an overnight flight on JetBlue. And like everybody on the plane I was anxious to get to sleep right? And some people sat down and closed their eyes. And up at the front of the plane a member of the crew kind of leaned on the bulkhead like a loiterer leaning on a lamppost and got on the PA. Good evening folks. How is everybody doing tonight? Awesome I hope. This recording was actually made by one of my coworkers Lilly Sullivan a few weeks later. She was on the same exact flight and the same crew member gave the same speech and Lilly recorded it. But really what gets said is almost word for word the same as I heard. My name is Anne you guys. And I was just out walking around the airplane and they are throwing the last of your-- I mean um I am sorry about that. I did not mean to say throwing. I used to work over at American you know. Old habits die hard. So what I meant to say was they were lovingly and gently placing your bags in the lower belly and then we will be pushing back from the gate on time. The night I was there everybody was like what is this? Like was that a joke? Was she just mocking another airline American Airlines? We were like drowsy kittens waking up to the fact that oh something was going on. But you know what the really good news is you guys? I am going to be your pilot flying to New York tonight.  I know. Is not that awesome? I know. Thank you. Thank you. I know. I just graduated pilot training yesterday and I am very excited for my first flight tonight. I am just kidding. I have been flying airplanes since I was 17. Can you believe that? I know. These last two years have been very exciting so. That was not that funny. OK. She is not the greatest comedian but there was something about her swagger like her sheer joy in what she was doing that transcended the actual material she was putting out. And I swear the whole plane was with her. Lilly says this happened on her flight too. Nobody normally wants to listen to a pilot's speech but she had the element of surprise. It was just not a normal speech. At one point-- I think it is the thing you are about to hear-- I turned to the stranger sitting next to me and asked is she drunk? No. I used to fly the big airplanes over at American and TWA. American said I did not have a personality so they sent me over here to JetBlue. Can you believe that? Hey real quick story while they are finishing up. The personality to be a pilot is how I think she worded it the night I saw her. Air travel is this very orderly intentionally ritualized and impersonal kind of corporate experience. But she was just the opposite of corporate. She was like a person. And so I tracked her down to ask how did this happen exactly. Like what was she trying to do? Well her name is Anne Aldrich and her answer to the question what are you trying to do could not be more straightforward. To make people come back to JetBlue. That is a very good question. I want them to come back and fly with us. In the short term the people that are scared in the back-- Oh. When Anne says the back what she is referring to is the place that you and I call the airplane-- the part we sit in. The people that are scared in the back of flying they will come back up to me at the end of the flight and say I was not scared because you made me laugh. I try-- I mean I try to be funny. Just thinking about the reaction of your passengers I remember a White House correspondent telling me once that there is a whole class of jokes that are not actually funny except when you are standing in front of a room and you are the President of the United States making those jokes.  Right. And I wonder if that is true for airline pilots as well. You know I certainly would not use my routine anywhere else. But I am a better pilot than I am a comedian. That is for sure. And I think it is funny because in 2017 people still find it very uncommon to see a woman flying an airplane. On one of my spiels I say yeah I am going to be your pilot flying to New York tonight. And you see everybody's heads flip up. And I go yeah that gets more attention than there is been a wallet left out on the jetway. I just kind of make a joke about it. And is it actually pretty rare? It is not as rare as it used to be. When I first got on with TWA there was less than 10 of us gals in an airline that had I think at the time almost 7000 pilots. These days nationally about 5 of commercial airline pilots are women according to the Air Line Pilots Association. Anne flew for 10 years for TWA until it was bought out by American where she was till layoffs after 911. She is been with JetBlue the past 15 years. When she is not flying she runs a nonprofit animal rescue shelter that she created in Phoenix where she lives. I had not seen many pilots actually come into the cabin to talk to the passengers at the beginning of a flight. But Anne says that when she started at JetBlue in the airline's early days they encouraged pilots to do it. And at first I was kind of nervous about doing it. I would go to the back give the flight time say welcome aboard and I was very stoic and trying to be as professional as possible. And then I rode on a few Southwest flights and saw-- I do not remember what the captain's name was but he was hilarious. And a number of the flight attendants do it at Southwest. And I thought I can do this. But in imitating that pilot and trying to be funny like he was she started to express this part of herself that was not like what you usually hear. For instance in her preflight spiel she tells this one story about how when she was a kid in 1970 back when the number of female airline pilots in the United States was exactly zero-- there were none at all-- she told her first grade teacher she wanted to grow up to be an airline pilot. She goes you cannot be an airline pilot. So a couple of years ago my son's sitting in first grade. Teacher knows his mom's an airline pilot for JetBlue. His dad's a firefighter out in Phoenix Arizona. Teacher says Johnny what do you want to be when you grow up? What do you think my son says? He goes I want to be a firefighter. Teacher says you do not want to be an airline pilot? He goes airline pilot? Are you kidding? That is a girl's job. I asked her about all the cracks that she makes against American Airlines and she said she really has nothing against American Airlines at all. The jokes just play better if you name a specific airline. And she said it is not true that American Airlines told her she did not have the personality to be a pilot. You know what? I have got to be honest with you Ira. The captain that was on Southwest I stole that from him because he said the exact same thing. American said I did not have a personality so they sent me over here to Southwest. So I actually stole that line from him. But my favorite part of Anne's on-board stand-up routine-- the most remarkable and I think most idiosyncratic part of it-- is this. In this setting where everybody seems so stressed out and not so happy at all-- I mean that is what so much of travel is hauling from place to place waiting on line worrying about all the things that can delay you and go wrong-- Anne unleashes in this very pure way her total enthusiasm for flying and just the incredible fact that we fly. Anyways you boarded a super hot jet. I love this airplane. It is the Airbus A321. It is all fly-by-wire. Aside from the 727 it is my favorite airplane. We are taken off here in San Diego. We are taking off Runway 27 you guys. We are taking off a weight of 175000 pounds. Is not that awesome? Folks when we leave the concrete we are doing 165 miles per hour. Get the gear and flaps up. I am picking it up to 200 and out of 10000 feet. You know what? FAA says I can go as fast as I want. On the night I saw you you named the runway we were going to land at in New York and you said it was your favorite runway. Oh I know. We probably did the Canarsie arrival onto Runway 13 Left. It is a very technical arrival. It used to be a VOR. Now it is an RNAV arrival. But you come in it is this roundabout turning and it is very precise. And you have to be 1000 feet abeam Runway 13 Right. And you have to be 500 feet over the hotel. And then you get the wind coming off from the buildings. There is always a crosswind when you are landing on 13 Left. And I love that approach because it is difficult. It takes some skill and I love it. I love it. It is fun. She still flies gliders in an old crop duster where her hair blows in the wind. But what she loves most about flying is when it takes real skill where she really has to plan around weather where she has to plan tricky descents. Going into like San Diego which has this huge displaced threshold-- Whatever that is. Or flying into Chicago O'Hare which is so so busy. You ask any pilot in the radio traffic on Chicago. If you are not paying attention the controllers just send you out on a vector to nowhere for a little while if you miss listening to them. Yeah. And so you have got to be on your toes. What are you talking about? You mean they just send you out into the air? Yep. No more soup for you. You do not answer and you are going out. They will say JetBlue fly heading such and such. Maintain that altitude. And they send you away for a little bit and then they bring you back in. So I love that. I love that. I am on my toes. I am listening. OK I am ready. Why do so many people complain about airline travel do you think? You know somebody who rides in the back a lot because I have to commute to New York for work it can be a jungle back there. You have got people changing the babies' diapers on the tray table. And when I am in uniform I am like how do I say politely and diplomatically people eat on this thing and you are changing your you know? And Ira I have seen people clipping their toenails burping you know. It is not like what it used to be. I think it is funny to hear you say this because I feel like as you are saying this the thing I am thinking is the passengers when they talk about what is terrible about plane travel is they blame it on the airlines. And I feel like oh I am talking to you and I feel like you are totally blaming it on the passengers.  Well you are just in a tight space with a lot of people that I am not sure but everybody seems to not always be on their best behavior and I think it is because of all the stress I guess of getting there. Most people on her flight seem stressed out when they get on the plane Anne says. Well today on our radio show we have stories for things that happen in transit that create that stress. We have people traveling from spot to spot being stopped being ticketed being delayed in unusually dramatic ways here and on the other side of the world. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. So what do you guys think? Let us put the pedal to the metal. Drive this baby like a rental car out to-- OK. OK. I am just kidding. I am just kidding. Tray tables up. Chairs in the upright position everybody. And stay with us. Act One The Most Expected Delay in Northern Ohio. So we heard about this tiny stretch of roadway in Ohio. It is kind of infamous in the area. Many many people have been delayed there over the years or maybe waylaid is a better word for it. They have certainly paid the price for going there. Our producer Sean Cole explains. This stretch of road is on Interstate 71 just outside Cleveland. It is about 400 yards long 1200 or so feet take less than half a minute to drive it. And it happens to run through the municipal limits of an itty bitty village known as Linndale. And here's the thing everybody knows about Linndale. If you drive down this little stretch of road and you are speeding the Linndale police will pull you over and give you a ticket. For decades it is been the most aggressively policed 440-yard stretch of Interstate 71 around. And you have to pass through it to get from the airport to downtown Cleveland so tourists on their way to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame or whatever get pulled over. And if you ask people who live in the Cleveland area Linndale is basically a speed trap masquerading as a town. Have you gotten a ticket going through Linndale? Like four. Oh I have had them. They are crooks. Myself. My sister got one. My wife has gotten a ticket in there. Everybody that comes to my house I tell them go slow when you go through Linndale because they will give you a ticket. Yes they were petty. They blurped me. They blurped you meaning they pulled you over. Yes. Like coming off on 130th right here thirsty. I was so mad. We first heard about Linndale from Mark Gardner a criminal defense attorney who is represented people in court who have gotten tickets in Linndale. He himself has never gotten a ticket on that stretch of road. Says he knows better. As soon as you see certain signs like West 65th I am approaching Linndale your foot automatically comes off the gas and you look down just to make sure that you are not going to get pulled over. Was that muscle memory for you? Absolutely. But the reason Mark first told us about Linndale is not just that they hand out a lot of tickets. It is because of this epic still-ongoing battle that is developed over the past two decades between Linndale and the Ohio State Legislature a petty political tit-for-tat that if it were about something more high stakes-- like health care nuclear weapons or something-- would be horrifying. But since it is about speeding tickets it plays as comedy rather than tragedy. See according to the 2010 census Linndale is a village of 179 people. It is got 35 houses in it 11 businesses. In some years it is brought in almost 1 million in speeding violations on the freeway. Again that is 35 houses nearly 1 million in speeding tickets-- the vast majority of its budget. It is a municipality that arguably would not exist would not have a budget or barely any money at all if not for speeding tickets. And the Ohio Legislature basically treats Linndale as a parasite living off the lead-footedness of northern Ohioans. So the players are a town that has eight streets in it and a powerful body of lawmakers who thinks its laws are being enforced not wisely and too well. But the story actually starts before Interstate 71 was even built. Linndale has always been the burr up somebody's ass ever since I can remember. Mike Toczek was the mayor of Linndale back in the late '80s and early '90s. After that he became clerk of Linndale's Mayor's Court which is just a local town court that handles traffic violations and other low-level offenses. He is 68 and has lived in Linndale most of his life. And the way he describes it-- and it seems to be true-- Linndale has always been a town on the hustle. He remembers back when it was a den of illegal gambling houses. Says he used to like watching all the gamblers jump into their cars and zoom away minutes before the sheriff arrived for a raid. Linndale was also a place at one point you could buy fireworks which were illegal in Cleveland. And when Mike was a kid the village had more than twice the residents it has now. The freeway Interstate 71 came through in about-- in the late '60s and cut the village literally in half and took out a ton of homes and businesses. In fact it took our house. Now there are some rumors that I heard when I was young that one of the planners for the freeway did not like Linndale and the state wanted to get rid of us and rerouted the 71 through the middle of Linndale. It is tempting to think that the village started ticketing people on the freeway out of revenge to consciously be a burr in the ass-phalt. But Mike says it was more just an opportunity. Linndale does not even have access to 71. There is no off-ramp that leads to the village. Nonetheless a 1967 article in the Cleveland Press called the freeway Bonanza Boulevard for Linndale. There is this scene where the mayor at the time who looked like Paulie from Goodfellas keeps ringing up 28 speeding citations in the Mayor's Court. He has this real f-you pay-me attitude about it when people complain. And he throws up his hands at the assertion that Linndale only tickets people for quick cash saying the village is bound by the state to patrol 71-- which we called the Ohio Department of Transportation-- it does not seem to be true. That mayor later went to prison on gambling and bribery charges. Mike Toczek took over as mayor of Linndale in 1985. I think the police department realized that the main source of income was tickets. And some of the tickets they issued-- and I remember this clearly-- a person would get a ticket. He would get five tickets. He would get one for no taillight one for unsafe vehicle because he did not have a taillight another one for something related to that and another one. And I called the chief over and I says we are not doing this. I says we are not doing this. You are screwing the people. You want to give them a ticket for no taillight? That is it. That is fine. But as this is America there are enough of us just speeding to make a good living off of. And then in 1994 this curious piece of legislation started working its way through the Ohio House and Senate. It had to do with local police departments handing out traffic violations on the freeway. Among other things the bill said local police cannot hand out speeding tickets on I-71 if fewer than 880 yards of the freeway actually goes through their town which is twice the yardage that went through Linndale. And local police cannot hand out tickets on the freeway if their town does not have access to the freeway. Also it said your town cannot begin with L and rhyme with Shwinndale OK it did not say that. But it may as well have. This is Mark Gardner again the lawyer who first told us about Linndale. It was very clear. It was very obvious. But nobody that I knew had any great sympathy for Linndale. I can only assume that there was some triggering event. And rumor has it that a legislator or one of his well-to-do constituents complained and that is what got the law rolling. I do not have proof of that. I am just assuming. Luckily I do have proof of that. Allow me to introduce former Ohio State Representative Ed Kasputis the guy who first drafted the legislation. I was sharing office space with a printer. And one of the employees he got a ticket. The office space in question was in Cleveland. That is where he practiced law. And one day around the water cooler-- again this is 1994-- this guy working for the printing company says-- You are not going to believe what happened to me last night. And we are like what happened? And he is like I went to this Mayor's Court and if people could not pay they put them in a room and gave them a phone and they said start dialing for dollars. And if you do not come up with money tonight you are going to county jail. And it is like no you have got to be embellishing. And he is like no. You have got to check it out. I said all right it is time to go and be undercover state rep. So Ed puts on his disguise which according to him is a pair of blue jeans and drives to Linndale's Village Hall on the one day a week everybody goes to contest their tickets or just to pay them. And he sees what looks like officials handing a phone to one defendant after another. The story seemed to check out. Except for one part. They do not take you to county jail. They do not take you to county jail. But they threaten you and you and I would not like to go to county jail for a night. I then started to research the city of Linndale and confirmed that this is this little mouse that roared that is basically financing the entire government on traffic tickets. And as a policymaker I just did not think that was a fair way to treat people. Because 9 times out of 10 or 10 times out of 10 these were citizens that could not vote the mayor out of office. That is Linndale was mostly ticketing non-Linndalers. In fact Linndale is not in Ed Kasputis' district and as he started writing the legislation it came out that he himself had gotten a ticket in Linndale and just paid it without even ever looking at it. And the other thing that really galled him was the fact that there was no ramp in Linndale to and from the highway that Linndale police had to drive out of Linndale through part of Cleveland and then work their way back to that little infamous patch on 71. And you see from a public policy standpoint that makes no sense if you have to leave your city to go back in on the fiction of we are protecting our citizens. No. The Serengeti-- That is what Ed calls the freeway. The Serengeti. Speeders are gazelles. The Serengeti has people from all over the world running on it. The people in Linndale-- there is like a stoplight at Burger King and that is kind of it. You mean in giving tickets to speeders on that little stretch of 71 they are not doing anything to actually protect their residents? No. Not at all. They should be driving around protecting their residents from crime instead of trying to be the Ohio State Highway Patrol for 220 yards. Again it is 400 yards. And the Burger King closed down a long time ago. Anyway Ed's bill passed. It became against the law for the village to enforce the law on I-71-- or at least the law against speeding. I asked Mike Toczek the former mayor what he thought when he heard about the bill. Oh again. That is what you thought is oh again? Oh again. Approximately once every 10 years somebody would come after us for something. Before it was the gambling. Now it was handing out too many speeding tickets. He says people used to approach him-- reporters like me-- and say what are you guys doing in business with this ticket racket? I says you know what? You want to put us out of business? Do not speed. Just stop speeding. Everybody in the Cleveland area knows about Linndale. If you know it is there and you know they give tickets and you are still if you will stupid enough to speed then you deserve it. That is Linndale's position in this whole battle in a nutshell. You do not like it then just follow the rules. We do not set the speed limit. All we are doing is enforcing the rules imposed by the state. And the state's position is no. You are abusing the rules we made for your personal enrichment. We do not like the way you are enforcing them. And we can do something about it. Again former State Rep Ed Kasputis. Everybody needs a check and balance. What is the check and balance for Linndale? I would say one of them is the legislature. That is all. And what is a check and balance on the legislature? The court system. In other words Linndale sued-- together with another community that was similar-- for their right to ticket people on their stretch of roadway. The argument was that Ed Kasputis' bill violated the Ohio State Constitution which says that cities and villages can govern themselves as long as their local regulations do not conflict with state law. The appeal process lasted about five years during which time Linndale was allowed to keep pulling people over on 71. Finally in 1999 the Ohio State Supreme Court ruled in Linndale's favor. Round 1-- Linndale. Fast forward about 10 years when another state legislator got according to Linndalers a burr in his ass about the village although he would not describe it that way. His name's Tom Patton. He used to be a senator. Now he is in the House. And he approached the Linndale problem from another direction. And what he did was pretty ingenious. I came up with the idea because I have put in a bill that said if you have less than 150 people you cannot have a Mayor's Court. At that time Linndale was reported to have 117 residents. It is ingenious because that little local village court in Linndale is how the village was able to keep all the money it generated from the tickets. Whatever court a speeding case is heard in the fines and other costs stay in that court. Without its Mayor's Court all the fines would be processed somewhere else and Linndale would only get a fraction or nothing at all. It was essentially rerouting the plumbing through which all the ticket money flowed. Now Tom Patton like Ed Kasputis before him claims his bill was not solely about Linndale. He says he is against Mayor's Courts in general. But then after he wrote his bill saying that if your village has fewer than 150 people you cannot have a Mayor's Court the census came out saying that Linndale did not have 117 residents. It had 179 residents. So we simply crossed out 150 on the bill and we made it 200. The bill passed in 2012 and Linndale police were still allowed to ticket on 71. They just were not keeping as much of the proceeds now with no Mayor's Court. I read one report that said at this point income from the tickets dropped to a little more than 1 of what it had been. Jobs went away the court clerk for one. There is no court anymore. Steve Pokrandt remembers those days pretty well. We talked on his back porch in Linndale. Sort of a tiki theme back there. Steve was the maintenance man for the village when the Mayor's Court went away. They cut everyone's pay. Minimum wage is what they cut me down to. The bank account was draining because nothing's coming in. Health care was eliminated for the employees that used to receive it. And what was it like in the town during that time? Did it feel less-- Not happy. It was not happy. Sit around the office and oh just oh. We would say well what happens to a government if it runs out of money? Does it just fold up? And what about the trash? Who takes care of the people? There is rumors. You would hear like well if that happens the state will take us over. And nobody really knew at the time. If you are wondering what Linndale was spending all its money on here's a really basic breakdown. At this point the total budget was about 1.2 million with most of it from speeding tickets and a little from property and income taxes-- things like that. About 60 of that went to the security of persons and property which mostly means the police department and a little bit to Cleveland Fire and EMS. The average for other villages in the county is 37. Another quarter of Linndale's budget went to government salaries-- the mayor treasurer a teeny bit for the village counselors. If you are keeping track that is almost everything. Every other category is much less. Utility services-- that is trash pick-up and stuff-- was half of 1. Again this was all in the Mayor's Court days. The police expenses and government salaries have dropped a lot since then. Also Linndale spent 100000 appealing the law that Representative Patton wrote. And this time they lost that appeal. So round 2-- the state of Ohio. And Tom Patton was the captain of that team. And all hail the conquering hero. People thought-- I mean that is not-- All hail what? The conquering hero. That was you? I think the way that people responded to it-- there was also oh thank God you got rid of Linndale. I mean I get what you are saying that on its face it seems cynical to fund your town largely on the backs of speeding motorists. And something just feels unscrupulous about that. But is not it equally cynical and unscrupulous to devise legislation that would apply to the whole state when you pretty much have this one community in mind over time? No it is not a question of targeting. This happens to be something that-- they are in the media a lot. They get coverage a lot. So it is kind of put in our face. I actually had reporters come and say now they are doing this. What is your next move? Which is the question I have too. And I said well it is not a question of making moves. Representative Patton did not simply want Linndale to stop ticketing people. He thinks the village should not exist that it should merge with Cleveland or with another suburb nearby. He actually does not think any village as small as Linndale should exist. And now he had driven the village one step closer to extinction. But the village was only in the red for about six months because right around this time there was a change in administration. A new mayor Ashlee McLaughlin. And she had an ingenious idea too. The village council had already been discussing it. There is this one intersection in town by the police station. It is where Memphis Avenue meets Avenue of Peace. And Memphis Avenue is really well-trafficked. In fact people go barreling down that street at speeds way above the 25 mile an hour limit. Mayor McLaughlin says the village wanted to enforce traffic laws there anyway. And they could do it in a way that they did not even have to pull people over. And where is the camera? There is one right there. OK. Two cameras-- That lovely green pole that does not-- Mayor McLaughlin had two speed-limit cameras installed on that corner-- one on each side of the road. These things are all over the place now. You have seen them. If you are speeding they take a picture of your car and send you a ticket in the mail within a month. And most importantly it is a civil infraction not a criminal one so it does not have to be processed through a court. OK. And there is a sign right next to it that says traffic laws photo enforced. It says speed limit 25-- photo enforced. These two cameras are set to go off if you are driving 11 miles an hour or more over the limit. And so many cars go that fast on Memphis Avenue that Linndale is pulling in more money from the cameras than it did on the highway. Mayor McLaughlin also told me that there used to be four accidents a year at that corner but since the cameras went up in 2013 there have been zero. Now as it happens there are a few folks in the state legislature who just hate traffic cameras in general. And by mere coincidence not long after Linndale put up its traffic cameras another bill passed that said among other things traffic cameras could only be used in Ohio if a police officer was quote present at the location of the device. And when this bill went through almost half the communities in Ohio that had been using traffic cameras said they were going to stop using them. Columbus Dayton Springfield West Carrollton. And certainly no places started using them. You want to guess who did keep their traffic camera running with an officer stationed by it?   Officer? Hey how you doing mam? Hi. For a while Linndale just parked an unmarked cruiser with an officer in it by the cameras. But then they decided that is nuts. We cannot do that just to have a guy there in a car all day. No. Instead they built a hut. I call it a hut. Bernie Mac is on TV. It is got a TV a combination DVDVCR machine boombox microwave-- Oh. There is a dorm fridge. Oh wow. And yes a split-screen security monitor so they can keep tabs on what is happening on the roadway. Oh. And there is a window through which you can see the cameras. Ralph Moncrief was the traffic enforcement officer on duty that day. He is a mixed martial artist. Sometimes he brings a weight bench to his shift and trains outside the hut for his tournaments. Mayor McLaughlin explained this to me while we were sitting in the village hall with Linndale's law director Richard Neff. So Linndale is paying an officer to go down there and work out for however many hours. We are paying him to monitor the cameras. But what does that mean monitoring the cameras? He has to be present and he has to be within physical eyeline of the cameras. For wh-- for what? Is he making sure they are on? Ask the legislature. They are the ones that decided that was the requirement. If they want officers there fine. I think we just became a little bit more famous because we are one of the few people that complied with this. And you are Linndale-- not to put too fine a point on it. Well you know we want to comply. Does it feel like Alaska has oil. Pennsylvania has natural gas. Linndale has people going more than 25 miles an hour? That is a very funny way to state that. No I do not look at the criminals as a natural resource. No? No I do not. I mean they are going to be there. Not if they stop speeding. But if they stop speeding no money. We will be OK. If they stop speeding it is safer. That is our goal. Right. That is the whole goal? Absolutely. Really? Yes. Yes! After I got back home from Cleveland the Ohio State Supreme Court ruled that the law saying an officer must be present at the traffic cameras was unconstitutional that it violated the same provision as before with Ed Kasputis' bill. Representative Patton was disappointed partly because the decision could compromise this whole new round of bills he has drafted. One says you cannot use traffic cameras if your co