This story begins with a random encounter with history. Our senior producer Brian Reed was spending a lot of time in Alabama a few years back doing reporting. And one morning he went for a jog near his hotel-- he was in Tuscaloosa-- and he got to this park. Where the ruins of the old state capitol are. And then I ran down this little pathway down the hill and I saw this marker one of those historical markers. And I have never forgotten this thing. Like it stayed with me. And every time I went back to Tuscaloosa which was a number of times I would go at some point during the trip walk over and read it again. I brought my wife one time. I brought her to see it a friend. I have been there a bunch. It made an impression. Yes. So you have the text here I know. Yeah. So the marker's titled The Indian Fires Are Going Out in quotes. And it explains that the Trail of Tears led thousands of Creek Indians through Tuscaloosa back when it was the capital of Alabama on their way to the West as they were being driven from that part of the country. Mm-hm. And their homelands. Yeah and their homelands. And during that time a Creek chief addressed the legislature on their way out of the state with these words. He gave this speech. Quote I come here brothers to see the great house of Alabama and the men who make the laws and to say farewell in brotherly kindness before I go to the far West where my people are now going. In time gone by I have thought that the white men wanted to bring burden and ache of heart among my people in driving them from their homes and yoking them with laws they do not understand. But I have now become satisfied that they are not unfriendly toward us but that they wish us well. In these lands of Alabama which have belonged to my forefathers and where their bones lie buried I see that the Indian fires are going out. Soon they will be cold. New fires are lighting in the West for us they say and we will go there. I do not believe our great Father means to harm his red children but that he wishes us well. We leave behind our goodwill to the people of Alabama who build the great houses and to the men who make the laws. This is all I have to say. And what do you make-- what a strange speech to make as you are being exiled to the people who are exiling you. Exactly. Yeah that is what struck me about it. I mean first of all super sad. And I found it very moving. But also I read it and reread it and I just wondered is this speech kind of subversive in some way? Was this chief standing there in front of the Alabama state legislature which was partially responsible for kicking his people out and kind of mocking them slightly or being slightly sarcastic in this speech? Especially this part In time gone by I have thought that the white men wanted to bring burden and ache of heart among my people in driving them from their homes and yoking them with laws they do not understand. But I have now become satisfied that they are not unfriendly toward us that they wish us well. Right. Like he is saying you guys have yoked us with your laws and driven us from our homes but we know you wish us well. And I just wondered if there was something slightly arch about that. Something arch that went right over the heads of the legislators at the time and also over the heads of the Alabama Historical Association when they approved this marker over a century and a half later. And so recently Brian decided to look into it. What did the chief mean? Did he say it under duress? Did this even happen? And what we found was yes the speech really did occur in the Muskogee language interpreted into English at the legislature. He found the primary source for us knowing about it-- the only source-- a newspaper article in The Huntsville Democrat in 1835. It says legislators teared up at the speech. And I talked to several historians including two experts who are Creek themselves and there does not seem to be evidence that this was sarcastic. So but the people who are Creek what did they make of it? What did they say to you about it? Well I talked to one woman named RaeLynn Butler. She is the manager of historic and cultural preservation at the Muskogee Creek Nation in Oklahoma. She would never seen the speech before. And she lives in Oklahoma. Her ancestors were part of this group of people who left Alabama at this time and came to Oklahoma and she would never seen the speech before till we sent it to her to ask her about it. I was very confused when I read the speech because-- Really? You too? Yes. It did not sound accurate to me. He talks about how we are being driven from our homes and then in the same breath goes on to say this is for the betterment of our people. Yeah so she reacted to the same thing in the speech that I reacted to. So anyway so she ended up getting her whole team involved at the cultural preservation office and they started looking through their archives. And she told me as they were researching they were hoping to find evidence that this was not exactly right that maybe the interpreter had messed up or something else was wrong about this speech. I was hoping for that. And you did not find it. No and we did not find it. So the reality is kind of sobering. Yes. Did it bum you out when you heard about this speech? Yes. I was bummed to read the speech mainly because I felt that it misrepresented the way that I felt and the way I know my family feels about removal or about assimilation. It is just hard to accept the fact that he says we know you mean us no harm. It just seemed to go a little bit too far. You lose the game you shake someone's hand to acknowledge a good game and that we lost. But in this speech to me it seems like Yoholo Micco is not only shaking their hand but he is giving them a hug or even a kiss goodbye. Yeah. Yeah. So basically Brian stumbled upon this random bit of history three years ago. He started sharing it with people who usually had just as strong a reaction as he had-- reactions of various kinds. And it kind of ricocheted around from person to person piercing into each one this bullet of information from the past. And since we do not actually know a lot about this speech-- we do not know for sure which chief it was we do not know why he said it the only account of it comes from this one newspaper reporter and leaves crucial questions unanswered-- in the end it is unclear what to think. And even after trying to research it what we are left with is our own personal reactions and feelings. Well today on our program we have two stories about people who bump into unsettling facts from history. They are both stories that is in a setting designed to actually teach them a little bit of history. And in both of these stories what they learn is so different from the lessons that they are supposed to get from the past. In fact it is not even close. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One The Miseducation of Castlemont High. So we begin with a bunch of students who were taken on a field trip to learn about the past. They were going to see a film that covers some history. They were also going to go ice skating which a lot of them were especially looking forward to. This happened back in 1994. And what happened on that field trip with this group of black and Latino students became kind of a big deal talked about all across the country because of what they did not learn. BA Parker has worked on our show and she also incidentally used to be a film professor and she tells what happened. It was actually a school holiday-- January 17 Martin Luther King Day. And even though there was no school the teacher was known for his great field trips so 70 kids showed up. That morning most of them crowded onto a single bus and headed to the Grand Lake Theatre this beautiful classic movie house in town. As soon as they got there they noticed that almost all of the other patrons were white. And according to the kids those patrons noticed them back. Tracy Wilson was one of the students on the field trip a freshman. Just the looks that we were receiving. What kind of looks? In a matter of what are you doing here? We do not look like anybody else that is standing in line but no one said anything to us. No I take that back. There were those bold ones that asked the question. Oh are you guys on a field trip? Yes. What school are you from? Castlemont. Oh OK. And you guys are here to watch a movie? Yeah. What movie are you all watching? And then they are like ah OK. You know? Then we get into the theater and downhill from there. The movie they were going to see was Schindler's List a film about the Holocaust. They walked into the theater. It was chaotic. The teacher had made arrangements ahead of time but no one remembered him calling. So the 70 teenagers just sat where they could a lot of them in the back. The four chaperones sat in the front-- four of them for 70 kids. If you are not familiar with Schindler's List basically Oskar Schindler a real-life German businessman played by Liam Neeson tricks the Nazis into letting him save 1200 Jewish people in Poland. But that plot is not clear for a long long time. And it is artsy in the beginning almost impenetrable. At least that is how I felt when I was a teenager and my teacher showed us the film. Long shots with nobody talking and you do not know what is going on. And it is three hours long and in black and white. At 14 Tracy felt the same way. It opened up with a candle.  And I was like OK.  I mean to us we were probably like oh God black and white. Where are the subtitles? Is this a foreign film? Is this a documentary? Oh God we have to sit through this to go skating? Well I remember I was seeing a movie that was in black and white. This is Tanzania Enskip also a freshman on the field trip. Today she is a teacher. A lot of violence. There was a lot of violence in the movie. And I remember seeing a lot of things that high school kids should not be seeing. I remember one scene. I was like wait a minute. That should only be in sex education not on this screen. A lot of kids were like oh my God. For a film about a concentration camp Schindler's List has a fair amount of sex and titillating nudity in it which again weird thing to show a bunch of high school kids on a field trip. This is Tracy. Yeah. We were probably-- no I would not say probably-- we were definitely unruly. It does not matter what type of movie it is people talk. And we did not want to be there so probably heard some  aw man teeth-sucking attitude. All the kids admit today they did not behave appropriately during the movie. They were restless. They talked and horsed around with each other. Some went out to get drinks and popcorn. Others even snuck into other movies. House Party 3 was also playing that day. Those who stayed in the theater were shushed several times by the other patrons and also an usher and a chaperone. When one of the moviegoers told them to be quiet they reportedly bombarded him with popcorn. I do recall a scene where the young Jewish girl is talking to the German soldiers. Nathanial Osborne was a senior when he went on the field trip. Now he teaches special education. The Jewish woman in the scene he is talking about was the foreman on a construction project. They were building a concentration camp. And the way they were building it was incorrect. She said it was going to cave in. Herr Kommandant the entire foundation has to be torn down and re-poured. If not-- So she was expressing that to them. The general or the guy in charge there-- That would be Ralph Fiennes in the film. You know looked at her. And you are an engineer? Looked at his constituents. Unterscharfuehrer! Ja wohl? And-- Shoot her. --then he told them to shoot her. And I remember I heard somebody says oh my God he is not going to shoot her. This is Tanzania. Then one of the kids said that out loud. And I was thinking the same thing in my head. I said he is not going to shoot this woman. She is just trying to try to let them know that they are doing something incorrectly. I am only trying to do my job. Ja. I am doing mine. Sir she is foreman of construction. We are not going to have arguments with these people. And the guy simply pulled out his gun and shot her.  That is when I remember a lot of students were like oh! Oh my God! Oh! He shot her! Whoa! Tracy Wilson. Back then what did we say? Dang! You know? Or man that was crazy. Or-- What one of the Castlemont kids-- we do not know who-- actually said-- the five words that would come to define this incident-- Oh man. That was cold. But he probably said it as Aw man. That was cold. He said it really loud I believe. He was like Aw man. That was cold. And just quickly there was something else about the scene-- the way the actress fell after she was shot. She bounces abruptly up and down again into the snow. It looks unnatural. Her body was very involved. Like OK that is a bit much. As we would say nowadays extra. And that is when I recall the giggle shall I say. Some kids in the theater laughing while blood poured out of the woman's head. It was not at the fact that she got shot. It was her overdramatizing being shot. And so then what happened? You would see some people get up that were not students and head out the theater. I was in my office upstairs and I decided to go downstairs and get a cup of coffee. This is Allen Michaan the owner of the Grand Lake Theatre. I went down into the lobby and there were several dozen very angry agitated people that were screaming at the manager-- what are you going to do about this? This is outrageous. You have got to do something about this. Angry. They were furious. And there was one woman that was in tears. Allen asked the manager what was going on. The manager told him. There were 500 people in the theater that day watching one of the most upsetting films of the 20th century and some of them-- the teenagers-- were laughing and carrying on. And these people in the lobby some of them told Allen they were family of Holocaust survivors. And I only thought of one thing and that is I have a riot situation on my hands. So I went into the projection room and I told projectionist I said stop the film. I remember the lights coming on. And I went out into the auditorium. A guy walking up on the stage. And I said would the class field trip from Castlemont School please assemble in the lobby? And we were officially kicked out. Again this is Tracy. I think there might have been applause. That was so uncomfortable. Allen the theater owner did not know when he stopped the movie that the Castlemont students were kids of color mostly black. But Tanzania told me and my producer Sean Cole that as the students walked out of the theater the audience definitely knew it. People were clapping. They were applauding. I remember I walked past one gentleman. He told me to go back to Africa.  What? Yeah. I said whoa. I said wait a minute. I did not do anything. That is all I could say. I remember I said I did not even do anything. But yeah it was a gentleman. Becaust I remember I was walking back up and he was on my left. I felt embarrassed. I get that. I was also a black teenager who went to the movies with her friends and there was always a feeling of being policed or policing yourself if you are young brown and carefree in a white space. That can harden you really quick. Tracy again. At that point I was for lack of a better term pissed off. You are clapping? We are kids and you are adults. But now that I am an adult I could see why people were clapping. We were offensive in some of our actions. And with the movie being what it was it makes sense to me now most definitely. 15? No. Again Tanzania. It is starting to come back to me now everything. And when we were outside in front of the theater waiting on the bus to come back and pick us up they told us we could not wait in front of the theater. And I felt embarrassed by that. I felt bad about it because I said wow we are not even good enough to just wait here? They did not go skating. Two days after that Tanzania remembers she was walking to school. I am about to get ready to go to class. Let me grab a juice. And I stopped by a store that was close by the school and I looked down at the newspapers. And it was saying Castlemont High School students get kicked out the theater. They were in the newspaper on the front page at the very top. And I said wait a minute. We are bigger than the earthquake? There would been a huge earthquake in California the day before-- 6.7 magnitude. 57 people died. That was on the front page too below the story about Castlemont. All we did was get kicked out of the theater. I was like how are we bigger than the earthquake? That should be headline news. The article read To the horror of many in the audience during Monday's matinee some of the African-American and Latino teenagers seemed to laugh and applaud at scenes depicting Nazi atrocities. It went on People attending the film were shocked and angry by what they felt was insensitivity to the Holocaust. Other news organizations picked up the story as a theater-going version of a hate crime that dozens of black and Latino kids in Oakland were cheering on the murder of Jewish people. Hello caller. You are on the air. Hi. I was in the audience with my 13-year-old son and two other friends. This is from a local call-in show Flashpoints that was featured in a documentary called Blacks and Jews from the mid-90s. And I was going like who spends money to see a film on the Holocaust just to disrupt it? And I thought are these Nazi sympathizers? I could not understand who these people were. From this point what actually happened in that theater and the motivations of the kids who were there became less important than how other people chose to see them. They were not kids who goofed off on a field trip. They were African-American and Latino teenagers applauding at Nazi atrocities. They were anti-Semites. I was just like wait a minute. That is not me. Tanzania did not even know back then what anti-Semitic meant. If you would have asked me when I was 15 I would have told you no. I would have been like what is that? What is that word? What does that mean? But after hearing it though you look it up in a dictionary and you figure out what it is. Yeah. That is a hell of a way to learn it. Yeah. Jewish people just were not on their radar-- to hate to love anything. Nathaniel did not even know if he would ever met someone who was Jewish. No. And if I did I did not know they were Jewish. Did you know that some of your white teachers happened to be Jewish or anything? No. I want to say Mr. Finkelstein. That is what I want to say had some Jewish ties. That sounds about right. But no. There was another thing the students did not know about-- the Holocaust. They got an hour-long lesson on the basics before the field trip but that was it. Some of them had learned a little bit about it in middle school a few years earlier. Others had never learned the first thing about it. One boy reportedly thought the Holocaust meant the US bombing of Hiroshima in 1945. Within Castlemont what happened on the field trip just became known as the incident. And everybody was talking about it-- in class outside of class. It was clear the administration had to respond publicly. And the way they chose to respond was to say that these kids who'd grown up in the rough open flatlands had seen so much violence-- seen people shot had guns pulled on them-- that they were desensitized to it. One Jewish Castlemont teacher told The LA Times They are not Afro-American kids laughing at Jewish horror they are the inner-city hip-hop generation desensitized to violence because they see it every day. The staff was not alone in pushing this theory. It was a dominant explanation in the media. The whole story was told as a morality tale about black teens and what was wrong with them. But Tanzania basically said that does not make any sense. I mean yeah. Yeah they have seen a lot of violence but when you see it it is not a laughing matter. We are not numb to it. You know we have empathy. We have all that. It is just when you are seeing it and you are looking at it it is like how do you cope with it? And I remember watching the movie. And it is like my emotions I was like how do I handle that? And like you said the one student was like oh wow that was cold. It was cold. Murdering someone for no reason is cold. That was an appropriate reaction. In fact one of the school administrators said she was happy the students reacted that way because she knew it had affected them. After the newspaper articles a barrage of angry phone calls flooded into Castlemont High School many of them from the local Jewish community. People were disappointed in the students and the faculty. The high school administration decided it needed to nip this controversy in the bud. Or they decided the kids needed to nip this controversy in the bud. So that same week as the field trip by the end of the week they organized a press conference and the students were strongly encouraged to speak. Hi I am the student body president at Castlemont High Kandi Stewart and I would like to introduce our student speakers for today which is Tracy Wilson-- Four of the students from the field trip who were also members of the student council sat at a table in front of news cameras. They were dressed professionally. Imagine a '90s era high school picture day. 17-year-old Nathaniel who you heard earlier was in a crisp white shirt and black necktie. Tracy Wilson wore a dark navy dress with puffy shoulders and brass buttons looking like someone much older than she was. To the management and patrons at the Grand Lake Theatre and anyone else who was offended by our actions we apologize for any discomfort and pain we may have caused you. We are sorry for the disruption. It was not our intention to offend anyone. We believe our teachers' hearts were in the right place. They wanted to teach us about the Holocaust. Tracy and the other students took on all the blame. Never once during this press conference did the principal or any of the teachers make a statement. We will never have a chance to make another first impression but we have to rise above this. Oh that caused such mess. This is Tracy in the present day. This needed to be fixed. And if it takes an apology so we can get this to blow over so be it. Let us get the kids to apologize. But that did not seem to calm the storm. For one thing a lot more media picked up the story-- CNN The Washington Post The New York Times-- but the anger and reprimands just kept coming over the next few days and weeks. In a letter to The LA Times a boardmember of the Malibu Jewish Center and Synagogue wrote quote I feel angry that anyone old enough to understand the meaning of man's inhumanity to man could act as callous as these kids apparently acted. Another reader wrote There is no excuse for what those kids did-- not lack of education not lack of being prepared nothing. One of the four students who apologized on camera received death threats in the mail. Anisa Rasheed taught English and African History at Castlemont at the time. It seemed like it made it worse. And some entities felt that the kids did not apologize for what they felt they should be apologizing for. What did they feel they should be apologizing for? The kids were trying to apologize for their behavior for the way that they behaved. But it felt like the greater powers that be or the certain elements they wanted the kids to apologize for their feeling and their thinking that they should apologize and own being insensitive to the pain and suffering of Jewish people and that they are sorry for that and they will never do it again. And now that they have been reprimanded they are going to try to be better people. The kids did not own being insensitive to the pain and suffering of the Jewish people. But to be fair they had not witnessed the full spectrum of the pain and suffering of the Jewish people yet. There were still two more hours and 20 minutes of the film that they never got through-- the film that they had not been properly prepared for and that they had not been taught. From their perspective here's what happened. They misbehaved on a field trip and they said they were sorry. And now they were getting death threats for not being sorry in the right way. Now they were fed up and defensive. They were tired of talking about how ignorant they were. They wanted to talk about something else. There had been a lot of discussion about what happened a while ago to a persecuted minority who was not them. And so when some Jewish people offered to come to Castlemont to teach them about the Holocaust they were not in the mood for moral lectures on someone else's history. I do not want to hear anything-- no disrespect but I do not want to hear anything about anybody else's Holocaust before I hear my own. This recording is from the Blacks and Jews documentary which has a long section on Castlemont. You cannot sit here and fill me with your knowledge until I have my own. As black people Latinos and other races Indians they do not understand their own Holocaust. We do not understand our own Holocaust because I am black and Indian. She is Latino. She is Jamaican-Indian. First we need to learn about our own Holocaust and then maybe we can understand your Holocaust. What about the Trail of Tears or slavery or colonialism? They wanted to learn about that. Anisa Rasheed felt the same way as her students. She is the English and History teacher and she organized a day-long black history teach-in or African Holocaust Day. There were musicians and African dancers lectures on ancient Egypt and Jim Crow. One guest teacher explained that racism has 54 components to it. Another wearing a regal brown and gold dashiki a kufi with a leather-bound neck pouch walked up and down the front of a classroom commanding students' attention pointing to placards listing the names of people who had been lynched in the South. Lynched-- ropes tied around their necks and hung from trees for 100 years-- hung from trees all these names black people. This is the Maafa. Maafa is another word for the African Holocaust. There were dozens of presentations about a variety of topics. But in the movie Blacks and Jews one of the students talked about one particular aspect of the history of slavery that stuck with her. Well I was in one of those classes and what they were talking about was basically how slave ships were owned by Jews. And he showed us documents from where he had gotten out of Washington DC that stated that. And to me that laid an impression upon me. I think it is safe to assume this particular fact stood out to this girl because Jews were suddenly a trending topic at her school. Laura Abrams was the school social worker at Castlemont at the time. A lot of kids really liked her. She was 25 years old then. And for the first time her Jewishness was a topic of interest. This was all students wanted to talk about and asked me a lot of questions about. All of the sudden it was like oh are you Jewish? And well were you raised racist? And did your family own slaves? Some kids told Laura they heard Jews were the most racist group. It was hurtful. So though there was not any anti-Semitism among the students before the field trip it seemed like a kind of anti-Semitism was growing at Castlemont High School. I do not-- I do not want to say that. Again Tracy. What I will say is I remember just kids just being frustrated and saying things and not really having a clear understanding of what they are saying. She is talking about anti-Semitic slurs. You know? Just saying it out of anger because they have heard somebody say it or read it somewhere. But it was not like-- you have to understand that a lot of the kids did not really differentiate Jewish people from all white people so they were not necessarily saying oh all Jews are blah. No they were just saying white people. You know white people this or blah. And there was not any real correction. And I felt like it was allowed. And instead of it being used as a time of enlightenment it just breeded more ignorance. A few months went by and then some surprising news arrived at Castlemont. Stephen Spielberg was coming for a visit. He and the governor of California at the time Pete Wilson had been working on a way to incorporate Schindler's List in a larger curriculum for high schoolers about the Holocaust and slavery. There would be free screenings of the film and a study guide. These plans were already in the works before the field trip happened but where better to make the announcement than Castlemont High School? So at first glance this simply looked like another opportunity for Castlemont High School to put this whole thing to rest or at least to put a positive spin on it. But as with every other turn in this Castlemont Schindler's saga all it did was enrage pretty much everyone. Days beforehand a bunch of workers came to campus to carry out this whole beautification campaign. Almost everybody we talked to made a point of mentioning it. Prettying up the place and cutting the hedges and painting stuff. Buildings got painted. Landscaping got done. And then of course the trimming of the hedges and the painting which I found to be very funny. Again Tracy. It just felt like this big cover-up. What do you mean by that? I mean to be quite honest you have the governor there Mr. Pete Wilson who was also Mr Budget-Cut Governor. It would have been great for him to see what his cuts were doing to this urban community but that is just my thought. It was not just her thought. The county in which Oakland sits voted overwhelmingly against Pete Wilson in the 1990 election. It was like 7030 split. Castlemont kids were black Pacific Islander and Latino. Governor Wilson championed one of the harshest anti-immigration laws in California's history Proposition 187. Many Castlemont kids were low income. Wilson said that welfare quote seduces teenage girls into a life of poverty and encourages irresponsibility. He was also up for re-election. Cicely Day was a senior at Castlemont back in '94. On the day of the assembly she roamed the halls hoping for a Spielberg sighting. And I would run into-- like all of these government people that worked for education was there. And I would just be like hi how are you? And they are like oh we are great. I am like wow it is so amazing that you are here today. Are you coming back? Oh we are just here for the day. Oh you are not going to come back? Because you sure figured out how to come today. You are not going to come back? Because we need new books and our lockers are broke and the bleachers have holes. Can you come back and make sure that gets done? And they would just look at me like oh no she did not. I am like oh yes I did. Oh my. Yes I did. And if I ran into anybody else who I knew had some influence I was going to say the same thing. The event itself was a total circus from the beginning. Not only were there all these government officials hanging around and security and the national press but hundreds of protesters marched up and down the street outside the school many of them from the Nation of Islam. Give the truth to the youth. Give the truth to the youth. Give the truth to the youth. Let us talk about the Black Holocaust. Let us talk about the Black Holocaust. One of the protesters was a little more specific. A Zionist Jew-- Steven Spielberg is a Zionist Jew. They waved signs around that spanned from the pointed How can a Zionist Jew teach us about racism and oppression? to the extremely pointed Zionist Jews are the new Nazis. Remember this all began with a field trip to teach kids tolerance. Aaron Grumet was a geometry teacher at Castlemont and had been one of the teachers on the original field trip. By the time I would gotten over to the auditorium it was overflowing. And a lot of the students could not even get in because the auditorium was full. And what I remember was that all the politicians and dignitaries were there and got their seats in the front. And a lot of the students and faculty never got in. And I remember thinking wow this is just nuts you know? Mr. Steven Spielberg and the Governor of the State of California. Let us go-- stand up ladies and gentlemen. The governor of the state of California is in the building. It was a program befitting of a head of state and a Hollywood icon. There were performances from the students including a monologue that started off Dear Mr. President I am a woman with three children and no food to 