Your know who Studs Terkel is? I think a lot of people especially if you are younger you read him in school-- his books Division Street and Working and The Good War. He was an oral historian. But from 1952 to 1997 he also did a radio show on WMFT in Chicago where he would broadcast the interviews that ended up in his books and also lots of interviews with famous musicians and actors and artists. Anyway I was going through some old tapes of his radio show recently for this event they had celebrating his life. And I stumbled across this utterly ordinary nothing-special-going-on Friday on his radio program. Anyway here's Studs. I think it is pretty obvious to readers that Mike Royko's column is not only witty but I think it is journalism in the true sense in digging into-- It is a Friday in July nearly 50 years ago. It is July 29 1966. And his guest that day is a good friend of his newspaper columnist Mike Royko another iconic Chicago figure. Anyway on this particular day they kill two hours very interestingly I have to say chatting about stories in the news. The medical director of Cook County hospital for example had made headlines when he said that he did not need to air condition the operating rooms in the facility. Surgeons he said should instead eat salted crackers which would replace the salt that doctors lose when they sweat. There was some news that week about the prize fighter they still called Cassius Clay. There was a story that was national news at the time that I would be very surprised if you heard of. I had not heard of this. Basically a justice on the Supreme Court William O. Douglas a liberal appointed by FDR who'd been on the bench almost three decades at that point-- the news was he had gotten married. Here's Studs talking to Mike Royko about that. And you did a column I understand received quite a response. What happened in Congress the objections of many-- Pat I think this is worth reading. Mhm. May I read this one? Because this leads I know to all sorts of discussion. OK I am just going to stop the tape right there. For whatever reason Royko seems to prefer that Studs read his columns on this show rather than read them out loud himself. And if it is OK with you I enjoyed this next bit and I know that you tuned in just now to hear a radio show made you know today but let us just do a little time travel OK? So your radio or your computer or your smartphone or whatever picks up instead a radio show from 1966 for just a couple minutes. And let us enjoy this together. Here's Studs. And Mike writes a ringing dissent to criticism of Justice Douglas. When Associate Justice William O. Douglas returns from his honeymoon it would be perfectly proper for him to do the following-- walk with great dignity to his seat on the Supreme Court bench sit down draw his black robes about him slowly raise is right hand touch the tip of his thumb to the tip of his nose wiggle his fingers. OK just pausing that again. Have you got what he is describing there? OK good. Now this would provide a fitting message and ensure an explanation for the busybodies of America who currently are wallowing in indignation their favorite puddle. The busybodies are upset because Douglas 67 married Cathleen Heffernan 23. It was his fourth marriage and she is his youngest bride. The issue here in Royko's opinion is whether this is really anybody's business at all-- which is incidentally the subject of today's radio show our radio show when to mind your own business. The fact that a man they do not know married a girl they do not know for reasons that are none of anyone else's business has a terrible effect on the tempers of many people. Why this is I do not know. Royko's column then quotes some things that he heard somebody say about the marriage on a Chicago call-in show. And then Royko turns to Congress where a Democrat from Alabama called for a congressional investigation into Douglas's character because of this marriage and said that he had heard that Douglas had been cruel to his previous wives. A congressman from Mississippi said that of all the courts troublesome decisions recently this decision to head down the quote highway of matrimony has raised the most eyebrows. And Representative Paul Finley Republican of Illinois said there should be a way to remove a justice from the bench without a trial for crimes or misdemeanors. OK seriously hearing this today with the distance of a half century this controversy feels so utterly about nothing-- so inconsequential. It makes you wonder is this what the Anthony Weiner story is going to sound like a half century from now? And yeah OK maybe it is a little icky for a 67-year-old to marry a 23-year-old but these you know are consenting adults. These are people who are doing nothing against the laws of the United States of America nothing that seems to merit congressional action. Anyway Royko's column ends with several questions he says remain unanswered. How many marriages will a justice be allowed before he gets kicked off the bench? What will be an acceptable age difference in the marriage of a justice to a younger woman? Will a justice be permitted to marry an older woman? What does the Alabama congressman consider cruelty to a wife? Are tear gas billy clubs police dogs and shotguns acceptable on the highway of matrimony or only on the highway back home?  Well naturally something happened here--  Yeah. --when you wrote this. Yeah. People got mad. The response was almost unanimously against my position. Now what sort of madness? I was not surprised. Oh well there were some very funny letters. I found out that apparently more people are concerned about the Supreme Court justice's marriage than they are about what he does the rest of the time that he is on the bench. One woman wrote me a letter and said that she surely would not vote for him the next time he ran for election.   I do not think she would heard of him before. And-- This next part of the recording I really just love. They haul in staffers at the radio station-- basically just grab them from down the hall-- to read some of the letters that Royko got after he wrote this column. So now we got-- here are letters in response to Mike Royko's column if we may start. And then Mike perhaps you could read your comment. You have a little comment at the end of each one. No you read it. No you do-- no the comment. I-- I cannot read it. All right. So I will be Mike Royko. This is Jimmy Jake an older man. However you read. This is Jake here. It is hard to believe that you were serious in your column about Justice Douglas. I am 62. And ever since I read about this bit I have been trying to figure out how I could tactfully and with justification approach some or even one of the cute young things that populate the building I am in. No matter how I phrase my approach I seem to hear the same words. 'Why you dirty old man.' Now then this makes me wonder how does a 67-year-old man make the approach? Oh well I assume he said something like will you marry me? What have you been thinking of saying? And then a girl named Jane was indignant. Kathy? You have an obligation to the reading public as well as to yourself to stick with the truth. And truth comes from God. And what has Justice Douglas done with God's commandments? People disgustingly and rightly so talk about Liz Taylor. Douglas is just one step behind her making a mockery of marriage. Do you advocate what Liz Taylor has done? This country's laws are based on Christian doctrine and morality. And if a Supreme Court judge openly and continually disregards those laws what is the common man to think about regarding the sanctity of marriage?  Well-- All right I am going to stop the tape there. I assume that they are laughing mostly because of the sheer moxie that their colleague is bringing to her performance of that letter. Studs is usually very tolerant of people's religious beliefs. Her letter does get to the heart of controversy though. Douglas was a very liberal voice on the liberal Warren Court. And lots of conservatives saw this marriage as just another indication of permissive liberal values and what was wrong with the whole direction of the country in 1966. Anyway here's one more letter. And finally Marty Robinson was busy announcing. Now Marty you are a doctor in Oak Park. Now your thinking in your Douglas column is the kind of fuzzy mindedness that is seized upon by many to do anything they wish in the name of freedom.  Spoken like an authoritative doctor. And Mike replies Getting married four times is not exactly my idea of having freedom. That is a good one. Thank you ladies and gentlemen. Now Mike did you receive any letters praising you for the column? A couple of dirty old men liked it.   Can I just say-- OK it is annoying the self-righteousness that people have in condemning this marriage right? But it is also kind of harsh the self-righteousness that Royko has in criticizing them. After all like sure what happens in this marriage is nobody's business but their own. But who among us I would ask you who among us hears about a 67-year-old man marrying somebody a third his age without feeling like a little twinge of judginess right? Like who does not have feelings about that? Who is above that? Which is to say it is hard minding your own business. We are human beings. We are programmed to make judgments about every situation that we walk into and hear about. It is hard not to be nosy. It is hard not to want to know more. That is being alive. And today on our program we have stories of people not minding their own business. Well actually in these stories it is big institutions not minding their business and busybodying their way into all kinds of stuff into what kind of underwear is being worn by cheerleaders into what is happening in jail hallways in cell blocks. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One Jill House Rules. In January of this year a woman who went by the name of Lacy T filed a lawsuit against the Oakland raiders for failing to pay her minimum wage. Lacy was a cheerleader for the team a rookie. NFL cheerleaders generally make about 1500 for the entire season although some make as little as 850 for the entire season. Just a few weeks after Lacy another cheerleader filed a suit this one against the Cincinnati Bengals. Then cheerleaders with the Buffalo Bills New York Jets Tampa Bay Buccaneers women from five NFL cheerleaders teams were suing for higher pay. What is interesting is that the way the cheerleaders are trying to win is to argue that the teams exert so much control over their lives they are so up in their business that the cheerleaders deserve to be considered employees. If they are considered employees then they have to be paid minimum wage. So the lawsuits also include a bunch of internal documents that describe how much up in their business the franchises are. Here's Chana Joffe-Walt. It was Page 18 that really got me the Buffalo Jills lawsuit. The team is the Buffalo Bills so the cheerleaders are the Jills. And on Page 18 of these legal documents they are describing a Jills rulebook the team gives out to each squad member. It says quote The extensive rulebook set forth by defendants includes rules on how much bread to eat at a formal dinner how to properly eat soup how much to tip restaurant waiters wedding etiquette how to properly wash intimate areas and how often to change tampons. And then right here as evidence they include the actual handbook-- the glamour requirement section two pages on conversation starters 17 rules for what they call general hygiene and lady body maintenance. I think what is so bizarre about reading these rules as an outsider someone who works in an office every day is it is really hard to imagine your boss talking to you about this stuff. Let me show you what I mean with my boss. I asked my boss Ira to read some of these rules. Hey Ira. Hey there Chana. OK. So imagine your boss walking into your cubicle and saying-- All right here we go. Stay away from frosted lipsticks and eye shadows. Management will determine your proper color analysis. No slouching breasts-- support as needed. Yeah that is weird. That is weird. Keep going though. Keep going. So here are some more actual rules from actual cheerleader handbooks. Never apply makeup or fuss with hair front of people. If it is absolutely necessary you reapply freshen up go to the ladies' room. And do not hang out and talk while there. Beware other women will judge you in there too. Always say excuse me when you burp sneeze or cough even if you think there is not anyone around. Napkins-- when you leave the table at the end of the meal place your napkin loosely next to your plate. It should not be crumpled or twisted which would reveal untidiness or nervousness respectively. There is a lot of rules about the cheerleaders' bodies which I get. It is a job that depends on your body. But these rules get deep into your mind like these ones. Read these Ira. OK. Please think before you speak and always pay attention and listen. Ask yourself 'Is it likely that this person will be interested in what I am about to bring up?' Do not be overly opinionated about anything. Do not complain about anything. Ever hang out with a whiner? It is exhausting and boring. Watch other poor manners or nervous habits such as nail biting knuckle-slash-neck cracking excessive sniffling and too many arm movements. I like imagining what the author was picturing with that last one. Too many arm movements. Yeah. OK. So I did not really know what to make of these. It is hard to imagine the NFL players have handbooks that outline how to eat bread politely and wash their genitals. But I do not know. Maybe no cheerleaders actually talk about these rules or no one enforces them. Maybe cheerleading manuals are essentially employee handbooks that nobody ever reads. So I ran a bunch of them by a couple current and former cheerleaders who told me yeah we had lots of rules like that. And we knew those rules. But most of them also added the rules were not a big deal. Carly Walko cheered for the Redskins and the Eagles. I mean of course some of them were frustrating like your nails a certain length or whatever. And I mean you just have to believe that every rule's there because there is been a circumstance in the past that has had to put it there. So you would think nail length who cares? Everyone keeps their nails relatively reasonably long. There must have been some girl along the way who had like 8-inch nails and probably stabbed some girl in the back doing a lift or something. And so now they have to say you cannot have your nails be past a certain point. Which seems silly but someone 10 years ago got hurt on the field because a girl's nails were too long. Do you know what I am saying? Other cheerleaders I talked to said the same thing. The rules may seem weird from the outside but really they are not. And they did not have a problem with them. But I was not confident that was a completely honest take. Cheerleaders after all are hired to promote their teams. That is their job. So even if they did find the rules stupid or way up in their business why would they talk to some stranger about that on the radio? But I realized I do have someone to ask about these documents who knows this world and could speak with me honestly about it-- my colleague This American Life producer Robyn Semien. Robyn was an NBA cheerleader. I had a great time on the Lakers. I really did. It was fun. It was fun. Robyn was a Laker Girl in college. After 20 years of dance classes and cheer camps she made it to the Lakers which is a big deal. I feel like I need to say that because Robyn will not. She made me ask three times before she told me she beat out hundreds of other women for her spot. In the end it is 16 of us were chosen-- three brunettes and three blonds and two redheads maybe. And so I was one of two black girls that were hired. So like I knew that this was just kind of-- that there were roles that I was auditioning for a part. And that was fine. When I read the guidelines and handbooks to Robyn she just kind of shrugged. We were there representing an enormous franchise she told me. Of course there were rules about everything. Yeah there were tons of rules. A main one was you cannot date the players which meant-- like you cannot date the players which really meant you cannot sleep with the players. But also you cannot date them. But also you cannot be seen anywhere alone with them. Like you cannot-- there is just no crossover between what we are doing as the Laker Girls and what the Laker team was doing. So you did not have any relationships with any of the players. None. I mean none. Robyn says everyone knew that rule. And they did not need to read it in a handbook because they had Lisa. Lisa Estrada was and still is the director of the Laker Girls. It was Lisa who told the squad which kind of lipstick to wear how much which mascara how long their nails should be. It was Lisa who did weigh-ins before games. It was Lisa who told Robyn to straighten her hair so it would look like Suzanne Somers from Three's Company. Lisa was a boss you remember. She was-- I mean she is a spitfire. And she was really funny and also kind of really kind of scary. In my mind she was like spending all day every day like in some meeting with like Jerry Buss like the owner of the Lakers. Just she was always seeming to come from some important meeting or something important about our dances or our image or what the Lakers organization needed from us meant. When they went out on appearances-- say a Staples office supply store would want four Laker girls for their grand opening-- they would offer good money. And Lisa would say you can go but-- I expect that you all conduct yourselves appropriately. And do not ever forget what you are representing. What were you representing? I do not-- um class. You were classy. Yes. Yeah yeah. Did you understand what that meant? Kind of. It just meant that we were not slutty. There was a line. Lisa wanted the line to be blindingly bright. And that is what the rules were about. One side of the line was classy. The other side was slutty. Lisa wanted you to be on the right side of the line. And that made sense to Robyn. I feel like in general as a dancer if you are like trying to make it as a professional dancer in Los Angeles you are coming across a lot of questionable opportunities. You are like do I or do not I want to put on stilettos and a bikini and be in that music video because I could totally do it but-- so it felt a little bit like a Disney version of-- yeah classy but like sexy classy. Sure.  Yes. Sequins and hot pink all over your face. Whatever you want. Right. But do not sleep with any of the players. But do not fornicate with the players yeah. It made sense to Robyn that they should not sleep with the players. It made sense that Lisa told her what kind of push-up bra to wear and to get it specifically from Frederick's of Hollywood. It made sense that Lisa wanted her to be careful while dancing that she was doing her girl-next-door face and not a diva sex face. That all seemed reasonable. But Lisa had a lot of rules. They did not all make sense. One of the rules that we had was that we were not allowed to drink water out of water bottles. Why? This was like a rule. Every single rule came from Lisa. Totally like normal-but-a-little-intimidating Lisa would come to us and say all right no. OK but no drinking water at these appearances. And then she explained that it was like because it was too provocative to drink out of a water bottle. Like it just could connote something that would be-- What? What? I know. What is provocative about it? Yeah I do not know. I do not know. I do not think anyone was like what do you mean? We were all just like yeah OK. Immediately like I am trying to imagine what she is imagining. And it just suddenly seems like a everything gets slow motion and we are like drinking water in this way that is just inappropriate. It is like suddenly like rated R water drinking. The word Robyn remembers Lisa using was porny. Yeah it is porny. Yeah. Or at least to Lisa it is or someone in the greater organization at one of her many afternoon meetings has told her like whoa slow down on all the water drinking. Let us keep it wholesome. I do not know. I do not know. If there is a line between classy and porny cheerleading more than any other job I can think of is pushing right up against that line. It is dancing with pom-poms all over the line. So Robyn says the rules were there to keep things from accidentally crossing over. They are there to provide context. This thing we are doing is professional and classy. So even when Lisa's rules seemed a little crazy Robyn went with it. She was trying to keep us safe-- appropriate and protected. Dd you feel that? Did you appreciate like she is looking out for us. Yeah for sure. Yeah. She was kind of feminist protective of us. Everything that could have been like severely oversexed or really kind of disgusting there was some kind of safety in place. And that was Lisa. Oh and that was Lisa. Yeah. Oh my God how are you? Fine. How are you? I am great thanks. Good. I know I saw-- 20 years after she left the team Robyn called her old coach to say I am talking about you on the radio as my protector. Do you think about yourself that way? Yeah I mean if people need to say that I am you know mama hen or I act like a mom then I am totally fine with that. And I think that I should be here to protect them. Sometimes it is a bit hard coming into a sports world with them. Sports world is a man's world kind of. And there is definitely the stigma of they are just eye candy. And they go out and they shake their pom-poms. Or they go out and they dance or whatever it is. But I wanted everyone in Los Angeles to understand they are not only dancing girls they are so much more than that. And they should be looked at as professional women. Lisa says she does not remember calling water bottles porny. But she is sure if she did it was only because she wanted the women to be seen as professional. And Robyn says it worked. Yes having a rule to tell you how often to change your tampon is ridiculous. But taken as a group these rules made the whole thing into a job. They did make everything feel professional. There is something wholesome about going to an NBA basketball game. There is families and kids. And it is bright. And it is familiar. And yes and we were like the dance team that was wearing the logo that was printed on the outside of this massive stadium. It just felt like OK we are all in it. Like we all kind of know what it is. And maybe we are like the sexualized talent entertainment component to all this but it feels very rated G. It felt like that almost all the time. Almost. The job was complicated at times. Like you would see little-- you would see it at the games sometimes. Like you would be with Lakers fans who were just grown men with like their young sons who would say like will you pose with my son? And you are like yeah sure. And then you would like get in a little huddle for the picture. And then the guy would say OK say sexy. And you are like uh that seems inappropriate. The guy would say that to his kid would say-- He would just say it to us like that. And you are like why do not you just say say cheese? And then you kind of remember. You are like but actually I am standing here like in my push-up bra like wearing clothes close to what I would wear on the beach in a stadium with tons of other people wearing a lot more clothes than I am. Like you would have these moments of being like oh. And there was the time they did the event at a bar called Pinky's. It was a pool hall where all the tables were covered in pink felt. The Laker Girls did their routines but it was late and the men were drunk. Suddenly you are like doing dance routines in like a smoky pool hall packed with kind of screaming men. And I feel like I had a-- like something switched for me. Like I saw what I was doing in a different way. It was just like one of those times where I thought this feels like stripping right now. But then the event at Pinky's was over. And Robyn says those awkward moments usually faded quickly because she loved the job. She loved what she was doing. And that I guess is what was still confusing to me. What is to love? You have got a coach who is up in your business all of your business. You do not make a lot of money-- although in Robyn's case the NBA pays a lot better than the NFL. But still it is not player money. You cannot gain three pounds. You cannot even talk to the attractive famous young men right next to you. You cannot drink bottled water. The more I learned the more cheerleading sounds like walking through airport security over and over every day just the feeling of being heavily policed with a bunch of unexplained arbitrary rules that are maybe there to keep you safe but you do not really get why. And just is not it supposed to be fun? Is it fun? Robyn looks at me kind of pityingly when I ask about this. Is it fun? I do not know that I can compare anything to being on stage in front of-- like in a stadium under those lights in front of like 25000 screaming fans. Even when I think about it now it does not exactly feel like me. It is a little out-of-body. In like an awesome way? In an amazing way yeah. In an amazing way. Robyn was part of the most elite professional level of cheerleading. She was dancing with people who were auditioning to go on tour with Madonna. It was Los Angeles. There were celebrities everywhere. Thousands of people came to games. She got to sit courtside next to Denzel Washington. In other words yes moron it was fun. It was really fun. In those moments the rules and Lisa were not on her mind. Chana Joffe-Walt is one of the producers of our program. Coming up the LA County Sheriff's Department loses an inmate in its own jail system on purpose. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's program Mind Your Own Business AKA mind your own beeswax AKA butt out buzz off MYOB. This is an A and B conversation so C your way out. Why do you look at the speck in your brother's eye when you do not notice the plank in your own? Do not be dipping in the Kool-Aid when you do not even know the flavor. And a favorite in my family people in glass houses should not throw stones. We have arrived at Act Two of our program. Act Two Cop Versus Cop. Well there is been a big messy fascinating story unfolding in Los Angeles for a while involving two big law enforcement agencies the LA County Sheriff's Department which is huge and the FBI. A secret investigation got exposed. There were accusations and counter-accusations clandestine recordings. And by the end a bunch of people's careers were over. At the heart of it was this-- nobody likes to be watched and reported on judged by some outsider. No person likes it and no organization likes it. Nancy Updike has the story. Employee Christmas parties are so often associated with bad behavior and just unwise choices that I believe they rival wedding toasts. About three years ago Robert Faturechi a reporter for the LA Times heard about a Christmas party thrown by the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department. At this beautiful banquet hall there had been a massive fight between deputies. This fight was not an argument. It was a fistfight among sheriff's deputies. And in Los Angeles County sheriff's deputies are guards in the county jails which does not mean that they are watching a few drunks sleep it off in a holding cell. This is the largest jail system in the country-- over 19000 inmates at the moment. So Robert heard about the deputies' brawl at the Christmas party. And he started looking into what had happened. What he heard was that one group of deputies had beat up two other deputies. And the deputies who delivered the beating all worked on the same floor in the Sheriff Department's main jail. It is called the 3000 floor. And I heard word that before the fight broke out when they were exchanging words these guys were throwing three-finger hand signs similar to gang signs. There were rumors that they described themselves as the 3000 boys. Mhm. So they were representing affiliation to a specific geographical area the third floor of their jail. So in a lot of ways they were like a gang. Robert wondered if they are beating up their fellow deputies how are they treating inmates? This turned out to be a very good question and also just the beginning. Because the first thing Robert found out was yes most likely some of the deputies who beat up other deputies were using extraordinary amounts of force on inmates. But it was not just the guys at the Christmas party. Robert dug into public records about use of force reports in the jail and later internal Sheriff's Department documents-- these had never been made public-- that showed that the department knew that brutality against inmates was a real problem in the jails that deputies were beating inmates fabricating stories to justify beatings that investigations after the fact were shoddy. Robert was also hearing more and more from sources inside the Sheriff's Department. He published a series of stories with headlines like LA County Deputy Says He Was Forced to Beat Mentally Ill Inmate and Monitor Says She Saw Deputies Beat Inmate quote 'Like a Punching Bag.' Robert talked to a former commander who said there were deputies who really did seem to have formed their own gangs in the jail. I mean this was a high-ranking guy. He told us that deputies were literally breaking inmates' bones. In order to get membership into these gang-like groups of deputies they had to break inmates' bones. And I mean that is the kind of thing that if I had heard before all of this started to unfold I would never believe it. But this was a department commander telling us this. I mean this guy was in charge of hundreds of deputies. He is someone who came up through the system who has a lot of loyalty to the system. At the same time that Robert was digging all of this up another organization was also looking into the jails-- not a news organization the FBI. The date is August 30 2010 at 945 AM. This is Special Agent Leah Marx. I will soon begin a consensual recording with target William David Courson Junior at Lazy Daisy Cafe in Los Angeles. Leah Marx was the lead FBI investigator looking into inmate abuse at the LA jails. Just to clarify when she says consensual recording that is FBI speak. It means she is consenting. The other guy does not know she is recording. Marx had been going out to the main jail in downtown LA for a while investigating corruption and brutality by deputies against inmates. But the Sheriff's Department had no idea that is what she was looking into. FBI agents go to jails all the time to meet with informants. Agent Marx told one deputy at the jail she was working on a human trafficking case. This particular recording at the Lazy Daisy Cafe came about because one of the deputies Deputy William Courson asked Agent Marx out. He had a crush on her She turned him down. But later she talked with her supervisor and they decided that Deputy Courson could be a good source of intel. Marx told Courson she would go out with him but just as friends. No dating. She was not interested. So they go out to breakfast. She has French toast. He has eggs. And she is asking him about his job. And he is telling her about violence in the jail inmates beating up other inmates. Courson says in some cases They are going to get beat down by their own people more than likely worse than what we would normally do to them. Which is bad because we send them to the hospital. They are going to get beat down by their own people more than likely worse than what we would normally do to them. Which is bad because we send them to the hospital. Like why though? Why what? Why would you guys send them to the hospital? Because every time they fight with us it is like an unwritten rule. They go to the hospital. He is saying Every time they fight with us it is like an unwritten rule. They go to the hospital. He says Sometimes they do not even have to make the first move. If we just perceive that they want to fight we do not have to wait for them to hit us. Marx keeps asking but is this how you are trained officially by the Sheriff's Department that you are l