 It is This American Life. I am Bim Adewunmi in for Ira Glass this week. So back in early April when we were still only a few weeks into lockdown in New York a friend of mine asked me what things were like on Planet Bim. It was a joke but it was one of those accurate jokes. Because living alone right now is probably not that dissimilar to being a far away solitary planet. New York was one of the first places to lock down. And in a way I am still living like it is March. I work from home. I leave for groceries. I attend almost no social functions. And it is not that I do not know how to be alone. Being alone even in a crowd is not new to me. We moved continents when I was very young living between the UK and Nigeria. I went off to boarding school when I was 10 years old. I left home for university when I was 19 and I never really moved back home again. I have lived in London Lagos Berlin and now New York. I chose to live in those last two places to move far away from family and home. But there is something different about the aloneness of right now. COVID-19 has taken away that element of choice. Like a 9-year-old being sent up to her room as punishment versus sitting in her room quietly reading anyway. The activities are the same but the issue is control. So many of us have been dealing with this enforced aloneness a lot more since the pandemic began. Sometimes I feel like I am floating through space a sort of dwarf planet in a galaxy that seems to be populated by planets with people attached-- children a partner other family members maybe even housemates or a pet. I have none of those things at the moment. My family my parents my siblings their partners they are all in London about three and a half thousand miles and a full ocean away. I am basically a caricature of the elder millennial. It is just me and an ever-growing collection of house plants and candles. And as I kept thinking about space and about distance I realized oh I am not a planet. I am an astronaut. It feels like no one is psychically if not physically further away from their loved ones than an astronaut in orbit. So I found an astronaut just to compare notes with-- Leroy Chiao. He is retired now from NASA. But altogether he spent more than 7 and 12 months in space. Can I ask a child's question now? Sure. Can you be bored in space? Like is it different to Earth boredom? You know I think you-- well put it this way. We do have a lot to do. Even if a lot of the work is tedious work it is still work that has to be done and it has to be done per the schedule. And if we did not have that it would be a lot more difficult. Because even though you have got the spectacular view of the Earth and you are taking photographs of all these great places after a while if you did not have enough to do it would be pretty tough you know? So the answer is yes. I think he was saying yes you can absolutely get bored in space even though they keep them quite busy. Leroy told me something I had not known. At the end of every day all the activities on the International Space Station had to be logged. And every single day based on that log the plan changed. Before you even launch aboard a six-month space mission every minute of your mission has been planned out and taking into account all the requirements constraints priorities things like that. And then you get up there and you start the first day with day one. And at the end of your day you have got logged on the computer the things that you finished things that you got ahead on things you maybe got behind on. And then while you sleep the entire planning team on the ground in the mission control center is replanning the entire mission based on what happened that day and then ripple it all the way through to the end. And then they send up a new flight plan. And the next morning when you get up you have got a new flight plan on your computer because of this replanning team that has to do this every night. I love that it fell to a whole crew of people at an entirely different location to plan minute by minute everything that a person should be doing with their hours. Eat breakfast and clean up between 0615 and 0645 hours. A 15-minute conference with mission control after experiments. Sleep for eight hours. Someone to check in make sure you are on task. Unfortunately unlike Leroy I have no mission control. The usual order of my day has been disrupted since March. With no commute my desk is now only a few feet away from my bed. My sleep schedule is messed up. A friend of mine said we should stop calling it working from home but rather living at work. Everything feels like it is drifting-- and not just in my apartment. It would be nice if someone seemed to have a bit of a plan globally speaking. When Leroy and I first spoke it was April. And at that point I would been alone indoors for about six weeks. I remember it as a slightly feral time. I joked that I wished I would thought to trap a boyfriend before the pandemic hit some kind of human space junk to occasionally bump into in my apartment. But then Leroy told me about the perils of cohabiting in space. I talked to some of the cosmonauts who had been around for a long time. And they said some crews came back and they said if I had had a weapon if I had had a gun I would have killed my crewmate. I mean that is how bad it can get. I have no tension with my houseplants. My candles burn but not with any malice. And I actually really like living alone. It is not that I want to fight with anyone. I just wish I had the option sometimes-- you know break glass in case of boredom. Leroy's longest stint in space came when he lived on the International Space Station with only one other person-- Salizhan Sharipov a Kyrgyzstani cosmonaut-- for 192 days. For context my personal expedition is currently around 130 days. Part of the terror of being alone right now is that this pandemic feels endless. I asked Leroy when things began to feel really impossible for him. Was there a time in space when the itch to be home became unbearable? I would say right around the four-month point. Three four months seems to be kind of the right amount of time if you ask most astronauts. And that is when you are saying well this is great. This is interesting. It is fulfilling but I sure would not mind going home either.  And when you start getting eager to go home is actually after the next crew arrives. You have generally about a week or a week and a half together before you go home. And so the next crew arrives and you start getting really excited about going home. And that is when the time seems to slow to a crawl  that last week or so. That makes sense to me. Even in the majesty of space four months is still four months. Four months of being alone of being so far away-- it is hard. And four months is where we are at in this new reality. We are ready to come back to Earth but we do not know when we will be allowed to go home. There is still no cure no vaccine and a steady increase in new cases. So what do we do? Today we are going to hear from people who have had time to think about their aloneness or their loneliness even when they are in a crowd. How to be an astronaut or a solitary planet when there is a whole galaxy just around the corner. How to be alone. That is the feeling of today's program. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Bim Adewunmi. Stay with me. Act One The Unbearable Part. When isolation and social distancing was still new I read a letter and it felt like pages from a diary I had not even known I was writing. It was published in The Sewanee Review back in April. The writer Danielle Evans alone in Baltimore seemed to synthesize the feeling of aloneness and loss and fear that I had not yet been able to even articulate. Here's Danielle reading a version of that letter. Who was everyone's last real human touch? a friend asked at a Zoom birthday party in late March. I said a name but once everyone hung up I thought again not sure if I remembered correctly. I walked myself through that last real day of human contact-- the first week of March on the last day of AWP an annual writer's conference. I had planned to fly to San Antonio a day and a half early to treat a friend who'd had a difficult year to a pre-conference spa day but in the days leading up to the conference fear of the virus spread. Thousands of people including my friend canceled their travel plans. I canceled the spa day out of prudence but my flight was departing as scheduled and I would not get reimbursed if I did not get on it. I decided to travel anxiously but I am anxious as a general condition. One way to live in the world when you have anxiety is to get used to pushing it aside when it gets in the way of being alive. This is my best explanation for why I trusted the city and the airlines and the institutions who said it was still safe to travel and ignored the warnings of friends who said what was coming. I thought quarantine was still an if and weeks away if so. And I thought if loneliness was coming soon I did not want to be alone any longer than necessary. The conference was part hectic work trip part carnival. On its final day tired after two days packed with events and panels I slept in and stayed in bed for hours after I woke. I finally made it as far as the hotel lobby intending to grab lunch but instead spotted a friend at the bar. We spent a few hours day drinking having a meandering conversation about our novels and major life decisions. I feel so settled I said believing it. The serendipity of the afternoon bled into the evening. I spent the day moving from crowded space to crowded space running into friends making plans for later in the night or the month or the year. Late in the evening a group of us headed to the conference's dance party. But when we all went upstairs the dance floor was hilariously heartbreakingly empty. It already felt like a metaphor. Downstairs people began to peel off. We were tired. Flights were early. It was starting to be unavoidably clear that we were in the before of something terrible and on the wrong side of caution. I remember who was there. I remember that some people were already conscientiously not hugging or touching that some people were there who I did not know well enough to hug. Who was the last person who leaned into me to say goodbye? Who was the last person besides me to realize the party was over? Two days after I returned to Baltimore the campus where I teach was closed immediately and indefinitely. I prepared myself for the city to shut down for about a month. I walked a block to buy extra cat food and then a block more to stock up on canned and dried goods and for reasons unclear to me essential oils at my tiny and mysterious neighborhood health food store. I reinstated the service that mailed me a box of fresh vegetables weekly. A month passed. The virus had not peaked yet. April and May passed. I kept waiting for a clear sign that the worst was over but instead felt like we were all trapped in the opening half of a horror movie. By the time the city's stay-at-home order lifted in early June little seemed to have changed to make me feel better about being in crowds or riding the city bus or sharing indoor space with people. It is July now and most weeks I only go as far as my apartment building's front entryway to collect mail and occasional groceries and bring them inside to disinfect. In more exciting weeks I venture down the fire escape to take out the recycling and walk around the block to come back in through my front door. Though for three weeks our recycling was on hold because of an outbreak at the Bureau of Solid Waste and I stopped making even that small trip. In over three months I have seen six delivery people two neighbors in the hallway one friend making a masked front door grocery drop-off one repairman one stranger who needed to tour the property and my landlord. As time passes there are fewer unbearable days but they are worse when they come. I had a running joke for years about how none of my survival skills would be useful in an apocalypse. But it turns out being anxious and alone in my apartment weighing which things I love are worth the possibility that they might hurt me is the one scenario I was somewhat prepared for. At the start of the year I had been looking forward to spending some time alone. I was on teaching leave for the spring semester and I thought it would be a luxury to be mostly at home for a while. I love my apartment. I bought myself a smart bike and taught myself to like it anticipating a season when I would become a creature of odd habits and hours and would not want to walk to the gym after dark or in the spring rain. I was preparing to hibernate and not miss much. Now I miss so many things. I take vitamin D pills and sometimes hover over the fire escape ledge standing beside the trash can to try to get some sunlight and imagine the luxury of having a backyard. I miss my father who is a 40-minute train ride away. The train feels out of the question. And I cannot ask my father working full time from home and recovering from minor surgery to drive an hour each way just to visit. I never learned to drive something I sometimes considered a badge of city-dwelling honor. Earlier in the year I told a relative I did not need to learn to drive in Baltimore when I live a short walk from Penn Station and at least a dozen city buses stop within a block of my apartment. If I had a car and a license I think now I could drive to wave at my father from a safe distance. When the casual relationship I had drifted into early in the year just as casually evaporated I told a friend I guess we were not that serious about it so it is for the best. Now the scolding voice in my head tells me that a person who believed in chasing after things who did not think it was as clear as people either want to be around you or they do not and if you did not know which there was your answer-- well that person might not be alone in her apartment for months. When I turned 35 a few years ago I promised myself I would let go of the idea that someday I was going to become a different kind of adult. I let myself accept that there would be no house or a husband or a baby or sudden mature renunciation of glitter. It was only the baby I really grieved but I let myself have that grief and move on. I gave myself permission to live a life that was not waiting for my real life to start to free all of my intimate relationships from the emotional tyranny of a ticking biological clock to claim as a choice what would otherwise feel like it had happened to me. I thought it worked. But the loneliness of isolation some days mocks all of that makes all of my possible joys feel ephemeral. I asked which of the things I promised myself I could still have-- casual flings travel community in the form of classrooms and bookstores and coffee shops and bars-- will survive this or exist in recognizable form when we emerge. It is possible to feel stuck with your choices even without wishing you would made any differently. When I hear that this could go on for a year I think it is lack of human touch human contact that will break me. And then I think it might actually be grief. Without the constant busy buzz of my normal life it is harder not to dwell on what is absent-- the lives I might have had the life I would have if my mother was still alive. I keep waiting for the first feeling I have that is wholly untouched by grief or that is at least its own fresh grief not marked by her death three years ago. But it has not come yet. When I heard the early descriptions of the virus of what it does to people's breathing I thought of my mother at the beginning of her illness when she went to the ER with undiagnosed stage four cancer and a liter and a half of fluid in her lungs and the doctor was planning to send her home with a laxative until my mother's friend a cardiologist at the same hospital insisted they give her a CAT scan. I thought of my mother at the end when everything they had given her to keep the pain at bay to keep her unnaturally calm while her body's every instinct told her to panic also meant she could not hold her head up to cough or vomit. How many times she would said she did not want to die hooked up to tubes so when they first asked to intubate her her partner said no. How when I was alone with her later that day she began to choke suddenly awake and terrified. And I held her hand and I pushed the call button and knew we did not have that much time so I ran into the hallway screaming for help and the nurse came running. I stood in that hallway terrified my mother was going to die while I was in fact at the hospital by her bedside waiting for my mother to die just not like that. How I did not know for certain until after they would put the tube in that I would heard her voice for the last time. In the first months of quarantine sometimes in the middle of the day I would find myself sobbing and only realize later why which bit of news triggered which memory-- the descriptions of what the virus does to the body how many of the early faces of the dead were Black women my mother's age or the infuriating financial politics of our health care system. It was hard for me to untangle on a personal or national level the difference between a health crisis and the financial crisis. When my mother's CAT scan came back indicating a problem before I could comfort her I had to ask her for her insurance card and step out in the hallway to call in a payment because I knew if she got any further behind she would be uninsured. I knew that because we would fought the week before when she told me she had stopped paying her insurance. She said The only thing wrong with me is high blood pressure and the only reason for that is stress. And the main reason I am stressed is money. I said If there is something else wrong by the time you know it it will be too late. It was already too late. When the virus first hit I thought of what hell it would have been for my sick mother after years of chemo and complications to have to add a pandemic to her list of dangers. I had the unbearable thought that it was a good thing she did not have to live through this. As time passed I thought more of my mother when she was well-- my mother who would have made it maybe two weeks before calling to tell me she was coming to get me or she was coming to stay but she was not letting me stay in my apartment alone for months. But it is my apartment I would have said. And she would have scoffed at my boundaries and come anyway. What I have been feeling acutely is the particular absence of the only person in the world who would have refused to leave me alone even when I absolutely wanted to be. When I can step out of my personal grief for long enough I summon my mother's tenacity in the face of the more collective grief. When the data on race began to come in it was not a surprise but it was devastating and also terrifying. When I saw who was dying and I heard the narrative shift to personal responsibility I lost all faith that we would take this seriously enough for long enough. I knew my country I thought. And I was afraid that once it thought this was a Black and brown problem it would not blink at sacrificing gig workers and shipping plant workers and service workers and food workers and city employees to have back the world of money and parties. It would kill them and replace them for as long as it needed to even once the color of the faces started to change. For months I felt like my fear that Black life was not worth much in this country was another form of aloneness which is why the shock of June's protests and the deaths that made them necessary felt like horror and hope at once like we could say what had clearly been true all along even if we could not yet say for certain that it would change. Still I am terrified of getting sick. Because being sick alone means it may be too late when I realize how sick I am. I am terrified of having to go to the hospital alone because everything I know says there is no point in going to the hospital if I am not well enough to credential myself. I do not have any particular health risk factors for this virus except that I find doctors stressful and my blood pressure spikes at the beginning of any doctor's visit. If the doctor is willing to humor me and take it again my blood pressure is almost always normal and the file says I have anxiety. If the doctor is not or the visit was upsetting then the file says my blood pressure is elevated mild hypertension. If I got sick no one would say she is a professor who just achieved a Peloton milestone and has a refrigerator full of almond milk and fresh vegetables and a book out soon. And she Clorox-wiped the apartment's front doors every time she went to get the mail. Someone would say hypertension. Someone would say comorbidity. Someone would read the summarized statistics and say that one does not count. She was basically dead anyway. Because this is the game we are playing with language one where I and most of the people in my family cannot count as dying of this because we are already not alive. When I think this it is not especially good for my blood pressure. I add spite to my reasons to stay alive and well. I greet my anxiety like an old friend one who wants me to live a long life and forgives me when I doubt her. I alternate between my peppy smart bike and the despair of Twitter. I order new books from local bookstores before I have finished the last batch. I donate what I can where I can work my way through the local tip jar Venmo looking for my bartenders and baristas and my hairdresser. I talk to my father several times a week. In recent years he has taken to beekeeping in a county park near his house. And he is pleased that he can tend to his hives without violating social distancing guidelines. I am anxious to find a safe way to visit him. I confess I am indifferent to visiting the bees. I congratulate my students on their accomplishments. I read a friend's daughter books via Zoom and come away with a critical thesis on reforms needed in pixie society. My most cautious friends in the city have not socialized in person in months either. I regard with affection and suspicion the invitations I do get for masked socially distanced gatherings as our restrictions relax. I am a lot of people's good friend and no one's singular person. And so every time someone reaches out I think yes I would love to see you. And no I cannot risk it if your social circle is already wide enough that I am included. I am trying to imagine the first day I will say yes. I am trying to imagine when I can hug someone again and beyond that to the first day I will take touch for granted to the next time I will go someplace and spend the day among friends again and leave not remembering which of the people I adore I said goodbye to last not conscious of the significance not conscious of the danger. Danielle Evans is the author of a short story collection called Before You Suffocate Your Own Fool Self. Act Two A Notion Apart. There is a way that loneliness calls to loneliness. The more you know it the more likely you are to see it in the world. Lonely people can see things that other non-lonely people might have missed. Lilly Sullivan has a story about that. It takes place in a vast non-human setting-- literally no humans. Here's Lilly. So seven years ago when I was just starting out in radio I did a story about this scientific discovery because there was something about it that I wanted to understand. The guy who first noticed this thing was named Joe George on an island off the coast of Washington State. Yeah so I was in the Navy. And we looked for submarines and that in the open ocean. And by looking they were really listening. This was the '80s by the way. And the Navy had these devices called hydrophones that would listen to sounds in the ocean anything that might be a Soviet sub. Joe had been doing it for decades-- could basically identify any ocean sound by its wiggles on the chart. But one day he saw something he would never seen before. A marine biologist looked at the signal said that it might be a whale. It seemed like it was huge like a blue whale or a fin whale judging by the characteristics of its call. But the song this whale was singing was totally off. Because the whales we were looking at-- where it would be the loudest was down at 20 Hertz. And this one he was at-- he started out at 52 Hertz. Meaning the sound was over an octave higher than it should be. And they could never detect any other whales with him. These kinds of whales are really social animals. They often traveled together in groups called pods. And usually when one whale calls out other whales respond calling back and forth to each other from miles away. Without that they would never be able to find each other in a huge space like the ocean. But this whale when he called out no whale ever seemed to respond. I would always be looking for something else to see if there was anything out there like that. And through the years it was the only vocalization like that in I will say the North Pacific Ocean. Hm. There was nobody else like it. I can actually play you a recording of the call they picked up back then. Huge whales like that like fin whales or blue whales they are among the loudest creatures on Earth. Their songs to each other rumble across the ocean. They can hear each other from 1000 miles away. But those same songs they are at frequencies too low for most humans to hear. But this whale's call is high enough that most humans can actually hear it. Lots of speakers do not play sounds at such low frequencies but see if you can hear him.  And if you could not hear that here it is shifted up a bit to make it easier.  For scientists they thought this is so useful. Usually it was almost impossible to track an individual whale because you pick up on their entire pods. But now they could follow a single whale's migration precisely. And as they tracked the whale like this Joe realized the whale was in the wrong place roaming miles away from where other whales were migrating calling out all the time never seeming to get a response. Word of this eventually made it out into the public. A science writer for The New York Times wrote a small story about it Song of the Sea a Capella and Unanswered. When people heard about this they thought oh my God poor whale. People wondered maybe other whales could not hear him because of his song's high frequency. Or maybe he could not hear other whales. Or maybe he is a hybrid maybe a cross between a fin and a blue. And because he sounds so strange other whales are afraid of him so they do not respond. When whales keep silent that is how whales hide. There was just something about the idea of a creature moving through life constantly calling out to others and never getting a response. He seemed fundamentally out of sync in a way that got to people. I felt this way too. I first heard about the whale five years before I talked to Joe. Back then I spent a lot of time alone. I actually had a job where I traveled 247 for two years barely seeing friends or family or anyone I knew. I would email myself passages I liked from books so I could read them over and over. Here's one of them. It is from a book by James Salter. He wrote In solitude one must penetrate. One must endure. The icy beginning is where it is worst. One must pass all that. One must go forward all the way through bitterness through righteous feelings advancing upon it like a holy city sensing the true joy. I still like that idea. Loneliness is a thing you can get better at and that getting better at it would take you somewhere more true. I started to think of solitude as a project I wanted to master. Over time more and more people heard about this whale. I remember seeing someone post about it on Facebook. And within a day 20000 people wrote comments. There were the people who wanted to try to fix the whale. One person asked Why cannot we help it? Another wrote Why cannot it be tagged with something to rebroadcast the calls at a lower frequency? The answer-- you just cannot. People wrote music inspired by him like this song. 