OK. So a couple of physicists walk into a bar. Just kidding they are not at the bar. They are at a school. Scientists in training. I am sure this story seems strange to you. But to me it was just-- you know this is just like another day  in the physics world. David Kestenbaum used to live in the physics world. These days he lives in our world. He is a journalist-producer here at our show. But at the time of this story he was getting a PhD in high energy particle physics at-- there is no way to avoid the name droppiness of what I am about to say-- at Harvard University. But to paraphrase Us Magazine Harvard physicists in certain ways around the office they are just like us. There is always a time of day when someone made a pot of very strong coffee. And afterwards everyone drank the coffee and then did not quite want to work yet. And so we all stood around and talked about various things. You know and there was a blackboard or a whiteboard or something there. And we were talking about how nobody really had girlfriends. So this being physics world the next logical thing to do was to employ the power of mathematics to estimate the likelihood of finding a girlfriend. And so they start jotting down a calculation. I guess it is sort of a variation on-- you know this thing called the Drake equation? No. That is a way to estimate how many planets are out there that have intelligent life on them. OK. So in this Drake equation apparently you start with how many stars are in the universe. That is all the places where there might be life and then you subtract out all the stars that do not have planets around them right? Because there cannot be life there. And then you subtract out all the planets that are too far from the sun or too close to the sun to support life and so on and so on. You get the idea. Until finally you come up with the likelihood of a planet with life evolved to the point of intelligence. OK. They ran the same kind of math now except-- and I realize this is going to sound a little strange. But he say they replaced intelligent life with girlfriends. So I think we started to do the calculation on the board. And can you look up what the population of Boston is? Now Dave is asking me to look this up because at this point in our interview I actually made him run the math for me with real numbers that we got from the internet. So he started with the population of Boston because he and his fellow physics students wanted girlfriends in Boston where they all lived. The population of Boston I found online was a little under 600000. So you start with 600000 which sounds great except that half of them are guys right? And I am only interested in girls. OK. So it is 300000. And then I want people-- let us be honest probably within 10 years of my age or something right? OK. So 10 years on either side. So that means-- I am actually looking at some numbers here. It looks like if you go from 20 to 40 you are talking-- that is still like 35 of the population a third or something. So that means that out of 300000 women that leaves 100000 in his age range. These being doctoral students they wanted girlfriends who were college grads. Well OK. About 25 of Americans over 25 years old have graduated from college. That knocks out roughly three-fourths of these women. Ouch. So you are down to-- we were at 100000. So you are down to 25000. Then you start applying stuff like you know how often are they single? Yeah. Let us say half of them are single. So now you are down to 12500. Yeah see? It is getting scary now right? And then of course you get to how many people are actually attractive to you. And even if you give a really high percentage-- like one in five OK? That knocks your pool of candidates down from 12500 to 2500. In the whole city of Boston right? Yeah. That is just like a needle in a haystack. And that 2500 is before you get to anything personal like your religion or how you see the world what is your sense of humor. So Dave and his fellow students are talking about this-- these rather kind of you know depressing numbers. And one of the professors comes in. She is not married either. And so we start to draw it for her. And then we started to say well OK half of them are men. So we would circle half. And then we would say well what is the age group you are interested in? And then we would sort of circle a smaller subset. And then she had all these other requirements like the guy had to be taller than her-- and she is pretty tall-- so that really limited things. And then she said he had to be smarter than her. You know and she is a Harvard physics professor. So that was even smaller. And basically we got down to there being nobody.   She is alone.  During this period of your life when you would think about these numbers were you sure the entire time that there was somebody out there? Yeah. I do not know why. But you know at the beginning of every mathematical proof people often write assume that there exists X.  Assume we have an infinite surface bound by something or whatever. It is like assume there exists some girlfriend. There is totally that act of faith underneath it. Yeah. But I had a more scientific view which is that there are people out there you know who might be right for me. And not just one person. That seemed like some-- in a silly novel or something. You know? Yeah. I do not believe there is just one-- if there were just one person out there good luck! They could speak Chinese you know? And they probably do right? What are the odds you are going to find them and the translator? You have got to believe there is more than one person. Well today in our program we have stories of people who dare to believe that they have found that one person for them even if it is just a pleasant lie that there is just one person out there for each of us. They have chosen to believe that they need to look no further. And then they act on that belief doing some things I have to say I bet you have never heard of people doing. And they do these things because they just cannot stop themselves. Like every country song ever written would tell you they have got no choice. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. We first broadcast today's episode in 2013. We are running it again today because Valentine's Day is coming around again. The population of Boston has grown since 2013 when we first did this show. It is now almost 700000. Meaning the odds of finding love there have gotten even worse if you believe there is just one person for you. So what if that is true? Answers today. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One The Best Laid Plans. Well when you hear it the first couple did-- the thing that they decided to attempt-- I think one of the things that is the most incredible about it is the kind of couple they were when they did this which is a really great couple. We were always like the most solid of all the relationships of our friends and everything like that. Kurt Braunohler met his girlfriend on the third day of college. And in all of the ways that we think of what makes a good relationship I think that they were doing better than you or me or most people. They had a lot of fun together. They could talk about anything. They did not really fight. Happy sex life. We really just got along very well together. We traveled well together. You know we were always the kind of-- we were the place that friends would come when they are having hard times and they would stay with us. And we were kind of-- it felt like very adult. Even when I was 23 I felt like I am kind of married even though neither of us had ever ever discussed getting married. So what happened? Well after we had both turned 30 one day I just kind of was thinking about why we had never talked about getting married. Like we had never ever talked about it seriously or otherwise. And whenever anyone would ask us we would always just kind of brush it off and say oh well we are going to-- we will get married when we have kids. That is what we would always say. And I remember we were sitting in the living room and it was October. And I just said hey I want to talk. And I said why-- you know why do you think we have not gotten married yet? Or even talked about it? And she just kind of looked at me and thought for a second. And then she said well I think that before we get married we should probably sleep with other people. And-- and that-- you would imagine that that would come back as a huge shock to me like hit me hard. But for some reason it kind of-- it made sense to me. I kind of was like OK. Very calmly. And I guess the reason-- Wait wait. How did that make sense? I have thought a lot about this. And I think that there is a few reasons. We both had this kind of arrogant notion of our relationship-- that it could survive literally anything. That we had been together-- we had known each other our whole adult lives. We were each other's worlds. So really I do not think we thought that we could destroy this thing. I talked to the girlfriend who did not want to come on the radio. And she said basically she would only had two boyfriends in her life-- her high school boyfriend who was not a good boyfriend at all and Kurt who was great. But she met Kurt she said when she was 17. She was 30 when this happened. And she said that she felt like maybe she missed out on something in her 20s experiences that other people had. And she did not want to regret that. A warning I should say before we go any further in this story. We are going to acknowledge the existence of sex between adults. Nothing explicit. Anyway so they sat on the couch and they talked this through. The next part of that conversation was how-- the logistics. Do we break up? Do I move out? Do we just do this while we are living in the same house together? And we kind of came up with this idea of borrowing this Amish concept called rumspringa. And rumspringa in the Amish world is when you are 16 you are allowed to be not Amish for two years. And then when you turn 18 you decide whether or not you come back to the fold. Right. And during those two years kids get drunk. They sleep around. They try drugs. They do lots of meth. They do lots of stuff. So we were going to have-- we decided to have a rumspringa from our relationship. And that is the other crazy thing is that we decided that it-- 30 days was enough. Because probably within 30 days sleeping with other people would get that all out of our system in 30 days. Turns out it is really difficult to all of a sudden become single at 31 when you have never been single for your entire life. Because all of a sudden I am in New York City and I am single and I essentially have the emotional tools of a 17-year-old boy. Because the last time you would dated was-- you were 17. The last time I dated I was in a dorm room. Yeah. Also it was not that I was just-- it was not like I was single in New York City. Because being single in New York City is I think the majority of it is being just very lonely and being on your own whereas this was very different. I was in a marathon. I was in a race. I was in-- I was in a 30-day race to sleep with as many people as I possibly could. Because after 30 days I was going to go back and then get married. So-- So there is a time clock ticking. Every single-- it was almost to the minute where I would just be like if I was not out somewhere trying to meet someone I was like this is wasted time. I am wasting my time right now. And also because of the fact that we were both-- my girlfriend and I were both very competitive with each other that we did not speak during that 30 days. But I think in both of our minds we had a competitive nature of being like I need to sleep with more people than she does. And I think she felt the same way. That is true. She did feel that way. I asked her. So before they started the rumspringa they took a last romantic trip together to New Orleans over New Year's. And they had a great time. And then on January 3 after they both cried a bit Kurt moved out for a month. So you know suddenly single 31 time clock ticking where do you start right? Well Kurt called this woman that he knew just a little bit and had a date on the very first or second night. He cannot remember which it was. And at a dinner he told her the entire situation. He laid the whole thing out that he was seeing somebody. They were taking this break to sleep around. And this was a rule that he made for himself that he was always going to be honest with any woman that he met during this month. He was going to be honest upfront. That-- and that is the weird thing. That is the thing that I still kind of-- when I think back on this time-- that I do not understand. Like I do not understand how these women that I met during that time heard the story and were like OK. Let us continue with this date. Well what would they say? I think most of them-- the overwhelming response was like wow? And I cannot believe you are telling me this. Kurt was staying on a futon on a friend's living room floor for the month in this apartment where there was no door between the living room and the bedroom where his friend was sleeping. And he brought this woman back on the first date. And they made out a little bit. And then they set another date. I think it was probably for the next night or the night after. Something like that. And what happens? What do you mean? What happens on the date? I guess I mean do you sleep with her? Since the whole point of this story is you trying to sleep with women. Yes. Yes. Yes. I mean suddenly I felt very like modest about asking. But yeah no. Did you sleep-- Yes. We ended up sleeping together. Yeah. Yeah. It was amazing. It was-- yeah. It totally turned my head around. It really did feel like having experiences like I would imagine I would have had as a teenager. You know? Where sex was this very powerful thing and it kind of overwhelmed you. A day or two after that he picks up a woman in a bar-- something he had never done before in his life. And he goes home with her. And from there he is off and running. But remember he has the emotional tools of a 17-year-old. I was emotionally getting involved with these women. And that was against one of our rules that we had come up with. My girlfriend and I had had a rule saying no relationships. We do not get into relationships with people. We are just going to go out and sleep with people to see what it is like. Oh I see. And then-- but you did not actually know how to just go out and sleep with somebody without getting emotionally involved. Not at all. I mean the first date I went on I immediately was like head over heels for her and I knew her for six hours. And I did not know how to date. I did not know how to date casually. So what I really was doing was just getting involved-- I was acting like a person who had been in a 13-year relationship with these women that I had just met. Like how does that mean? What do you mean? Immediately holding hands. I remember that my impulse would be to say I love you during sex.  That would be my impulse because that is the only way I was used to having sex. And I remember the first time that I did end up having sex I started to say I love you and then just kind of swallowed it and made it seem like I was coughing.  And that was not-- and that did not happen just once. Kurt says it was just a month of incredibly intense feelings. He would feel this crazy elation or he would find himself walking down the street weeping. The girlfriend told me that she meanwhile was having escapades of her own. She would be out all night drinking and dancing going to exclusive clubs with Mexican high rollers doing crazy things with European tourists. It was just what she wanted actually. And both of them told me that the weirdest thing about that time was that the person that they wanted to talk to most about what was going on and share it with was each other. But of course they were not speaking. Kurt says that one of the most amazing things to him that was kind of a revelation during that time was something-- I have never actually heard anybody talk about it out loud but I totally related to this-- was how quickly he would find himself in the home of a complete stranger. Yeah. I would never gotten to see other people's apartments so much. That is kind of what I was fascinating by getting to see all these different people's apartments and seeing how everyone lives. And I loved that. I loved that part of it so much. You know it is like-- I was like look at this. Like I am seeing-- this is all your stuff. This is the stuff you keep on your bedside table. And also having like really weird experiences I would never had before like of like women picking me up. I never experienced that before. I was so confused. Because it was a bartender. She was like a bartender. So she just kept giving me drinks free drinks. And I was like why is this person-- why is she giving me all these free drinks? But it is fascinating to see if you stay at the bar until 400 in the morning then all of a sudden-- I would never been aware of it before. But then I started looking around me like oh all these people are like pairing off. Look at how this happens. Like I would never been-- I have been at bars until 400 in the morning but I was always-- it is all of a sudden like uncovering this whole level of single life in New York City that I had-- that I was just-- had not been aware of before. Anyone in New York City I feel like can have sex any night of the week if they just follow two rules-- which is stay at the bar until 400 in the morning and dramatically lower your standards.  So after a month Kurt and his girlfriend get together and talk. And they agree that a month was not enough for this. They said that it was just obvious the experiment had not run its course. They both wanted more time. So they decided on a second month which then becomes third month. And for Kurt as time went on it got harder and harder to stick with the rule that they had made of not getting into any relationships. He is just muddling about how to figure out how to do that. In his head he would think like when is something actually a relationship? And I think in my head I was like three dates. Three dates makes a relationship. That is what I defined. And so then I would try to not see people for more than three times. That was increasingly difficult. It is difficult because he was giving women two opposite messages at the same time. He would tell them that he was just taking a month's break from his real relationship and this is not serious. But then he did not hold back any of his feelings. What I felt like kept happening was that I would act like I wanted to be their boyfriend and then after three dates would just abruptly end it with no explanation whatsoever. And definitely-- definitely people would yell at me and call me names. And I feel-- to this day I feel horrible about that. Because I was just-- I was acting like a crazy person. I was acting like a person with absolutely no boundaries. So it was hard to stop himself while it was going on. And when we talked about it Kurt's best explanation for that was-- Well I once had a-- when I had a dog-- when I was a kid I had a dog. And one day the cat knocked a five pound bag of sugar off onto the floor. And my dog was about nine pounds. He was a toy poodle. And he ate all five pounds of sugar in one day. And then he was sick for like three days afterwards. But I always think about that day for him how amazing that day must have been like eating all that sugar and eating it and then going away from it for a little while and being like I cannot stop. When is this going to happen again? And then he just started vomiting and vomiting for three straight days. And that is how I felt you know? Like I knew this was bad. But I was like when is this ever going to happen again? I asked Kurt's girlfriend if all this happened to her during the rumspringa too-- if it was hard just to have sex without emotion entering into it at all. And she said absolutely not. Quote You mean the dudes that I meet at bars or parties whatever? Those people? She said I did not tell anyone anything about my background or the situation. And I asked her wait so you would not explain I am on a break from a relationship? She said No because it sounds crazy. I told her that Kurt would reveal all of that which she knew. And she said yeah yeah Kurt's way too open. But quote That openness probably just made him more appealing to the ladies. By the end of three months Kurt started to fall for this woman that he met in Australia. And this time really actually fall for her in a real way. And this made him of course feel differently about his relationship with his girlfriend. So he flew back to the States stayed at their old apartment and because this is the most comfortable relationship that has ever existed between two people of course they dealt with it all right away. Very straightforward. And we woke up in the morning and we went and got brunch. And we brought it to the park the way we would always used to do on Saturdays. And we just sat in the park and talked. And we broke up. And that is the thing. I cannot I cannot point to something that was bad about our relationship except for knowing that I feel like it had run its course. I mean we organically got to the point where we both thought this was a good idea. This-- the rumspringa? It is almost like we-- the relationship had an expiration date but we did not know about it. And then all of a sudden we came up with this really complicated crazy plan to put the test down at the right place where it would break. And it broke. His old girlfriend said something similar. She said she would probably wanted out of the relationship before the rumspringa but she was just too scared to admit it to herself. The rumspringa gave them a way to break up. Kurt says he would not want to do a rumspringa again. But he came out of this experience believing that it is important to force things to a decision with someone and that it is healthy for any relationship to be evaluated now and then. I do have a theory now. I do have a theory about if I do get married in the future. What I think I would want to do is have an agreement that at the end of seven years we have to get remarried in order for the marriage to continue. But at the end of seven years it ends. And we can agree to get remarried or not get remarried. Why? Because then I get-- I think you get to choose. And I think it makes the relationship-- would make the relationship stronger. I do not know what I think of that because I think actually one of the things that is a comfort in marriage is that there is not a door at seven years. And so if something is messed up in the short term there is a comfort of knowing like well we made this commitment. And so we are just going to work this out. Like if even if tonight we are not getting along or there is something between us that does not feel right you have the comfort of knowing like we have got time. We are going to figure this out. And that makes it so much easier. Because you do go through like times when you hate each other's guts. You know what I mean? Like-- Of course you do. Yeah. And the no escape clause weirdly is a bigger comfort to being married than I ever would have thought before I got married. Really? Yeah. I never thought of it that way. Yeah. It is-- I like thinking about it that way. You just see so many examples of where that-- of people-- where people do not think that way. Both Kurt and his girlfriend feel like the rumspringa got them where they needed to go as a couple even if that place was different than they intended when they began the whole thing. Sometimes what you need to do next as a couple you cannot even tell what it should be. And the best you can do is hold your breath make a guess and jump. It is actually been a few years since we first broadcast this story. Today's show is a rerun. Kurt and his girlfriend are now both happily married to other people and each separately have children. Things worked out fine. Kurt's on the TV show Black Monday and does stand up around the country including this weekend at the Crocodile in Seattle. His tour schedule is at kurtbraunohler.com.   Coming up love stories between a kid and someone who is not a kid and a duck and someone who is not a duck and Mike Birbiglia and someone who is not Mike Birbiglia. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today on our program for Valentine's Day stories about people who believe in love who believe they have found someone for them and who take action. We have arrived at Act Two of our program. Act Two 21 Chump Street. A couple of years ago at three high schools in Palm Beach County Florida a bunch of young police officers were sent undercover to pose as students. These were recent graduates of the police cadet program and they blended right in. They went to classes they ate in the cafeteria. They hung out on the basketball court during recess. They had fake Facebook accounts of course. They even took the state's standardized test the FCAT. Police officers were there undercover because parents and principals had complained about drugs being sold at the schools. Only the principals at the schools knew of their presence. No teachers knew it. No parents knew it. Now maybe it is hard to imagine a love story coming out of this situation but one did. A love story where somebody went out of his way and took action at a key moment for love. We have told this story twice on our program. Once we turned it into a musical once as straight reporting. That is what you are about to hear-- the straight reporting version. Robbie Brown was a reporter with the New York Times when he first looked into this. The plan was called Operation D-Minus. And one of the schools included in the plan was Park Vista Community High School where a kid named Justin LaBoy an 18-year-old honor roll student was in the last semester of his senior year. And Justin could hardly believe his luck when a very pretty new girl-- everyone had noticed her-- showed up in not just one but two of his classes. The name that she used was Naomi. I think it was Naomi Rodriguez. And she sat in front of me but then I sat next to her. So I started talking to her. Oh hey. My name is Justin you know? Oh I am Naomi. I am from New York. This and that. Oh really? Me too. And I had a hat that said New York on it too because I was trying to show her that I was not lying or faking it. She said she was from Queens. I am from the Bronx. And she was Puerto Rican and Dominican. And that is what caught me even more. I was like oh man. OK. And then I was Puerto Rican and I was talking to her a little Spanish. And she talked to me a little Spanish. And then we just-- I just got really close to her. I got attached real quick. I was like wow look at this you know? What did she look like? She was about 5'4 black straight hair light skinned. She was mature in the body-wise. So I mean that caught a lot of people's attention. But the things that she did that I thought that made her a real student was that she would sleep in class. She would not do her homework. I would have to wake her up all the time. Be like hey listen. Wake up. You are going to get in trouble. Hey oh you did not do your homework? OK I will let you copy my homework. OK. Because I mean I take my classes you know seriously you know? But with her? It was different. I was just like oh man. You know wow you know. She is cute. I could talk to her you know? I will get in trouble once in a while. They would be like Justin stop talking. I would be like OK. Justin's a good looking guy popular and well-liked. He would had girlfriends before but nothing that lasted. Nothing that seemed worth holding on to. But Naomi seemed different. She was a good listener. She did not seem to gossip or play games. She seemed very adult. It is the maturity level that I really cared for. And-- OK I told her a lot of my feelings. You know I told her how I felt for her. I mean I am not the type of person to open up to you unless we have a really good relationship. And  I was just opening up so much. And I told her about all my whole life story about my parents. I told the problems I had. What was it about her that made you trust her? That made you feel like you could open up to her? She had told me that she lived-- she came up here with her mother that they was having problems in New York. So you know they came over here to Florida to settle down to have a better life. And little stuff like that to telling people I believe that oh wow. You know OK since you are telling me stuff like this then I could tell you about my life. Yeah. You know I am having hard troubles with this person right here. Or I am having trouble with my parents or stuff-- little stuff like that makes people bond together you know? Justin believed he was seeing signs that Naomi was starting to like him-- like him like him. They walked together in the halls. They would text during class. He says she even let him kiss her on the cheek. And he serenaded her in front of their entire class. I would be like oh I am going to sing you a song. She would be like oh OK. And then I will just start singing. And then I will get all blushed up. I will be like ah man what am I doing? OK. Let me continue. I will start rapping to her and I will start singing. And I mean I even danced too. So I danced for her and I did-- You really liked this girl. Man it tore me apart. I was like oh my god. So you felt like all the signs-- all the signs were good. Oh of course. I felt all the signs were good because I never got a diss-- a non-sign. So therefore I was just like OK. Everything's good. You know I know I am taking it slow. You know I know I am taking it good. You know usually it does not take me that long to get a girlfriend when I start talking to them. So when it took me-- I found it kind of odd that you know I was like wow you know I am such a great dude and you know we are hanging out you know? What is the next step you know? I do not care about sex or anything. I just want to know if you are going to be mine. So she was playing kind of hard to get? Yes. Yes. I mean me I love that. So it attracted me even more. I was like oh my-- I love girls that guys cannot have. So I am like oh this is awesome. And in hindsight she was probably playing hard to get for a different reason. Yes for a different reason you know? All of this built up inevitably to Justin asking Naomi to prom. Yeah. You know she is a senior. I am a senior. Our last year. I do not know where we are going to be after this. So let me just step up and be a man and do what I got do. So I went up to her in class and I was like listen you know I know you do not know anybody in this school that much. And I do not want to go with anybody in the school. And you know I feel really attracted to you. Would you like to come with me to prom? Oh that sounds nice. OK. Excuse me let me think about it. I was blushing red. I was like oh my god. What if she says no? What if she says yes? And after she gave me the OK yeah you know around the more of a yes side I was-- OK. I was good. Good. You know prom was coming up and-- I mean I guess he needed a date.  I interviewed the undercover officer who played Naomi. She is a 25-year-old new recruit with the Palm Beach school's police force. She would not give me her real name and only agreed to a phone interview if her supervising sergeant could listen in. She would not talk to me about any specific cases or kids at the school including Justin. But she did confirm that she was asked to prom. She does not remember it quite the way Justin does though. Mainly she says she did not say yes. I told him I was not going just because-- since this is not where I spent the last three years of high school I did not really want to go to the prom. And I had to pay for the ticket and everything else so I was like nah it is too much money for me. And he bought it.  Justin and Naomi did not end up going to prom of course partly because of what happened next. One day at the beginning of April after Naomi had been at school for about three months she and Justin had a conversation about drugs. She asked me if I smoked. And I told her no I do not smoke. But if you need anything I will be more than happy to help you out. So you know like I said I am not a drug dealer. I do not-- it is hard for me to get drugs at all. So it is not like she told me this day and then 