From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. OK. Let us agree on facts.  We all had hope of going to USA.  Nairobi Kenya. Saturday the day after President Trump signed his executive order temporarily stopping all refugees from entering the United States. This is a transit center for refugees run by the International Organization for Migration the IOM which helps them relocate. In a tent about 40 Somalis sit on plastic chairs-- mostly men. They are banned from the United States for two reasons if you want to get technical about it. Because they are refugees and because they are from one of the seven countries where we are banning all travelers-- from Somalia. A middle aged Kenyan George Okech stands in front of them with the unenviable job of explaining the news. Many of these men were supposed to fly in the next two or three days. And as it is now you know that there is a new president in the office of USA.  So for this reason are you are aware that some changes will come in?  For your information it is not only in Kenya but many other places too.  This is beyond our control. We do not have a final say here. Are you aware of that? Yeah. I mean people are really sad just some of them with their heads in their hands. Kevin Sieff is the Africa bureau chief for The Washington Post. He was there recording what happened for us. Some of them had been refugees for 25 26 years. I would say probably the majority of them had been refugees for more than two decades. Oh my God. Yeah. And so I mean these are people in many cases who submitted their applications to go to the US 10 12 years ago. And that is how long it took them to get to this step in the process this last step. This last step though is now blocked. What the president has said is final. We cannot question him.  It is final for me.  Final for IOM.  Final for you.  Neither you or us should start fighting about it.  So the process now will be people will have to go back to the camp.  The camp is the refugee camp seven hours away where they lived. So we have just to move you back there.  As we all wait.  How would you take that?    The problem with moving back is OK everything. But the practical part of it is daunting. They sold their homes and possessions gave up their jobs. And they were no longer on the books as camp residents. People running the camp were not sure what to do with that. George asked the group what are some of the problems? What are some of the problems that you are facing if you go back may I ask you? One by one not everybody. One by one. Yes Mr. Ahmed?  He is in 26 years. 26? Yes. At the camp? At the camp level yes. He is saying he is been at the camp for 26 years.  And when he was called by IOM to go for flights he took for shopping clothes credits from one of the shopkeepers. And that shopkeeper is expecting him to pay back that credit. Kevin just explain what is being said here. So before these guys left their refugee camps they bought a lot of clothes to bring with them for the journey. The clothes are cheaper there and they kind of wanted to arrive already having American clothes already having winter jackets. I think there was this idea that they could come out of whatever American airport they would arrived at and already be prepared. There was a lot of pride I think attached to that. But Kevin explained to me because they did not have any money they bought all the clothes on credit with the idea that they were going to earn the money in America and then send it back. And so that was one of their biggest concerns was how are they going to pay back this huge sum of money. They would never considered it. And so even if they only spent I do not know-- I think most of them spent around 100 on clothes. That is an unimaginable amount of money to make for almost all of these people. Because working a job in the camp how much would you make a day? Some of the highest paid people in the camp are teachers and they make 80 a month. So to pay back 100-- they are really worried about having these confrontations with the people who they basically borrowed large sums of money from. So George tells the refugees. Your creditors--  You will have to talk to them.  Because you are not yet in America.  And it was not to your liking.  And if you promise that you are going to work hard to pay back.  That is something explainable to somebody.  It is not easy.  But it is something that we have to swallow though bitter. George calls in another guy a skinny guy in his 20s with a goatee. He used to be a headmaster of a school in the camp. He says that while he was waiting for his papers to come to the United States he turned down scholarships in Canada and Germany. The one in Canada included a path to citizenship. And he did that because he wanted to go to America. After the four-month temporary ban he asks are we going to be allowed into the United States? George replies. Remember I said that this is a bitter pill and there is nothing we can do about it. We do not want to give you any false promise. We do not know what will be said and put into effect by the end of 120 days. The boss has said wait. And once he has said wait nobody will change it till he decides otherwise.  The boss? He means President Trump. Yeah that is right. This is like the worst town hall meeting ever. It is like each person stands up and says something awful about the situation and then the guy in the front of the room says yes this is a bitter pill. And there is also just no clarity for them. One of the things that struck me while I was at the transit center is that every time someone prepared to speak to the refugees there was this false hope. Like they all gathered around in these plastic chairs and waited for good news. And it happened a lot. They were gathered around in a group and basically told that nothing had changed. But each time before that person like George started speaking there was this expectation. And you could feel it that maybe they are going to say now that the suspension's been lifted. Fact is at the end of 120 day ban on entering the United States for many if not most of these refugees clearances and their applications will expire. So they are going have to clear those again which could take years. Our country does lots of things around the world that have unintended consequences but this is the intended consequence of the travel ban. These refugees were stopped until the administration could toughen up the vetting process to enter the United States. In the first week of the Trump administration there was a lot of talk about dealing with illegal immigrants to the US about building a wall about how we were going to pay for that. But immigrants who followed the rules who filled out the forms who went through the process-- they were fine. Not this week. With the signing of this executive order the president made the transition from cracking down on illegal immigrants to cracking down on legal ones. All the people at this camp were legal immigrants. They would gone through a rigorous vetting process that had taken years had been approved for resettlement and now they are barred from the country. Today on our radio show we are going to document some of the things that happened when the executive order went into effect and we are going to talk about the way it was implemented. As I am guessing you have already heard customs agents did not have clear instructions. Government agencies said they were not properly consulted. There was no advance warning to agencies or to travelers so people got on planes and then had to be turned back from airports. It was like seeing a major policy change thrown into the world like a fastball with no warning. And it is hard not to feel like what just happened? Like what was that all about? We talk about that too. About half the country approves of the ban according to a Reuters poll. But if you took a poll at this transit center I am pretty confident the numbers would not be that high. Kevin talked to one guy Ahmed who is 24. Born in the refugee camp. And until he went to the transit center he said he would never been outside the camp. And that is really common at that camp in Dadaab. Dadaab is the biggest refugee camp in the world. There are 270000 people there. It is very sad. Can I ask you a question? Yeah. Are you from America? Yeah I am from America. It is called Fort Lauderdale. So how do you feel only surrounds that city? He is asking you how would you feel if you never left Fort Lauderdale? How would you feel? You personally? Yeah I think it would be hard. And also Fort Lauderdale is much bigger than your camp. Exactly. Yeah. That is how is it. So let me ask you. When you are sitting in Ifo camp and you are trying to imagine America-- far away it looks different-- how do you imagine it in your head? In fact when I had started this process I used to just dream at night that I in America I am just driving a bus. You see just walking-- You are driving a bus in the dream? Wait wait. He is saying that in his dream of living in America he is a bus driver? Yeah. That is the thing that he really latched onto. Why do you think in the dream you were driving a bus? I am just wondering. I like driving. Have you ever driven a car? No. You have never driven a car? I never drive a car here.  America around there. It case this is not clear these are literal dreams like while he was asleep. He would be in America driving a bus and then Ahmed said he would wake up and you know he would be back at the camp. So after working their way through the application process-- some of them taking a decade doing it-- Ahmed and the other Somalis find out at the 11th hour no they are not going to America. And in fact they are going to be returning to the refugee camp where they would given up their jobs and their homes. And in fact they were now in debt for their new American winter coats and pants. I mean I can tell you that after they heard this speech from George within 15 minutes everyone was in their rooms with their blankets pulled over their faces. And I mean it was just really really sad. There were a lot of people who were going to the clinic a lot of people who were refusing to eat a lot of people who were refusing to take their medication. There were concerns at the center that people might try to kill themselves. They had extra security there because they were not sure what people were going to do that people might kill themselves. Then six days later as you have probably heard a judge in Washington issued a restraining order blocking the Trump administration's travel ban. After that the State Department issued instructions that all the refugees who were stopped now could come to the United States and they should rebook their flights to arrive here before February 17th. That applies to these Somali refugees who by the end of the week had been sent back to the refugee camp but now will be returned to the transit center to fly to the United States very soon-- unless something changes. Ahmed told Kevin that just a few days before the executive order was signed in the cultural orientation class to prepare them for what it is going to be like to live in America the instructors described the country this way. They said Americans they do not discriminate people. They usually will come-- all the people all the nations they do not look that you came from Somalia that you came from Kenya from Syria from Iran from Russia they do not look from China they do not look. All people are seen in America. And the orientation that was like three days ago. Exactly. Kevin asked him how do you make sense of this executive order which does in fact single out people from just a few countries including his. Ahmed said he did not know how to make sense of it. He is just a student he said. He is not a politician. Act One Basket of Deportables. So the same day as those Somalis were getting that news here in the United States at airports around the country there were protesters hundreds of volunteer lawyers. A lot of that was on TV. Maybe you saw it. One of our producers Zoe Chace was at JFK Airport terminal 4 on Saturday as customs agents stalled out waiting for instructions from above. Around the country there was confusion over who to let in and who to keep out. It seemed like they were erring on the side just holding everybody till they heard from Washington. Zoe hung out with the lawyers for a while like Becca Heller from the International Refugee Assistance Project. Her team had been at the airport since the night before trying to get information from Customs and Border Protection CBP. When we talked to CBP last night and asked who we could speak to they told us to call the president. Donald Trump. Yes. They specified that the president was Donald Trump in case we were not aware of that. So a lot of our clients who were being held yesterday Customs and Border Patrol just kept telling them we are waiting for a call from DC to tell us what to do. Really? And I do not know who was supposed to be on the other end of the phone. Is Mike Pence calling them up and telling them what to do? Nobody knows. All day the lawyers could not see their clients. Zoe and the other reporters could not see them or talk to them. They were hidden away somewhere back in the airport. And there is all this mystery about what was happening with these people who had arrived from the seven banned countries. In the days that followed over the course of this week Zoe tried to answer that question about what was going on back there. While Becca and I and the masses of other reporters and lawyers were stuck in the arrivals terminal outside the Dunkin' Donuts here's what her client Haider was doing right at this moment. He was sitting quietly among dozens of people with no phone in a little room just a few minutes walk from where we were. He would started off in another terminal trying for hours to ask the customs officer what is going on? What is the problem? Relax. Relax. Sit down. Relax. You know my English is not that great so I would ask like what is the problem? They would be like sit down. Relax. I reached Haider by phone a few days after the JFK episode. We spoke through an interpreter. He says when he got off the plane he never even made it to customs. There were lots of people waiting around which confused him. And a woman led him into a little room.  They still had my passport and so I was there like four hours just sitting and waiting. Haider had been trying for three years to come to America. He fled Iraq a year and a half ago found his way to Sweden. His wife had worked for an American contractor in Baghdad and their lives were threatened because of it. She and their son have been in Houston for those three years trying to get him a visa. He got that visa to come to the United States on January 27 2017. That was executive order day. His flight left Stockholm at 1200 PM New York time on Friday. While he was in the air the order went into effect. Haider did not know that. He did not know the order existed that things have changed. His mind was racing.  I am telling them like I cannot go back to Iraq. I cannot go back there and I can go back to Stockholm because I gave up my right to be there once I came here. And I did everything and it took three years. And my family's already living here. I have my wife and my son and my wife's family and everybody's in Houston. And I did this and it took me three years. Then you told me to come. I am coming and now you are telling me I cannot come. He could not call his wife Dunya who was waiting in Houston but she had a good idea why he might be late. She had Fox News on Friday afternoon. I was at work and I just put the headphones in my ear and I was listening. And I just broke down when I heard the news. I just left. I could not stay in my place. You were crying. Yeah. It was a really hard time for me. And what were you scared of? I am scared because if they let him go all the three years is going to be returned again you know? You will have to just do the whole three years over the whole vetting process. Yeah. Back at the airport Haider was stood up against a wall and searched. They put him in handcuffs. They took him to a car.  Like I do not know. Like I cannot-- I cannot describe it. It was just-- you are just there. This is the first time in my life somebody has ever put handcuffs on me-- and without reason too. The first time in my life. In the car was an Iranian and another Iraqi also in handcuffs. They drove to terminal 4 the terminal where the lawyers and I were. He got taken into another room. CBP took the handcuffs off and told them why they were there.  One of the officers was telling us that this is what Trump said. If you are from this country if you are from Iraq and even if you have a visa and everything you are still going to be sent back to your country. Then I was saying I was in Sweden before this. I had a visa there and everything. You cannot send me back to Iraq because the second I get set back there I am going to die. And what did they say to you when you said that?  He said I cannot do anything for you.  I was just at that point that I just went and I sat. And I was just like I do not know if we were all allowed a phone call or whatever but once they kept telling you and telling you you are going to go back I was almost defeated. So I was like you have to let me call my wife and let her know what is happening because she does not know. So I have to let her know. And then they just gave me the phone to call. Dunya what happened in the phone call? He called me at 1 oclock. He said they will send me back so do not be sad. And he said I cannot go back to Sweden so they will send me to Baghdad. And I could not talk. And my sister called Julie. She is my lawyer. And she said just tell him do not sign anything. Yes I am here. We have a lot of people here waiting for him. Julie the lawyer in JFK keeps getting calls from Dunya's sister over the next few hours. She keeps her earbuds permanently in her ears and periodically shouts things out like I am at the airport ready to assist. Any word on your client? Unfortunately no. Last I was told is we are waiting for the Secretary of State and Secretary of Homeland Security's signature. I do not think we have a Secretary of State. Tell me about it. The customs official comes out at one point into the crowd of lawyers. She says come on back but only two congressmen Nadler of the 10th District of New York and Velazquez of the 7th are allowed to follow her. It says no lawyers. See if you can read what they are trying to get him to sign. Haider told me he stayed in that room at the terminal for another 10 hours. At some point they brought him chicken and biscuits. One by one he watched people leave. Haider was not interrogated like was reported at other airports with other people who were held up. His wife waited cried texted the lawyers. We asked the White House to help us understand what was happening. We got no response. But I read The Washington Post. Here's what the administration told reporters on a conference call. The news media needs to calm down their quote false misleading inaccurate hyperventilating coverage of the quote fractional marginal minuscule percentage of international travelers who have simply been as the reporter puts it set aside for further questioning for a couple hours on their way into the greatest country in the world. And OK sure a couple hours. Even 10 hours. Even 24 hours is not a big deal if you know what happens at the end-- that you get to come take refuge in America like you were promised. It is a big deal if you spend 10 hours worrying you are going to be flown off to a place where you are going to be killed and your wife spends those hours thinking she will never see you again. 630 PM 22 hours later Haider walks out into the arrivals area with everybody waiting. According to his lawyer Julie five minutes after being told no no no he cannot leave apparently CBP suddenly changed its mind. They got a phone call and then they said he can go. His lawyers think it is because they filed a habeas corpus suit but really we do not know. We might never know. He came out with no documentation of what happened which is extremely unusual. And so Haider is here in America with Dunya. The customs officials were nice about it when they let him go.  Then after they came to me and they said OK we finished everything. And you can go to Dunya now.  I mean to get out there and to see all of these people that stayed up this late and they left their homes and their jobs and everything and they are here for the sole purpose of standing with us. It is so beautiful. It is reported later that there was basically no prep on the government's part for how to deal with this. Apparently this executive order was signed after very little consultation with Homeland Security or the State Department or the Department of Justice-- the guys in charge of this sort of thing. As this week went on the more that came out the more confused it sounded. Like the green card holders. At first it seemed like the green card holders were banned. Homeland Security late Friday night said no not green card holders. Then the White House overruled Homeland Security like green card holders still out basically. On Sunday the White House said OK fine Homeland Security let us just do some extra screening of the green card holders. On Tuesday the new Secretary of Homeland Security said the rollout went smoothly. On Thursday the White House said never mind. No additional screening for green card holders. Also this week Congress requested an internal investigation into the Department of Homeland Security into the way this policy got rolled out. Zoe Chace. Haider's case by the way-- a few hours after Haider's release was the case that led a New York judge to issue the first order halting deportations under the president's ban. Others obviously followed in the days after.   Act Two Heavy Vetting. So the whole premise of the executive order is that we are going to stop all refugees and we are going to stop travelers from seven countries for a few months because we need to overhaul the way that we screen people before they come into the United States. Well I talked to somebody who does that screening. He is on the staff of the United States Citizen and Immigration Services USCIS. He is an interviewer. Flies to Africa and to the Mideast. He is interviewed Africans from all seven countries that we have temporarily banned. Sits with people for hours drilling them on the details of their stories looking for inconsistencies and lies. He asked that we not use his name or put his voice here on the radio so I am going to call him Bob. We have an actor Scott Shepherd saying what he said here on the air. Bob said that when he and his colleagues heard about the executive order the reaction was mostly shock and sadness. A few dozen of them went out for drinks together and some people cried then. Can I ask did you cry? On my own? Yes. In front of my friends? No. And so the news came down that this executive order came down and so what happens to your work? What are you doing now? When it came down we basically came to a screeching halt. Most of us were getting on airplanes and so we just literally had no work to do. So now we are all-- most likely it looks like we are going to redeploy to the southern border where we can do credible fear work. I am not sure if you are-- Do you mean you will be doing with the border with Mexico where you will be doing credible fear work? That is people who want asylum and you have to interview them to figure out if they have a credible fear of getting killed? Right right. Now the whole premise for this executive order is that our ways of screening people to come into this country from these particular countries is not strong enough and we are not doing a good enough job. And the president wants to put in something that he is calling extreme vetting. What do you think of that idea? I find it personally offensive because it implies that those of us who vet refugees were not doing extreme vetting before that the work that I do as a refugee officer was not adequate to begin with. And I take the security of our country as my first priority. So I would never let someone in who I was suspicious of. Bob and I talked for a while about the vetting procedures that are in place now. And they are considerable. People are fingerprinted. We take biometric data. In many countries there are iris scans. Security checks are run by the FBI the CIA the Department of Defense the National Security Agency the National Counterterrorism Center and sometimes others. They look at criminal databases and terrorism watch lists. They check family members' affiliations. They will call contacts on people's smartphones. They have document verification labs. They compare the biometric information. And of course they check people's social media accounts. The interviews Bob does are face to face. They take hours. A lawyer that I talked to who advocates for refugees seeking asylum Laura Finkbeiner from the International Refugee Assistance Project emphasized how these interviews are customized for each person. So they have a bunch of screening questions that they have particularly crafted and they do this based on country. So they know if you are from a certain area at a certain time there were certain groups active there. So they are checking to see-- they are asking you questions that are based specifically on your story and they are making sure that what you are saying is credible so it is consistent with what they know about the area at that given time. And so we are looking for discrepancies in that information. I asked Bob about this. Like if those stories do not match explain to me why not. And so basically are you just running them through a million little details trying to trip them up? For the most part yeah. And this has become an incredibly politicized question but I hope you can answer it honestly. Are there times in your job where you feel like oh I really cannot tell about this person and I wish I had more tools? I wish there was more I could do to figure this out better? There are times that because it is impossible to know about some people for whatever reason. But that is why we have a process. We are not letting people in that we have question marks about. Oh. You are saying if you cannot figure it out then they just do not get in. Right. Right. And all this brings us to something that is not just Bob's opinion. Many people believe that the current vetting system is effective. They will tell you our current system's working. And as for the rare cases where somebody gets through they will say no system's perfect. No system can be perfect. We need studying learned from those cases. One of the people who said the system is effective to me most fiercely this week was Kirk Johnson. He is been on our program before. He worked for USAID in Iraq. And then when he came back to this country he started the List Project to help interpreters and other Iraqis and Afghans who worked with the US overseas whose lives were threatened because of it move to this country. In that job he is become very familiar with how hard it can be to get somebody into the US even if they risk their lives helping American troops. He said it is tough. I am really in this twilight zone because I am seeing the President of the United States and his advisers try to draft policy to address a problem that does not exist. And what problem is that? Well he campaigned by saying that we are not vetting these people. And the only way you can say that is if you do not know anything about how people are vetted. And you know Trump's a busy guy. I do not expect him to sit down and learn the two-year vetting process in place by the US Refugee Admissions Program but I sure as hell expect Steve Bannon or Steve Miller or any of the Steves who drafted this thing to just spend a few minutes and find out what is already in place. And I know for a fact that they did not go to the State Department's Refugee Processing people the people that have been doing this for decades-- they never even got a basic briefing as to what currently exists. How do you know that they did not consult with the State Department? I was on the phone with the State Department minutes before he signed it asking whether or not these people that I was pushing were going to be able to board a plane that night. And this is in which office of the State Department? In the Population Refugees and Migration bureau. And that is who manages these programs to figure out who can come into the country? Right. Wait. And so you were on the phone with this person while the signing was happening? It was about three or four minutes beforehand I reached out to this official at the State Department to say what is going to happen when she shows up to the airport and he did not know. And I said how can you not know? Have not they been coming and working this all out with you? And there was silence and I pushed him. And he said well what do you want me to say? I am sitting here refreshing the White House website just like you are. Looking for the text of the executive order. Right. We reached out to the person that Kirk talked to at the Population Refugees and Migration bureau to confirm this. He hung up on us. Of course not everybody agrees with Kirk Johnson. We reached out to two experts who have questions about how well our current system works and we asked them what is missing. How can we vet better? Mark Krikorian of the Center for Immigration Studies which generally argues for less immigration said we could ask more questions during the vetting process to figure out the ideology of applicants. Ask if they agree with American values. But that was the only specific thing that he could point to. Tim Kane who heads up immigration studies at the Hoover Institution-- not the former vice presidential candidate-- had no specific things he thought that we should add to the vetting process. He thinks it is thorough. Instead he questioned whether we can effectively screen people at all from places like Syria and Somalia. I do not know if it is possible to vet in a failed state. What do you do to vet people in a failed state where there is no government to serve as a source of documentation? And I think the right answer might be it is impossible. Mark Krikorian at the Center for Immigration Studies went a little further on the same point. I mean we run people's names through the databases that we have but the state simply does not exist in those places. What are we going to do run somebody's fingerprints through the Mogadishu DMV? Bob the interviewer that I talked to at USCIS says that that is a naive picture of our security databases and the role they play in screening and the kind of information in them. And he said in fact Syrians though they come from a failed state are among the best-documented refugees. They almost always have documentation with them he said. Like these things called family books which are government-issued documentation of entire families. None of the people we talked to this week could tell us exactly what was meant by the phrase extreme vetting. National security experts say that it is not a term that is been used in their world. Both Kane at the Hoover Institution and Krikorian at the Center for Immigration Studies said the phrase extreme vetting seems like something that Donald Trump just made up. It is a marketing term Kane said. And the moment Donald Trump invented it seems to have been last summer right after the attack in Nice France. This is then-candidate Donald Trump on Fox News about four hours after the attack. Greta Van Susteren asked him what he would be doing in this moment if he were president. Well I would be making it very very hard for people to come into our country for one thing from terrorist areas. I would be so extreme in terms of documentation. And Obama's allowing a lot of people that come in. We have no idea who they are. They are from Syria maybe but they have no paperwork. Many times they do not have documentation proper. I would do extreme vetting. I would call it extreme vetting too. Do you think the president just does not know what he is talking about when he says we need stronger vetting? I know he does not know what he is talking about when he says that. Again this is Bob who works interviewing refugee applicants. He says he and he thinks most of his coworkers are open to anything that could make t