Nowthen Minnesota. Population 4400 November. The city council met to figure out if they wanted to continue getting police protection from the county sheriff. It would cost them 105000 for a year. And lots of people showed up to say that they thought it was a waste of money in a rural area like theirs. One woman got mad at the sheriff for suggesting that they needed all the police patrols and all the 911 calls they had been making. You list 1300 calls per year. And you say things like a cat in a tree. Oh my god I saw a coyote. I have got to call the police. Oh my god I saw a dog I do not know. I have got to call the police. What portion of those 1300 calls were actually crime related? It feels like you are trying to scare us-- Not at all. --into thinking we are in the new crime capital of the North. I showed you all the numbers we have. I showed you the burglaries I showed you the assaults I showed you the thefts. I understand that. But that adds up to less than 300. So 1300 300. If it will make you feel better we have 300 crimes. I am not sure where you are going. I am not trying to scare you. No I am not I am not. I am just presenting the facts. I am just saying that-- Springfield Illinois 2009. Illinois state police do away with their new motorcycle division thanks to budget cuts. As a result more residents die on the road. Annual highway fatalities in the state climb from the low 900s to the high 900s. Well it is extremely disheartening. That is Jonathon Monken who ran the state police when the cuts happened. He says that in his first three years the motorcycle division had been a huge success drove the number of highway deaths down to what they were in 1922. I mean a lot of people worked extremely hard to drive those numbers down. And that is just frustrating when you see increases of 20 30 40. And obviously when you are dealing with fatalities increasing by one is a bad thing. I mean it is something that you do not want to see happen. You would think that the very last thing that a city would cut would be police protection. That is one of the most basic things we want a government for. But of course in this recession police are on the chopping block in a way that they have not been in decades. And beyond police over 600000 state and local government jobs have been slashed since 2008. And at some point last year after the showdown on whether the United States was going to raise the debt ceiling to make room for more spending which of course if you remember came after one of the many regular showdowns on repealing the Bush tax cuts. And it came before the December showdown on payroll taxes and unemployment benefits. Around that time it occurred to me that as a country we just keep having the same fight over and over again. There is one group of people who believe that the size of government is a real problem and who think that we should have a smaller government that delivers fewer services and costs us less in taxes. And then there is another group that does not think that. Maybe they are not exactly happy with everything government does but they are not looking for real downsizing. And these two sides just go at it over and over fight after fight political cycle after political cycle. And usually we do not really talk about the underlying question behind all those fights which is what kind of country do we want? Do we want a bigger taxier United States of America or do we want a smaller cheaper United States of America? Well today on our radio show we bring you three stories where people not only try to answer that question they put their answers into action in their own cities with dramatic results. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One The Sound of Sirens. So let us start in one of these battlegrounds in a state that is enacting sweeping austerity measures. Where the governor has not only held the line on taxes he hopes to cut them further. This is New Jersey. As a result of these budget cuts the city of Trenton laid off 103 officers from its police force in September-- that is a third of their force-- with serious consequences. Sarah Koenig visited them. One great thing maybe the only great thing about the budget cuts in Trenton is that you can park anywhere and not get a ticket. I parked in illegal spots. I ignored meters even parked directly in front of City Hall three different times. And I was fine. Thieves drug dealers carjackers. Apparently they have sensed the same thing. That maybe no one's minding the store. 17 robberies for this week. Out of control. This is Sergeant Mark Kieffer of the Trenton PD. He is been a cop for 16 years. His father was a cop. He clicked through some recent crime stats on his computer. We are having anywhere from 15 to 20 robberies a week. We used to have five robberies a week. We used to have eight detectives in the robbery unit. Now all we have is two there. It seems that if you get rid of one third of your police force crime tends to go up. Most alarming to Kieffer the shootings. In 30-- what is it today the seventh? So in 38 days we had 32 people shot. We just had two people shot yesterday. I am talking 32 people hit. That does not happen like that. Usually what is it usually? Maybe once a week you get a shooting. Yeah. Once a week. Not every day. From January 2011 to January 2012 gun assaults are up 76 in Trenton. Robberies with a firearm are up 55. Car thefts more than doubled. Break-ins more than tripled. The Trenton Police Department no longer investigates thefts including motor vehicle thefts. They also got rid of their domestic violence unit. Back before the cuts the Trenton Police were holding crime at bay. It still was not great. For a city of 80000 people Trenton had a pretty high rate of violent crime. But other crimes were decreasing. Now the cops are losing ground. And average people are feeling it and not just in a I read it in the newspaper kind of way either. Almost everyone I talked to in Trenton had a crime story about someone they knew or about themselves. The other day-- did you hear about the shooting last week? Well I was there. You know what happened to me do not you? That is a guy named Richard who did not want to give his last name. What happened? What happened? We had to dive out in the street over here when he went by. I hit my head on the curb. Wait. What happened? Drive by. Richard's lived on this block for 50 years and nothing like that had ever happened to him before. One guy told me a bullet went through his office window right where he sits. Another told me about a woman he was chatting with at the bank who told him she would just been mugged at 1000 in the morning. Another told me about a fatal shooting on Route 29. And then he told me the guy who was killed was his brother. I heard this stuff in the so-so neighborhoods and I heard it in the good neighborhoods. Did not matter. There is been muggings and there is been shootings. Right here? There is been break-ins. Yes. That is Marge Caldwell-Wilson a Trenton city councilwoman. We had a rash of burglaries. During the day while people were home they were stealing copper downspouts and running down the street as the neighbors were yelling at them. So that is how brazen things are happening. In this neighborhood that was happening? Yes. Yes. I keep asking if she is talking about her neighborhood because her neighborhood is beautiful. Historic Victorian townhouses lovely clean streets. I saw a Volvo station wagon parked across from Marge's house two car seats in back a New Yorker magazine in the passenger seat. And this is not just happening in Trenton which was the last city in New Jersey to lay off police by the way. Camden lost 168 cops. Atlantic City 60. Patterson 125. Newark 167. According to New Jersey governor Chris Christie all these cuts are due to a clear culprit. Runaway salary costs. Three out of every four dollars that are spent now in any municipality or county is spent on labor costs. We cannot afford it anymore. Since he took office in 2010 Christie has wrestled New Jersey's finances into submission largely by facing down the state's public sector unions. Cushy contracts for teachers and cops millions paid out in unused sick days Cadillac health plans birthdays off with pay. Outrageous he said. This is Christie at a VFW in Middletown New Jersey last year when a cop in the audience complained about having to pay more for his health care. My answer to you is it stinks. But it is reality. And no one can be shielded from this reality anymore. Not police officers not firefighters not teachers. We have to reorient our expectations here. This is not 10 years ago. This is not a booming economy with 5 and 6 and 7 growth. We cannot afford this stuff anymore. We cannot. Hence the police layoffs. Thousands of them. As Christie calls it the new reality. Trenton's new reality is that before Christie took office the city received 36 million in what was called special aid to struggling municipalities. This year Trenton's getting 22 million. And that aid has been re-branded. It is now called transitional aid. The idea being that cities eventually will wean themselves off it. Next year Trenton stands to get less. But a few days in Trenton makes you wonder if this new reality is tenable. Can the city even function like this? Listening audience I think smaller government is a myth. This is a guy named Michael Walker. He is not an elected official or think tank guy. He is not a businessman. He is a regular working-stiff taxpayer in the city of Trenton who is going out of his mind with frustration. And I think anyone who gets up there and tells you we are going to shrink the size of government I think they are crazy. They are crazy. We have a hobbled police department that cannot keep up with the level of crime that is going on in our streets. We have a Department of Inspections that cannot keep up with the level of requests for plan reviews and for permits. We have a Public Works Department that cannot keep up with the filth that piles up in our city. He is become one of the most eloquent and loudest voices criticizing the state of affairs in Trenton especially the police cuts. In the past few months he started a blog published an editorial in the local paper where he is also quoted pretty regularly. I first saw him on YouTube back in September. That is when the city announced the police layoffs. And when Michael did something he is never done before. In a baggy black t-shirt he went to City Hall for a council meeting and delivered a speech that had people laughing and clapping. And he said something that is practically heresy in New Jersey or really anywhere else. And to be honest with you I would be willing to pay more taxes. And I know that this is not sustainable. I am willing to pay more because-- I would be willing to pay more taxes. In Trenton to hire back 100 cops would cost about 5 million. So if your house is valued at say 100000 it would cost you another 340 on your tax bill. Happy to pay it. That is Michael again. We talked in his car while we were driving to his house. Keep in mind he is not a rich guy with money to spare. He made 34000 last year. Really? Happy to pay. 340 is nothing. Do you know what we are paying for basic cable? It is crazy. I mean I am not kidding you. Do you know what I am paying for my cell phone bill every month? And do I really need to be getting minute by minute alerts through Facebook? This is a small price to pay to get more cops on. Yes taxes are too high. But taxes are too high for a variety of reasons. Because the money is not being used properly. But if the mayor said look this tax increase is designed to bring back all of the cops that we laid off I am all for it. In a heartbeat. Matter of fact I will send him a check for 350 now. Well but nobody's suggesting this. Right? No one. No one has the balls to suggest an additional tax increase to bring back the cops. Is raising taxes an option to try to pay for those extra cops to try to raise that 5 million? Absolutely not. Absolutely not. This is Marge Caldwell-Wilson again the city council member. The tax base in this city is so small that the burden on the taxpayers is huge. And we cannot we cannot increase property taxes any more. Not only will we drive people out of the city and shrink the tax base even more but it would drive businesses out of the city. And we are at the point right now where we are bleeding and we cannot afford to run anybody else out of town. Trenton Mayor Tony Mack said much the same thing when I asked him. No. No. I mean I think people are taxed out. When I go out and I speak to residents and a lot of them are on fixed incomes or senior citizens and they are just plain and simple saying Mayor I cannot afford another tax increase. I cannot afford to pay higher taxes. And I understand. The city of Trenton like all cities and towns in New Jersey has only one tax it can levy only one way to raise big money. Property taxes. There are no local sales or income taxes in New Jersey just property taxes. The highest in the nation. The average New Jersey household spends nearly triple the national average on property taxes which are regressive by the way. They hit middle class and poor people hardest. In Trenton since 2005 the average tax bill has gone up by 42. Obviously no one in Trenton wants to pay higher taxes. On the other hand it is hard to imagine anything getting better with this amount of crime. Who is going to move here invest here open a business here? So I asked a couple dozen people would they be willing to pay the extra say 340 in property taxes if it meant hiring 100 more cops? Their answers were all over the map. There were the absolute yeses. It is worth it. It is worth 300 and more. I mean when you can live and just go to sleep at night and be safe and comfortable. And yeses with conditions. I would be willing to pay higher taxes for police officers who were willing to live in Trenton. Stop whining about the dangerous job they do. They knew it when they took the job. Yeah. Then I might consider higher taxes. Then there were the absolute nos. Would you be willing? I would not. No. No. Too high now. And I think these police officers I think they are rude. They are ignorant. They are not friendly. Do you know what I mean? There were nos that went one step further. No. I feel that they should burn the city down and start over again. That is the way I feel. And there were the good natured nos who were legitimately baffled. No. Because what are they doing with the taxes we pay now? That is John Mastoras who owns a popular 24-hour diner in Trenton. The day after I left town a guy with a gun tried to mug one of his bus boys right outside the front door. Back when he bought the business five years ago his property taxes were around 5700. And Trenton could afford the cops back then. Now he pays nearly 11000 and suddenly Trenton cannot afford them. I mean like I said before five years ago used to pay almost half the amount of the tax we pay now and they have those cops. Now we pay double and they do not have those cops. So what did they do with the money? That is really a good question. Which leads me to the most common answer I heard. Yes I would pay more taxes if I knew it would actually improve the city and make it safer. But I do not know that. If I could pay to-- Yeah. I would pay higher taxes if I could have more police and I could have a better school system. But if I cannot have either one of those things then why should I continue to live here? And I have thought about moving. And that is my plan for 2013 is to sell my house. This is Talaya Stevens. She is a social worker for the state. Young professional a parent a homeowner. The very taxpayer Trenton officials are worried they will scare off. They are right to worry. If I paid another 1000 I could live in Lawrenceville I could live in Ewing because their taxes are just as high. And I could get a better school district. These are towns right outside Trenton? Right outside of Trenton. Now people always complain about their government. Right? They always say they do not trust them to spend their hard earned tax money. That there is too much waste too much incompetence. But in this case they are justified. One state official characterized Trenton as the most mismanaged municipality in the entire state. And not by a little. By a lot. The dysfunction in Trenton a mountain of blame for it is laid on Mayor Tony Mack. Everyone I talked to said the mayor was either not up to the job or making things worse. That he fired good people and hired terrible ones. His deputy mayor and chief of staff was arrested trying to buy heroin after just seven weeks on the job. Mack's half brother who worked at the water plant was caught stealing city materials. He is about to go to jail. His housing director quit after it came out that he had a theft conviction. The list goes on. The list really does go on. This is the worst I have seen the city ever. Ever. Ever. The worst. This is Tracey Syphax effects of a successful real estate developer. And he would happily pay more property taxes to hire more cops. But not while this mayor's in charge. I hear all the time people saying 'Well the governor should give this mayor the money he needs. Who would do that when you have a mayor that has had four police directors in two years? Eight business administrators in two years. Two law directors in two years. I mean who would give money to that? That is like me giving money to my five-year-old granddaughter and expecting her to do the right thing with it. So that is it. Trenton is not going to get more money from taxpayers. It is not going to get more money from the state. Crime is rising and now there is talk of closing fire stations. And people in Trenton have no confidence their government can stop this downward spiral. And you can understand why. So they lock their doors pull the shades maybe turn on cable. Which for say 159 a month would pay for about 600 more cops in Trenton. Sarah Koenig is one of the producers of our show. Act Two Dream Come True. So we now live in a world where the idea of raising taxes simply will not be considered in most American communities even in places where taxes are much lower than they are in New Jersey. And the one person who arguably did the most to get us here who created the political reality that you and I and President Obama are all living in today is Grover Norquist. Each Wednesday he holds a meeting where dozens of conservative political groups come together and share their plans. He created his own group Americans for Tax Reform in 1985. A year later came his biggest and most successful invention. He started asking every Republican running for national and statewide office to sign a pledge never to increase taxes. At this point it is just what you do as a Republican candidate. Such a given that even a fake candidate like Stephen Colbert four years ago when he decided to run for president he started by having Norquist on his show and signing the pledge. We would love to have your support. Here we go. I Stephen Colbert pledge to the taxpayers of the United States of America that I will one oppose any and all efforts to increase the marginal income tax rates for individuals and or businesses and two oppose any net reduction or elimination of deductions and credits unless matched dollar for dollar by further reducing tax rates. I have no problem signing that sir because I do not know what any of that means. Thank you so much Grover Norquist. Holding the line on taxes preventing lawmakers from approving new taxes Grover Norquist told me is a way to advance his bigger goal to reduce the size of government. As long as tax increases are even part of the national conversation or state conversation or city conversation you never have a conversation about reforming government. It is when you say taxes will not be raised that you then look around and go do we have to do everything we have been doing? Do we have to do it the way we have been doing it? This of course is exactly what lawmakers at the federal state and local level have been doing for most of this past year. They are living out the scenario that Grover Norquist envisioned years ago to squeeze the size of government. The most famous thing Norquist ever said was that he wanted the federal government so small that you could drown it in a bathtub. But at some point in the 1990s he named a more achievable goal-- half. He wanted the federal government to be half the size it was. And over the course of the Clinton administration he says with Republicans in the house we seemed to be on our way. The federal government shrank significantly. You have said in the past that your goal is to cut the federal government by half. Is that still your goal? Sure. Let us make a list of things that the government's doing today that make the world a worse off place and stop those for starters. And then what would that be? Like what would you do away with? Like would you get rid of all entitlements? What would you do? What does it mean? I am in favor of reforming government to become smaller rather than some sort of procrustean bed where you chop off people's toes to make people fit in the bed. And frankly I think if you talk about reforming government Utah just passed a law. And the law says all new hires state and local government in Utah will have a defined contribution pension a 401k. Here's your pay here's 10 of your pay to go into a 401k. 12 if you are a policeman or fireman and are expected to retire earlier. Are you following this? In other words instead of a state-run pension plan the state puts 10 to 12 of your salary into a personal retirement account for you. An account that is yours. That you control. A 401k like lots of people have already. And there is no Ponzi scheme. Almost all of the state and local pensions are out of whack. The money's not there to pay people as it was promised. If you moved all government-run pensions to defined contribution you would dramatically reduce the unfunded liabilities of state and local government which are eating up more and more of state and local budgets. OK I do not know if you noticed what he just did there. When I asked him what he would get rid of to shrink the government to half of its size he launched into describing this very sensible sounding reform that is going on in Utah. He did this over and over. I asked him four times. Spent 17 minutes of our 45 minute interview trying to get him to give me a list of cuts which he never gave me. Can I ask you do you feel hesitant to get into sketching out a picture of like here's what the government looks like when it is radically smaller? Because it alarms people like when you sketch that out. And it is better to talk about here are some concrete things we can do that everyone would agree on. Well I think you want to talk about things one at a time so that it is clear. We are not talking about doing some sort of mad experiment. We are talking about taking a look at things that have worked in other states and giving people options. Later I talked to another small government guy Len Gilroy the head of government reform at the Reason Foundation. And he said to me that this is not evasiveness. He said that as a practical matter voters do not want to take a big axe to social security or Medicare or other popular programs. So why even speculate about a world where that could happen? He said guys like him and Norquist do not have a secret list of government budget cuts in their back pocket. What they have is a list of reforms like this law in Utah that would make government cheaper. Some of that stuff like the Utah law seems market tested to sound reasonable to most people. Other stuff like breaking the backs of public sector unions which Grover Norquist can go on and on about is as divisive as it gets. The best way to reform the cost of government is what Scott Walker did in Wisconsin which was to undo tenure. Here's something that might surprise you. Our nation's current mania for cutting the size of government keeping taxes low is coming at a moment when our tax rates are in fact at one of the lowest levels in the last 70 years. The top personal income tax bracket paid over 80 of its income in the 1950s and '60s to the government 70 when Ronald Reagan took office 39 at the end of the Clinton years. Now it is 35 with lower tax brackets paying less of course. Our taxes make up a smaller portion of the gross domestic product than taxes in most industrialized countries. When you look at it this way it can seem very strange that this is a time when politicians are so unwilling to raise taxes with all kinds of unintended consequences to that everywhere. Can I ask you to talk about just the messiness of what is happening around the country as people are cutting budgets. So for example in New Jersey we have these cities Camden Trenton Newark where in order to make their budgets work now without raising taxes they are cutting huge percentages of the police forces. And crime is going up. When you see that when you hear about that do you just feel like OK well this is just the clumsy first steps of something? What is your take on that? When you try and cut the size of government without reforming it you have serious challenges. In New Jersey the examples you used organized labor in the public sector is very strong. And so you cannot come in and say could we work different hours or different days? Or how about that we lay off the 10 incompetent guys on the police force? No you lay off the most recently hired guys who may be the most competent. In fact this is exactly what happened in Trenton. They fired all the younger cops and filled their slots by demoting 23 of their supervisors. It was pretty ham-fisted. Here's just how ambitious Norquist is. Back in the 1990s with Bill Clinton in the White House and Republicans in the House of Representatives the goal that Norquist and his allies set for themselves could not have been bigger. To completely realign the politics of the United States. To use their skills with talking points and issues and candidates to push the entire country towards a solid majority that would vote for smaller government and lower taxes. A great article about Norquist in The New Yorker in 2005 ends with Norquist running into somebody who he knows on the street who asks him How is it going? Norquist replies-- and this does not seem like a brag but just a statement of fact the way he says it-- We are winning. When I interviewed him at his office two weeks ago he said this past year he has definitely been feeling that same way. His side is winning. After all he said 2011 was a year where you would normally see a tax increase. The government needs money because in a recession it is bringing in way less revenue than usual. There is a massive shortfall. And for two years to help the States cope with the shortfall President Obama's stimulus package sent billions to all the states. But that just ended. So you are supposed to have 50 states going we must raise taxes to replace the stimulus spending. And at the federal level hey let us raise taxes. And both at the national level and at the state level 45 states said no to tax increases and only five raised taxes. So if it was just Washington you would go OK the guys in Washington DC traumatized by Obama's spending. But when 50 states are having the same fight and in 45 of them you do not raise taxes and you do cut spending that is very positive. But it is not just about taxes. For Norquist and his allies who want to see a radically smaller government these past three years have been especially promising. He says he is seeing a shift in the Republican Party that goes beyond taxes. Up until the Tea Party movement there was too much of a willingness of Republicans to allow spending to drift upwards. That was the Bush story. Bush got the message do not raise taxes. He did not get the message about spending less and reducing total government spending from where it was. So the Bush years were lost years for limited government. It took the shock of Obama's massive spending increase to scare voters enough to create the Tea Party movement who then entered the modern Republican Party and revigorate it. And saying to the modern Republican Party stop spending so much. Big big change in the modern Republican Party. That is one of the things that gives me real hope. From Christie's New Jersey to Scott's Florida to Kasich's Ohio to Boehner and Mitch McConnell in Washington. There is nothing you cannot do in the United States over a 25-year period. With enough time-- that is Archimedes' lever is time-- you can do a lot of stuff over time. A generation Norquist says. That is his time frame. Give him 25 years to radically reduce the size of government. After all he is already on his way. He is winning. Coming up a city employee rises from the ashes like a phoenix. That is in a minute from subscriber Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today on our program what kind of country do we want? At this moment when so much of our politics seems to be obsessed with how to cut back on government we have stories of people choosing whether they want more government or less more taxes or fewer we have arrived at Act Three of our show. Act Three Do You Want a Wake Up Call? In Colorado Springs Colorado when they had budget troubles a couple years ago the city did something that made them momentarily famous around the country. They turned off a third of their street lights to save electricity costs. Since then other cities have followed their lead. But when this first happened in Colorado Springs people like Jamie Lindsay did not know what was going on. We were just outside playing basketball and then all of a sudden we were like hey why is not the street light on? And the girls were like what is going on with the street light? Colorado Springs did not stop at cutting streetlights. Public restrooms were locked bus service slashed. Those nice little flower beds in the median strips of the streets downtown wilted dead. The amazing thing about Colorado Springs though was what it decided to do about this mess. They did something different from any other city. They decided to live the conservative dream keep a smaller government give the free market a chance to handle some of these city services in some very unusual ways. Robert Smith travelled to Colorado Springs and reports on the results of the experiment. The residents of Colorado Springs should have seen it coming. When the recession hit the city gave everyone fair warning. Here are the things we have to cut-- police fire those beautiful parks all over Colorado Springs. All of this could be gone the city said if you do not vote to raise your taxes. I do not think I took it very seriously. This is Bo Sharifi. He and his wife Sara and their two kids live up in the foothills of Colorado Springs. As soon as I hear government oh we need more money I do not know. I guess I kind of automatically assume yeah there is probably some other things you could probably cut before firemen policemen city lights and that sort of thing. So when his street light went dark he did not put two and two together. Being the Good Samaritan I called the city. And I was like Hey you need to come out and fix this light. They are like Oh yeah. You remember that tax increase you did not vote for? I was like Uh maybe. The guy on the phone explained to Bo how life was going to be in Colorado Springs from now on. If you want your street light he said you have to pay for it. For 125 the city would send someone to Bo's street and turn back on the electricity. 125. You could pay by credit card. For Bo and his wife Sarah it was hard to believe at first. It seemed like some kind of scam some kind of payback from the city. Because it felt like in a way by shoveling out 100 to turn on a street light that we kind of felt was supposed to be on anyway that it was giving them what they wanted. Giving who what they wanted? The city. I think people were just kind of ticked. The Sharifis and their neighbors said fine. We will pay for lights ourselves. And hundreds of other people around the city did the exact same thing. Colorado Springs became an unusual place a city where the people who could afford streetlights paid for them a la carte. Others lived in the dark. It was like the capital of some very snowy unusually affluent third wor