OK so it is a big crowded singles bar. One regular described it as the place you go at the end of the night when they play old hip hop and RB that everybody knows the words to. People are grinding up on each other like it is a high school dance like it is just shameless and fun and a little sloppy. And it is a meat market. I like it because it is shameless. Someone will always hit on you. That is like why I come here. So lots of pick ups lots of ghosting afterwards. It is early evening and that is what I am here to look for-- serial ghosters people who kiss and disappear which are not hard to find at all. And yes some of them definitely agreed ghosting is bad. They felt guilty like this woman. She ghosted a guy after seeing him for two months. Great guy she said. Hit it off immediately. Saw each other a couple nights a week. And then I went to a wedding met another guy that I was very into. First guy kept reaching out texting. And I just was not responding as quickly or as often and we were not making plans. And he said I wonder if I will ever see you again. And that-- I did not respond to that. I feel really bad about it. I feel really really bad about it still. But he is a great guy he did nothing wrong. A great guy and I feel bad for ghosting him. There are so many reasons to ghost. This guy for instance has a boyfriend. He is there at his table. They are in an open relationship. And basically he got drinks with another guy one he met on Grindr. And it was fun. It was kind of romantic. I should have disclosed that I have a boyfriend but I did not. I think I perceived him kind of to be more monogamous. There was kind of a point where he was talking about like gay guys who sleep around too much. So he said nothing about his boyfriend and the open relationship. They kissed when they say goodbye. And knowing he messed up he ghosted the guy-- his first ghost he says. So this for me is weird. And it is like a vortex of feelings absolutely. It is like why did I do that? I feel guilty about it. You are not-- Shame. I mean shame yes. Yeah. Some of the ghosting I heard about it made me wonder about the correct usage of the word ghosting. Like OK what if you have dated somebody for years but it is on and off and they are your drug dealer. And you are in college. And then he was just like listen I feel like you are only in it for the weed. And I was like no! Not at all. And then he stopped getting me weed and-- As a test to you to see if you really cared about him? Yeah. And were you were only in it for the weed? silence OK that pause gives you the whole answer right? The answer is yes. And she cut him off. Why not just tell him? Why not just be direct? Because I was afraid that if I was honest like then I would not be able to get weed at all. I sound like I have a problem here. But-- Are you high right now? No I am not. I am not I promise. That was just a joke. OK. No I am not. I promise I am not. She feels bad about ghosting him but you know what? Ghost a few more people apparently you can get over that. This woman Carrie was at a table with friends celebrating somebody's birthday. She told me that she is ghosted five or six people. Like anything else you get used to it as you watch them flailing in your texts like fish thrashing around on the deck of the boat gasping desperate. A couple of them would just text me like every couple of days with like a question mark. But then they just realized what was happening. And then one of them tried to reach out to me on LinkedIn. OK not what LinkedIn is for. But her friends around the table are all like oh yeah that is happened to lots of people. Some men apparently think that LinkedIn is the way in. She felt like explaining to these guys exactly why she did not want to see them-- people had done that to her and it felt terrible. It just seemed less cruel to ghost. A real estate guy named Jason had a slightly different way of looking at this. He sees ghosting as tactical like he only ghosts rare special circumstances when it is called for. Case example very recently a woman on the subway asked him the title of a book that he was reading. They got to talking. She was really attractive. She thought I was attractive. And then before she gets off the train she goes we should exchange numbers. And I go all right yeah let us exchange numbers. Yeah sure. I mean yeah I will take you out sometime. Wait you got picked up on the train? Yes. It is not strange. It happens to me all the time. I will say for the radio audience you are very good looking. Thank you. Anyway they go for drinks. At first it is all normal. And then-- This was the first red flag. She said the second I got off the train I called my sister and told her about you. I was like are you really close with your sister? And she is like yeah we talk every day. And I am like oh OK that is kind of cool. Then she was like yeah then I told my brother about you. And I go what? So this is the turning point of the drinks. This is where I stopped ordering drinks because we were two drinks in and she starts telling me about her pet rats. OK? She has three pet rats that have cages but they sleep in her bed and they chew through her sheets once a week. So she has to buy new sheets once a week. And I go wait are-- what are you? I am sorry rats? She is like yeah they are so cute but they chew through my sheets. And I go OK. She goes to the bathroom and he asks for the check while she is gone walks her to the bus. Because she was taking the bus uptown even though the train was a block away another red flag. Waited for the bus with her never spoke to her again. She sent text messages she is called I have never responded again. There is no way I am doing anything with the rat lady not happening. If somebody seems too out there he says if they seem like they are beyond reasoning with he ghosts. He does not see this as cowardice. He sees it as standing up for himself. These unrepentant ghosters sometimes talking to them felt like talking to hardened commandos you know? Fresh off some battlefield who have learned that feelings are not always helpful. I would describe my dating life as a series of infrequent one night stands. This woman said that after one Tinder date you go home with somebody you do not owe them anything. She ghosts unapologetically. And if you are going to dwell on this date that happened and be like well why did not she text me back? Why did not I get a reason? Why did I do wrong? You are just overthinking it. I do not want to get into answering all their questions and making them feel better about themselves or giving them feedback you know? Do you feel like you are being a coward or you are being practical? Can both be an answer? I would say both. I love that she says that. I find her to be completely convincing in every way and also a coward. She wants to avoid confrontation. We all tell ourselves all kinds of things to avoid confrontation and we can be very convincing-- you know with ourselves. It is so much easier to never say anything to never dig in our heels to never say the truth. That is why it is so popular. Today in our show we have stories of people for a change summoning the courage getting it together the spineless getting a spine. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act 1 Finally. So we start dealing with somebody getting up the nerve to do something that really it would be nice to see more often. He makes an apology. And not just any apology. Nancy Updike has a story about the anatomy of this one particular and unusual instance of I am sorry. Quick warning if you are listening to our podcast we have unbeeped a few curse words here in the internet version of today's show. If you want a beeped version it is at our website. Here's Nancy. I read about this apology at the time it happened but I never listened to it until recently. I listened in headphones on the subway and it was the auditory equivalent of seeing a snow leopard stroll through the subway car. This apology was about sexual harassment-- another one about sexual harassment-- but it was startling because it was not curt or vague. It was not a lawyered up mess of non-contrition in the passive voice. It was a true reckoning publicly and fully accepted by the person who'd been wronged. She forgave him. That almost never happens-- a public apology that lands. And everything that went into this apology which is a lot is an answer one answer to a question that keeps wafting up from stories about sexual harassment in the last couple of years. The question of what are men supposed to do? What are they supposed to say? I am not talking about situations where a man denies anything happened. I am talking about the ones where they have agreed that something did happen something bad. But what do they have to say to be forgiven to move on? Let us start at the end with the apology. Then we will hear from the people involved. The person who is apologizing is a writer also actor and many other things named Dan Harmon. He co-created the TV show Rick and Morty and also an NBC comedy called Community about a group of adults going to community college. Dan was the creator and showrunner of Community. He had a bunch of writers who worked with him on the show but he was the boss essentially. The thing he is apologizing for happened there. Dan delivered his apology last year in 2018 on his podcast Harmontown. I am going to play most of it for you-- seven and a half minutes of it-- which is short if you are getting a foot massage but long for a public apology. It-- in 2000 whatever whatever I cannot remember 2009 2006 2000 something something I had the privilege of running a network sitcom. And I-- I was attracted to a employee. I really want to be careful about that language. I think a huge part of the problem is a culture of feeling things that you think are unique and significant because they are happening to you and saying things like I had feelings for and I-- I fell for and all these things. I mean the most clinical way I can put it in fessing up to my crimes is that I was attracted to a writer that I had power over because I was a showrunner. And I knew enough to know that these feelings were bad news. And so I did the cowardly easiest laziest thing you could do with feelings like that and I did not deal with them. And in not dealing with them I made everybody else deal with them especially her. Flirty creepy everything other than overt enough to constitute betraying your live-in girlfriend to whom you are going home every night who is actually smart enough and respectful enough to ask you do you have feelings for that young writer that you are talking about that you are paying all this attention to? And saying to her no because the trick is if you lie to yourself you can lie to everybody. It is really easy. And so that is what I continued to do telling myself and anybody that threatened to confront me with it that if you thought what I was doing was creepy or flirty or unprofessional then it is because you were the sexist. You were jealous. I was supporting this person. I am a mentor I am a feminist. It is your problem not mine. You are the one that actually is seeing things through that lens. And so I let myself keep doing it. And it is not as if this person did not repeatedly communicate to me the idea that what I was doing was divesting her of a recourse to integrity. Integrity meaning integrity is a writer learning her craft. This writer told him when you focus on me praise me so much pick my jokes-- if you were doing it for the wrong reasons even a little bit that would undermine me devastatingly. How will I know if I am truly doing my job well? I just did not hear it. And it is because it did not profit me to hear it. And this was after all happening to me right? And so after a season of playing it that way I broke up with my girlfriend who I had lied to the whole time while lying to myself. I broke up with my girlfriend then I went right you know full steam into creepin' on my employee. And then after that season you know I got overt about my feelings after it was wrapped because then-- and said oh I love you. And she said the same thing she would been saying the entire time in one language or another. Please do not you understand that focusing on me like this liking me like this preferring me like this I cannot say no to it. And when you do it it makes me unable to know whether I am good at my job. And because I finally got to the point where I said to her oh this is-- you know I love you because that is what I thought it was when you target somebody for two years. And it was therefore rejected that way. I was humiliated. And so I continued to do the cowardly thing and continued to do the selfish thing. Now I wanted to teach her a lesson. I wanted to show her that if she did not like being liked in that way then oh boy she should get over herself. After all if you are just going to be a writer then this is how just writers get treated. Did you get what he is saying here? She said I do not want to date you. His response was fine. You do not like my praise and attention? All right then look out. And that was probably the darkest of it all because I drank I took pills I crushed on her and resented her for not reciprocating it. And the entire time I was the one writing her paychecks and in control of whether she stayed or went and whether she felt good about herself or not and said horrible things. Just treated her cruelly pointedly. Things that I would never ever ever have done if she had been male and if I had never had those feelings for her. And I lied to myself the entire time about it and I lost my job. I feel the need to say he did not lose his job because of this woman. She did not report him to his bosses. He is describing a more general crisis in his life. I ruined my show. I betrayed the audience. I destroyed everything. And I damaged her internal compass. And I moved on. And I never did it before and I will never do it again. But I certainly would not have been able to do it if I had any respect for women. On a fundamental level I was thinking about them as different creatures. I was thinking about the ones that I liked as having some special role in my life. And I did it all by not thinking about it. So I just want to say in addition to obviously being sorry but that is really not the important thing I want to say I did it by not thinking about it. And I got away with it by not thinking about it. And if she had not mentioned something on Twitter I would have continued to not have to think about it although I did walk around with my stomach in knots about it. But I would not have had to talk about it. The person Dan Harmon was talking about is another writer Megan Ganz. She is now an executive producer on It is Always Sunny in Philadelphia. When she heard Dan's apology last year she was in her car on the 101 and 170 in Los Angeles. Yeah I was driving to work which about halfway through listening to it I thought well this is a mistake. I probably should have saved this till I got home tonight. Honestly I started listening to it expecting to be angry. So that was also kind of a roller coaster going from angry to feeling this immense relief at the end of it. And I listened to it I think again right away sitting in my car in the parking lot of my work. When she heard Dan's apology they had not talked face to face in six years. It was cathartic in a way that I could have never imagined. It was like receiving the antidote to a poison I would been self inflicting. It is the only way I can describe it. Megan thanked Dan via text and also forgave him publicly on Twitter saying quote please listen to it. It is a master class in how to apologize. I only listened because I expected an apology but what I did not expect was the relief I would feel hearing him say these things actually happened. Ironic that the only person who could give me that comfort is the one person I would never ask end quote. Whatever you think of this apology the content of it the result was not the way these stories have usually ended. Both parts are unusual-- the apology and the acceptance of it. It is so unusual I think it is worth looking at how exactly that moment in the car Megan listening feeling relieved how did that come to be? How did they get there to forgiveness? Could their path be a map for anyone else? I do not know maybe. A quick outline of their history. Dan was Megan's boss the creator of a TV show that was pretty much all consuming for the writers who worked on it. It was Megan's first job writing for a sitcom. She was among the least experienced least powerful people in the room. But Dan was impressed with Megan from her first script and he favored her flagrantly insisting it was only about her work. When he came clean about his feelings and she said she did not feel that way he turned on her started savaging her work berating her in front of the other writers. This all went on for about two years start to finish. The apology that gave her relief-- it did not spring forth all at once. It was actually built out of earlier not successful apologies. The very first one was in 2012 after Dan was fired from Community. Dan texted Megan saying basically sorry for being a bad boss-- very general short. Megan felt nothing. Another early attempt was on his podcast 12 weeks before the apology that stuck. It was more in the nature of an admission than an apology. I have abused my power dynamic at work. I did not know I was doing it when I did it. He drops this excuse in the later apology. I did not-- I never took notice that-- I never thought to myself until after the whole thing happened and I looked back and I was like why was that such a relative disaster? Oh because if you have a crush on someone that works for you you are not-- it is not the same as having a crush on someone at a library or a bar that does not work for you you fucking idiot. Megan did not hear this at the time. If the possible beginnings of an apology fall in a podcast and no one's there to hear it-- the pace really started picking up on Twitter at the end of 2017 in the wake of Harvey Weinstein Larry Nassar Louis CK on and on. Dan tweeted quote This was truly the year of the asshole myself included. We do not have to make 2018 the year of the mensch but I hope it can be the year of the not as much of an asshole. realisticgoals. Megan read that one and what drove her to respond was the reaction she saw-- people praising him for admitting to big bad behavior in the past and declaring he was trying to be better. She wrote back on Twitter. I responded to him by saying care to be more specific? Redemption follows allocution. What does allocution mean? I had to look it up. Well it is a term I took from Law and Order because I am a big Law and Order fan. Allocuting to a crime is basically what happens when you take a plea deal and the judge says that you have to as part of the deal say what you did. And if your allocution is found to be lacking in any way they can pull your plea bargain back basically. That is how I understand it. So I guess that was a weird mix of my Law and Order knowledge and my Catholicism Catholic school coming together because I thought well the way that it always worked in confession was you had to say what you did wrong first before they would absolve you. Dan tweeted back saying quote I have talked on my podcast about the lines I crossed end quote. And also quote I will talk about it more in any way that you think is just. I am deeply sorry end quote. That I am deeply sorry was the first time Megan felt like he was speaking directly to her about how he would behaved with her. She says she might have left it there with the deeply sorry except Dan sent out another tweet saying quote I am filled with regret and a lot of foggy memories about abusing my position treating you like garbage. I would feel a lot of relief if you told me there was a way to fix it. I will let you call the shots. Till then at least I know I was an awful boss and a selfish baby end quote. The foggy memories line got to her. Yeah I wrote I wish my memories were foggier. I wish there was a way to fix it. It took me years to believe in my talents again to trust a boss when he complimented me and not cringe when he asked for my number. I was afraid to be enthusiastic knowing it might be turned against me later. You want relief? So do I. Figure out how to give me that relief and I will return the favor. I guess what I was reading into that tweet was I was like you are already thinking of you. You are already thinking of how you can move on from this instead of just sitting with the awful knowledge that I have been sitting with this for six years. And nobody helped me out of these feelings. Nobody showed me a path back. I had to figure that out for myself. Over the course of this exchange which went on for a couple more rounds on Twitter Megan essentially wrote the outline of her own apology. She laid out some specifics that needed to be addressed. I doubted my talent. I did not know how to act around bosses or co-workers afterward. I am still roiled inside. I have lost time to this. And of course allocution-- a full account. Dan kept saying I want to do the right thing. Tell me what is the right thing. And Megan kept saying I appreciate you are trying. Try harder. Dan did not want to be interviewed on tape. He said he did not want to make this story about him any more than it already is. But he answered questions via email and confirmed facts. Dan said via email that after he read Megan's tweets his first reactions were fear and self-pity. It was his 45th birthday. He talked to his agents and accepted the possibility that his career in TV might be over. And he had a reaction I have seen other men have-- it felt unfair. He wanted to defend himself. He says he realized slowly that there was no defending himself. He could not do it if he was honest. And also maybe he did not need to do it because no one was attacking him? He emailed quote someone does not have to wish me harm to tell me that I harmed them end quote. Dan says he got advice from women he knows in the business. And he read a book called On Apology by Aaron Lazare recommended by his therapist. Lazare says a complete apology has to start with quote an acknowledgment of offense i.e. wrenching your brain away from its justifications and putting yourself in the other person's place. as Dan put it via email quote it seems crucial that you not skimp there. He said part of not skimping with Megan was to face that quote I could have had the same feelings I had and not caused damage. I could have shared the feelings and been told they were not reciprocated and not caused damage end quote. Apologies are powerful-- they can be. But power is also amoral. It can be used for a pernicious goal as easily as a better one. One reason Megan needed a full account of Dan's intentional damage and not just a big I am deeply sorry is that Dan actually apologized to Megan a lot back when she worked for him. It was part of the slow buildup of the harassment. Megan was 25 when she started writing on Community. Dan was 37 creator and show runner. In the room there was this imaginary lack of hierarchy that a lot of creative endeavors have-- we are all just making a cool thing together. The best idea wins. That vibe is a lot easier to surf when you are older and can appreciate the ways in which it is true while seeing all the ways in which it is ridiculous. And of course the notion of a pure meritocracy is easy to believe in to the point of delusion when you are on the winning side. Megan did not want to rehash specific incidents with Dan on the radio but she did talk about the way apologizing was a key part of the dynamic. Like for instance he would do something say something to me that I would not take as inappropriate. And then he would apologize for it for some little thing that he had said. And I would say oh do not worry about it. Like I was not offended. And then the thing the next thing that would happen would be slightly more inappropriate. But I had forgiven him for one thing and I thought oh-- every time that he apologized I thought well look this guy is-- he knows. Like he is real switched on. He knows where the line is. Not realizing that all of those instances were slowly moving the line to a place where I had forgiven him so many times that it started to become maybe something that did not seem that big of a deal to me. And had the last interaction happened first maybe I would have had a stronger reaction. Megan could see that other writers on the show more experienced writers noticed Dan's focus on her his eagerness to choose her jokes to leapfrog her into opportunities they would had to work years to get. People made little comments in front of her or jokes about her favored status. Yeah. Yeah I mean instead of in that moment thinking oh my god are people picking up on something here that I am not picking up on? I thought well you are just jealous. You are jealous that I am doing better at this job than you are. And he would say things to me like I never want you to think that my interest in you is anything other than professional. I think you are a really great writer. And I reward you because I feel that you are a great writer. And I wanted to believe that so badly that I in wanting to believe that we are all equal and that there is not any sort of untoward affection going on I was not looking at it. I was not perceiving it. And then when Dan told her he loved her and she turned him down and he began punishing her that is when Megan caught up to some of the other writers' perception of what had been going on the whole time. Yes it felt like-- I know it sounds silly. It felt like an M Night Shyamalan twist at the end where all of a sudden you have these flashes of all these things that happened and you realized oh my god. All these people are dead! It was sexual harassment the whole time. Megan says she loves Community. It is one of her favorite shows of all time still. She wrote one of the funniest episodes. Writing on the show was collaborative but she is the credited writer on this one. It is a Law and Order parody of course. The murder victim was a yam part of a biology experiment. Remember the characters are all students at a community college. Grades were at stake motives were complex. There is a quasi trial scene out of A Few Good Men. Donald Glover plays one of the detectives Michael K Williams who plays Omar on The Wire is the biology teacher. The actors are having a ball. There is so many layers of jokes-- jokes within jokes. It is just a delicious piece of pop culture baklava. How are you supposed to tell that someone who says you are really talented has another agenda when you are in fact really talented? There is this thing of like you have this experience that only one other person shared and you cannot talk to that person about it because they are the cause of your pain. So hearing him be so specific especially about how when I rejected his feelings how quickly that turn happened to the punishment for having rejected him-- that is how quick it felt to me. But having him say that he made that choice consciously and the fact that he said I treated her in a way that I would not have done if she was a man just cannot be understated like how important that is to hear. In his apology Dan urged his fans not to attack Megan. And most of the responses she got were positive. Some of the writers from Community reached out. Women she did not know got in touch to tell her they would lived vicariously through her apology-- said they would never gotten ones of their own. Dan ended his apology with a lot of hope. And I think that we are living in a good time right now because we are not going to get away with it anymore. He said via email he feels less optimistic now. He said one of the few responses he is gotten from men since he apologized was a guy who reached out to say how he felt frustrated that Dan had quote gotten away with it end quote and he had not. And he wanted to know what he could do to get away with it because Dan's still working in TV. Dan's apology worked partly because he finally took a risk. He admitted to things that if Meghan had wanted she probably could have used against him. Lawyers advised him not to say those things he says on the podcast. By admitting them openly he chose her well-being over his own comfort maybe for the first time in their whole relationship. A lot of people just are not willing to do that even for seven and a half minutes. Nancy Updike is a producer on our show. Coming up starlings and finches and crows oh my! Why spiders and mollusks and slugs should hate their guts. I mean OK a new reason why they should hate their guts that you have never heard of. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. This is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program Get a Spine! Stories of people standing up for themselves shaking off their fear bracing themselves and doing what they have been scared to do. And as we were putting together today's show we put out this call looking for people who are actually in that situation of having to face something that freaked them out. And by face it I mean face it right now. Over 200 people wrote in people square in the front of big life changing moments and some smaller ones too. Here's a brief catalog of spines recently grown across the country. My name is Zoey. I am almost eight years old. I am about to try to dive off the diving board. It makes me feel nervous but I do not know why. I am at North Heights Lutheran Church in Roseville Minnesota. And in about 20 minutes we are going to start the service. I am going to preach my first sermon. I sat at my desk today at work and read through it kind of softly so no one could hear. Tonight after work I actually read through it full volume and I was walking around the room like I normally would in the church. I was holding my Bible. My wife actually came and interrupted me and she is like it is time for dinner but you are doing a great job so she could hear me from down the hall. I am about to have my first baby. I guess I am nervous for how long it could take and to get too tired. I have been thinking a lot about like what I eat because I want to make sure that something that it is going to fill me up and things like that. What did you eat today? A fried egg. I am Michael. And I am Piper. And we are in our bedroom. And we are about to have sex for the very first time. I am excited. Me too. A little bit nervous? A little bit nervous. It will work out. It is the kind of thing where you know no matter what it is going to be weird the first time. But it is only going to get better from here. So why not start now? I love you. I love you too. I do not want to be married anymore. I am finally able-- I am admitting OK I did all the things. Let us go. On Saturday at the end of this week I have to deliver my mother's eulogy. You know what I really need to do is focus on just really honoring her memory. But I am a little angry with her a little angry with myself and a little angry at the universe for this is the way things played out. So Zoey they are moving a lap lane so that you can use the diving board. How does that make you feel? Excited and nervous. Ready to give it a try. I do not know. Well honey there is not-- unfortunately there is a little bit of pressure here because they are giving you a special chance to do it but the board's still supposed to be closed. So now's your chance. I do not think I want to. Today is not the day? Yes. All right today is not the day. What do we say to the god of diving? Not today. Those voices were collected by Aviva DeKornfeld and Diane Wu. Which brings us to Act Two Act Two of our program Because You are Spine I Walk the Line. So our show today is about the spineless getting a spine. And in this act we turned to those who are truly spineless and by that I mean literally they are literally creatures who have no spines. Also featured in the story the scientists who study them who like us all could sometimes use a little more spine. Lilly Sullivan explains. A while back I was talking to my friend Jackie and she tells me oh man Malcolm started a bunch of drama at work. Malcolm's her husband. And that surprised me because Malcolm's workplace has never struck me as all that traumatic. Here's Jackie. He works with spiders wolf spiders. Like the bulk of his research has been about wolf spider