From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. So one of the people who works on our radio show her brother was going through a rough time. And he called their mom kind of panicking. And the mom was like you know you just need to stop thinking about this stuff. And he was like Mom that is not possible. And she was like that is totally possible. What you have to do is you have to take the bad thought and put it into a box in your head. Then you have to take the box out of your head and put it in a cupboard and shut the cupboard. I love the completeness of that. It is like the box in the head was not enough right? That image maybe worked for their mom when she was young. But then she was like I have not extinguished the bad thoughts quite enough. I need more. I need a cupboard. Next time our producer and her brother were visiting her parents she told me the two of them were all just like do not open the cupboards! Denial usually gets a bad rap. Compartmentalizing your feelings keeping it all inside pretending things never happened-- these are not signs of psychological health. What they are signs of is adulthood. If you do those things basically you are an adult because being an adult means sucking it up getting on with it going to work even if you have a cold because you are an adult. You do your job. I am not complaining. In fact today's entire show is a defense of not thinking about it of not knowing-- a defense in short of ignorance. We have three very different stories. You can decide how convincing they are. Stay with us. Act One What You Do not Know. Lulu Wang has this case study of people not admitting the truth. When my grandmother was diagnosed with stage 4 lung cancer she was given three months to live. She was 80 years old and my family for reasons I will get into in a minute decided not to tell her. I was totally against this. When I heard the news I wanted to talk with my grandmother comfort her. I wanted to grieve with her in the way that seems natural when someone you love is dying. But my mom-- she is the one who called me to give me the bad news-- quickly informed me that what I wanted that what I thought was the right thing to do would not be permitted and that I would have no say in the matter. I was stunned. My grandmother or Nainai as I call her lives in China along with a lot of my other relatives. My parents and I live here in the United States. I am really close to my Nainai. At 2 years old I lived with her and my grandfather for a year so my mom could work. Nainai is 5 foot tall with a full head of permed white hair. She is small but when my Nainai walks into a room everyone listens. I was not the only one who felt weird keeping this a secret. My dad thought about going to his mom and telling her she was dying. But then what? I could not take care of her because I have my own family back in the United States right? I have my job here. And then I will not be able to take the responsibility of being with my mom. It is true. My dad was not the one on the ground looking after Nainai. He left China when he was just a teenager. His older brother has lived in Japan for 24 years. The person who was on the ground was Nainai's younger sister. .  This is her my Nainai's sister my great aunt. She looks almost identical to Nainai. In Chinese I call her  which translates to Little Aunt Grandma. But I will just call her Little Nainai for this story. Little Nainai lives in the apartment right upstairs from Nainai and they are very close. She was the one who picked up the results of Nainai's physical. It is customary in China for doctors to give bad news to family members rather than giving it directly to the patient especially if the patient is older. Nainai's doctor recommended that Nainai be immediately hospitalized for treatment. .  She is saying the doctor told her the cancer was very advanced. To not hospitalize her would be irresponsible. Of course in order to hospitalize Nainai it means they would actually have to tell her she is sick. .  Little Nainai told the doctor that Nainai is too old that she could not handle a blow like this. It is not just that Little Nainai did not want to upset her sister with the news of her death. She actually believed that not telling her was a way to prolong her life. Knowing Nainai's personality Little Nainai worried that her sister would get overwhelmed with fear and depression. She would stop eating. She would stop sleeping. She would lose interest in life. The Chinese believe that mental and emotional health are completely linked to physical health. .  She tells me there is a Chinese joke. Two people go get a physical. One of them is healthy and one of them has a terminal illness. The hospital gets the results mixed up. The healthy person gets a terminal prognosis and vice versa. So then the healthy person ends up dying while the sick person ends up living. .  That is me asking Little Nainai is that really a joke? It is not very funny. .  She assured me that it was. My family got a second opinion and then a third. Same prognosis-- three months maybe less. Little Nainai knew she needed a fake medical report to show Nainai so she went to a print shop. They told her we cannot create a false medical record. If you want to make something up we could photocopy it for you. Little Nainai whited out the real diagnosis and wrote down words that sounded vaguely medical but unalarming something about the nine shadows. My family built on that lie with an even more elaborate one. We realized we had a problem. How are we all going to manage to see Nainai before she died? Family from three countries needed to say goodbye without letting Nainai know we were actually saying goodbye. This would require more than Wite-Out. My dad had an idea. So I said all right your uncle maybe we can just you know stage your son's wedding early one year early. Are you proud that you came up with this idea? Well you know I am the-- everybody considered me as the smartest in the family. So I mean it is a show. I mean-- This was our plan-- a giant goodbye party disguised as a giant wedding banquet. This is the lie that everybody agreed to lie. And here's how it was going to go down. My Uncle Hai Bin's son Liang-Liang had recently married a Japanese woman. They planned to celebrate in China the next year but now it would be in two weeks and it would bring together family members who had not all been in the same place for 25 years. My dad told Nainai that the wedding banquet had to happen immediately because that was when the groom Liang-Liang could get the time off work. How did you feel about lying? Well it is not I mean clear cut this is a lie and that is-- you know. Because people think lie is bad thing. But in this circumstance you do not think that you make a bad lie. You think you make a good lie because that is the way that everybody wants it. And that is the way that it is supposed to be. But that was not the way I wanted it or thought it was supposed to be. And I still was not convinced it would be what Nainai wanted. I was so emotional that my mom said maybe I should not go that I might cry and blow the cover. I was afraid she might be right. But if I wanted to see Nainai before she died I had to go and I had to be part of the lie.   This is from a video I took. I started filming as soon as I landed. I brought the camcorder with me to hide behind hoping it would help me to keep it together. At the arrivals gate I heard Nainai shouting my name through the crowd. She was not difficult to spot-- a squat figure waving a pink handkerchief from the front of the crowd. She was at least a foot shorter than everyone else and her white hair stood out. Oh my granddaughter she cried. She looked me up and down. You are not very skinny she observed. Your mom says you have been very busy with work. I thought you would be skinny but you are not that skinny. Nainai did not look or act like someone who was sick at all. I asked her how she was feeling and she said she was doing well. She had some knee pain from the years she marched across the country with the People's Liberation Army when she was 14. If it were not for my bad knees she said I would be perfect. My parents were delayed in Beijing that night but the rest of the family gathered around Nainai's dinner table. Little Nainai held her little white dog on her lap a dog they call Ellen. They named Ellen after an American exchange student who had stayed with them.   Ellen has one trick that she can normally do on command. Everyone here is yelling sing Ellen! Sing sing! And then finally--     After dinner Uncle Hai Bin walked me to the nearby hotel where I was staying. Nainai is in one of the older neighborhoods in the area. There are still unpaved paths and small food stands but her street is being slowly engulfed by shopping malls and high rises. Nainai's very sick you know Uncle said as we walked. She took care of you when you were little. She loves you so much. He kept saying things I already knew things that felt like he was trying to provoke an emotion out of me. You have to be very careful not to tell her he said. You will feel very sad but you cannot cry. Looking back I wonder if he was really just trying to coach himself. You have to be happy he insisted. I know I said as I stared straight ahead at the brightly lit billboards across the street. At most events the emotional protocol is clear. You smile at weddings. You cry at funerals. The confusing thing here was that this was one situation masquerading as another. In China you are actually expected to cry at a funeral-- a lot-- as a sign of respect. People judge you on how well you cry and how much you cry. My uncle understood this protocol. At my grandfather Yeye's funeral in 1994 Uncle Hai Bin was tasked with the duty of performing a cathartic Chinese ritual to demonstrate his great grieving. As the eldest son this was his designated role. He stood in the aisle in front of the coffin and raised a clay bowl over his head. While crying loudly he smashed the bowl to the ground shattering it into countless shards. My mother hates these kinds of huge emotional displays by the way. At her father's funeral years ago her family criticized her for not crying enough. The people over there they expect you just fall on the floor and then like like crazy people. And the shouting and crying this is a Chinese part of you know their tradition. The people die they hire the people. And if you have money you can hire 100 people come here just cry. Say one two three cry! And one two three stop! I hate that.  The next morning my parents finally arrive. I am videotaping as Nainai greets my dad at the door asking him all kinds of questions about his flight about a recent dental surgery he had. The rest of the family hovers close by and I can see that my dad is so emotional that he cannot say a single word. He cannot even look her in the eyes. He tries to be playful and takes off her hat then fiddles with his own sunglasses trying to distract himself. Later I was finally able to ask him what he was feeling when he walked through that door. Well you know it is just like every son feeling that your mom is dying and you cannot tell and thinking that that is probably the last time that you will see your mom. All the family is around you. Everybody is there. And everybody knows what is going on except your grandma except my mom. I was afraid to say something then you cannot hold myself and I will start crying right? You want to say something but you do not know what to say. It is just now there is no words to choose from. At one point Nainai asks him what is wrong? Even though he does not respond it is like she can feel the weight of his grief and she just starts sobbing. I wondered if she knew why we were all there. Or maybe when you are 80 this is just how you greet your son who lives so far away. There are other relatives around and my dad walks away from Nainai to get some space. On the video you can hear my mom interject her voice upbeat trying to lighten the mood.   After a while Nainai takes her usual role as the matriarch and gathers everyone around taking charge. She reminds us why we are all here-- the big event of Liang-Liang and his wife's marriage. Yes Liang-Liang's wedding is the big event my dad confirms quietly. We all urge Nainai to relax but she is busy giving everyone their priorities. You check on the banquet hall. You guys need to prepare your wedding speeches. You need to get over your jet lag.   Seeing Nainai who probably should be in the hospital get so worked up over this phony wedding banquet while we stood by and watched it felt cruel. I went to Nainai's niece who I call Gugu with my concerns. Gugu lives close by and also helps look after Nainai. I asked her what if Nainai has things she wants to take care of? Like what Gugu responded. I said I do not know. None of us do. That is my whole point. No Gugu said. She does not have anything like that. And that was the end of the discussion. The wedding celebration was held in the banquet hall of a newly-built hotel. Liang-Liang had on a black suit with a pale pink tie. His Japanese wife wore a blue chiffon dress with a floral shawl. Guests approached Nainai to congratulate her smiling. Like a politician at a press event Nainai smiled back. She shook hands. She kissed babies. When it came time for the speeches Uncle Hai Bin my dad's brother took to the stage first. He fumbled a while with the microphone before looking up. It is a rare opportunity for us all to be here today he started. You all knew Liang-Liang as a young child before we left China. And now he is become a man. He is brought a wife back with him from Japan. Uncle motioned to Liang-Liang's wife who could not understand a word of Chinese. I think we are all hoping that next time they return they will carry with them a baby or two. The room chuckled. Liang-Liang translated this to his wife and her face flushed. There is just one more thing Uncle said his voice starting to quiver. They say that a mother's greatest joy is having her children by her side. My ma has sadly not had that fortune -- he meant because he and my dad lived so far away -- So she is lucky to have all of you to care for her. He stared at Nainai in the audience and then as if in slow motion tears began to stream down his face. I thought of Uncle Hai Bin at Yeye's funeral gripping that clay bowl over his head as everyone watched anticipating the explosion into a thousand pieces. But this was not a funeral. It was a wedding. No crying only happy. He had warned me himself just the night before. They were all watching. Nainai was watching. There was no turning back. Everything I am everything I have become is because of my ma. This releases the dam. He begins to weep uncontrollably on stage his shoulders shaking. .  Ma you are the best mom in the entire world. I looked over at Nainai who dabbed at her eyes with her handkerchief. Was she moved? Was she suspicious? Looking at her I could not tell. After the speeches the bride and groom moved from table to table making toasts. It did not take a mind reader to see that Nainai did not like the new Japanese wife. I think she is quite dumb Nainai said. She does not understand anything. That is because she does not speak Chinese I reminded her. No she insisted. It is because she is dumb. The bride and groom were not used to the heavy drinking rituals of the northern Chinese and got drunk fast. I mean they had to drink at every single table. Liang-Liang the groom constantly looked like he was about to cry. And after the drinking he could no longer hold it in. He started to bawl until his face turned bright red. His wife's eyes were wide with panic as she scanned the room for help. Gugu motioned wildly to me from across the room as we all swooped in to try and form a barricade around the sobbing groom. We told Nainai that Liang-Liang was probably just too happy that he was crying tears of joy. The night after the wedding we all went out to a restaurant. After a massive feast we played a drinking game.     Nainai laughed so hard that she cried and then laughed some more. It was hard to distinguish which smiles were real and which ones were faked for Nainai's sake. While I struggled with the grief of saying goodbye Nainai focused on the future a future she assumed she would be part of. When you get married she told me I will have an even bigger wedding banquet for you. She also asked when I would have a baby saying that she was looking forward to holding my child. I had no idea when any of that might happen but I played along. We planned what my wedding banquet would look like and talked about how to balance my career once I had this hypothetical kid. Lying made me sick to my stomach. Listen my mom tried to reassure me your Nainai would appreciate that we are lying to her. Otherwise why would she have done the same thing to your grandfather? This was the first time I would heard of this. I was only 10 when Yeye was diagnosed with liver cancer. As it turns out no one told him about his condition either. As his wife Nainai was the key decision-maker in that situation. He had severe jaundice and was barely lucid when Nainai finally gave him the bad news in the hospital. I need to tell you something old-timer she began. He succumbed to the cancer three days later. I asked my dad about this and he said in truth Yeye knew. No one told him but deep down people can feel when they are really dying. They knew and he knew but everyone pretended not to know so they could all allow each other to save face. So did Nainai also know? Was she also lying to us? Later Little Nainai told me that there was in fact a secret that Nainai had kept from us. . .  That is the sound of me being totally shocked. She tells me that in 2007 six years before the lung cancer diagnosis Nainai had been diagnosed with breast cancer not unusual for a woman in her 70s. But my dad did not know. My uncle did not know. I did not know. She had a mastectomy and she would been wearing a prosthetic breast for nine years. Nainai concealed this from our family and uncle's family not because she was ashamed but so that we would not worry. All this time that we were lying to her to protect her she had also put on a show to protect us. After I left China I immediately Skyped Nainai from home. I love you she said in English the few words that she knows. I managed to find time to Skype with her every day just to check in. At first she seemed to be doing fine and had no symptoms. Then one day she started to cough and my heart sank. I just have a bit of the flu she said. It is nothing. When the cough would not go away she suggested going to the doctor's office to pick up some medicine. Little Nainai panicked and immediately talked her out of it. But then a few days later Nainai stopped coughing. Three months came and went and Nainai was still just fine. Everyone was baffled. Eventually I could not keep up with the daily Skype calls and it dwindled down to once a week and then once a month. A year passed. Nainai said she felt fine so she just decided to skip her annual checkup that year. And another year passed. During her 2015 checkup the same doctor gave the same diagnosis and prognosis-- stage 4 lung cancer very serious no more than three months. This time Little Nainai did not even bother to mock up a phony document. She just told Nainai that she had lost the test results but that everything was the same. Everything was fine. It is been three years now since Nainai was first diagnosed. Little Nainai is certain her big sister is still alive because of her decision to lie to her because we gave Nainai joy instead of worry. My mom told me about an old Chinese belief called chongxi. Chong means to rinse out and xi is joy. So chongxi is the belief that you can wash away a misfortune with joy. Even though this term was never used while planning the wedding that is essentially what we did. And by the way everyone in the family has their own idea of what saved Nainai. Gugu thinks it is partly because of her weekly prayers at the local Taoist temple. My uncle credits Nainai's survival to some expensive miracle probiotics he bought her from Japan. Since Nainai seemed to be doing fine my parents suggested getting a less expensive brand of probiotics and Uncle Hai Bin being freaked out. If we switch it and she dies then it is on you. When this whole thing started I felt like the only rational person in my family the lone westerner defending my grandmother against old-fashioned beliefs. As it turns out my mom agreed with me. But she and my dad just understand both sides. I am pretty sure a lot of other Americans would feel the way that I felt that somebody's going to die. It is their right to know. Yeah. But we just think that is not your business. You not live with her and so-- OK. But do you understand where I was coming from? Do you understand why I was conflicted? Yeah. I know. But that is China. That is a different world OK? People go into a funeral and you have to hold a pillow around the house three times. And in this country you do not do that right? So you not use your culture to push to them. This make chaos. I wonder now if my mom or dad was diagnosed with something terminal and I knew and they did not would I lie to them? And if it was me would I want to know? What my family did was kind and it worked-- maybe. I am reminded of a joke about a physicist visiting his colleague Niels Bohr and expressed his surprise at finding a good-luck horseshoe hanging on the wall. Surely you are not superstitious? Oh no Niels Bohr says. But I am told it works whether you believe in it or not. I know that does not seem like a joke but you know what I am saying.       Lulu Wang. She is a filmmaker. Her first feature called Posthumous comes out this summer. Coming up the stuff that all of us do not know we do not know a scientist actually tries to measure it. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program In Defense of Ignorance stories making the case for not knowing-- a case I admit you do not hear very often. We have arrived at Act Two of our program. Act Two Ignorance for Dummies. So in the first half of our show we heard a woman who was kept in ignorance by her family. In this half of the show we are going to turn to people who are just ignorant. They just do not know stuff and they do not know what they do not know which-- hello-- turns out to be all of us. Sean Cole has details and empirical data. There is this story about ignorance that David Dunning really loves. He is a psychology professor and he is even cited it in his research. It is about a guy named McArthur Wheeler who in 1995 robbed a couple of banks in Pennsylvania and did not wear a mask. And he was arrested. And the police basically said well we have you on the surveillance tapes. And he said no you do not. And they showed him the tapes. And he saw his face. And he stared incredulously and said but I wore the juice. I wore the juice. The juice? Yes. Apparently McArthur Wheeler was under the impression that smearing your face with lemon juice made it fuzzy or invisible to video cameras. To his credit he had actually tested this theory. He took a selfie but I think he misaimed the camera. The thing about McArthur Wheeler was not just that he was an idiot. It was that he thought he was doing everything right which made David Dunning think-- When people are wrong or when they are performing poorly or for lack of a better word when they are incompetent do they know they are incompetent? And he had a guess which was no. They do not know they are incompetent. And so we decided to do some experiments and find out. Now this may not sound like something you can easily test for. It is like trying to measure the height and weight of somebody's insecurity. But Professor Dunning and his grad student partner Justin Kruger figured out a way to do it. They got different groups of undergrads together-- this was at Cornell University-- and gave them one of three quizzes. One was on grammar another on logical reasoning and another weirdly on humor-- like which one of these jokes is the funniest? And they had a panel of comedians write the jokes ahead of time. And at the end of the quizzes they asked each student a simple question-- how well do you think you did? Or more specifically in what percentile did you land? That is what percentage of the other students taking the test do you think you beat? And then they gathered together all of that data and ran the numbers. And I still remember looking at the first graph to this day. And the big finding is we took a look at the bottom 25 of people in each study. These are the people who had done the worst. Their scores are falling in the 11th the 12th the 13th percentile. In other words really low scores. But they think they are performing in the 60th the 65th the 70th percentile. Among the better percentiles. That is right. They think that they have beat out a majority of their peers. One way to think about it-- if you look at people basically who are about to get D's and F's with the exam they have just handed in they think they are getting B's B-pluses with the exam they just handed in. In short there seemed to be a direct correlation between incompetence and an overweening sense of self-confidence. It was not apparent in every poor-performing student but it was in the majority of them. Most people who did badly thought they did just fine or even great. They had no idea. Now anybody who is ever gone to school worked a job or known any other people knows this phenomenon. There is that guy or lady who is cocky and yet has no idea what they are doing and it is infuriating. But here in Dunning's lab it was not just an annoyance. It was a repeatable finding. They did this experiment four times with four different groups of students and it happened every time. Bottom performers thought they were at least above average. And in 1999 Dunning and Kruger published their findings in a paper called Unskilled and Unaware of It. And their conclusion was this-- when someone asks so how do you think you did and you open your mouth to answer you are drawing on the same skill set to answer that question that you used to answer the questions on the test. That is the lack of skill means not only are you going to make a lot of mistakes but it also means you are not going to be able to catch mistakes yours or anybody else's. You are going to think often that what you are saying is absolutely reasonable. This is the double curse. It is not that you are ignorant and also happen to be overconfident. You are ignorant and it makes you overconfident. On the other hand students who scored well who really were in the higher percentiles they tended to guess that they scored a little worse than they actually did and for kind of an endearing reason. They figured most of the kids around them knew as much as they did. In other words they were not mistaken about themselves. They knew themselves pretty well. They simply misjudged other people thinking well they are probably as smart as I am. Over the years Dunning and other researchers have run the same experiment in different ways over and over again. And the result was pervasive-- competitive debaters who were doing badly did not know they were doing badly people at chess tournaments trap and skeet shooters when they are quizzed on gun safety medical professionals. Medical professionals. You will find for some procedures for example that the interns-- like catheterization procedures.  Exactly. 80 of them think they know this technique so well they can teach it to other people whereas zero of their instructors agree. In fact 50 of their instructors say no. This person needs still to be supervised whenever they do this. Oy gevalt! Yeah. And like all psychological phenomenon this one pretty quickly grew a name. Dunning was insistent that he and Kruger had nothing to do with the coining of that name. The name-- the Dunning-Kruger Effect. If you for example go on Twitter and type in Dunning-Kruger you will see the effect mentioned several times a day. Several times a day? Several times a day. Well I have a computer in front of me. And I am going to Twitter. And let me just put in Dunning-Kruger. Oh here we go. Trump is a static display of Dunning-Kruger in effect. Where did you get your biology PhD Dunning-Kruger University? Your clueless rants merely reinforce your ignorance. No so very happy to get a meme out there in the world unhappy that so many people use it as an epithet. That it is your name that they are using as an epithet. Exactly. It is just become a scientific way of calling somebody stupid which I guess we were sorely in need of. But I think the thing that people in general miss is that we are not talking about the brain of the incompetent. We are talking about the brain of all of us because sooner or later we step into that group. Sooner or later we become the poor performers. We all have our specific pockets of incompetence and we know some of them. But there are a lot of them we simply do not know. And once we step into our own incompetence we do not know we have made the step. This is really the disheartening stoner insight of this research. If you think you are doing well it means one of two things-- either you are doing well or you are not doing well at all. Try not to think about it too long. Really. David Dunning who has thought about it more than anyone says it is made him particularly vigilant about the things he says and does and how he acts like trying to catch a candid glimpse of yourself in a mirror. This one time for instance he was teaching a class giving them an exam. And at the end of it he asked the students the Dunning-Kruger question-- how do you think you did? And sure enough when he looked back at the tests he noticed this one kid in particular who got one of the lowest grades in the group and rated himself in the 80th percentile. And I decided well I am going to peek at the name because I just have a suspicion I am going to see this person in my office. And indeed when the test was handed back he did come into my office because he did want to offer me a chance graciously to admit that the answers that I had designated as correct on the exam were actually wrong. Uh-huh. And so he was really trying hard to be gracious. I could see some vibrations of outrage in his body. And part of my brain is going watch this. Analyze this. What is going on? What is psychologically happening? Then I have got another part of my brain kind of going are you sure it is not you? Are you sure it is not you? Because I think it would be embarrassing for a person who has proposed the Dunning-Kruger framework to actually publicly display Dunning-Kruger. But the sad sad truth is what I would dearly love would be to be able to see me in this circumstance to be aware of OK. I am having a Dunning-Kruger moment. But according to my own theory I will never have it. That is because other people can see when we are doing the Dunning-Kruger dance but we cannot. Which makes you think why does not anybody say anything? When it is little stuff-- your fly is down you have stuff on your face-- your real friends and even some strangers will tell you. But somehow when you are blowing a huge word balloon full of wrongness that is when the rest of us decide to be polite to go along. Because to correct that weirdly confident know-nothing jerk in the office just seems mean like it is not our place. But maybe it is meaner not to correct him. The real sadness for me is that often people are going to suffer for their mistakes. But they are never going to know it because if a person is a jerk in the office what happens is all the parties they are not invited to all the wonderful social interactions they just do not get to experience. And it is likely that they do not notice the absence of this. So you do not know you are incompetent. You cannot figure it out on your own. And the world is treating you by being silent. Well how do you improve yourself under those conditions? I should say that Dunning and Kruger's research has been criticized over the years. Other researchers have tried to punch holes in their conclusion even going so far as to publish papers with alternative statistical explanations for Dunning and Kruger's findings. And Dunning says he and his partner have responded to those critics in print and may have convinced some but certainly not all of them which he actually takes to be 