So two years ago we did an episode of our show from Penn State University. And one of our producers Sarah Koenig was in Paternoville. Paternoville is the tent village of students that springs up before every home football game there not far from the statue of Joe Paterno the coach which is outside of Beaver Stadium. The students sleep out in the cold for a couple nights until the game so they get the best seats. This was right before they played Iowa State. Ladies and gentlemen in Paternoville! In 24 hours from now we will already be up 40 points on Iowa! Hey  what time is it? 1043! And Michigan still sucks! Michigan--  This is just how much Penn State hates Michigan. They are not even playing Michigan the next day and they still need to express how much they suck. So after hanging out for a while with students who are telling her what football means to them what Penn State means to them-- in both cases a lot-- somebody asked Sarah-- All right so hang on you have been firing questions. How are you feeling right Now you are sitting here around a bunch of drunk college kids. You are like overwhelmed and surprised at our answers because you-- I am very surprised at how you genuinely enthusiastic you are about this school. I have never felt that way about any school-- what is surprising is that you guys are not like cynical about the university at all. Like you are just into it. There is nothing to be cynical about. They deal with every situation perfectly. They deal with every situation perfectly. That is how it looked in 2009. This girl's friends immediately tease her-- well maybe not every situation. But basically they agree. And if you know much about Penn State you know why it is they feel that way. Coach Joe Paterno's grand experiment was to create a football program that would not only win games the players would be the kind of students who take academics seriously. They would be held accountable for going to class. Success with honor was its motto. Back in 2009 when we did that show I asked some students what made Penn State football special? And the answer was immediate it was obvious. Joe Paterno. Joe Paterno is what brings a lot of the-- it is like we pride ourselves on the things that Joe Paterno preaches. Yeah graduation rates is a big thing JoePa-- we have one of the highest-- I think we have the highest percent-- 82-- Highest in the Big Ten definitely. They told me fans are supposed to keep a certain code of behavior toward their rivals. Players are not allowed to gloat when they do well. Yeah I will never forget-- one of our players flipped into the end zone scoring a touchdown and got a 15-yard excessive celebration for that. Joe Paterno-- I mean he is an old man but he got down the sideline in that kid's face right away saying let us do sportsmanship. Exactly. This is a point of pride for them. Our sports program does things right. And this all of this? This is what went to hell in the last two weeks with the charges that former Penn State Assistant Coach Jerry Sandusky sexually abused boys and Penn state officials knew. If you followed the news even a little bit you have heard the charges from the grand jury's report. Most damning Assistant Coach Mike McQueary says that back in 2002 he walked in on Sandusky in the locker room shower-- the grand jury report does not use the word raping but that is plainly what they are talking about-- raping a boy of about ten years old. McQueary then told Coach Paterno what he saw. Paterno did not call the police but testified that he instead told the head of the athletic program Tim Curley and Penn State administrator Gary Schultz. They did not go to the police either. Instead they banned Sandusky from bringing children into the locker room. That was it. Schultz testified that the university's president Graham Spanier approved that decision. Spanier Schultz and Curley had their own side of the story. They claim that they had not been told that Sandusky was actually having sex with a child. They did not know that it went that far. The grand jury notes in its report that it did not find Tim Curley and Gary Schultz's testimony to be entirely credible. At Penn State all this news has been like a bomb going off. As you probably heard students rioted. And then everybody regrouped and tried to figure out what to make of it all. Today on our radio program we are going to spend the hour at Penn State try to capture what it feels like there right now. And it is pretty extreme. It really is like people's world has been turned upside down. For context later in the hour we are going to hear some excerpts from our original 2009 program about Penn State which people have been Tweeting and emailing about in the last two weeks because it gives a sense of just how intense the culture of football is at Penn State. You see why everybody's feelings are running so high. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us.  Act One. Say It As not So Joe. So our producer Sarah Koenig lives in State College in the town that is the home of Penn State. And she says it has been a weird two weeks. Here's what it is like to live here right now. 100000 people are having the same conversation at the same time everywhere they go. I am overhearing them in line at the coffee shop at my son's Taekwondo class in a neighbor's driveway as people walk down the sidewalk talking on their cell phones. The weekly newsletter from my kids' school began In light of the truly tragic events et cetera. And I am having these conversations myself with everyone I know and with many people I do not know. Like the guy behind the counter at Kinko's who told me he did not want to talk about it and then we talked about it for 15 minutes. We cannot stop. Because what happened here makes no sense. I can almost see how it happened. Almost. This is Nancy Weinreb. She is lived here for more than 30 years worked in the university library. Her husband is a professor of organic chemistry and she knows all the higher-ups involved in this thing. Maybe not well but just socially or knows people who knows them. The Spaniers the Curleys the Schultzes She knows Mrs. Schultz. I really-- it is hard. It is hard to understand though. It is hard to understand how the leadership-- I mean very good people and good men could not do what they should have done. Because you do you think of them as good men. Mmhm. I do. And do you still? Well I think they were terribly wrong. But yes I guess I do. Yeah. Are you surprised to hear yourself say you still think of them as good men? Yes. Yes I am surprised to hear myself think that yes. I have heard of a few people who compared this thing to 911 which seems melodramatic to me but in one way I do see the similarity. This feeling of the whole place suddenly seeming unreal off its axis. Because how could good men turn out to be bad men? And obviously I do not mean Sandusky here. People have no ambivalence about Sandusky. The confusion is all about the guys around Sandusky who appear to have let the alleged crimes go on. I met Nancy Weinreb through her son Michael Weinreb. Michael is a sportswriter. He wrote a book all about football in the 1980s a large chunk of which is about Penn State actually. And he is a columnist for this new online magazine called Grantland. He is been writing great columns since the story erupted two weeks ago. At least half a dozen people told me about them. They are circulating like crazy here. Because he is a local and he is just as disoriented as we are. In one of the columns he wrote I cannot add a lot to what is been written about the facts of the burgeoning scandal at Penn State except to tell you how strange it feels to type the phrase 'burgeoning scandal at Penn State.' I know that I am too emotionally attached to the situation to offer any kind of objective take though I do not think I realized how emotionally attached I was until this occurred. In another column he tells a story his mom told him last weekend. Quote I think it explains as well as anything how jarring this is for a community that has never experienced such a complete and utter shock to its system. My mother's friends-- let us call them the Xes-- are cordial with Graham Spanier the university president who lost his job a few days before. So last week Mrs. X baked a coffee cake got in her car sweet-talked the security guard stationed in the Spaniers' driveway and dropped it off at the front door. It was not meant to condone anything Spanier had done. It was merely a way of acknowledging-- well honestly I do not know what the hell it was meant to acknowledge and the Xes did not either. But it is just something you do in small towns is not it? Unquote. I understand that. What do you do when a massive child rape scandal hits your town? So I called Michael up. We met last Friday at the giant vigil in front of Old Main Penn State's admin building. Students organized it to recognize sex abuse victims. We talked about what else Penn State football. I mean I do watch all the games. Like we went on our honeymoon in Greece this year and I found myself following the football game on my cell phone at 10 oclock at night feeling like an idiot for doing it. Sitting in a hotel lobby in Athens and I am following a football game on my cell phone. It was freezing. We walked to his friend Ryan's car. Michael lives in New York City now and he would come back here to go to Saturday's game and to just be here to see what it felt like to be back home. He grew up in town went to Penn State wrote for the school paper. And he is quick to issue the following disclaimer. He is fully aware that this whole ordeal is not about him. It is about little kids who were hideously abused and how it affected him personally obviously that does not matter one way or the other. And yet like so many people from State College he is been deeply freaked out ever since he heard about this thing. It does not make any sense. It just does not compute. So that is a lot of what I was talking about my parents too is just how that part of it-- it just does not-- it just goes against everything that you thought you understood you know? I just-- I do not know. I keep waking up every morning and thinking that it is a dream. It still does not seem real. I was expecting to come up here and it to feel different in some way but it is still the same place you know? Like I do not even know why I am here or what I am supposed to be writing or what I am supposed to be doing at this point. We drove over to the football stadium to see if kids were camping out before the game at Paternoville. There was almost no one there. It was too cold. Just two tents were still up and one had blown over backwards like a helpless beetle. The three of us Michael Ryan and I ended up talking until 130 in the morning. Like I said earlier you just cannot stop. For my part I am basically rubbernecking upset and appalled by the crash. Michael though it is like he is in the pile-up. His memory is tangled up with this mess. With Paterno with football. He is here to figure out if he can untangle it. He is worried his past his childhood might be contaminated by all this stuff. And so a lot of the good memories I have you know father-son stuff that-- I am starting to sound like it is Field of Dreams or something all of a sudden. But I do not know how that stuff changes. I do not know if it changes you know? When I think of like Penn State beating Nebraska in 1982 and like my dad lifting me on his shoulders because I could not see anything because everybody was standing up-- and then the last play of the game-- that was like one of the few times I have seen my dad actually shout and get excited about something. But I do not know. I do not know how it will affect all that stuff. Because Joe Paterno is there. He was an integral part of all that stuff. I do not know if you noticed how easily he referenced that Penn State-Nebraska game from 1982. I heard Michael do this over and over. Football is how he marks time an organizing principle for his life. He remembers watching the Sugar Bowl in 1979 in the family room when he was 6 and then going outside in the snow with his next door neighbor and replaying the game so Penn State would win. To this day he wrote one of his recent columns When I try to recall the combination of my gym locker or a friend's birthday or the license plate of my rental car I think in terms of uniform numbers. It is not 31-17-03. It is Shane Conlan Harry Hamilton Chip La Barca. Penn State played Miami here and they got killed. And I think that was the last game before September 11. For some reason I just marked it-- I remember going to the first game I think it was the first game after September 11 when they played Wisconsin. I find this a little crazy and so does he that he is bookended September 11 with Penn State football games. And he will no doubt mark this thing happening now with tomorrow's game against Nebraska. Here's what he wrote in another column. I do not believe Paterno deserves our sympathy right now and in fact I walked around State College this weekend supremely pissed off that he did not live up to the standards he would like us to believe he set for himself. And I was not alone in that sentiment. And yet when I saw those televised shots of his house on McKee Street something caught in my throat. The conditioned response to a man I have been raised to believe is the moral arbiter of our community. And of course Michael's not alone in this. In State College confusion has seeped into everyone's house. You cannot believe it happened or that it happened the way they are saying it happened in the grand jury report. There must be something we do not know some key moment some key insight some key fact that will make it add up. So thousands and thousands of people here including me are turning over theories. A former State College cop told me the other day the football program is run like the mafia and Paterno is the godfather. This cop had had suspicions about Sandusky for years saw him hug a Little League kid a little too enthusiastically one time and had seen him hanging around high school sports events and had actually spoken to Sandusky about it asked him why exactly was he there? So this cop things Paterno and all the others around the football program must have known for a long time. Paterno obviously has a lot of defenders too or at least people looking very hard for a reason not to condemn him. I met a football fan slash Penn State Law student named Chris who said he and all his friends in the law program are very skeptical of the grand jury report. Grand jury reports are supposed to be one-sided he said and there are so many inconsistencies. It could be complete reversal. We may find out hypothetically that Tim Curley and Gary Schultz are telling the truth and it is in fact Mike McQueary who is lying. And this woman Lori an alum and Paterno devotee who I met at the vigil last Friday-- she cannot believe Paterno would have just let this go. Maybe maybe he was told that things were being followed up on and he was under the impression that they were but they were not. I have heard people blame the cops for being in collusion with Penn State. I have heard cock-a-mamie theories like people saying this is all because the Pennsylvania AG wanted to take down Spanier who fought publicly with the governor over funding earlier this year. The governor who used to be the AG. I have heard that Paterno promoted Mike McQueary so he would keep his mouth shut. A lawyer in town told me he blamed the lawyers said Penn State's lawyers covered this whole thing up. My friends Kim and Will moved here from Seattle about a decade ago. Our daughters are friends. Will's a bioengineer at Penn State. I am one that embraces denial as much as the next person. Denial is a big theory here too. Not just on an institutional level on a personal level. That some combination of Paterno Curley Schultz Spanier simply could not or would not believe such grotesque crimes were happening in their locker rooms. There are so many reasons to tell yourself that you are not exactly sure. So you are telling yourself you have to be so sure and you are not 100 sure and so well it was not exactly illegal or I do not need to do this I only need to go this far or somebody else is going to do it or maybe he did not see what he thought he saw and things like that. There is so much incentive to try to want it to not be true. And then you just kind of wish it away. The crux of the riddle for a lot of people is did Mike McQueary really tell Joe Paterno and other university officials exactly what he is now saying he saw? That is Jerry Sandusky in the shower raping a boy who looked to be about ten years old? McQueary says there was no ambiguity about what he told them. They of course say that it was never clear to them the shower incident was of a quote sexual nature. So how do you square that? I have heard people say they believe that maybe McQueary did not quite get the information out. There he is sitting on the sofa across from Paterno a football legend his mentor a 70-something-year-old man a Catholic-- and is he really going to paint the picture? The shower a little boy ugh. Like one of my friends said it could be that something got lost in the telling. Kim of Kim and Will is a psychotherapist. She thinks Spanier the university president got all turned around in his decision-making partly because of the closed circle he lived in where administrators talk mostly to other administrators. Spanier has said he never knew about the sexual assaults. Spanier by the way is also a family therapist. Do you feel like at the end of the day he knew or he did not know the particulars? Spanier? I feel like he probably did. Yes I do. Mmhm. Does that make him a bad guy? Like how do you get your head around that? Maybe from being basically kind of a politician right for such a long time? That he might have lost touch with some sort of boots-on-the-ground morals that the rest of us can live with? And he is dealing with large groups of people and large sums of money and I could imagine him confusing his duty to the university and maybe even to the community with his moral obligation to protect the innocent. My friend Eileen grew up about an hour and a half from Penn State in farming country. Eileen used to live across the street from McQueary's wife and mother-in-law and she believes McQueary. That he told the higher-ups exactly what he saw and they buried it. In their world that kind of stuff did not happen. And they could not deal with it. I mean we were all having trouble dealing with the fact that it happened and he was like a brother I guess in the football family right? And so how can you deal with a family member doing something like that to kids? Maybe what they said was you know it was one time-- they had a big boy meeting and they sat him down they had a sit-down and they said you are not going to do this again right? And he of course said oh yeah yeah no not a thing not an issue. And they used that to make themselves feel better and for the greater good of all of Penn State. And I want to think they thought they were doing the right thing. I think JoePa did right? That is a skewed vision right? Of-- Oh you think they thought they were doing the right thing. I think at least-- and I am not giving them an out here. But yeah I think in that twisted world he thought it will serve more kids and it will be for the greater good if we just make this go away so that the football program can keep on doing what it does. And I am not a-- oh god. I am not a football person. Were you just nervous to say that on tape? Yes! Explain that. Why? Where do we live right? I think that is part of this whole thing. Imagine if me who does not give a  about it right? Really has some hesitation in this town. And because of the people in my life some of the people in my life-- yeah right? And I did not even realize that Sarah. That was involuntary. Really. That is ridiculous. It would be like me saying to my sister who lives in rural Pennsylvania yeah I do not really care about the Steelers. I would not be invited for Christmas. On Saturday morning Michael Weinreb and his parents and some family friends met like they always do at the chemistry building where Michael's father works and then made the trek over to the football game. Where did the chicken coops used to be? The chicken coops we will pass by where the chicken coops used to be. It is where there are field hockey fields over there now. But you would have to make this walk up there and you would have to walk by these awfully-- Well it would smell was part of the problem. Terrible. This exchange about the chicken coops was the sum total of Michael's communication with his father on the walk over by the way which Michael said was typical. His father is not a huge talker. We headed up to Beaver Stadium and again things were more or less the same as any football Saturday. It was a beautiful day people everywhere looking happy. It just feels so normal right now. And it is odd. Is that comforting to you or is it just weird? It is just kind of weird. I feel like I should constantly be apologizing you know? To whom? To everybody. I mean to the victims obviously to people who saw that stuff on TV the other night. It is just like this woman holding up that sign. That is kind of how I feel. You know? What is the sign? It says To the victims I apologize for Penn State. Michael shoved a dollar into a box. There was another student collecting money for a child abuse charity and fans were just shovelling money at them jamming bills in there. So just to recap. This terrible story breaks open. People in State College are stunned. Then a couple days later there is a riot-- a big ugly retching of misplaced anger. And then two days after that there is a vigil. A massive solemn gathering that had the double benefit of calming the campus and looking good on the evening news. And then two days after that there is a football game. And all of a sudden that off-kilter feeling is gone. People are cheerful excited. That is how it felt to me anyway. And it occurs to me that maybe that is what happened to Paterno and those guys in the administration back when they first got wind of Sandusky's alleged crimes. Just give it some space squint into the sun go to a football game and you can kind of forget about it. The following morning on Sunday Michael told me it did feel different inside the stadium-- more subdued. Even the cheering was subdued. It was just kind of quiet even when it was loud. And it is like people were so tired of talking about the situation that they wanted to try to talk about the game but then you start talking about the game and you would be like how can we talk about the game? And then you know there was a moment in the fourth quarter where it was like Penn State was down 17 to nothing and they came back and made it 17-14 and then they got a defensive stop and got the ball back and it was like-- I allowed myself like one moment where I kind of got excited you know? It was kind of like OK I am going to allow myself to get excited about football for two minutes here. Then they lost and it was like I do not care you know? I did not care that they lost you know? Have you had that feeling before? Not quite like this no. Yeah see that is the thing. I think a couple of my friends from college e-mailed me and they were like I wish we would have won that you know? And I was like why? What difference does it make? It did not matter. It just did not matter. Did your parents have anything to say about it? Like that it felt different to them or-- Yeah some guys in their row who were so drunk that they puked all over themselves. And I was like that is weirdly like going to a funeral hammered you know? It is like just have some respect. First of all it is a noon game. How do you get that drunk you know? But-- You know how you get that drunk. You start at 730. I know I know. I have done that before so I should not say anything. Honestly seeing drunk kids stumbling back from the game on Saturday that was the one thing that made me feel like the town was going back to normal for better or for worse. Sarah Koenig. Coming up we go back in time through the miracle of audio recording technology before all this happened before all the trouble to the program that we did back in 2009 about Penn State. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. This podcast of This American Life is brought you by audible.com which is a provider of audio books with more than 100000 downloadable titles across all types of literature including fiction nonfiction and periodicals. For listeners of the This American Life podcast Audible is offering a free audio book of your choice when you try audible free for 14 days. A title they suggest that This American Life listeners might enjoy is Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson the new book based on hundreds of interviews with Steve Jobs and the people around him. To try Audible today with the free audio book of your choice go to audible.comAmerican. All the details are on their website. That is audible.comAmerican. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. This week on our show we have been talking about Penn State and how people there are reacting to grand jury charges that a former assistant coach sexually abused young boys. The charge is that Penn State officials failed to report the abuse to authorities. In this half of the show we are going to play excerpts from our 2009 episode about Penn State. That show is about mostly the fact that the school was named the nation's number one party school that year so it is mostly about partying and drinking which have nothing at all to do with this sex abuse scandal. Just need to get out in front of that right now. But that said you cannot talk about partying and drinking at Penn State without talking about football. Football is a kind of a location where a lot of things like that occur. And though these stories are about drinking throughout all the stories there are these moments where you see just how central it is in the life of Penn State. You see the before in the before and after of this scandal. And in the before-- and this explains a lot about the after-- people love Penn State and the love was uncomplicated. Students were spontaneously telling all of us how much they loved the school how they never wanted the college experience to end. They chanted the school chant We Are Penn State not just in the football stadium. It was in the student union it was in the shuttle bus. They would just chant it out of the blue.  They said We are Penn State in conversation to make a point. They were part of this club that they were really excited to be part of. In 2009 we were there for the last home game of the season exactly two years and one week ago. Penn State was 44000 students at the time. To describe the level of drinking and partying and football fandom at one point in the show I was joined in the studio back in 2009 by Sarah Koenig who you heard earlier in today's show. You are right. A couple of weeks before you guys came to State College there was this huge freak snowstorm and they had to cancel tailgating for the first time anyone could remember because the conditions were so dangerous by the field. But it did not stop anyone. I saw people tailgating in their yards on their front lawns-- even in my neighborhood I went into a parking garage and found all these people on the fourth floor which was really strange to see. I mean it is a parking garage so there is dirty cars everywhere the ceiling is low it is cold it is dark. At the end of one row of cars there were these two tables pushed together in an L-shape with tablecloths and all kinds of food and a couple birthday cakes. Whose birthday is this? It is my birthday it is my birthday my 21st birthday. Happy birthday. Thank you. And what are you doing on the fourth floor of a parking garage? I am getting drunk and tailgating. Describe your headgear there. It is a crown with a 21 that is on fire and it says Where is the bar? So who brought all this food? My mom and dad. Because they love me and they are the best. About a half dozen older people were there too her parents and some of their friends. And there were a bunch of other tailgates happening around us and one couple was having their 40th wedding anniversary. Wow. In the garage? In the garage yeah. At one point a woman probably in her 50s walked up and handed the birthday girl a red plastic cup. Aw thank you! What is this?  Is there alcohol in it? Most definitely. Oh my god this is the strongest drink I have ever had in my life! They just brought me a really strong alcoholic lemonade. Is that your daughter? Are you the mom? No no. We are parked over there. You just saw that this is happening. Yes. We have got to keep ourselves entertained somehow right? Watch the 21-year-old get plastered that is the entertainment? Exactly exactly. Thank you so much for the drink! At tailgate parties you see just how deeply embedded drinking is in life at Penn State. It is entire families. It is several generations together. It is outdoor public drinking which gives you this feeling when you are there that the whole world is drinking. Probably because there is so much of it. In 2009 when we were there Penn State had largest stadium in North America. Holds over 100000 people. So the tailgates are these huge masses of humanity spread out as far as you can see all around the stadium starting at 8 in the morning starting really early which is when these alums got here. They talked to one of the producers Aaron Scott. So you went to bed three or four. You got up and you are drinking again. Yes. Is it ever too early to drink? No never. Eight in the morning means by the way that if it is a night game they will tailgate for 12 hours in the cold in the freezing cold sometimes before kickoff. I talked to a bunch of alums at a tailgate about what would happen if they were not allowed to drink it all. I think there would be a revolt. I think there would be a huge huge pushback from the alumni that donate a lot of money to school to say that you cannot have alcohol to tailgate. That is Mark Johnson class of 1977. It is just part of the culture. I mean that is why this school sells 110000 tickets for every-- just it is a part of it. It is just part of that tradition. Usually pounding down drinks at eight in the morning can be kind of sad. But the main thing about this kind of drinking where it is tied in with tradition and football and family and overwhelming sense of school spirit is that it feels incredibly wholesome. The whole campus feels like a Chevy commercial. It is welcoming people. It is friendly. It is hard to resist. You could go to any tailgate here any Penn State tailgate and you are just welcome. Here's a junior named Megan Klock. I mean you could go up to someone that is cooking at a grill and be like hey can I have a burger? And they are like oh sure. So it is like endless food. Everyone's friendly with everyone. Just the atmosphere here is-- I have never experienced anything like Penn State atmosphere. Sarah met this next guy Peter drinking outside the stadium with his friends before the game. He is from Slovakia. I came to US and I started watching baseball and football and I did not understand at all the rules. It was just a big blah to me. And I did not get my football tickets my freshman year but I was able to go in one or two games. And I guess I started to like the atmosphere that is surrounded by the football. And it kind of reminded me of home where everyone is welcoming everyone's a big family and no matter where you are from you root for the same team. It made me feel like I am home again and surrounded by friends. And so I just love it now. I heart . I am getting emotional. This sense-- that we are a family we are about football everybody in the school is one-- it spills over from the football games into the whole weekend. It is a week actually. It is Friday night the night before the football game outside East Hall one of the big freshmen dorms. And dozens of kids are lined up to the free shuttle buses that are going to take them across campus to the frats and parties on the other side. Two of our producers Jane Feltes and Lisa Pollak noticed that all the girls wore these ratty-looking hoodies and jackets over their dress-up clothes. Somebody told them that wor