OK this thing happened last month at our radio show where I am sure you remember the rally of white nationalists and offshoots of the alt-right who descended into a kind of white haze on Charlottesville marched with torches one woman was killed. The president spoke about it several times. Anyway when that story first broke here at our show we realized that the guy who organized that rally in Charlottesville Jason Kessler was a member of this right wing men's group that one of our producers Zoe Chace had been following for months like since the winter. The group has since disavowed Kessler. This was a group founded on the premise that they are not racist. The group's leader denounced the rally. But it is confusing right? Like all these groups that you hear about these days like the groups at Charlottesville. All these little groups that stand for slightly different things in this movement that is shifting and slippery and hard to get a grasp on. And often the things their leaders say in public seem like a whitewash if you will pardon the expression of what they really believe. Not that the leader of this particular group necessarily was whitewashing anything. Anyway today we have the story of a guy who stumbled upon that group that Zoe was following and got involved with them. And this is like long before Charlottesville long before Trump was president. And this guy is not exactly who you would expect would end up with a group like this. He is a liberal black guy a relationship expert and a comedian named Dante Nero. He makes part of his living giving advice to guys on how to pick up women like this. This is from a podcast. Ask me to consult you the first thing I would tell you to do is I do this thing where I go lay five bricks a day. I tell a guy to speak to five women every day. They do not have to be pretty. They do not have to be somebody you wanna . But you just say beautiful eyes oh I like your glasses your makeup is impeccable. So five a day every day for eight weeks. That is 285 women. Look you learn things about that interaction between men and women. And-- Dante Nero became the spiritual leader of sorts for this right wing group that Zoe was following. He was drinking with the guys. He was giving them pointers about women. And he saw the group's evolution and he was really surprised when a couple of the guys in the group ended up in Charlottesville. Surprised and disturbed. Well today on our program the fuzzy boundaries between these right wing groups and how guys who do not think of themselves as racist end up sharing opinions and hanging out with guys who definitely are. Where does that lead? From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. And let us just jump right into Act One. Act One Lost in the Proud. Quick warning before we start. There is some strong language in this story. Nothing graphic but some slurs and men referring to the existence of sex. Or actually to the nonexistence of it. Here's Zoe. Her story about Dante Nero starts earlier this year. I only met Dante after months of hanging out with these guys these new right alt-right alt-light Twitter trolls. I started meeting up with them right after Trump's inauguration. Even though their guy won they were still acting like insurgents not like winners. Like their revolution was not over yet. Take charge of your own life take charge of the country. I would go to one party at some clubby leather seat whiskey bar in DC or in New York. That would get me invited to another and another. And then finally at this one bar crawl near Trump Tower in March I met the group I have been following for a few months now the group this story is about. So who is coming? Like who are these guys? A lot of them are Proud Boys. What do you mean they are Proud Boys? Can you just say what that is? Proud Boys is a fraternity. It is a fraternity. That is all. It is a fraternal organization. Can you just say a little more about that? What do you mean it is a fraternity? It is a fraternal organization. I mean I just do not understand how to describe it any other way than that. I mean that is pretty much the clearest way. This is Sal. He is 29. Huge beard. His head is a circle of hair like that wild thing from Where the Wild Things Are. He is got a sharp tongue. It is hard to tell when he is joking. Here's how he would introduce me sometimes at bars. This is Zoe. All right Zoe is single. She needs a fucking man as soon as possible and she needs to start having kids OK? It was hard at first to get people to explain exactly what the Proud Boys were about and Sal gets impatient. Even though he founded the Long Island Proud Boys chapter there are chapters all over the country. We are not allowed to talk about these things. I am just-- I can give you like we were drinking we did cocaine we got tattoos. That is pretty much it. I mean-- Sal's roommate Cameron put it differently. Proud Boys? What drew me to it is the value we place on family. Especially like fatherhood. That is a big deal. The Proud Boys have these rituals degrees. What is second degree? I-- I cannot talk about that. I mean you will probably find out soon but-- OK first degree is declaring you are a Proud Boy. Second degree is getting punched while you try to name five breakfast cereals like to show you can focus your mind while under attack. The third is getting Proud Boy tattooed on your body. The Proud Boys have special greetings. Like they yell proud of your boy or uhuru at each other. Which is this pro-Africa socialist slogan. It is kind of an ironic thing. They have theme songs. SINGING Proud of your boy. Bad as I have been ma you are in for a pleasant surprise. That is from Aladdin. It is not in the movie but it is in the Broadway musical. What interested me in these guys was this thing they believed that I would been hearing since the beginning of the presidential primaries that they were feeling marginalized and depressed. This feeling came up so much with guys I talked to during the Trump campaign it seems like one of the driving forces that got him into office. For a lot of people Make America Great Again was about make men great again. I kept asking guys to tell me how were you marginalized? Like what happened to you personally that made you feel like this? But every time I asked I would get these grand statements. Like it is the whole culture that is against them. Men are very marginalized. I mean in a lot of systems too. Especially white males. White males are the most-- white male Christians are the most marginalized group in the United States. We are seeing more women getting degrees in universities. We are seeing less boys graduating from college. We are seeing-- we are seeing a switching of the roles and I think it should be equal. Men serve a purpose. You know we are biologically different. We are biologically a binary. Women are magical and beautiful things in what they do. And men are you know good at what they do. So I think what it is being cast into like a non-- not a second class citizen or role but like a subcategory. What about this compulsion to have women in action movies from Ghostbusters to Charlize Theron she should be James Bond and-- What is bad about that? That is women saying they want to take over male roles. They want to be men. There is no day for men besides Father's Day and who cares about that. And those are just fathers. But as I got to know them what surprised me the most was the foundational principle of the Proud Boys the thing that caused them to band together. Here it is. We do not masturbate except once a month if you want. But I personally do not and do not encourage people to do so. This is Franklin Wright. He works at Proud Boy Magazine. And if you do you have to be within 10 yards of a lady and it has to be with her consent. OK. The whole no-wanks. A quick heads up to listeners. People are going to be saying the word wank and its synonyms a lot for the rest of the story. Because the Proud Boys were founded in part as a group of men who refrain from masturbating. It is more of a religion. Like you can be a first degree Proud Boy and no wanks is not a requirement. So you can be a Proud Boy and masturbate all you want. No problem. When you become initiated within the second degree then you must adhere to no-wanks. Which brings us finally to Dante Nero the relationship expert comedian who got involved in this world. Dante was the mastermind behind no-wanks. It started for him as a personal life choice. I decided not to watch porn anymore. And I just made a-- I made a statement saying I am not watching porn anymore and I am not masturbating anymore. Dante is striking. He is 51 bald-headed lots of tattoos. He has a huge bone stuck through one of his ear lobes. He has his own podcast the Beige Phillip Show about relationships. Beige because he is a light-skinned black guy Phillip for Dr. Phil. Like this is his version of Dr. Phil's show. Dante used to be a male stripper. He is had sex with lots of girls and so his sex advice comes out of those experiences. And he felt like no-wanks was a good idea for a lot of the guys who listen to his show. That focus on the screen and masturbating and watching porn gave an unrealistic idea of what intimacy is what it is to be a woman. And then when they got the rejection they started to withdraw from the whole idea of social interaction. And they did not even want to date anymore. This is guys who do not even want to date. And it is insane. Dante believed that these guys were not going to get women to sleep with them unless they turned off the computer got out of the house talked to women in real life listened to what they said and got to know them enough to charm them into bed. And one day back two years ago now he explained this theory to the guy who would latch on to the idea and go on to create the Proud Boys a guy named Gavin McInnes. Gavin helped found Vice Media long ago. He is kind of a libertarian punk but now he hosts a right wing TV show on the internet. And Dante went on Gavin's show and started telling him and his viewers about how he does not masturbate. And he goes why? And I said well I find for me it mutes me. It mutes my masculinity to a certain extent. And he challenged me. He said let us do a month. Write that down. Starting today. I will commit to once a month. Whoa all right. I will meet your once a month and raise you nothing. Once a month. Let us do it. Once a month. Agreed? Agreed. Agreed? After I got off the show with Gavin he was still-- it affected him in such a way that he constantly was talking about it. Like every day he was talking about no-wanks. Zack from Seattle you want to know about no-wanks with a pregnant wife? Yeah yeah. How am I supposed to commit to no-wanks with a pregnant wife that is in no mood for sex. Yes what you are discussing and we should probably-- And because I was the guy that talked about it and explained it I think that they propped me up as the guy the pope of no-wanks. And this whole thing was happening on its own. This whole monster was just growing about this. And I could see. I would see tweets. And every once in a while somebody would say the pope with no-wanks. And then I got a picture of a picture of the pope in the pope garb with my face on it. They superimposed my face. Guys had t-shirts and it just became this thing. Gavin kept inviting Dante on his show. And Gavin's show is pretty popular. Dante figured he would get more listeners to Beige Phillip. Like Dante is a successful working comic but it is not full time for him. He still works a day job at the phone company. Gavin's take on no-wanks was a little different from Dante's. Gavin's show is political and he took no-wanks and added it to the stew of right wing ideas he was talking about already. It was more than just helping guys pick up chicks. Gavin wanted the guys to stop masturbating go out talk to women and then marry them procreate be strong American family men help restore the natural order of things that had been knocked out of whack by feminism. This was all before the group even had a name. And when Gavin McInnes finally announced the name in May 2016 no-wanks was right in there. I am glad we had that no-wanks caller because it brought me to a name for this movement I have been thinking about. We are called-- you ready for this? The Proud Boys. The Proud Boys are over race. We do not talk about-- we talk about race if you want to talk about it but we do not have any guilt. No guilt whatsoever. No cis male guilt none of that stuff. We are pro-gun. We want to end the drug war. We want-- we are libertarians except when it comes to immigration. We are pro-dude. We think most women would be happier at home. We do not beat off. Well we beat off once every 30 days. We watch porn once every 30 days. We are traditionalists. We are sort of like the alt-right without the racism. The alt-right without the racism. If you think about it a certain way it is an ingenious sales pitch for his products. The names and affiliations of these right wing groups keep shifting around. Today the alt-right is straight up racist like white supremacist and anti-Semitic. Whites should have their own ethno-state. Now Gavin's version of right wing nationalism kept some of the feelings and ideas that animate the alt-right how affirmative action and feminism have marginalized white men made them powerless. He kept that part. But he will say explicitly we are not racist. We are not the alt-right. We do not think white people are superior. What we think is the West is superior. Western civilization. The West is the best. The Proud Boys are not the only group like this. They keep some of the supremacy without the whiteness. It is a step removed from race. That is how he sells it anyway. Let us talk to Jack in Texas. Jack are you there? Uhuru. Uhuru. Like listen to how he answers this question from a caller shortly after he founded the Proud Boys. So I was wondering do you see Proud Boys being a-- because it is about more than just no-wanks. Do you see it being a subset of the alt-right? Sure sure. My problem with the alt-right is it rules out Wayne Dupree. Wayne Dupree is black a right wing blogger. I am a Western chauvinist. I am all about the culture. Now part of that is recognizing that white males seem to be the ones who made it and respecting that but it does not mean you are not invited to the party. It is ingenious because clearly there is a market of guys who do not think of themselves as racists and who do not want to suffer the social costs of their coworkers and family and friends finding out they are part of a racist group but who do feel aggrieved and marginalized and under attack as white guys. Those are Gavin's boys though Gavin says the focus is more on beer than aggrievement. It is worth mentioning at this point that Dante Nero was not down with all these ideas. He is never watched Gavin's show. But his audience of guys who wanted to pick up girls and Gavin's audience of right wing guys who wanted to pick up girls overlapped. So we joined along for the ride. He became first degree. Obviously no-wanks made him eligible for second degree. Often at these events people would be getting punched and yelling out the name of five breakfast cereals. Dante skipped that progressed straight to third degree the tattoo. I have it on my neck which is-- Oh you do. It says Proud Boy on your neck. Dante felt like he understood these guys on a couple of different levels. He shares a lot of their views on men and women that all men are essentially the same all women basically want the same thing. And he agrees with some of the anti-politically correct dudes are being shut down these days stuff. Guys cannot say anything anymore without being attacked Dante told me. Whenever they complain about it they are called sexist. One big difference between Dante and these guys though they mostly turned into Trump supporters. Dante is pretty liberal and does not like Trump. But this was before Trump became the place to put your resentment over political correctness. Anyway they did not talk politics with Dante much. They asked him for relationship advice. I would just sit there and talk. Like they would go I have this girl. I really like her. Should I approach her? She is liked my Facebook pictures. Just you know-- or maybe a guy who is 36 years old and has been with one woman in his lifetime and he does not have a girlfriend and he is going-- I never made fun of those guys you know? I never. Empathy. Because how do you get people to come out of their shell if you are beating them into the shell about what their shortcomings are? We all have shortcomings. So empathy was one of the things that I just assumed would be a part of it. Because that is what I practice. Dante was into it. He says being in a pope-like position was not weird for him. He explained it like he is used to being a figurehead. He helped organize the male strippers of the Bronx. He also managed a strip club and its escort service. Now he is a union steward at the phone company. And if he noticed things that alarmed him about the Proud Boys he ignored them. It is only now with a little hindsight that he points to things he wishes he would taken more seriously at the time. Like the time he brought his nephew to a Proud Boy meet-up. He probably-- was probably the only black kid there. And he said to me that they would go yeah man it is your uncle. Cool cool. My nephew was going to school for music. And they were like you know it is great that you got out of the ghetto and you were able to go to school. And he was like who said I was in the ghetto? I never said that. It was like it is great that you got out of a bad situation and you were able to make it you know to college. And he was like Like I live in Midwood Brooklyn which is a pretty-- Like that is where Brooklyn College is. Right. It is pretty upscale. But their perception-- And I remember him telling me after it was weird that their perception of what he was was this stereotypical black guy that kind of made it out. He told you that? After. Uh-huh. That was a red flag Dante says as was the Holocaust denier video one of the Proud Boys sent him later disputing how many people had actually died in the Holocaust. Or this other meet-up he went to. It was like a really kind of crappy bar. And I was like why did you choose this bar? And the reason why they had chosen the bar was because the bar had got really bad reviews on Yelp because the bartender called somebody a faggot. And this is why the-- like I did not-- Was there part of you that found that funny? No. Dante was not necessarily getting more listeners to his show but he also has a relationship consulting business. He thought maybe the Proud Boys would become customers. He seems like he was probably having fun sometimes though he will not cop to that. He had a million other things going on too his own show his day job bit parts in movies. And he says he liked the idea that when he was in the mix he could push back on some of their ideas. Like you thought of yourself as a black ambassador almost. Yeah I guess. I mean I thought that I could-- I would-- I thought that I could give-- that it would not be this echo chamber if I was part of it. Honestly I do not even know what uhuru means. I knew it was their call. I noticed it was very important. I know that they looked up to me. I knew that I could-- that if I was part of this that I could be a voice that they were not getting from anything else. And then something happened that really freaked him out. Warning this involves a racial slur. He got an invite to the Proud Boys' Facebook page and he went on there. And there was nigger this and nigger that Nazi this. And there was like this white supremacist stuff. And I am like I am the pope. You are talking about black people like this. There is pictures of you know the old cartoons with the black dudes with the big lips and the bone. Like there was all this stuff on it and I was like yo! I even said this to Gavin. I go man I am not really comfortable with this at all. Because they are talking about me! And Gavin actually screamed on them and said listen the pope does not want to come on anymore because all this racist stuff needs to stop. So he actually took a stand with it but you have already done everything to kind of get these guys to that point already. Like how do you make a left turn off of that once they are already there? I guess that is what I wonder is like did you have a theory in your mind as to why all this racist stuff was showing up on a Proud Boy's Facebook page? It was the natural progression. I think it was the natural progression in terms of OK we are the greatest. We are this. You are not! You are 22 years old. You have not done anything. I am not saying that they do not have the potential to be great but who is great at 22? And your whiteness does not make you great. Neither does my blackness make me great. It is the content of what I do on a day to day basis and how I operate on a day to day basis. But when you are in this vacuum and everybody's jerking each other off-- I mean funny-- I mean maybe not. Right maybe not but socially jerking each other we are great we are the best where is growth? If you are already great where is the need for growth? Dante did not see Gavin's show in mid June of this summer when the guy who organized the rally in Charlottesville Jason Kessler joined Gavin and invited the Proud Boys to come down. We have got Jason Kessler on the line right? Is he still there? He is over there in Virginia near Washington DC. Where are you? Yeah I am here in Charlottesville Virginia where we are going to have the Unite the Right rally on August 12th. It is going to be international news so you will not forget it. Charlottesville Virginia. OK we will not forget Charlottesville Virginia. Jason was just getting to know the Proud Boys chapter in Virginia. He and Gavin talked about that and some ideas they have in common. I want to stand up for white people. I want to stand up for Western civilization. I want to stand up for men. I want to stand up for Christians. I am against immigration. These are the kind of speech that are outlawed. Shortly after that it seems Jason became a Proud Boy himself second degree. Punches breakfast cereals. Thanks for coming on the show. I like you more than a friend. Good to be with you Gavin. That is what Gavin always says at the end of an interview for some reason. He was unsure whether to endorse this event or not. He is a nice boy. I go back and forth on that thing. It has Confederate flags on it and stuff. On the one hand I am not-- I am not scared of being associated with Richard Spencer. On the other hand-- Richard Spencer is a famous white nationalist leader. On the other hand I want to get back to what we are really about which is beer. We know now of course how that rally turned out. Tiki torches actual Nazis and white supremacists and then a woman was killed. After it happened Gavin McInnes insisted that event had nothing to do with the Proud Boys. He did not go. As it got closer he told the Proud Boys not to go because it seemed like white supremacists were going to be involved. They were. According to Gavin any Proud Boy who went to the event-- we know there were at least two-- got kicked out of the Proud Boys. And Gavin now says the guy who organized the rally Jason Kessler is not a Proud Boy never was and was spying on them. But Kessler has told us he was a member of the group. He was going to meetings and there is video of him going through the second degree initiation-- getting punched and yelling out breakfast cereals. In any case Gavin had him back on the show to yell at him. And I think this blood the blood of this girl I mean it is obviously on the hands of the guy driving the car but it is also on your hands! No that is absolutely not! And you are trying to cuck and save your own ass! No I am not! When the mayor said no permit you knew a fight was going to go down! You cuck yourself for people to save your marriage or your reputation whatever. And it is just not right man. You brought me up here to be a patsy for you just like the Charlottesville government. Oh I am saying the exact opposite. I am suspicious of you-- Gavin accepts absolutely no responsibility for some of the guys in his group turning alt-right or white supremacist-esque. Even Sal from the beginning of this story that Long Island Proud Boy I met at the bar he went to Charlottesville. He took a selfie with David Duke and tweeted it. He is out of the group now. The Proud Boys have zero culpability not just with his drift right but with the far right in general. And I would argue if you are looking for someone to blame that is the leftist media constantly crapping on these young men and telling them that they are evil and that they suck and I think that the liberal media banding around the word Nazi to where it means 50 of the population is making a lot of young men revolt and go Yeah you know what? I am. How is that bitch? I am not talking to you calling you a bitch by the way. I know. Fact is there is overlap between what the Proud Boys espouse and what white supremacist groups believe. I ran through the list for Gavin. Our culture is better than yours. Our women need to stay home and make more babies. Our country has no more space for immigrants. We are being persecuted. Those are your ideas. Those are ideas I see in white supremacist groups. Do you see that you guys have those same ideas? Yes I do. And that is the plight of the right in many ways. This is why William F Buckley had to struggle hard to get Nazis out of National Review. They get attracted to this. But to sort of glom on all this pattern and try to suck everyone into Charlottesville including the president is insane. It is an obsession. It is a compulsion. You are falling into the logical fallacy of all cats are mammals all dogs are mammals all cats are dogs. I think what I have documented is that when you have a group that is founded in part around male resentment and aggrievement without racism-- It is not founded around male resentment. Some people are skipping the without racism part. And that is what I am seeing. I know that is your thesis. And I am telling you you are totally and utterly wrong. I am telling you Zoe your entire angle is wrong. Because you found some similarities because you want to link this to Charlottesville. There was no Proud Boys contingent at that thing. I am afraid there is no angle here. And the angle of the Proud Boys is not resentment. It is not this animosity. It is just another men's club! Dante did not know that the guy who organized the Charlottesville rally had been a member of the Proud Boys and that he would gone on Gavin's show promoting it. I was the one who told him that during our interview. He had a hard time with it. That makes my stomach kind of queasy. Really. Like man. Well the first thing I am thinking about is I gotta get a cover-up for this tattoo. That is got to happen immediately. Just because there is a Jason Kessler or there is a Sal like does that mean that there is a slippery slope with all these Proud Boys gonna tumble down it? I think a lot of them could. I think it could. I think they are susceptible to it. I think given the right combination of things happening and the right timing yeah. Well what is it about that group that created that slippery slope? The perception of being disenfranchised. Not even the reality of it. The fact that you cannot just do-- just being a mediocre white dude gets you certain things. I did talk to guys who were in it for the beer and the friendship and the no-wank solidarity but also obviously guys who were in it for the West is the best. And as Dante says that is not such a big jump over to white people are the best. Which really upsets him. He told me this story that the very first time Dante had Gavin on his podcast like back two years ago now they sat down he and Gavin and started talking about politics. I said you know what is interesting is how confident you are about your ideas. And I go in general white dudes that have these ideas you are so confident about this but you have never been right on the ethical side of history ever in the course of history. Coming here and taking the land from the Indians and genocide of Indians when you talk about the Atlantic slave trade then when you talk about the intern-- Japanese internment camps. You have Jim Crow. Then you have the mass incarceration. You have police brutality. And I go every time you come up with one of these ideas you always think you are right but you are wrong every time in history. I go just like this Muslim ban thing that you guys or deporting the Mexicans you are sure about this. But you are never right. Never in history have you been right. And history has always shown that because of your lack of-- your insensitivity your lack of empathy you do not see it from the oppressed position. You think you are right and you have the confidence of somebody who is always right when you are always wrong just never been right. And he kind of was like yeah that is a good point. After that we never really talked about politics. This is basically the opposite of the West is the best obviously. Dante is definitely upset about Charlottesville. He is upset someone died. He is upset about Nazis. But in the mix of what is frustrating Dante right now is he feels like the guys misunderstood no-wanks. And the thing they misunderstood about no-wanks is the same thing he thinks they misunderstand about history. They leave out the empathy. No-wanks as Dante saw it was supposed to lead to a friendlier more understanding and more inclusive world. Or kinda. I would say empathy. I would talk about empathy. I started to talk about empathy understanding the need to see see it from a woman's perspective. Because how do you-- how do you-- how do you get a woman and have a real intimate relationship if you do not have empathy for what she is going through? Look I think the anti-pc culture is-- I think that that is a reasonable thing. I think it has gone nuts. I mean I am a comic. I want to be able to say what I want to say. Yeah. But to the same token you cannot not have the empathy to know that there are historical references to the reason why you cannot say the things that you want to say. Maybe those Charlottesville guys should have stayed at home wanking Dante says. Then they would not have taken the initiative to go show up at a Nazi rally. Zoe Chace is one of the producers of our program. Coming up a grudge match between two men one black one white and where that leads. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program White Haze. We try to make sense of all those overlapping groups that marched in Charlottesville the fuzzy mix of alt-right and alt-light and all the others that were there and how people who say that they are not racist and not white supremacists have ended up in a melting pot with people who are. One of the things that we wondered here on our show after Charlottesville is why are there so many of these little groups? Like why are there a lot of them? Why are they small? Like why is not there some big umbrella organization to advance their interests? And we were surprised to learn that for decades in the white power movement this was a strategy. It was an actual strategy. And it was put into place in the 1980s. The strategy was called leaderless resistance. And the white power movement adopted it because the FBI and federal law enforcement were successfully planting informants and covert agents inside the ranks. So leaderless resistance is a model of cell terrorism in which each activist and cell is supposed to act without direct communication with any other cell or with movement leadership. Kathleen Belew is a historian at the University of Chicago and she is written about this period in the '70s and '80s and the white power movement for a book that is coming out next year. She says with leaderless resistance people all over the country were reading the same propaganda the same kind of playbook if you will. But they all acted on their own. They were uncoordinated. She says the idea for leaderless resistance was popularized by a man named Louis Beam who was in the Klan and in the group Aryan Nations in 1983. She says we know how he sent out the memo to the rest of the movement on this. There is an essay called Leaderless Resistance that is published in a colle