We all know how it is today. For most of the year medical experts and government officials told us all to wear face masks. Half of us do not do it. Now that we finally have a vaccine a third are hesitant to take it or say they definitely will not take it. But it was not always like this. Americans used to do what they were asked by medical authorities mostly. Like when the 1918 flu pandemic hit the United States killing similar numbers of Americans that COVID is killing today. Let us look at one American city that did a pretty good job minimizing deaths back then. Howard Markel writes about the history of American epidemics. So a great example the example I love to use is St. Louis Missouri. And they had a very adept commissioner of health named Max Starkloff. Commissioner of health is the local official usually a doctor who tells everybody what to do when there is an epidemic or other health emergency. For instance Max Starkloff closed schools. He ended public gatherings of all sorts. He ordered people who were sick to be quarantined. Dr. Starkloff was a good political operator. But he was also very good at communicating to the public and made twice-daily statements that were reported in the newspapers. And you have to remember back then most newspapers had six or more editions per day. So they updated them much like CNN would update its stories. What was his messaging? Do you know? Yeah it was like be a good St. Louisian I remember. You know and do not spread the flu. It is a socially mediated disease and we have got to work together. Howard says Dr. Starkloff had all kinds of messages telling people to wash their hands do not cough on others. And because medicine was so primitive back then they had not actually isolated the flu virus. So they had no way to confirm if you had it. They could not test you. So the only way they could keep track of the disease was that people who were sneezing and sick told authorities. So Starkloff would tell the public-- These are the symptoms that you need to call us about. You need to communicate this to us. That is where the word communicable disease comes from by the way. Not so much that it is infectious even though it is but that one source is communicating it to a higher source and to a public health department. Oh wow. Yeah. So that works because if you can get people on board with that they are self-isolating they are self-reporting they are self-quarantining and so on. So that is good. To be clear not everybody was on board. There is pushback from the public in every American epidemic Howard says. German immigrants rioted rather than get vaccinated in the 1880s. During the 1918 flu 2000 people showed up to protest a mandatory face mask law in California. But mostly Howard Markel says people complied. He says they trusted scientists more back then even though scientists knew so much less than they know today. And also remember 1918 the country was at war. It was World War I. So there is a lot of patriotic let us all pull together feeling in the country. But maybe the biggest reason that people listened to public health authorities back in 1918-- self-interest. Avoiding public gatherings quarantines that was about all you could do to protect yourself and your loved ones given the state of medicine back then. Most everybody knew somebody who'd died of an infectious disease Howard says. Two of five babies died before their fifth birthday many of them from infectious diseases. And Howard says epidemics were coming through every year or so diseases we had no treatment for. Yeah whether there was a diphtheria or a whooping cough epidemic or occasional smallpox epidemics or measles epidemics you know they were frequent enough that you were quite used to epidemics particularly if you were a parent. And used to the tactics to deal with them used to quarantining and isolating and all that. Right because you did not have anything else. This is before the age of antibiotics. That does not happen till the 1940s. Antivirals do not come till way after that. I think all of us living today when so many diseases are treatable I think we forget what a different world that was. Like for instance if you got tuberculosis in New York City in the 1940s they would send you to a TB ward to keep you from infecting anybody else. I had a neighbor who was born in 1927 and she told me as a kid when she got the disease she was sent to one of those wards to live on the Upper West Side. The building's actually still there. She said they told her when she arrived OK we do not know how to cure this but we do know how to make you comfortable. Some of you live and some of you die. Good luck. Today of course things are so different. Howard Markel says there is never been an epidemic in America like the one we are going through right now. None. None have come close to being as politicized as red versus blue on even the most mundane of scientific matters than this pandemic. Yeah yeah. Not even close. It feels as if it is so baked in to the ideologies of so many Americans right now it feels almost hopeless. Well today on our program we have stories of public health experts trying to protect the public telling us all to do things that will save our lives in this moment when unprecedented numbers of us are not obeying them. We have two stories today. The first is about what it is like to do these jobs while getting so much pushback. The second an expert on how to get through to Republican voters tries to convince them to take the vaccine which is not easy. WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act 1 Hazardous to Your Health Official. So the way the system works in our country is that there are thousands of local public health officials in cities and counties across the country. In normal times they test our drinking water. They make sure restaurants are sanitary. They enforce smoking bans control mosquito populations in some places run education campaigns like nutrition programs for new mothers. The specifics vary a little from state to state but you get the idea. They oversee health conditions. And when there is a health emergency like the outbreak of an infectious disease they get special powers broad powers to quarantine close down businesses do what is necessary to keep it from spreading. And they are obligated to take action. This past year like I have said the public that they are protecting has made all that a lot harder to do. Keep in mind these are not elected officials. They are public servants. They are government employees. Anna Maria Barry-Jester a reporter with Kaiser Health News has a story about two of these public health officials in Santa Cruz County in California where she lives. A heads-up before we start-- some things in this story may not be right for children to hear. Here's Anna. I have spent the last year talking to dozens of public health officials all over the country. I would call to ask about COVID testing contact tracing or some other issue I was reporting on. And they would often make an offhand comment about getting threatening calls in the middle of the night or emails that had detailed photos of their house with messages like Look out we are coming for you. Most of these public health people did not want to go into detail about it on the record. It was too scary. They worried that it would only make them bigger targets. But these two officials in Santa Cruz County stood out because they not only agreed to talk they were unusually candid. The first official I am going to tell you about is Dr. Gail Newel. She is the county's health officer sort of like the Fauci of Santa Cruz but with more power. She writes the orders requiring masks closing bars and restaurants. She is the public face of the COVID response. Gail is what you want in a health officer-- no nonsense uncompromising. In meetings with elected officials she is known for shutting them down if they ask her to do something she does not think is right. She just says-- It is not going to happen as long as I am health officer. How is that received? I think-- I do not like to use that as a threat. But on the other hand I am really stubbornly persistent.  And I really do believe that I am in the right place at the right time to be of service to the community during this pandemic in this way. When the pandemic hit last spring Santa Cruz County was a total success story. Gail ordered one of the country's first stay-at-home orders on March 16 when the federal government was still telling us not to wear masks and President Trump was suggesting COVID would just disappear with warmer weather. While COVID case numbers and deaths shot up in New York New Orleans and Detroit the numbers in Santa Cruz County stayed very low. But at public meetings Gail started seeing a level of anger she had not seen before in her career. Wow. You all supervisors are such uncaring assholes. This whole shelter in place is complete bullshit. Like you and you are just terrible at your jobs. This guy pointed at Gail. Santa Cruz County is lined with beaches. It is a place with a boardwalk and roller coasters and a big surf scene. Gail closed them down to keep tourists away. You have to allow police officers to basically be walking fascists. They have to go around and harass peaceful people for being on a beach for being outside for like hanging out with your friends. What good is being alive if you cannot do anything? You want me to stay inside get fat watch Netflix and masturbate? That is literally all you are allowing us to do. Your hands are not tied Dr. Newel. Grow a spine! In the spring there were only a handful of COVID cases each week. Only two people in a county of more than a quarter million had died. But this crowd did not see that as evidence of a job well done by Gail. You are shutting down Santa Cruz because of two deaths. I do not care about how many tests there are. People are wandering around not dying. This is fraud economic terrorism. The people going after Gail at these meetings were a small but vocal group. Many of them were from the north and central parts of the county which are affluent and majority white. They were not the people getting sick from COVID. Those cases were mostly in south county which is majority Latino and where a lot of agricultural workers live. Protesters were hijacking public meetings like this all over the country. Gail was not terribly concerned. She kept forging ahead with her job giving press conferences and pulling all-nighters. Then in early May the protests escalated from public to private. After weeks of getting nasty emails and voicemails from strangers one Sunday Gail was taking an afternoon nap to recover from her 80-hour workweek. She called it her COVID Sabbath. And all of a sudden I heard all this racket. And so I peeped through a window and saw the group out in front. And they were singing playing guitars playing ukulele. SINGING Gail to jail! They are singing Gail to jail. This is from a video the protesters posted online. In some ways it was amusing and creative. But then they would gather around my home on all sides and yell out threatening things. Take her to jail. She is a criminal! She called 911 twice but got a busy signal. So she called the sheriff on his cell phone. He sent patrol cars to her house. I mean I am willing to be a public servant. But I do not think that that includes having people trespass onto my private property and to disturb my Sunday afternoon nap in a way that felt dangerous to me. So I was quite worried for my family and for myself and our safety. Protesters with ukuleles and flip-flops is very Santa Cruz. The county's about an hour south of San Francisco with a stereotype as a crunchy peace-loving lefty paradise. But these protesters were aggressive. They broke down the gate to her neighborhood to get to her house. They showed up with bullhorns and sirens every Sunday for a month. The sheriff's department started sending regular patrols past Gail's house. Then late in May the next escalation happened at a public meeting in a packed room. A man started walking up to the podium and then made a beeline for Gail and lunged at her. Clear the room. Excuse me. Chair I would ask that you clear the room. That is a county official evacuating the room. Clear the room. Clear the room. Two sheriff's deputies surrounded the man. We are not going to accept that kind of behavior. We will take a five-minute recess. Take a recess and we are clearing the room. It happened so quickly that I did not really know what was going on. And then suddenly I was surrounded by sheriff's deputies and I was escorted out of the building. And I was told by the sheriff that I could not come to any more in-person meetings anymore. The sheriff told you to do that? Can you tell me about that conversation? Yeah so the sheriff said that he did not feel confident that he and his deputies would be able to protect me in public venues any longer and that he recommended that I not appear in public anymore in meetings where people would know where I was. Gail was now a public servant who could no longer appear before the public. She took the sheriff's advice to stop appearing in person at public meetings. She and the sheriff had a good relationship. She trusted his advice. And notably he had enforced her lockdown orders. The county government had backed her up too. Maybe that should not sound remarkable but it is. In some other parts of the country sheriffs and local governments were publicly disregarding their health officials' orders. The second health official I am going to tell you about is Gail's boss director Mimi Hall. If Gail's the Tony Fauci of Santa Cruz always on TV Mimi's the bureaucrat behind the scenes. She runs the entire health department and has spent her whole 27-year career working in public health. She is a true believer the kind of person who gets visibly excited talking about bureaucratic changes that make it easier to enroll in Medicaid. And she navigated the threats she was getting differently from Gail. Gail tends to be pretty cut and dry. Mimi is the feelings person. She has empathy for people even when they are yelling obscenities at her. My feelings of discomfort were coupled with compassion. And so while there were words used like communist and tyrant and fascist and a lot of accusations that there really was not a pandemic I could always understand that these people came from their own place of fear discomfort anger all of those things. And people need a place to put that. Mimi was at that May meeting with Gail. On the one hand she felt worried. But also she was not sure what to make of it. The day that the person had lunged at her in the boardroom you know we were offered sheriff's deputies escorts back to our office. Which we appreciated. And then we were both offered escorts back home and I declined. And part of the reason I declined is you are not sure is it really dangerous? You feel this feeling of well maybe we are overreacting. You know and you feel kind of silly. Feeling silly or not she did take some basic precautions. She started leaving her office at the county building every day by 700 PM. That is when security guards left for the day. That was kind of like my ticking time clock right? And I have this habit of calling my husband from my office before I go down the stairs. And then we stay on the phone until I get to the bottom of the stairwell and then walk to my car. My car door's closed and it is locked. All over the country opposition to mask mandates and stay-at-home orders have been drawing together groups that did not normally see eye to eye. Lefty radicals and right wing extremists libertarians and mom groups small business owners and anti-vaxxers they started adopting each other's rhetoric. On social media anti-vaxxers posed with rifles and offered firearms training. This all made the landscaper of who was lobbing the threats and what they were capable of even murkier and scarier. In June things got much worse. A colleague of Mimi's a sheriff's deputy was killed when he was out on a call. This happened less than two miles from her home in the Santa Cruz mountains. According to court records a man linked to the Boogaloo Boys an anti-government extremist group that wants to incite a civil war shot at the deputy and other officers with an automatic rifle and threw a pipe bomb. Before this man was arrested he got hit with crossfire and used his own blood to write a Boog on the hood of a car. Mimi saw ambulances and police cars rushing to the scene and was stunned to find out that the alleged gunman lives so close to her and was an active duty sergeant in the Air Force. He is pleaded not guilty to murder. I started wondering who around me thinks this way and how close are they? And so immediately we installed more-- we installed security cameras. And when we first installed those I was looking at them constantly. It was like an obsession. When I was at work oh my gosh. That made me so nervous for the kids to be at home. I was a nervous wreck. Mimi urged Gail to get security cameras and could not believe how long it took her to install them. When the sheriff recommended they both get guns and firearm training Mimi brought home a shotgun and built gates across her driveway. Gail did not get a gun. Here's what Gail said about that decision. I know the public health statistics. You know you are far more likely to die from a gunshot wound if you have a gun in the home. And I do not want to take that risk. I was also raised Mennonite so I have very strong pacifist beliefs. I would not ever have a gun in my home. And he recommended that I get a big dog. He asked me about my dog. And I said well he is deaf and he has no teeth.  So he will not be very helpful. Did you get the dog? I did not get the dog either. We still have the old deaf dog. We have some pretty ferocious cats though. There is a privacy law in California that shields the home addresses of domestic abuse survivors and abortion providers. Last year the governor expanded it to public health officials. Mimi signed up. Gail did too. The fact that it all got to this point surprised Mimi. She would moved to Santa Cruz because she saw it as a refuge for her family. They used to live in Plumas a politically conservative and white county in northern California. She ran the public health department there and was constantly fighting with officials especially when she had to roll out Obamacare. She told me they were also dealing with a lot of racism. She and her kids are Burmese American. They all hoped for a more peaceful life when they moved to liberal Santa Cruz. I talked to Mimi about this. And until that period until this period how had you seen yourself in the community and your role in it? I just saw myself as a regular community member and a mom and a wife and a-- you know. I just lived my life. And it is really changed how free I feel to like be my authentic self in the community. You know after Deputy Gutzwiller's death so my daughter had made a Black Lives Matter sign and put it on the outside of our fence. And then we had a sign celebrating my other daughter's graduation. And it had her name on it. We took all of those down. Like we just had nothing that said what we believe in or what we stand for. Nothing. The majority of local public health officials in the country are women. I have talked to lots of them and there is a recurring pattern. The harassment and threats they have been getting this year come almost exclusively from men. They are regularly called bitches and threatened with death. Their children and spouses are called out by name. Armed men have openly carried weapons outside of some of their homes. I did not hear about that kind of harassment at all from their male colleagues. In the county next door to Santa Cruz Santa Clara County a female health officer got a steady stream of anonymous hate mail and death threats police believe came from a man with suspected ties to the Boogaloo Boys. Some of the letters had a Santa Claus stamp and an igloo which is a known symbol for the movement. He included pornographic images of women and called her a Hitler bitch. Then in July about a month after the Sheriff's deputy was killed Mimi got a letter with a Santa Claus stamp too. Police believe it is from the same man. So it started off with Hey C-U-N-T. I mean that is how it was addressed. Wow.  And this letter was different because it said I have shared your information widely on social media and among all my contacts. And one of the closing points in the letter said something like me dying a really slow death and that he would enjoy that. She immediately called the sheriff's department and spoke with a deputy. What he told me was he said you know what? We have been following this guy for a while. We know who he is. We know where he works. Like they knew who he was. They told me he lived in Gilroy. The FBI is involved. You know he felt like they had good eyes on this person. So he wanted me to know that. So I felt a comfort level that it was not just some random person out there and they had no idea. But then one of the things that really struck me is he also said Yeah I do not think he is a huge threat. And he said he is a dad. He has kids. He has a professional job and he drives a Tesla. As if any of those things make you less dangerous or less you know out there. And I was just like-- What were you thinking? I was like opposite profiling. A white gentleman with a professional job who drives a Tesla? And then I thought well maybe he was telling me that just to make me feel better you know? I do not know but that is what he told me and it did not make me feel better. Shortly after officers arrested the guy after they watched him drop another letter in the mail. When they searched his home they found 150 firearms including semi-automatic rifles thousands of rounds of ammunition and materials for explosives. He is pleaded not guilty to charges of stalking and threatening a public employee. After the Santa Claus letter Mimi basically stopped leaving her house. She would not even go to her kid's school events on Zoom in case the other parents recognized her. And when she did have to go to the grocery store she went incognito-- mask hat messy ponytail. A sheriff's patrol car started keeping watch parking in front of her house. She was getting threatening emails angry phone calls in the middle of the night. I asked her if any of the threats she got were racist given all the attacks against Asian-Americans this year. And she said no just sexist. She was having trouble sleeping bringing her laptop into bed every night. She gained 30 pounds and started taking blood pressure medication for the first time in her life. On bad days she thought about quitting. She would do what she calls retirement math a trick she learned from another health official to remind herself that she could quit any time and still get her pension. There were days I just felt like I cannot do this. I cannot do it anymore. I cannot get up tomorrow morning. I ex-- I was mentally physically emotionally exhausted. And then the way you know that your community feels about you saying that you should be shot you should all be shot it just makes you want to cut out. That is why I thought the only way I can escape this is to just retire and be there more for my family. Did you anyone in your family want you to quit retire? Yes yes. My kids were scared. My oldest was like Mom we cannot do this. You cannot do your job anymore. We have to go. I am like where are we going to go? What are we going to do? And you know and it meant finding a different way to put my kids through college. And then we all decided we will find a way to have a different kind of life and it probably could not be here. We knew that for a fact. I mean we talked about selling our home and we all talked about the fact that if I have to do that we are all OK with that. In the battle between these willful public servants and the mob Mimi and Gale never blinked. They have kept their misgivings to themselves. They have both toughed it out and stayed in their jobs. When the county furloughed employees they worked through it to make sure vaccines got out. And they have gotten a lot done. It is clear they saved a lot of lives by locking down early. But the thing they were trying so hard to prevent did eventually happen. In the fall cases started to climb when the state loosened restrictions on restaurants and businesses and holiday gatherings began. Nursing homes in Santa Cruz got hit for the first time causing the death rate in the county to spike. This was devastating to Gail and Mimi. They were seeing more deaths in a single day than they had in the first six months of the pandemic combined. There is this one press conference that Gail held last year that I still think about because it feels indicative of where we are as a country right now. When Gail closed the beaches lots of people ignored the order and went anyway. They threatened and harassed the officers who tried to enforce it. That weighed on Gail especially after the deputy was killed. So she decided to reopen the beaches. She did not think the security risk to the officers and to her was worth it anymore especially if people were not going to listen anyway. And effective today at midnight the beach closure will end. It is become impossible for law enforcement to continue to enforce that closure. People are not willing to be governed anymore in that regard. People are not willing to be governed at least not by officials who ask them to make sacrifices for their neighbors. And as a result the officials trying to govern us are quitting in droves. Since the beginning of the pandemic nearly 250 public health officials working in communities all over the US have left their jobs many because of threats and political pushback. Nearly one in six Americans now lives in a community that has lost its local health department leader during the pandemic officials like Mimi and Gail. It is the largest exodus of health officials in US history. Anna Maria Barry-Jester she is a reporter from Kaiser Health News. More things happened by the way to Gail and Mimi than we can fit into our story and it tells those things in the version that she wrote for Kaiser Health News. That is at khm.org.  SINGING I guess should stop looking out for you like I always do. Start looking out for me too. Instead of leaving me staring at my shoes. Coming up one bold man sits down with a bunch of Republicans who emphatically do not want the COVID vaccine and tries to figure out exactly what to say to them to get them to change their minds. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today on our program you cannot get herd immunity until you deal with the herd and get enough of the moving together in the same direction which has been difficult this past year in a way that it is never been during any epidemic in our history. Today we have stories of people trying to steer the herd that is us. We have arrived at Act 2 of our program Act 2 the Elephant in the Zoom. So in the early part of the pandemic it seemed like the hard part to ending this might be developing a vaccine. That part basically worked out. We got several in record time. But it turns out there is another hard part. Tens of millions of people in the United States are not sure they want to get the vaccine. One group that is particularly true of-- people who voted for President Trump. According to one poll 40 of people who voted for President Trump said they did not plan to get the vaccine compared with 8 of people who voted for President Biden. David Kestenbaum has this next story about somebody trying to find something some word some fact some story that can convince Trump Republicans to see this differently and get themselves vaccinated. Here's David. The whole thing started with this public health institute in Maryland called the de Beaumont Foundation. They would been noticing with alarm that not only were Trump voters reluctant to get the vaccine they were stubbornly so. Other hesitant groups seemed to be coming around to getting the vaccine but not the Trump voters. The numbers in surveys had not budged in months. The head of the foundation Brian Castrucci realized basically we need someone who speaks Republican. That was the group that we needed to reach out to and we were doing a really poor job of it. And so go to the guy who knows that group. I mean if I want really good bread I go to a great baker. And so he was the great baker in this case. The great baker? Frank Luntz the pollster who is on TV and Fox News all the time. He would been tracking and trying to understand the Republican electorate for decades. You know Frank's an institution. He has changed people's votes. He is changed people's political ideologies. I think Frank knows how to use words! Brian was aware of the odd couple nature of this potential pairing. He says the public health community tends to be left of center. Frank Luntz was certainly good with words but in a way some liberals hated him for. In the '90s he was one of the people who worked on Newt Gingrich's Contract with America. He helped rebrand the estate tax as a death tax and advised Republicans to use the words climate change instead of global warming because it sounded less alarming. The phrase government takeover of health care for Obamacare? That came out of one of his focus groups. Basically he was one of the people that had helped create the very polarization that was now one of the reasons people were not getting vaccinated. But for Castrucci's purposes what better person? So he tweeted at Luntz kind of coyly. Know someone who might be able to help? And I said Yeah how about me? This is Frank Luntz. And they said Well we figured you would be too busy but if you are interested we would like you. Let me start again. By the way I am having-- I have good days and bad days and this is a bad day I will warn you. Frank had a stroke a year ago in January which is actually one of the reasons he wanted to work on this. The experience made him really angry with all the people who were not getting vaccinated. He says the stroke was this thing he probably could have prevented if he would done what the doctor said. But he did not take care of himself did not take his medication. And now seeing people do some version of that not protecting themselves by getting the vaccine endangering themselves and others it was driving him crazy. Like you people are healthy. You do not realize what you have. The stroke affected his left arm and his speech. I have to think of how I enunciate. I have to fight-- I used to be confident in doing interviews like this. They were very easy for me. It was very simple. And it is not simple anymore. I realize when I sit I sit with this hand clenched and it does not look right. Even when I talk on TV I tend to talk with my hands now in my pockets because I do not want people to see that the hand does not work right. So he was in a different spot than usual when the de Beaumont Foundation reached out to him. Frank told the foundation what he would like to do-- get together a group of Trump Republicans who were reluctant to get the vaccine a focus group like Frank had done so many times. But he would not just ask them their opinions. He set out as a goal in an hour and a half he was going to try to change their minds convince them to get the vaccine. He figured if he could do that he would learn how to do it for the millions of other Trump Republicans out there. Frank had a bit of a strategy but he says these things involve a lot of improvisation. He does not write questions out in advance. He runs his focus groups in a state of kind of hyper-awareness. He says the main thing he tries to do is really listen to what people are saying but also the words they are using the way they are talking. And at the same time he is listening he is also trying to read the reactions of everyone in the room whether they are looking up or down or fidgeting. He thinks he is done thousands of these things over his career. He once told a reporter I do not know shit about anything with the exception of what the American people think. The experiment took place over Zoom on a Saturday afternoon last month. There were 20 people he was going to try to sway mostly white middle-aged everyone in their little boxes on the screen a bookshelf or a desk or a plant in the background. Below each person-- first names and st