Hey there everybody. Today we have secret recordings taped inside one of the most powerful institutions in this country. It is a place that we pretty much almost never get a glimpse inside. And they are revealing and in lots of ways very disturbing. But to understand what they are about and why they are so interesting you actually need a little context so I need to take you back to the financial crisis. After the financial meltdown in 2008 there was a lot of attention and a lot of blame heaped on the one institution that was in a position to notice the problems that led to the meltdown and to do something about them before disaster hit. That institution is the Federal Reserve the Fed and in particular its office in New York City the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. It is responsible for regulating the banks on Wall Street which is to say some of the biggest banks in the world. It is supposed to monitor what they do. It is supposed to make sure that they do not break rules or take risks that could bring down the financial system. After they failed at that so spectacularly with the financial crisis even people at the Fed admitted they should have done a better job. And to figure out how to do a better job one of the things they did is they commissioned a report a secret report that you and I were never supposed to see. Well it was supposed to be completely confidential. As you can probably gather from the tone it is totally candid and highly self-critical. This is David Beim author of the secret report. These days actually anybody can read this confidential and candid report because a government commission released the report to the public. Some people at the Fed were actually surprised at that but they got lucky. Because the report had been released in a flood of hundreds of other documents the press did not really notice it. Nobody paid attention to this report. The report was written back in 2009. The president of the New York Fed Bill Dudley asked Beim to do an investigation. Beim he had been a banker. He was a finance professor from Columbia. And he had studied the New York Fed in the past. Dudley gave Beim a team of Fed managers and they went around interviewing people at the New York Fed. And what they found were a whole range of problems all of them distressing to read about. They found deference to the banks. They found an unwillingness to take action extreme passivity. And they found what experts call regulatory capture. Regulatory capture is when a regulator gets too cozy with the company that he is supposed to be monitoring. He is like a watchdog who licks the face of an intruder and plays catch with the intruder instead of barking at him. Beim says that people inside the Fed told him yeah capture was an issue for them. In fact I have one footnote where one of the senior officers said that he had been only working at the Fed for three weeks on a particular account when quote I saw the capture set in. Keep in mind Beim says this senior officer he was not making an observation about somebody else. He was talking about himself succumbing to capture and his team. And this idea that somebody in the Fed could become captured so quickly this was such an unsettling thought that even in this secret highly confidential totally candid report Beim says-- Some of the most senior officers in the Fed wanted that footnote taken out and we did not take it out but there were some people embarrassed by it. Beim's report lays out recommendations for how the New York Fed could become more effective. And one of his recommendations was to hire a new kind of employee-- outspoken unafraid somebody who would not get captured. And after that the Fed did go on a hiring spree. It needed more examiners because Congress gave the Fed more responsibilities in the wake of the crisis. And one of the people they hired was a lawyer named Carmen Segarra. And whether they meant to or not with Carmen Segarra they got the kind of employee Beim said they needed-- confident independent-minded. For over 10 years she would worked for big banks in the private sector Citigroup MBNA. But starting at the Fed after the financial crisis she was idealistic. Having seen so many of my friends that work in different divisions of banks but also that work in all sorts of other industries you know teachers police officers getting laid off and suffering the consequences of the crisis I felt like I had the correct skill set to be able to go into a place like the Fed and actually contribute and make a difference. Which brings us to the secret recordings. For over 100 years the Fed has done everything it could to keep its behind the scenes interactions with banks from being seen by the public. But what Carmen Segarra witnessed going on at the Fed was so alarming she started secretly making recordings of what she experienced as a bank examiner recordings that raised serious questions about whether the Fed has changed enough since 2008 to protect us from another financial disaster. This is a spoiler but just to put it out there things went very badly for Carmen Segarra at her new job. She is currently suing the Fed over this. So what you are going to hear today is a dispute between an employee and her bosses though of course what we are interested in is not the he said she said of all that but in what her secret recordings show us about how the Fed works. Throughout this hour you are going to hear her recordings of what she saw at the Fed and you are also going to hear more from David Beim's 2009 report which lays out the way that the Fed should be operating. He explained the changes the Fed needed to make. With Carmen's tapes we get to see if they actually made those changes and it is not reassuring. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. We produced today's program in collaboration with our colleagues at ProPublica. Investigative reporter Jake Bernstein takes it from here. A little footnote before we begin for policy nerds-- we know that officially in the context that we have today the Federal Reserve is not properly called a regulator. It is called a supervisor. We are using the word regulator throughout this hour because it is easier for us normal people to understand. OK here's Jake. Here's a little known fact about being a bank examiner. You actually spend your days working inside the banks you are examining like you have a desk there and your own phone. At some of the biggest banks examiners even have half a floor reserved just for them to constantly track what the bank is doing. And in the past many of those Fed examiners inside the banks had been generalists. If they needed an expert in liquidity risk or market risk or whatever they had to call one in from Fed HQ. But one of the reforms after the financial crisis was to hire lots of experts and station them inside the banks too. Carmen Segarra was one of these experts. Her expertise was helping big banks with the procedures and systems they need to comply with the many rules and regulations they face here and overseas. She would done it for over a decade. Like any good overachiever she speaks four languages-- French Italian Spanish English. She is currently learning Dutch. She has degrees from Harvard Cornell and Columbia and studied international law at the Sorbonne. When Carmen showed up at the Fed for her first day at the end of October 2011 she did not know which bank she was going to be assigned to. Then she bumped into her supervisor. He said do you know where you are going? And I said no. He said you are going to Goldman. And my thought was uh-oh. Goldman being of course Goldman Sachs. The look on his face was like he was very much looking for my reaction. And when I-- I think after so many years of practicing law when you see someone that is just looking to see what your reaction is going to be my first instinct is let me make sure that I do not give a reaction which is very difficult because I have a very expressive face. I know this is a radio show so you guys you know you cannot see that. We can vouch. We are looking at it. You do have an expressive face. Poker face is a real problem for me. That was Brian Reed by the way the This American Life producer working with me on this story. You will hear him in some of these interviews. When Carmen embedded at Goldman Sachs it was probably the firm that for Americans most symbolized what was wrong with Wall Street deservedly or not. In 2010 the year before she started the SEC hit it with one of the biggest fines in history at the time more than half a billion dollars for misleading investors in a deal right before the financial crisis. That same year Goldman executives were hauled before Congress and berated for contributing to the collapse of the economy. One popular view of Goldman was captured in this mild little metaphor from a Rolling Stone article which compared the firm to quote a great vampire squid wrapped around the face of humanity relentlessly jamming its blood funnel into anything that smells like money. So Carmen was part of this new wave of experts examiners. And soon after she arrived she says her bosses started asking the team if they were getting any opposition from the old guard the generalists at the Fed who'd been working there for years. Many of these old guard examiners had a jargony and confusing sounding job title you will hear now and then as we talk about this. They were called business line specialists. Carmen says it did not take long before she did start to notice pushback from the old guard. For instance at one meeting she says-- and this is documented in the minutes from the meeting-- a senior executive from Goldman was talking about all sorts of things and mentioned that Goldman's view was that once clients were wealthy enough certain consumer laws did not apply to them. I was shocked. A senior compliance officer from Goldman Sachs saying something like that is a natural red flag. I mean you definitely want to take a look at what it is that they are doing there. Maybe Goldman was doing nothing wrong but this is a big part of a bank examiner's job to follow up on leads like this. And after that meeting Carmen sat down with examiners who'd been there from the Fed but also from the FDIC and the New York State banking authority. Carmen told them she wanted to follow up on that comment and then a Fed examiner piped up. This colleague at the Fed basically said you know oh that point? Oh you did not hear that. And I looked over at the New York bank examiner and the FDIC bank examiner and we sort of looked at each other and we said yes we did. We did hear that. One of the other people in this conversation confirmed this for me. The Fed examiner responded well he-- the Goldman executive-- he did not mean it. You know I was floored. It was the moment when I realized oh so this is what pushback looks like. Carmen says this was not an isolated incident. In December not even two months into her job a business line specialist came to Carmen and told her that her minutes from a key meeting with Goldman executives were wrong that people did not say some of the things Carmen noted in the minutes. The business line specialist wanted her to change them. Carmen did not. That same day Carmen was called into the office of a guy named Mike Silva. Silva had worked at the Fed for almost 20 years. He was now the senior Fed official stationed inside Goldman. What Mike Silva said to Carmen made her very uncomfortable. She scribbled notes as he talked to her. I mean even looking at my own meeting minutes I see the handwriting is like nervous handwriting. It is like you can tell. He started off by talking about he wanted to give me some mentoring feedback. And then he started about talking about the importance of credibility and he said you know credibility at the Fed is about subtleties and about perceptions as opposed to reality. Wait he said that? Yes. What does that even mean? I found it to be completely incredible for somebody to tell me that credibility is about perception as opposed to reality. I mean I come from the world of legal and compliance. We deal with hard evidence. It is like we do not deal with perceptions. What else did he say? It was interesting because he said you know the Fed takes most seriously those employees which are the most quiet ones and that it was important essentially that I understand this because otherwise I would be frozen out. Mike Silva would go on to play a big part in Carmen's tenure at the Fed. We reached out to him several times but he did not want to take part in this story because of the fact that Carmen's suing because there is a regulation that makes the Fed's dealing with Goldman confidential. So it is impossible to know his side of this. Carmen says she was so shaken by these incidents-- someone telling her she did not hear something she knew she heard another colleague asking to alter minutes that Carmen believed were accurate and then the Fed's top guy at Goldman telling her that perceptions are more important than reality. She says it was like reality itself was being questioned at the Fed. She realized she wanted a clear record of what was really happening in case there were ever any disputes about it. So she went to the spy store bought a tiny audio recorder put it on her key chain and started switching it on secretly at important meetings. Mike had called me into his office-- This is one of the first recordings she made. It is with her supervisor. His name is Jonathan Kim. She is talking to him about the meeting that she had with Mike Silva and how upset she was by what he told her. Credibility at the Fed is about subtleties perceptions as opposed to reality. Kim had done Carmen's job before her and told her he would experienced opposition from the same people. Kim's advice was to be patient. The Fed was trying to change and moving the Fed he said in an unfortunate metaphor was slow like moving the Titanic. Meanwhile in those early months Carmen started looking at one deal that had caught the attention of the Fed's team at Goldman. It is a deal that gave her a chance to really see the Fed in action to see what the Fed did when faced with a situation where Goldman had done something regulators thought was questionable. Carmen remembers the moment she first learned about the deal. Friday January 6 at 354 PM we get an email from Goldman sort of alerting us to this transaction that they are planning to close. The email said that Goldman wanted to notify the Fed about a fast moving negotiation between it and a large Spanish bank. The Spanish bank has operations all over the world. It is called Banco Santander. Santander and Goldman both declined to comment about the deal for our story. This email raised questions for Carmen. First of all an alert like this was unusual. Goldman had employees conducting deals all over the world every day and hardly ever wrote emails to the Fed about them. And then there was the timing late in the afternoon on Friday January 6th a date which may not mean anything to you but Carmen knew that it was Three Kings Day one of the biggest national holidays in Spain. My first reaction was why are we getting this email? And then my second thought was Banco Santander closing a deal on the equivalent of Christmas Eve in Spain? That is interesting. So we get back to work after the weekend and Mike Silva is quite upset about this transaction. Mike Silva remember was the Fed's top official inside Goldman the one who talked to Carmen about perceptions verse reality. It is helpful to know a bit about Mike Silva before you hear how the Fed reacted to this deal. From everything we can tell he seems like a regulator who is trying to do a good job. In the tapes Silva talks about the Fed's duty to serve the public. He would been in the Navy volunteered with disabled Veterans and he would gone to Iraq after the invasion to help get the country's national bank on its feet. And at a staff meeting once he told his employees a story from the darkest days of the financial crisis about what motivated him as a regulator. I have to tell you that night that the reserve fund broke the buck and we got that word-- It was a moment when it looked like the financial system was going to come crashing down. Big firms were frantically calling the Fed terrified that economic Armageddon had arrived. When this happened Silva was chief of staff for Tim Geithner who at the time was president of the New York Fed. And when I realized that nobody had any idea how to respond that I went into the bathroom and threw up because I realized this is it. It is just this small group of people and right now at this moment we have no clue. I never want to get close to that moment again. Silva told the staff that this was a very powerful experience that still influenced his thinking and you could hear that in the recordings after the unusual deal came down late that Friday afternoon involving the overseas bank Banco Santander. What upset Mike Silva about it was that it seemed like the entire purpose of the transaction was for Goldman Sachs to help Banco Santander appear healthier than it actually was. All banks have to keep some capital on hand. The more deals and loans they do the more capital they have to keep around as a safety cushion in case things go bad. Santander was under pressure from its own regulators back in Europe to hold more capital. And this deal with Goldman Sachs helped solve the problem for Santander not by giving Santander more capital but by taking stuff off their books and putting it on to Goldman's books. Having less stuff meant Santander needed less capital. Mission accomplished. One Fed employee likened it to Goldman getting paid to hold on to a briefcase. And as best as they could tell Goldman was paid a lot at least 40 million with the potential to make hundreds of millions in the end. Mike Silva referred to the deal this way. It is pretty apparent when you think this thing through that it is basically window dressing that is designed to help Banco Santander artificially enhance its capital. To be clear the deal appeared to be perfectly legal. Silva knew that. But still he wondered did they want banks doing these sorts of transactions in the future? If this kind of deal took off and became more popular could it be a problem? And in a sense this is what you would hope a Fed manager would be doing in the aftermath of the financial crisis. Mike Silva learned about this new kind of deal that had come into the world one with potential risks that they did not fully understand yet and he set his team to work scrutinizing it. Carmen and the others began to pore over documents for this complex transaction which had tentacles in Brazil Spain the US and the Middle East. And one of the things that caught Carmen's eye was a short paragraph that the banks had written into the agreement. It said that Goldman had to notify the Fed about the Santander deal and obtain a quote no objection. In other words it looked like Goldman was required to get the Fed to officially sign off on the deal before it could close maybe because Goldman and Santander worried that regulators might find this new kind of transaction hard to swallow. But now the two banks had closed the deal. Did Goldman satisfy that part of the contract? Here's what Mike Silva had to say about it. The one thing I know as a lawyer that they never got from me was a no objection. Oh OK. So you literally have to say I do not object? Yeah I have to-- giving them some sort of-- And by not reponding-- And to Carmen's point-- The fact that Goldman did not get the approval from the Fed did not endanger the financial system or Goldman itself. It is a small thing. But later if the deal ever went bad it would look like the Fed had approved it. It is right there in the paperwork. They could get dragged into the mess. The Fed team called a big meeting with Goldman executives to question them about the Santander deal. Before they went in they held a prep session and Silva told Carmen and the team this was one of the things he wanted to ask Goldman about. I never gave you a no objection. What happened? So that'ill be interesting. He was excited about it and he was the one who wanted to ask that particular question. He sort of said can I be the one who asks it? And I said sure. So Mike Silva was rallying his team. Goldman had embarked on this new kind of deal and there was a lot of interest in it from different parts of the Fed he said. They needed to understand it better and he wanted Goldman to know that the Fed was paying close attention. My own personal thinking right now is that we are looking at a transaction that is legal but shady. I want to put a big shot across their bow on that. Poking at it maybe we find something even shadier than we already know. So let us poke at this thing. Let us poke at it with our usual poker faces. I would like these guys to come away from this meeting confused as to what we think about it. I want to keep them nervous. Does that make sense? Yeah. Yeah it does. People are amped. They are excited about this. Yeah his team was definitely excited. They thought oh we are definitely going to do something here. It felt like this was-- this was action for them you know? Let us regulate. Yeah let us regulate. This is fun. Yeah well I think that he is going to have a lot of fun-- This is what Carmen and her colleagues said to each other as they marched over to the conference room where the Goldman executives awaited them. They dialed up more people on the phone. And the meeting began. And this this is something we never get to hear-- Federal Reserve examiners going mano a mano with a bank. Goldman executives kicked it off with a summary about the Santander deal and the examiners started asking questions some of them specific and technical others quite broad touching on the big issue Mike Silva had raised about whether banks should be doing deals like this at all. 30 minutes went by. And were there any similar transactions? 45 minutes. What risks do you see to Goldman? And still Mike Silva had not hit Goldman with a question he would been so eager to ask about the requirement that Goldman was supposed to get the Fed to OK the deal before it went through. In their presentation Goldman executives had briefly brought it up on their own. They claimed the clause did not actually require them to get Fed approval. It just seemed that way. Silva was not satisfied. Finally after more than an hour he went for it. It is the only time in the whole meeting he brings it up. We play it now not because this is an important piece of financial policy but to give you a chance to hear what it sounds like at least on this one day when the top Fed official on site at Goldman Sachs questions Goldman Sachs. Just to button up one point. I know the term sheet called for a notice to your regulator. The original term sheet also called for expression of non-objection. Sounds like that dropped out at some point or? That is everything he says on the topic in this meeting. Here it is again. Sounds like that dropped out at some point or? That is it? That is him poking Goldman on this? Yeah. That is what-- you know that is what passes for poking. That is what passes for poking at the Fed. I mean I cannot imagine that making them very nervous. Yeah. Yeah. It is just not the way that I would have asked it. In that moment Carmen says she saw clearly that when some of her colleagues talked about holding Goldman to account they meant something very different than what she thought it should mean. You acknowledge that these are facts you know? Fact this was required. Fact I did not give it. And then you ask what are the consequences? After the meeting the Fed team went back to their floor and Mike Silva called a de-brief. Why do not we just have a quick pow-wow right here? This was just the regulators nobody from Goldman so they could be frank. So Carmen was puzzled when one of her colleagues said how impressed he was with Goldman. I would just say that from a process perspective I think there is a lot to be said for the thoroughness of the process that they engaged in. This surprised Carmen because it seemed premature. They were only at the beginning of their fact finding. They would requested documents and minutes of meetings that Goldman still had to give them. They were federal regulators. Their job was to ask questions and demand answers. And yet these colleagues sounded almost apologetic about it. I would add to his comments in that I think we do not want to discourage Goldman from disclosing these types of things in the future. And therefore maybe some comment that says do not mistake our inquisitiveness and our desire to understand more about the marketplace in general as a criticism of you as a firm necessarily. Like-- Well I have been very clear with them on that. I do not want to hit them on the bat with a head and then they are going to say screw it. We are doing this again. We are not going to disclose it again. We do not need to. Wait a second. You guys are the Federal Reserve. Does not Goldman have to give you what you ask for? Absolutely. So where is he coming from? A place of fear. Fear of ticking off Goldman though Carmen could not imagine why anyone at the Fed would be afraid. The Fed has both the power to get the information and the ability to punish the bank if it chooses to withhold it. And some of these powers involve criminal action so there is no reason to be afraid. Did you get the sense that other people around you were taken aback by that comment at the time or did that seem like not such a strange comment for someone to make? No I think business line specialists were very much in agreement with that comment. Do not mistake our inquisitiveness and our desire to understand more about the marketplace in general as a criticism of you as a firm necessarily. I mean they were all sort of afraid of Goldman and I think they were a little bit confused as to who they were working for. What I was sort of seeing and experiencing was this level of deference to the banks this level of fear and just not really showing a lot of interest in putting two and two together. It is not like we would walk out of a meeting and they would be like oh my god when they said that what did that mean? Let us go research it. It was like oh well next meeting. I mean the obvious question from what you are describing is is that regulatory capture? You know if that is not I do not know what is. Regulatory capture-- again it is when a regulator gets too cozy with the banks they are regulating. It was one of the problems David Beim spotted at the New York Fed in 2009 when he wrote his secret report for them about what the Fed needed to fix after the financial crisis. Remember that report from the beginning of the show? Beim found that one of the causes of regulatory capture at the Fed was simple. Examiners see bank employees every day at work. It is just human nature to try to get along with them. And many examiners feel that the easiest way to get information is by cultivating a friendly relationship being non-confrontational. Beim says it is tricky walking the line between being friendly and being captured. I spoke with one former Fed examiner who said he and his coworkers used to joke about one of their Fed colleagues deserving an employee of the month award-- not from the Fed but from the bank they regulated. And employees at the Fed do go to work for banks. A quick internet search reveals at least seven former Fed bank examiners who now work at Goldman. They include the colleague who according to Carmen asked her to change her meeting notes. As Beim and his team spoke to Fed employees about what went wrong leading up to the financial crisis one problem in particular arose again and again and that problem was the Fed's culture. That is the epiphany of Beim's report. It was that basic culture. He was surprised. Yeah I was. I was interested that what started out looking like a financial discussion was going to turn into a cultural discussion what the culture expected of people and what the culture induced people to do. For instance there was a kind of fear Beim writes about in his report. Not fear of the banks like Carmen was just talking about but fear inside the Fed itself. Fed employees told Beim's team they were afraid of contradicting their bosses afraid of saying what they really thought afraid of having views that were too different from what everyone else had. Beim lists these fears in his report. So I could just read the fear of speaking up list of quotations. And it goes like this-- do not want to be too far outside from where management is thinking. The organization does not encourage thinking outside the box. After you get shot down a couple of times you tend not to go there anymore. Until I know what my boss thinks I do not want to tell you. According to Beim's report this culture of fear paralyzed the Fed in the years leading up to the financial crisis and prevented it from taking action. It is not that the Fed regulators did not notice the problems accumulating in the financial system that eventually brought it down. They were aware of those problems coming. There were lengthy presentations on subjects like that within the organization. It is just that none of those meetings ever ended with anyone saying and therefore let us take the following steps right now. I mean they are just-- there are meetings without a clear agenda. There are meetings without clear objectives. Carmen was used to the private sector where she says meetings ended with specific action items. People knew what they were supposed to do. None of that happens at the Fed. It is like the information is discussed and then it just ends up in a vacuum floating on air not acted upon. And the mere act of having this meeting for them is almost like akin to having done something about it. Take the issue in the Santander deal that was most important to Mike Silva the question of whether Goldman should be doing these new kinds of deals deals whose whole purpose was to make foreign banks look better to their regulators. As months passed you could hear on Carmen's recordings the team debating what to do about it what action they should take. As best as we can tell the most forceful action they consider is a letter to Goldman and not even a stern letter necessarily. The simple fact of a letter one guy says will send the message they need. The only downside risk is that they choose to ignore us. We are not obligating them to do anything necessarily. He says Goldman generally takes these letters seriously but banks do ignore them sometimes. We do not know if the Fed ever sent the letter but even if they never did Mike Silva said they would already accomplished something important. They would brought up the deal in conversations with Goldman and held that meeting you heard. At minimum we made them think. I guarantee they will think twice about the next one because by putting them through their paces and having that large Fed crowd come in and you know we fussed at them pretty good. In case you did not hear that Silva said I guarantee they will think twice about the next one. We fussed at them pretty good. Jake Bernstein from ProPublica. Coming up everything you are hearing we ran all this by the Fed. Their response when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today on our program we are hearing never before heard recordings made secretly by a bank examiner named Carmen Segarra at the New York Fed. They give an unprecedented look inside is very secretive very powerful very important financial regulator. A note we have done the normal kinds of editing to these recordings for pacing and clarity that we do to any recordings on our program. Again here's investigative reporter Jake Bernstein. We first approached the New York Fed to request an interview in July. They declined. We then told him we had Carmen's secret recordings and invited them to comment on the sections we are using here on the radio. They declined to comment but two Fed officials came to This American Life's office to listen and take notes. We sent them 13 pages of questions. They sent us a two page statement. It begins the New York Fed categorically rejects the allegations being made about the integrity of its supervision of financial institutions. Unlike the Beim report their statement acknowledges no problems at the Fed. They say that in 2011 they began implementing some of Beim's recommendations and they list a few. But that list