Doctor Sean Roden normally works for NASA caring for astronauts before and during their missions which he does from Houston Mission Control. But back in 2012 he had another gig as the doctor at the Amundsen-Scott Station at the South Pole. When he got there they told him this story. I think it was probably the station manager. It is the story that is told. Is this the first story they tell every doctor who gets this job? Pretty much. They tell doctors this story because it is the most spectacular thing anyone has ever done in this kind of job. The story goes like this. In 1961 a Russian doctor got appendicitis at a Soviet Antarctic station and so he needed emergency surgery to remove his appendix or he would probably die. And he was the one doctor there snowed in during a blizzard. And so he had to figure out what to do. And so this Russian a 27-year-old surgeon named Leonid Rogozov removed his own appendix and lived. Could you perform this procedure on yourself? Oh hell no.  I guess if my life depended on it I would rather die trying than give up. Dr. Roden is not a surgeon though. And so to try to understand just how difficult this would be I turned to a surgeon and associate professor at the Harvard Medical School named Doug Smink who had not heard this story. But he is written a lot about appendectomies for textbooks and medical journals and he is performed the procedure a lot. Probably 200 to 300 times at least maybe more. We have two accounts of this. There is a published report that the doctor wrote up in the Soviet Antarctic Expedition Information Bulletin. And then we have his-- I do not read that.  And we have the patient's diary. Are you calling him the patient or the surgeon? You could call him either one right? Well it is interesting because in his account he goes back and forth between those things over and over again. That is fascinating. So this is from his published account. He says the symptoms noted were weakness general malaise later nausea. Body temperature rose to 37 degrees centigrade which is 99 Fahrenheit. And then he wrote in his diary April 30 1961 I did not sleep at all last night. It hurts like the devil. A snow storm whipping through my soul wailing like 100 jackals. Sounds like appendicitis. Dr. Roden the doctor who performed medicine at the South Pole went a little further. It sounds like a Russian. My wife and I have lived in Russia for over four years off and on with the space program and both speak Russian. So it is just-- it is poetic. It is perfect Russian. This is from the diary. An oppressive feeling of foreboding hangs over me. This is it. I have to think through the only possible way out to operate on myself. It is almost impossible but I cannot just fold my arms and give up. And then later that same day at 630 at night The guys have found out. They keep coming by to calm me down. And I am upset with myself. I have spoiled everyone's holiday. Tomorrow's May Day and everybody is running around preparing the autoclave. We have to sterilize the bedding because we are going to operate. And then he explains which person is going to do what. A meteorologist is going to hold retractors a driver is going to hold a mirror and then just in case one of those two guys who is never witnessed an operation passes out another guy was on standby to jump in. In the event that the patient lost consciousness-- he switches to third person and refers to himself as the patient they were instructed to inject the drugs in the syringes that I had prepared and to administer artificial respiration. Oh geez. He writes The position of the patient at operation was designed to make it possible for him to perform the operation with minimal use of the mirror. And to do that basically they would prop him up on his back. Right. He is leaning on one hip. Well I am just looking down at my own abdomen and trying to figure out how-- I know where I would make an incision. But to then see deeper down in the deeper layers would be a challenge. I am sure that is where the mirror came in. It probably was also just really uncomfortable to sit in that position for two hours and try to work. I can only imagine. I am going to read from the diary. My poor assistants. At the last minute I looked over at them. They stood there in their surgical whites whiter than white themselves. I was scared too. When I picked up the needle with the Novocain and gave myself the first injection somehow I automatically switched into operating mode and from that point on I did not notice anything else. Wow. That is amazing. Almost like an out-of-body experience it sounds like he had. I worked without gloves. It was hard to see. The mirror helps but it also hinders. After all it is showing things backwards. I work mainly by touch. The bleeding is quite heavy but I take my time. I try to work surely. The other thing to remember in this is that not only is he just operating on himself but he is quite ill. Patients who have appendicitis do not feel like doing anything. They just want to curl up in bed and hope somebody will make them better. So to actually have to function and think clearly both function physically and mentally is amazing. It is just amazing. In fact Rogozov spends most of the two-hour operation fighting off unconsciousness. After just 30 or 40 minutes he wrote he started to experience vertigo. Every four or five minutes he had to stop and rest. Dr. Smink explained to me that what happens in an appendectomy is you cut through the skin then through a layer of fat then three layers of muscle then a layer of something called fascia. And then finally there is the peritoneum. I describe it like a clear balloon. It is about that thin. Inside that balloon are the intestines. And you kind of poke around the intestines with your fingers to find the appendix. The appendix is about the size of your pinky. And so he is having to move his own intestines out of the way to find the appendix. Exactly. By feel which is actually how we do it often in an open appendectomy. So he would have had experience with that. You basically feel around and you can feel what feels like a firm almost like a sausage or something like that. And that is the appendix. But before Rogozov locates the appendix he realizes that he accidentally tore into a part of the large intestine called the cecum and he has to sew it up. He wrote in his diary Suddenly it flashed in my mind there are more injuries here and I did not notice them. I grew weaker and weaker. My head starts to spin. Finally here it is the cursed appendage. With horror I notice the dark stain at its base. That means just a day longer and it would have burst. And then Rogozov does not write what is obvious to him-- that a burst appendix he probably would have died. Yeah. I think he would have. I think he would have. Rogozov writes At the worst moment of removing the appendix I flagged. My heart seized up. I noticeably slowed. My hands felt like rubber. Well I thought it is going to end badly. Then Rogozov does not say this explicitly but Dr. Smink explained to me in order to cut the appendix out Rogozov would have pulled it out of his body with the stuff that it is attached to like through the four-inch hole in his belly and then he would have cut it off. Which of course he did successfully. Fully recovered in two weeks then back on the job. What is the most impressive part of this to you? There are so many parts that are impressive to me. Probably most impressive to me though is what is the mental aspect of this. And he obviously had the perfect personality to pull this off. And then to have the courage but also the wherewithal to assemble a team and explain to them what they were going to do while he had appendicitis. That is the thing. When I read this I cannot tell well could most surgeons do this or was he special? I think many people would be really uncomfortable doing it on themselves or would not be able to remain composed while also the patient. Could you do this? Well as we were talking I was trying to think if I could. I do not know. I think you would never know until you were put in that situation. I would like to think I could if given no other option. Of course we all would like to believe that we would measure up if we were tested like this at something. Today on our program we have two stories of people who put themselves into the kinds of situations where they are tested doing things that are dangerous sometimes doing the kinds of things where most of us would say let somebody else do that one. But these people just had to take it on themselves. They do it themselves. Act 1 of our show is about somebody who decides to protect the border. Act 2 is about somebody who decides to run guns over a border. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act 1 Line in the Sand. After he got out of college Francisco Cantu decided that he wanted to become a Border Patrol agent which his family did not understand at all. But he had his reasons for stepping up. And he did the job for four years and ended up writing about the experience. And his account was interesting to me and a bunch of us here at the radio show because he takes you inside in this way that does not seem to fit the usual ways that people talk about the border. It kind of sidesteps all the usual politics of the border. He is just documenting things. A lot of it is just random stuff that happened and that he saw while patrolling the border and during his training. Here he is. Robles ordered us from the mat room into the spinning room and we each took our place atop a stationary bicycle. At the front of the room Robles climbed atop a machine that had been situated to face us and shouted for us to begin pedaling. At no point should your legs stop moving he yelled. When I say stand lift your ass off the seat and keep it in the air until I tell you to sit. He snapped his head towards a stout man in the front row named Hanson. Is that clear Mr. Hanson? Yes sir Hanson shouted already out of breath. As the minutes passed Robles prodded us to work harder. Sit he shouted move those legs stand. Your body is a tool he announced the most important one you have. A baton is nothing a taser is nothing. Even your gun is nothing if you give up on your body when it becomes tired. If you cannot hold it together when every muscle cries out for you to quit. In the Border Patrol Robles continued you will be tested I can promise you that. In my time I have taken a life and I have saved a life. When I was brand new to the field like all of you will be my journeymen and I jumped a group of Salvadorians in the lettuce fields outside Yuma. A man ran from us and I chased after him until I thought my legs would give out. I stumbled and tripped over dirt berms and rows of lettuce but I kept chasing him until we came to the edge of the canal and the man turned to face me. He came at me before I could react and we went to the ground fighting. If I would given up maybe the man would have killed me but I did not. I grappled with him in the dirt until I kicked him over the edge of the canal into the water. The man could not swim. None of them can. And so an hour later me and my journeyman fished his dead body out of the water at a buoy line. Robles's eyes seemed to detach from his surroundings like his gaze had turned inward. A year after that he continued I chased another man to the banks of the Colorado River. He ran out into the water and was swept away by the current like it was nothing. And I will tell you what I did. I battled to keep him afloat even as I inhaled mouthfuls of water even though I cannot remember ever having been more tired. I save that man's life. And still there is not a single day I do not think about the one I took before it. As Robles fell silent we stood sweating over our bikes our legs pedaling weakly. In the front row I saw Hanson's head dip his ass falling to the seat. Robles snapped his gaze from the middle of the room and turned his head towards Hanson. Get back up there he roared. Do not give up on me Mr. Hanson. Do not give up. As the sound of our labored breathing settled back over the room I thought briefly of the man from El Salvador and I wondered how the news of his death might have arrived to his family. I watched Robles standing tall over his bicycle at the front of the room dripping sweat. I wondered if he thought of his body as a tool for destruction or as one for keeping people safe. I wondered about my body about what sort of tool it was becoming. My mother flew in from Arizona to see me for Christmas. She picked me up from the Academy on Christmas Eve and we drove up into the Evergreen Mountains of southern New Mexico. We stayed the night in a cabin and stayed up late laughing until the conversation finally descended into a discussion of my impending work. Listen my mother said I spent most of my career as a park ranger so I have got nothing against you working for the government. But do not you think it is sort of below you earning a degree just to become a border cop? I do not really understand what you want from this work. I took a deep breath. Look I told her I spent four years in college studying the border. I am tired of reading about it. I want to be on the ground out in the field. I want to see the realities of the border day in and day out. I do not see any better way to truly understand the place. My mother stared at me. Are you crazy? She asked. There are 100 other ways of knowing a place. You grew up near the border. It is in our blood for Christ's sake. Your great-grandparents brought my father across the border from Mexico when he was just a little boy. I kept my maiden name and passed it on to you so that you would always carry that heritage. I lowered my voice. I am grateful for those things I told her but having a name is not the same as understanding a place. Do you remember I asked my mother how you joined the Park Service because you wanted to be outdoors? Because you felt you could understand yourself in wild places? It is not that different I said. There is something here I cannot look away from. Maybe it is the desert maybe it is the closeness of life and death maybe it is the tension between the two cultures we carry. Whatever it is I will never understand it unless I am close to it. My mother shook her head. There are ways to learn these things that do not put you at risk. You make it sound like you will be communing with nature and having heartfelt conversations all day. The Border Patrol is not the Park Service. It is a paramilitary police force. Listen I said I know you do not want your only son turning into a heartless cop. I know you are afraid the job will turn me into someone brutal and callous. But that is not me. And those are not the kind of people that I see at the Academy. Nearly half my classmates are Hispanic. Some of them grew up right on the border. I speak both languages. I know both cultures. I have lived in Mexico and traveled all across it. I will help people. I explained to my mother that good people would always be crossing the border and whether I was in the Border Patrol or not agents would still be out there arresting them. At least if I am the one apprehending them I can offer them some small comfort by speaking with them in their own language by talking to them with knowledge of their home. Fine my mother said. Fine. But you must understand you are stepping into a system with little regard for people. For several moments silence hung between us. I said I am not going to become someone else. After graduating from the Academy we were deployed to our respective field stations. We caught our first dope load only two days after arriving on duty. They must have seen us coming across the desert said Cole our supervisor. We fanned out to comb the hillsides and after 10 minutes we had recovered two backpacks filled with food and clothes and four additional bundles wrapped in sugar sacks spray painted black. Those ought to be about 50 pounds each Cole said. He kicked one of the bundles with his foot. 250 pounds of dope. Not bad for your second day in the field. I asked Cole if we should follow their trail up into the pass if we should try to track down the backpackers. Hell no he said. You do not want to bring in any bodies with your dope if you can help it. Suspects mean you have a smuggling case on your hands and that is a hell of a lot of paperwork. We would have to stay and work a double shift just to write it up. He smiled. Abandoned loads are easy though. You will see. Cole had us dump the backpacks and I watched as several of my classmates ripped and tore the clothing scattering it among the tangled branches of mesquite and palo verde. In one of the backpacks I found a laminated prayer card depicting Saint Jude a tongue of flames hovering above his head. Morales found a pack of cigarettes and sat smoking on a rock as others laughed loudly stepping on a heap of food. Nearby Hart giggled and shouted to us as he pissed on a pile of ransacked belongings. As we hiked with the bundles back to the vehicles the February sun grew low in the sky casting a warm light across the desert. After sundown Cole sent Morales up a hill near the highway with a thermal reconnaissance camera. Let me borrow your beanie vato he said to me. It is cold out. I handed it to him and stayed inside the vehicle with the others. An hour later Morales spotted a group of 10 just east of mile marker five. We rushed out of the car and set out on foot as he guided us in on the radio. But by the time we got there the group had already scattered. We found them one by one huddled in the brush and curled up around the trunks of mesquite trees and cholla cactus. Not one of them ran. We made them take off their shoelaces so they could not run from us and we sorted through their backpacks checking for weapons and throwing out their food. We walked all 10 of them single file back to the road. For a while I walked next to an older man who told me they were all from Michoacan. It is beautiful there I said. Yes he replied but there is no work. You have been to Michoacan? He asked. I told him I had. Then you must have seen what it is to live in Mexico he said. And now you see what it is like for us at the border. We walked silently next to each other and then after several minutes he sighed deeply. Hay mucha desesperacin he told me almost whispering. I tried to look at his face but it was too dark. At the station I processed the man for deportation. After I would taken his fingerprints he asked me if there was any work for him. You do not understand I said. You have just got to wait here until the bus comes. They will take you to the headquarters and then onto the border. You will be back in Mexico very soon. I understand he assured me. I just want to know if there is something I can do while I wait something to help. I can take out the trash or clean out the cells. I want to show you that I am here to work that I am not a bad person. I am not here to bring in drugs. I am not here to do anything illegal. I want to work. There are days when I feel I am becoming good at what I do. And then I wonder what does it mean to be good at this? I wonder sometimes how I might explain certain things the sense in what we do when they run from us scattering into the brush leaving behind their water jugs and their backpacks full of food and clothes. How to explain what we do when we discover their lay up spots stocked with water and stashed rations. Of course what you do depends on who you are with. It depends on what kind of agent you are what kind of agent you want to become. But it is true that we slash their bottles and drain their water into the dry earth. That we dump their backpacks and pile their food and clothes to be crushed and pissed on and stepped over strewn across the desert floor and set ablaze. Look it sounds terrible and maybe it is. But the idea is that when that come out from their hiding places when they regroup and return to find their stockpiles ransacked and stripped they will realize their situation that they are . That it is hopeless to continue. And they will quit right then and there. They will save themselves and struggle towards the nearest highway or dirt road to flag down some passing agent. Or they will head for the nearest parched village to knock on someone's door. Someone who will give them food and water and call us to take them in. That is the idea the sense in it all. But still I have nightmares visions of them staggering through the desert men from Michoacan from places I have known. Men lost and wandering without food or water dying slowly as they look for some road some village some way out. In my dreams I seek them out searching in vain until finally I discover their bodies lying face down on the ground before me dead and stinking on the desert floor. Human waypoints in a vast and smoldering expanse. After three months we were finally released from the training unit and dispersed into rotating shifts to work under journeyman agents. I was partnered with Mortenson a four-year veteran of the patrol. Early one morning before dawn Mortenson brought me to the port of entry and we arrested a woman who'd cut a hole in the pedestrian fence. As Mortenson inspected the breach the girl wept beside me telling me it was her birthday that she had just turned 23 pleading for me to let her go and swearing she would never cross again. Mortenson took a long look at the woman and laughed. I booked her last week he said. The woman spoke hurriedly as we walked back to the parking lot. While Mortenson went inside the port of entry she told me she was from Guadalajara that she had some problems there. That she had already tried four times to cross. She swore to me that she would stay in Mexico for good this time that she would finally go back and finish music school. Te lo juro she said. I promise. She looked at me and smiled. Someday I am going to be a singer you know. I believe it I said smiling back. She told me that she thought I was nice and before Mortensen returned she snuck her counterfeit green card into my hand. I do not want to get in trouble at the processing center like last time she said. I slipped the card into my pocket. When Mortenson came back we helped her into the patrol vehicle and drove north towards the station laughing and applauding as she sang Bidi Bidi Bom Bom to us from the back seat. She is going to be a singer I told Mortenson. The woman beamed. Well  he said she already is. Morales was the first to hear him screaming in the distance from one of the spider roads. He hiked for a mile or two and found the kid lying on the ground hysterical. The coyote who left him there told him he was holding back the group and handed him half a liter of water pointing to some hills in the distance telling him to walk at them until he found a road. When I arrived with the water the kid was on the ground next to Morales lurching in the shade and crying like a child. The kid was fat. His pants sagged from his ass and his fly was half open his zipper broken. His shirt hung loosely from his shoulders inside out and torn and soaked in sweat. Morales looked at me and smiled and then turned to the kid. Your water is here gordo. I kneeled next to him and handed him the gallon jug. He took a sip and began to pant and groan. Drink more I said but drink slowly. I cannot he moaned. I am going to die. No you are not I told him. You are still sweating. After the kid drank some water we helped him up and tried walking him through the thicket toward the road. He lagged and staggered crying out behind us. Ay oficial he would moan. No puedo I cannot. As we crouched and barged through tangled branches I slowly became overwhelmed by his panic until finally we broke out of the thicket and spotted the dirt road. You see the trucks gordo? Can you make it that far? Maybe we should just leave you here. No puedes verdad? On the ride back to the station the kid regained some composure. He told me that he was 18 that he planned to go to Oregon to sell heroin. I hear you can make a lot of money that way he said. Agents found a man named Martin Ubalda de la Vega and his three companions on the bombing range 10 miles west of the highway. The four men had been in the desert for six days and had wandered in the July heat for more than 48 hours without food or water. By the time of rescue one of the men had already met his death. One was quickly treated and discharged from the hospital. Another remained in intensive care recently awoken from a coma unable to remember his own name. When I arrived at the hospital asking for the third survivor nurses explained that he was recovering from kidney failure and guided me to his room. I had been charged with watching over de la Vega until his condition was stable at which point I would transport him to the station to be processed for deportation. I settled in a chair next to him and after several moments of silence I asked him to tell me about himself. He answered timidly as if unsure of how to speak. He apologized for his Spanish explaining that he only knew what they had taught him in school. He came from the jungles of Guerrero he told me and in his village they spoke Mixtec and farmed the green earth. He was the father of seven children he said. Five girls and two boys. His eldest daughter lived in California and he had crossed the border with plans to go live with her and find work. We spent the following hours watching telenovelas and occasionally he would turn to ask me about the women in America wondering if they were like the ones on TV. He began to tell me about his youngest daughter still in Mexico. She just turned 18 he said. You could marry her. Later that afternoon de la Vega was cleared for release. The nurse brought in his belongings a pair of blue jeans and sneakers with holes going through the soles. I asked what had happened to his shirt. I do not know he told me. I looked at the nurse and she shrugged telling me he had come that way. We have got no clothes here she added. As we exited through the hospital lobby I watched the way people looked at his shirtless body and imagined him alone and half naked in the days to come as he was booked and transferred and finally bussed to the border. When we got to the parking lot I placed him in the passenger seat of my patrol vehicle and popped the trunk. I walked to the back of the cruiser unbuttoned my uniform shirt and removed my white v-neck to give to him. Before leaving town I asked him if he was hungry. You should eat something now I told him. At the station there is only juice and crackers. I asked him what he was hungry for. What do Americans eat he asked. I laughed. Here we eat mostly Mexican food. He looked at me unbelievingly. But we also eat hamburgers I said. We pulled into a McDonald's. As we drove south along the open highway I tuned into a Mexican radio station and we listened to the sounds of norteo as he finished his meal. After he finished eating he sat silently next to me watching the passing desert. Then quietly as if whispering to me or to someone else he began to speak of the rains in Guerrero of the wet and green jungle and I wondered if he could have ever been made to imagine a place like this. A place where one of his companions would meet his death and another would be made to forget his own name. A landscape where the earth still seethed with volcanic heat. A woman on the south side of the pedestrian fence flagged me down as I passed her on the border road. I stopped my vehicle and went over to her. With panic in her voice she asked me if I knew about her son. He had crossed days ago she said. Maybe it was a week ago she was not sure. She had not heard anything from him-- no one had and she did not know if he had been caught or if he was lost somewhere in the desert or if he was even still alive. Estamos desesperados she told me her voice quivering one hand clawing at her chest and the other trembling against the fence. I do not remember what I told her if I took down the man's name or if I gave her a phone number to some faraway office or hotline. But I remember thinking later about de la Vega about his dead and delirious companions about all the questions I should have asked the woman. I arrived home that evening and threw my gun belt and uniform across the couch standing alone in my living room. I called my mother. I am safe I told her. I am home. When the call came out on the radio I braced myself for the smell. That is the worst part the senior agents would always say. The smell. My first week at the station one of them suggested I carry a small tin of Vicks VapoRub with me wherever I went. If you come up on a dead body he would say rub that  under your nose or else the smell will stay with you for days. When I arrived it was evening and Hart had already been on the scene for half an hour. The body is fresh he told me maybe two hours old. Does not smell yet. Hart had been flagged down by two boys as he was driving across the reservation. They put rocks in the road he said gesturing awkwardly at the boys. He stood for a moment with his hands in his pocket and then asked me quietly if I would talk to them. They keep asking me questions he said. I cannot understand them. One of the boys sat quietly on a rock looking disoriented. I went over to him and asked him how he knew the dead man. Es mi tio he told me. He is my uncle. He stared at his hands as he spoke. How old are you? I asked. Dieciseis 16. I looked at his friend. And you? He looked up from the ground. Diecinueve he said. 19. The dead man and the two boys all hailed from the same village in Veracruz and had set out together on the journey north. The 19-year-old did most of the talking telling me that a few hours before the man died he would taken two caffeine uppers that border crossers often take for energy and then washed them down with homemade sugar cane liquor they brought from Veracruz. A few hours later he said the man was staggering around like a drunk and then he collapsed. I walked over to the body. Hart had placed a shirt over the dead man's face. I lifted it and looked at him. His eyes were closed white foam had bubbled up and collected between his parted lips and his face was covered with small red ants traveling in neat lines towards the moisture. The 19-year-old told me that the three of them had become separated from the group. Their guide had told them to spread out to hide in the bushes by the road to wait for the load vehicle. They must have gone too far he said because sometime later they heard a car stop and then drive off and after that they could not find anyone. Alone at the edge of the road they walked for several miles in the August heat until the dead man finally lay down to die. The boys waited beside the road to flag down one of the infrequently passing cars but no one stopped for them. That is when they put the rocks out they said to make the cars stop. The boys asked me what would happen to the dead man if they could come with the body to the hospital. I told them that they could not that they had to stay with us that they would be processed for deportation and the body would be turned over to the tribal police. They asked if the body would come back to Mexico with them if they could bring it back to their village. I told them that they could not that the body would be taken to the county medical examiner who would try to determine the cause of death. I told the boys that they would be taken to the sector headquarters where they would meet with the Mexican consul. That it was they who would make arrangements for the repatriation of the body to Mexico. As I spoke the man's nephew stared at the ground. The boys did not want to leave the body. And even as I explained the procedures to them I began quietly doubting given what I knew from my short time on the border whether they would actually see the console whether the consulate would actually arrange for the body to go back to Mexico. Whether the boys would even receive a piece of paper to help explain to the dead man's family what had befallen him on the journey north. Before the boys were loaded into the transport unit I went to them and told them I was sorry for their loss. It is a hard thing I said. I told them that if they ever decided to cross again they must not cross in the summer. It is too hot I said. To cross in the heat is to risk one's life. They nodded. I told them that many people died here. That in the summer people died every day year after year and many