 OK. So a man sits in front of a camera in his own home trying to somehow summarize who he is all that had happened to him over 14 years. Hi everyone. My name is Mohamedou Ould Slahi. I am from Mauritania. It is hard right? Like do people even know where Mauritania is? He tries another take. I am from Mauritania. In case you do not know what Mauritania is which is very likely it is in West Africa. And he continues at length. Does not work. This is too long. Too preachy. Another take. Hi everyone. Peace be with you. My name is Mohamedou Ould Slahi. I was kidnapped in 2001 and spent more than 14 years mostly in Guantanamo Bay. During this 14 years in Guantanamo the United States government came to believe that he recruited into Al-Qaeda men who later became hijackers in the 9-11 attacks. But they never charged him with that or anything else. Mohamedou Slahi was tortured on one occasion beaten quite badly. He was kept awake by loud music made to stand for hours at a time left shackled in a cold room. The torture stopped after a few months but they kept him for another 13 years. A judge ruled that the government could prove that he had been in touch with people in Al-Qaeda and sometimes help them out but failed to show more than that and did not have enough evidence to hold him. So finally he was released. And if you have only heard of one Guantanamo detainee this man Mohamedou Slahi might be that guy. He wrote a book originally called Guantanamo Diary published while he was still locked up became a cause for human rights groups and celebrities. There is a movie about him with Jodie Foster and Benedict Cumberbatch and Tahar Raheem. These days he is living in Mauritania. Maybe the most famous person in the country. People stop him on the street and at the beach. He married an American human rights lawyer had a son is writing another book just published a novel. And the purpose of this video he was shooting was very particular. He wanted to issue an invitation to everyone who knew him at Guantanamo Bay the guards and interrogators everybody. Some of you guys mistreated me even tortured me. But I am telling you wholeheartedly that I have forgiven you. I hold no grudge against you guys. Honest to God. I invite all of you to my house so we could drink tea and talk about the past. Thank you very much and God bless you. This invitation to tea it is also at the very end of his book. And for a long time nobody took him up on it. But then by chance one of the guards from Guantanamo noticed on Facebook that Mohamedou was out and messaged him. The guard's name is Scott though Mohamedou knew him as Master Jedi. Guards did not use their real names. They wore masks. Apparently there is a whole Star Wars thing going on. There was Master Yoda Master Luke. Anyway Scott Jedi was really young at the time. Got sent to Guantanamo and was assigned right away to Mohamedou their most high profile detainee. I remember going into that building scared to death because I was expecting someone about eight feet tall 200 pounds that I did not know what I was getting into as a young kid. But I opened up that screen and I see this skinny little tan man laying on the bed who looked like he did not have a clue what was going on. This audio that you are hearing was collected as part of this really remarkable documentary by a filmmaker who made it his mission to track down some of the guards and interrogators Mohamedou was reaching out to with his invitation to tea to see if they would be willing to talk to him. The filmmaker who did this is John Goetz. And back when Mohamedou was at Guantanamo John was a reporter. He was living in Germany writing for a German audience. And he started writing about Mohamedou because Mohamedou was one of the few people at Guantanamo with a German connection. Mohamedou had lived in Germany for 11 years. And then when you look at his story his story was just incredible. You know he was the son of a camel herder as part of a family with 12 kids who ends up with this elite scholarship in Germany and becomes an engineer here a successful engineer at one of the leading high tech companies of Germany. And then at the same time he is accused of having recruited the pilots for the September 11th attacks. After the United States concluded that it did not have the evidence for a case against Mohamedou and released him John went to see him in Mauritania meet him for the first time in person. And he asked about that invitation. And I was wondering was it a real invitation? Or did he really mean that? And did he? He did. He was more serious than I thought he would be. When I met him he had-- it was very recent that he had gotten out. And in many ways he was just kind of ripped out of the environment he had been in for 14 years. And he was not finished with what happened to him. John says that Mohamedou's lawyers told Mohamedou absolutely do not try to track down your former captors yourself for this invitation. It will look like you are stalking them. But Mohamedou asked John as an American journalist could he try to find these people? He would seen the TV documentary where John had done exactly that kind of tracking down for his story. And John said yes. He thought it could be a good film. And then spent two years searching for people Mohamedou had known in Guantanamo. He actually spoke with about a dozen of them. Three were willing to talk to Mohamedou all these years later about what had gone down. Two of those were people that John found and then there was Scott who like I said showed up out of the blue on his own. Well Scott was one of Mohamedou's guards in the period while Mohamedou was being tortured. And does that mean that he saw the torture or participated in the torture? Scott says he did not see the torture. Scott says he did not physically abuse Mohamedou. But Scott says it was his role to soften up Mohamedou. That means Scott prevented Mohamedou from ever praying gave him meals at random times sometimes Mohamedou only got 60 seconds to eat or take a shower. Pillow was Mohamedou's nickname at Guantanamo. Because after they tortured him and broke him the first comfort they gave him as a reward was a pillow. Mohamedou's torture ended after a few months. Scott was there for about a month of that. And after the torture ended everything between them was very different. For starters they were allowed to talk to each other. And they talked a lot. Scott guarded him in 12 hour shifts for about a year more. So in that period they got to know each other quite well. And they played chess together. Apparently Mohamedou won every time they played. You know they watched films together. And ended up at the end of this having quite kind of a good connection. I know we barbecued a few times gave him some of the food. We used to mess with him a little bit. Because where his toilet was on the floor there was a hole in the back and you could be like Pillow Pillow and talk to him from that. And he would be like my toilets talking you know? It was not nothing to harm with him. It was just us being bored at that time. So I would go back there and just be like Pillow Pillow it is your toilet. You know? So to me that was pretty comical. So do not hate me for that one but I thought it was funny. Scott told John that after he left Guantanamo he would think about Mohamedou and dream about him. And back home in the state's at church they give a talk about forgiveness and reconciliation that made him think that he should reach out. So when John was filming Scott in Kentucky at one point John pulled out his iPhone and suggested they call Mohamedou right then. Two of Scott's kids were there. One was playing Minecraft. There was a bunch of pets around. And they got him on the phone. Hey Pillow. No fucking way! Hey. Watch your mouth before I tie you up. Huh? 