From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. OK here we go. Blackjack 10 tables. 10 high limit room which no one is in. Monday late morning. This week This American Life producer Robyn Semien and I are in a casino that will remain unnamed here on the radio because we did not have permission to record. I did not ask for permission due to the nature of our visit. Stay over here. We stand by one of the blackjack tables and Robyn does a quick scan of the cards. What is the count on this table? I get a six. We were there to count cards to play blackjack and count cards while we did it. Which gives the player such a big advantage against the house that most casinos ask you to leave the table if they catch you doing it. And how did we end up here? Well we would gotten a lesson the day before in how to count cards. We used to say that you could teach a piece of wood to play blackjack. You just have to be able to keep your wits about you when you are at the table and not make too many mistakes. We got our lesson from Andy Bloch who played blackjack for what is possibly the most famous group of blackjack card counters the so-called MIT Blackjack Team. Their winnings inspired a best-selling book and a terrible Hollywood film called 21. These were real MIT students. Andy studied electrical engineering. There is no reliable way to know how much they won. They claim over 8 million between 1994 and 2000. After he quit the team Andy put out an instructional DVD about how to count cards. He does not play much blackjack himself anymore. Once I got known as a part of the MIT Blackjack Team it became hard to play and I would get kicked out of just about anywhere I would try to play. And sometimes I would take friends there. They just wanted to see me get kicked out of some place. I would play for a little bit. After 15 minutes an hour they would come over and ask me to leave. Now I do not know if I should assume that you have played blackjack or you know the rules but if you have not played or you do not know here are the rules. Everybody at the table gets cards. You can ask for more cards if you want. The way that you do that is that you tell the dealer hit me. You want your cards to add up as close to 21 as possible without going over. It is very simple. So simple that when you play it feels winnable. And it seems like everybody you meet who plays blackjack has a system. Everyone thinks they can beat it. Yeah. I have heard a lot of crazy systems about blackjack. The best myths are the ones that are based in fact. And it is a fact that you can beat blackjack. You can actually beat the casinos. And the idea that it is possible to beat the casino is what made blackjack so popular. I think this is what makes blackjack so special is that you think you can beat it. But of course as soon as you start to think you can beat it it gets you into trouble. Here's how diabolical blackjack is. Unlike most casino games if you play blackjack correctly the casino barely has an edge. The odds are very close to 50-50. You win almost half the time. So the dream of winning is right there in front of you just out of reach. And if you did have a system that could beat blackjack imagine what that would mean. It is like the money is just sitting there in casinos everywhere all over the world. Huge stacks of chips and 100 bills waiting for you to take them home. No job? Bad economy? If blackjack is beatable your problems are solved. Today on our program we watch people run after that dream including some fine upright God-fearing people including Robyn and me. Stay with us and good luck with that ace. OK so when Andy Bloch says that you can beat the casinos he is talking specifically about counting cards to change the odds. The mathematics of counting cards was nailed down in the 1950s and '60s. There is a way to count cards that definitively gives you an edge over the house. And you do not need to be a Rain Man or have a photographic memory to pull this off. A normal person can do it. So Robyn and I decided that we wanted to learn. And I could pretend right now that there is a high-minded journalistic reason for this. You know we would not really understand what blackjack is all about if we did not dive in ourselves. That would be a lie. We would both heard of card counting. We wanted to try for the same reasons that anybody does. We thought it would be so awesome to beat blackjack. And the thought that we would be doing it during our jobs that we would be in a casino when the rest of the staff was back at the office editing and writing amazing. So I can tell you what we learned in two minutes. Here's how card counting works. Please remember this public radio station if it makes you rich. The basic idea is for lots of reasons that we do not need to get into here tens and aces are to your advantage as a blackjack player. So as the cards are dealt what you want to know is are there lots of tens and aces left in the deck for you to get? And by tens I should say I just do not mean the ten of hearts the ten of spades and all that. But I mean the face cards that add ten to your hand when you play blackjack. OK so still with me? You want tens and aces and you count. And this is important. You are not going to keep track of the position of every single card. You are not memorizing the deck. That would be insane. They invented something that is way way easier than that. You just keep a running tally a very rough one of tens and aces. You start your tally at zero. When a ten or an ace is dealt you subtract one from the tally. When a low card comes out you add one. That is it. That is the whole thing. The running tally that one number that is all you need to know. Again here's Andy Bloch. It is not a complicated thing. You do not need a great memory. You do not need to know how many queens are left in the deck. You just need to know that one number. And when that one number when your running tally gets up to seven or eight or nine it means that there are lots of aces and tens left in the deck. So it is good for you right? It is really really good for you. And that is the time that you want to start to bet big. Like your bet should jump up to five times what it was Andy says. All you have to do is keep your running tally. And Andy demonstrated here. He dealt cards into a pile to demonstrate how that works. So minus one zero plus one plus two plus one plus two plus three plus two. Then it was time for Robyn and I to try this. Note that the pace changes just a little. Plus two. Plus two. It was a three. Plus one. Plus one. Zero. Zero. Minus one. Plus one. Plus one. You know I am getting confused over which one gets the plus-- It is really confusing. --and which gets the minus. You are sad when tens and aces come out especially when you do not get them. You are sad when tens and aces come out which is why they get subtracted. There we go. OK. That helps. We tried a few more times. Andy would deal. Robyn and I would keep the count in our heads. At the end he would ask us the count. OK what'd you got? Minus five. Negative two. Minus three.   Finally on our fourth try Andy dealt the cards we kept the count in our heads and at the end-- Negative eight. That is what I have too. All right. You guys both win. Negative eight. Shut up. Well done. My heart's racing a little bit. You are ready to hit the tables. And so the next day we headed to Atlantic City. We headed to the casino to hit the tables and try our techniques at the lowest stakes tables possible. We basically went into the kiddie pool. We skied the bunny hill. Did we win? Did the casino notice and send swarms of security guards with walkie-talkies to kindly ask us to play a different game? What happened to us? Later in this hour. Which brings us to Act One. Act One Render Unto Caesar's Palace What is Due Caesar's Palace. When you think professional gamblers you do not think Christians. But there was a team of blackjack-playing Christians. No joke there is a documentary about it called Holy Rollers. They took in 3.5 million from casinos. To do that the entire team had to know how to count cards. They had skills. But beyond that what did a Christian card-counting team have going for them that gave them an edge? Former Sunday school teacher Jack Hitt decided to find out. The way Ben tells the story it all began where so many great ideas originate reading in the bathroom. It was a book about gambling and there was a three-page chapter on blackjack explaining how to count cards. And Ben thought I could do this. He waited tables back then minimum wage work and he had just had his first kid. He and his wife were broke. And so one day he came up with a plan to take their last 800 to a dinky casino outside of Seattle. And he won. The first day I remember making maybe it was 500 or 1000 in one night. And I have never seen money move like that before. I was used to waiting tables. And every once in a while I would get a 10 tip and maybe make 100 a night. But I just remember being fascinated by how fast this cash could move back and forth. It was just I started to see money differently. Ben formed a small crew of card counters to hit the casinos together. And they did OK for a while. But after three years that team fell apart. Ben said they just had different values. And so Ben and another player his good friend Colin decided that if they were going to create a great team then they had to find new members they could trust completely. And that is when it hit them. The perfect source of blackjack players. It was right in front of them at least on Sundays. Church. Basically all these people had been watching us play blackjack for the last three years. And they did not know a lot about it. But they knew that I had bought a house with the winnings. So there was all these family members that had heard of the story and I think frankly were just excited about the story. And me and my business partner Colin we went to different churches. So he had people from his church coming to him and word was kind of spreading. And people were like oh I heard about this blackjack thing. Are you guys hiring people? And if it was the right person we would never say no. Now that Ben and Colin had their players they needed more money a lot more money if they hoped to win big. So they went to the same source. Using PowerPoint presentations they showed their fellow Christians how much they would been winning. Not using luck or prayer just math. And at the end of this presentation here's what they pulled off. They convinced churchgoers to cash out their savings and retirement funds and hand them over to a pack of young people to carry straight into the devil's playground and risk at blackjack tables. Now I know what you are thinking. Wait where is the Christ in cheating at blackjack? And is not gambling a sin or just wrong? Turns out all the players asked those questions too. In fact Ben said part of training a new team member always seemed to involve a moment when the player would be stricken by a crisis of faith. Ben said he got quite good at these rap sessions and here was his argument. Yes gambling's wrong. No question about that. But they were not gambling at all because they counted cards. Here's one of the players Mike. He will explain. As a card counter you go in there thinking there is no such thing as luck. There is only math. We are going to sit down and work for eight hours and make money. And that is the exact opposite of what 99.9 of all people do in a casino. But even if you square in your heart that card counting is not a sin morally is not it illegal in some states? Or at least considered cheating by the casinos? I ran this by Ben the founder who could not wait to correct me. No it is not. One of the biggest misconceptions ever-- and this drives me nuts because it is so fundamental that people do not get it and I guess that is to the casino's credit-- is people actually think that this is violating the rules of a casino. But we follow every rule the casino has. In fact if you call up a casino and you ask them is it against the law to count cards is it against your rules to count cards they will be like oh well no not really. But it is kind of frowned upon. How could that be? We all know that casinos spend tons of money on overhead cameras and security guys to detect card counters. So I called the MGM Grand in Las Vegas and Ben was right. Card counting is not illegal. In fact the spokeswoman said it was not even against the rules though they do discourage it. She told me that if they catch you they will ask you to go play other games a process known as backing off. Or if they really do not like what you are doing they will tell you to leave and that you are not allowed back. But for the most part casinos just do not like to dissuade anyone from gambling even card counters. Maybe because most of them are so bad at it they lose money anyway. And so they pulled it off. Ben and Colin kept training more and more churchgoers flying the members of their congregation to casinos all over the country. Soon enough the casinos began to treat them as whales-- that is what they call big-time gamblers-- rewarding them with comps free rooms cases of liquor. They would come home with amazing stories of winning thousands sometimes tens of thousands on the perfectly-laid bet. Bragging rights all around. In order to convince the casinos that they were reckless high rollers and not card counters they would often where costumes and take on personas. Everything from golf pro to what one team member called gay art collector. In this scene from the documentary you see Colin dressed as a mechanic in a jumpsuit and baseball cap. Ben meanwhile has gone full-on goth. White face paint black lipstick with black outfit and even black fingernails. But they never forgot this was a business and business was good. To give you a sense of just how good at the height of their team in 2007 Ben and Colin were rotating as many as 30 trained blackjack players through their transcontinental circuit. And remember they would hand each member of the flock tens of thousands sometimes as much as 80000. And because you cannot transfer money like that through say an ATM the players carried this cash in envelopes stuffed in their pockets. At the end of each trip the members would return to Ben and Colin and report back their hours and winnings or losses. This was all done on the honor system. You can see why finding trustworthy church-going collaborators was so important. When the whole team achieved a certain goal 100000 in winnings they would split the profits. And every quarter Ben and Colin would host a team meeting at one of their houses in Seattle. Here's Colin at the big meeting in 2008. It is been another good quarter. Any guesses on how much we took from casinos in 2007? 900000? 900000 1.2 1 million something like that. 1.5. Boom! Yeah you got it. 1.58 million taken out of casinos this year. I am excited to take more money from casinos next year. So for those of you that hate casinos we are doing our part. Did you catch that last part? If you hate casinos. Even after all the talk of it being a business and not gambling there was still this nagging sense that what they were doing was somehow not part of the Christian mission. They were bleeding the casinos of evil money doing their part. But occasionally some players began to feel there was something wrong with what they were doing. Take Mike. He had joined the team with the most Christian of all intentions. He used to be a youth pastor. His crisis of faith began with the Ninth Commandment Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor. Were not all these costumes and fake biographies bearing false witness? High rollers are never mid-20 white kids. Never. And then they say so what is your story man? What do you do? Well what do I say at that point? Well in the beginning of the team I lied. I used to create crazy stories because I thought it was fun. At Hard Rock I remember they said so hey what is your deal? I was like oh I work for Fox. I am an animal agent. I actually do agent stuff for animals in movies. Maybe you have seen Bart the Bear and Legend of the Fall? I do stuff like that. So I am telling them this story. And the kid next to me playing says no way. I work for Fox too. And he starts describing the offices and asking which building I work out of. And I thought are you kidding me? The one time I say something off the top of my head the guy sitting next to me works for Fox? Do you think that was some divine intervention there? It probably was. Maybe God saying shut up just tell them the truth. I felt guilty right after I said that. It was wrong and it was a sin to lie to them. And there were other deceptions too. One involved playing in pairs. One person would count cards at the table then they would signal another teammate across the room to join the game and start betting big when the count favored the players. So you had to have a signal that looked like it was not a signal at all. Oh crossing of the arms. Yeah it is really subtle. So we would cross our arms if it was a good count and we would leave our arms open if it was not a high enough count. This is Shirley. Not her real name by the way. Shirley used this tactic a lot. Among card counters stepping up to the table right when it is hot is so well known that it has a name. Wonging from a famous counter known as Stanford Wong. There was this one time for Shirley the most nerve-wracking bet of her life that involved this exact tactic. I was at The Venetian in Las Vegas. I was playing at a table. I had just finished and there was actually another guy on the team who was playing at the same pit across from me. And he gave me the sign to what we call Wong in. It means you go over and you go to the table because the count is good. The table's hot. So Shirley walked up to the table and put down her bet. A massive bet. And then another and another. It was phenomenal because we kept winning and winning. There is layers of people behind us. We have got security around us. It is so intense. So I get two hands of 20. I got four tens basically which you would think would be a great hand. The dealer pulls up a six. That means I have to split my tens. OK. A quick explanation for those of you who do not play. In blackjack you are trying to get close to 21. Two tens add up to 20 so that is a really good hand. Splitting tens is crazy what they call a deviation. And Shirley has just done it. Twice. But it is not crazy if you happen to know that the deck is momentarily packed with high cards and that the dealer probably would bust. So I split my tens. And then I put another two grand on the other ten. And people are just like what is she doing? Whoa. I mean there is comments from the crowd. It is so much adrenaline when you are doing something that is completely against the blackjack book but it is exactly what you are supposed to be doing. It is the right deviation and you know you are going to kill it and win. Oh my goodness. It was crazy. I ended up with 22000 on that one hand by the time it was over. It was insane because I kept getting tens and I kept splitting them. And I am super excited but nervous at the same time hoping that this dealer busts out which he is supposed to do. And the dealer did not bust. Even though the dealer did not bust as he was supposed to it did not matter. Splitting those tens and making such massive bets gave her away to security. It is a red flag. When you have got 20 and you are splitting it they know that something's going on. And they cannot catch onto it while you are doing your hand that quickly and make it all stop. But no I never played at The Venetian after that. For some of the other card counters they faced a different crisis of faith the commandment about stealing. Remember you are carrying around tens of thousands of dollars in your pocket and winning tens of thousands more. And nobody knows how much you have won or lost except you. Their trust in each other began to suffer. One player lost big one night and phoned a lot of the other players. He was hysterical that he had cost the team so much. But their reaction that he probably had not lost but was stealing. Ben the founder of the group told me about one time when a team member claimed that he would never even contemplated stealing. That struck Ben as unusual and he immediately began suspecting that player of stealing. Do you think some of the members of your team did steal money? Yeah. I know people on this team stole money. In fact to be really honest one of the decisions I made very recently was to go back to the founding members of the team before our team took off and I admitted to them that I stole money from them. Oh wow. Whoops. Yeah. Um Ben? How much did you steal? 8000 I think. And did you pay it back? Yeah. I paid it back. The money was stolen from me from my car and I had the choice of whether to report it or not. And at the time I made a very quick decision and I decided that our family could not afford it. And I just fudged the paperwork. And I said that I lost it at a casino. So those were three of my close friends. And I had to go to those guys years later and tell them the truth. Throughout it all playing blackjack never stopped being a little strange for the Christians. Trying to make money surrounded by almost every temptation. Free booze plane tickets beautiful prostitutes easy money. But they had to stay focused on their job counting cards. For some it was lonesome like Jesus in the wilderness. Here's Mike in the desert of Las Vegas. It is funny. I talked to one of the guys on the team about what I did and he had the exact same experience. Go up to my suite which was usually 1100 1200 square feet. Gigantic big TVs everywhere bars. I had one that had a stripper pole in the bathroom. But I would be by myself or with other card counters. I traveled with one or two other of the players. And I would go up into my casino room. And I would order some real simple meal like a club sandwich. And then I would just sit in the chair no music no television and just look out the window over the Strip and feel lonely. Because you felt isolated. You cannot be open with the casino who you are. And when you are open with your Christian friends they are either way too excited about it or they think you are during the most evil thing in the world. In the end the church team split up in 2011. And not because any of them succumbed to gambling or any other temptation. They believed in God and his glorious gift of math. But apparently God gave none of them the patience of Job needed to endure the mind-numbing work of card counting. So they all went their separate ways. Even though many worked only half-time 20-hour weeks and earned a full-time wage around 40000 a year it was not worth it. Mike now sells cell phones to pay for his studies at a pastors college and he intends to start a church when he gets out. Shirley returned to being a stay-at-home mom. Even Ben and Colin bailed to take new jobs. Colin starts websites now. And Ben says he makes more money from doing internet marketing than he did from playing blackjack. God works in mysterious ways. Sometimes he enlightens you like Paul on the road to Damascus a blinding epiphany convincing you to quit your old ways. Other times God gets you to virtue by boring you to death. Jack Hitt. He is the author most recently of the book Bunch of Amateurs. The documentary about card-counting Christians is at holyrollersthemovie.com. Coming up when you cannot bring down the house just sue it. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues.  This American Life I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show blackjack. Ace eight. Negative four. Ten five. Negative four. Queen nine. Negative five. On the bus to Atlantic City This American Life producer Robyn Semien and I practiced counting cards on these card-counting apps that we downloaded to our phones. There are dozens of these. If you heard the beginning of today's program you heard that she and I took a lesson in card counting. Now we headed to a casino to try it out. Robyn had mastered card counting much better than I had. I was much better at knowing proper blackjack strategy. How to play the cards when to hit all that. In other words as I told Robyn when we got off the bus-- So between the two of us we comprise one competent player. Our tutor Andy Bloch said that one day of practice before we went into a casino would not be enough that it would take weeks. And he was right. Robyn could count the cards but it was so difficult it required such focus that she had trouble speaking to anyone at all. People at the table it was all guys would say things to Robyn. They asked if we were on our honeymoon at one point. And uncharacteristically Robyn said nothing. We took a break after an hour. We found this empty lounge and recapped. She had a headache from all the non-stop counting. It was so hard. I cannot say a sentence. I cannot remember how to play basic blackjack. It is weird. Like I am looking at these two cards and I am like seven plus five that is my hand. What is seven plus five? What does that mean? I cannot remember what the basic-- yeah I just cannot remember. And then as soon as that happens everybody at the table starts telling you oh you have a 12. Here's what you are supposed to do. I love how everybody's just jumping in. Oh yeah they were all there for me. It was a whole team of guys ready to tell me how to play. That is totally comfortable. Yeah. We made mistakes. Our biggest mistake I think was that the count at the table we were at was mostly negative. It was mostly against us for most of the time that we sat there. I realized later that Andy would have gotten up and found a different table. The real pros switch tables a lot. But we held our own and at the end of two hours we were in a great situation. The count was seven and there were two decks left to deal. And if you are not totally following this all you need to know is that was good. That was good for us. It meant lots of good cards were coming. So we boosted our bets just like you are supposed to from the minimum bet at this casino which was 10 a bet. I bet 50. Robyn bet 30. Cards were dealt. I got a pair of tens. She got a pair of tens. These are by the way great hands. You are trying to make 21 and we each had 20. The dealer had one card down and the card that was showing was a five one of the worst possible hands for the dealer. Robyn and I talked about what happened next on the bus ride home. And then the dealer ended up dealing herself 21. Yeah. She flipped her hole card. It was also a five. So then she had 10. And then she dealt herself another card and it was an ace. 21. We should have split our tens. You would have gotten that ace. OK. Non-blackjack people splitting tens is something that nobody would ever do except a card counter. It is what gets the woman kicked out of the casino in Jack Hitt's story. At Atlantic City they do not kick you out. But if they spot you counting cards they start shuffling the deck after every hand or they come over and tell you that you can only bet the minimum bet at the table which is basically telling you go away. But once Robyn brought up this idea that we should have split our tens it was hard to let it go. I would have gotten the ace. Yeah. It would have stopped her from getting the ace. We would have made all sorts of extra money. And then they would have kicked us out for being so good. That is all I wanted. To get kicked out for being good. Yeah. Instead we walked out in shame. Instead we just sucked. We bet high when the count was good just like you are supposed to and dumb luck made us lose anyway. Which is part of the game. The dealer got 21 which beat our 20. We made big bets and then loss one more hand after that and walked away down. Total losses-- this is my money by the way and it is a lot-- 348 in two hours. First time out. I just feel like we could have done better. I think we should come back next week. Yeah me too. We have both been practicing. Act Two Harrah's Today Gone Tomorrow. Now we have this story of somebody who thought that she knew how to play blackjack. She played for years. She did not count cards but she says that she knew the basic strategy cold. We have changed her name to protect her privacy. Sarah Koenig tells what happened. One day in 2006 a woman I am going to call Angie Bachmann went to the Caesars Indiana Casino and began to lose. She played blackjack. That was always her game. But on this night when she ran out of her own money the casino offered her what are called counter checks like a loan from the casino that you are supposed to pay back. She signed a paper for 10000 20000 30000. Six checks for a total of 125000. This is not a happy gambling story so you know what happens next. She cannot pay back the money any of it. So the casino takes her to court says Angie Bachmann owes us 125000. And not only that we are suing her for damages tripling that amount. Half a million dollars in all. This is not unusual that casinos go after debtors like Bachmann in court. What is somewhat unusual is what happened next. Bachmann hired a lawyer named Terry Noffsinger who argued that not only did she not owe the casino money but they owed her money. I put to Noffsinger the question you might be having at this very moment. Wait what? Why is she not liable? It seems like if you go to a casino you know what you are doing. What is your best one-sentence argument for why it is that you believe she should not be held responsible? Because at the time of those losses she has passed the point of no return to where she has no control over what she is doing comma and the casinos know it and take advantage of it. They knew she was a compulsive gambler. They knew she did not have control. Now here's the difficult thing. A lot of people would not believe me. I have even had friends of mine who took while to convince them that I was really telling the truth that this was really what was happening. I heard about this case from New York Times reporter Charles Duhigg. It is in his new book called The Power of Habit which is about how habits form in our brains and also about how companies tap into those habits to get us to spend money. In Bachmann's case money she did not have. Duhigg also calls her Angie Bachmann in his book by the way. Bachmann's lawsuit made news and some of the reaction was backlash. Nasty online comments lamented the ever-increasing abrogation of personal responsibility. One person wrote what is next? Suing supermarkets because you eat too much? And another not unless Lamborghini pays my speeding tickets. And another can I sue Budweiser for getting me drunk? I have to say the case initially struck me as flimsy too. And when Noffsinger first heard about gambling addiction he did not buy it either. Years earlier he would gotten a call from a guy named David Williams. Williams had lost everything including his house playing slots on a local riverboat casino. He told Noffsinger he would run red lights driving to the riverboat so he could be there the second the casino opened. That he would sat at the same slot machine for 20 hours straight. With regard to David Williams when he came in and he told me the story. And I was incredulous. So I went down to the office that Saturday I told you and I read about compulsive gambling. I read DSM IV and I read some of the other scientific literature that was online. And I thought this guy I think he is telling the truth. And everything I learned from there on confirmed to me that David Williams was telling the truth. It seemed clear to me that the casino had to know that he was a compulsive gambler and that he was one of their favorites. And they would put him up at night in fancy suites and give him drinks and meals and all these things. So I felt like they were taking advantage of him. And I thought the evidence supported that. And we filed a lawsuit. The lawsuit did not work. It was rejected in federal court. But afterwards Noffsinger started to get phone calls from Arizona Southern California Seattle Mississippi Massachusetts. All gamblers with similar stories. After a while he started keeping track. He is got a list now with about 40 names on it. He told every one of these callers the same thing. I believe you but I cannot help you. Until Bachmann. Since she 