You know how it is been. In the Midwest temperatures have been lower than at the South Pole. In Alabama kids slept in schools. Highways shut down in Florida and Louisiana 'ecause of ice. Drivers in Atlanta ditched their cars and slept inside grocery stores. And in Southern California it was just lovely.  Look at this! This is January! It is like 80! It is beautiful! Sharon Jacobucci moved here from New York City years ago specifically to escape the cold. And she does not understand why the rest of us have not moved. She has a job which puts her next to the beach all day long. A job that frankly does not sound like a fun job. She gives out parking tickets. She is a meter maid. But 'ecause it is on the beach it makes her very very happy. I work all of Venice Beach. Villa Marina all the way to Navy Street. And I write tickets. I impound vehicles. I hug people. I say hello. I socialize. I write more tickets. I impound vehicles. I answer radio call and hug people some more. I work at the beach and get paid to go to the beach! You cannot beat it! Sharon was saying all this to one of our producers Ben Calhoun. They were looking out onto the sand. I like it. And the water. Look at that water! Look at the sand! It is very therapeutic especially when you are writing tickets. Sometimes you just go stand out there and you look and you go God is good. What do you feel when you look out that way? Out to the beach? What cute guy is out there?  What cute guy is out there! What do you want me to say? I am looking at the men! We are at the beach! What else would I be looking at at the beach?  And right then right on cue maybe 10 feet away a young surfer starts taking off his wetsuit. Just look at that! I get to watch the men strip! Look at him over there! Come on honey! This is a great gig!  Sharon lives five blocks from the beach. She told Ben that she knows everybody on Venice Beach. And then he walked with her on her rounds and it was like total love fest nonstop greetings blowing kisses.  Do not listen to a word she says! I love you baby. My honey bunny. Morning baby! Good morning baby! How are you? Fabulous. How are you? All right darlin'. You do know everybody. I just told you that. Have you been watching the weather the last month or so with what is been going on in the rest of the country? I think nothing of it baby. 'ecause I am enjoying my sunshiny view in Venice. I do not think anything about it. Could care less. That is why I moved here. If they do not like that move your butts to Venice. Come to California. Hell even go to Florida! That is your message to them? Yes! Pack your bags and move! Come to California! Come somewhere sunshiny beautiful! Well there is a lot of sympathy for you. Today on our radio show we thought it would just be nice as we shiver as we take our dogs for long walks in freezing temperatures as we feel cold air leak in the windows and seep under our skins we just thought it would be nice to get away from all that. For all of us who cannot take Sharon's advice and move to Venice Beach right this second we can at least spend one hour thinking about places where it is warm. We can use the power of the radio to have a midwinter beach visit. And so today on our radio show let us just get away. Let us all get away. Let us go to the beach. Friends at Huntington and Malibu they are shooting the pier. At Rincon they are walking the nose. They are going on safari on the islands this year. So if you are coming get ready to go. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. David Sedaris later this hour. Stay with us.  Act One Mexican Beach Doctor. Oh hello? Yep I am here now. Hey Alex. Hello little buddy. How are you?  Hi other little buddy.  This first story takes place on a very warm beach in Mexico. Shane DuBow told it to our producer Alex Blumberg. They are old friends. And as we were putting together this week's program Alex remembered this thing that happened to Shane decades ago when Shane was on a kayaking trip in Mexico down in Baja California. Shane and his friends took a month long vacation. And every day they would head out into the Gulf of California and go sea kayaking. They were really kind of in the middle of nowhere. There is little beach communities and some little tourist centers. But mostly what we were doing was finding deserted open beaches and camping. So there was nobody around for most of the time. Wow. So it was just you--and there was how many of them was it you said? Seven? Six seven? There was six or seven. And some people might go fishing some people might play cards some people might snorkel. I think we slept outside a lot. It felt like we were 12 years old pretending to be Robinson Crusoe living off the land. So we carried all our own water all our own food camping supplies tents sleeping bags cooking supplies. Sunscreen I hope. Sunscreen? No we were young then. We just figured it would be fine.  Are you serious? You did not bring any sunscreen? I am sure I did not. So we are in Baja. We are on a layover which means we are just camped somewhere. We are not trying to kayak right now. And we have been clamming all day. And my neck locks up and I cannot turn my head to one side. And this is bad for lots of reasons. But when you are kayaking you have to be able to paddle. You have to be able to use both arms. And this neck locking up this is something that is happened to you periodically throughout your life. Yeah. This happens six to eight times a year. OK. It usually lasts three or four days. Right. But so no one wants to be stuck on the beach while I am working out my neck for three or four days. So we had run into a little ex-pat community on a beach pretty close to where we were camping. These folks were living in campers and had set up little cantinas which were really just stakes with a tarp over them and they would serve beers. Or in our case they showed us how to clam and then they made us a clam feast. So we went back to the guy that had shown us how to do that to his camper on the beach. And I said there is not any chiropractors anywhere nearby? Which was just a ridiculous question 'ecause there was nothing nearby. Right. And I mean this is where it kind of gets apocryphal but is actually true. 'ecause he gets this wistful look in his eye and he says no there is no chiropractor. But there is an amateur chiropractor who helps some of the local people. And his name is Johnny Tequila.  And he lives on a boat two coves over from where you are staying. And if you go to this man he may help you.  It was very mystical. Right. And you were like well you had me at amateur chiropractor.  But once I find out that his name is Dr. Johnny Tequila--   So you said how do you get there? How do I get there? I was like I do not want to miss it. And he is like you will not miss it. I was like well tell me where it is. And so he grabs a bar napkin and in black ballpoint pen I think sketches me a rough outline of the coast and puts an X. There is an X marks the spot. That is where Johnny Tequila is two coves over. No one wants to go with me. They are all gonna chill out play cards. Oh so you had to kayak up to this guy. Yes. So I have to kayak to him. I see. And my friends had taken to teasing me about my paddle stroke which was at this point one-armed and half crippled. And they were calling it the chicken wing. 'ecause of your neck? 'ecause of my neck. Yeah. So I chicken wing for two coves worth. Maybe a mile paddle. And you are really close to the shore and the beach is right on your right and the open ocean is on your left. And you are chicken winging. One cove OK. And I am looking at my-- and my napkin gets wet so my map gets all destroyed comes apart.  'ecause the water's running down your paddle handle? So I chicken wing on over. And there in the second cove is a catamaran in the middle of an empty cove. And I do not want you to get the idea that this is a harbor or a dock or anything man made. Nothing around. And it is docked in the water maybe 20 or 30 yards from shore. And as I paddle closer I do not see anyone. Mm hmm. It is got a cabin. But the mast is up no sail is up. And as I get closer and closer I can see around the mast lined up are empty Cuervo Gold tequila bottles.  But kind of orderly. That was the weird thing. Usually you do not associate empty tequila bottles with order. But these had been meticulously lined up. Ringing the mast. Ringing the mast. And again I am paddling up on a boat in the middle of nowhere with no one else around. And I do not really know how to even start. And from some deep place the word that comes to me is ahoy.   Which I have certainly never used in normal conversation. So I say ahoy! And from out of the cabin comes a completely naked woman. She looks American. Blond hair tanned so deeply it is like the tan that goes to your liver. It is just tan all the way through. Really muscly. Her shoulders looked like she was probably a rafting guide in Colorado. So she is completely naked and completely unphased about being completely naked. Just greets me and talks to me as if she wearing clothes. And she is above me so I am just looking up at her being naked from my kayak holding on to the side of their boat. And I am in my kayak and I said is Johnny Tequila here? And she is very nice and she goes no he went to town for supplies. But he will be back shortly. Why do not you wait until he comes back? And then eventually Johnny Tequila we see him on the beach near us. And he is got a little rowboat and he rows back to us. And he looks exactly like her. I mean he is got on shorts but he is got that tan. He looks kind of muscly in his shoulders and chest and they both have wild bleached out blond hair and real scruffy. Maybe 30s? Although the sun makes everyone look older so who knows? And I tell him my story and he is like yeah of course I will perform some amateur chiropractory on your neck. He did not say that. He said just yeah of course I will help you. Follow me to shore. So he rows and I chicken wing to the shore and we pull our boats up. And then he said follow me. And now we are going-- I want to say jungle but it was not jungle. But it is dense scrub. I mean there is bushes all around us there is cacti. Winding around in the middle of Mexico with no one else for miles and I am following him on this path a really faint path. And we come to a clearing. And in the clearing there is a table exactly like a massage table or a chiropractic table you would see in a real chiropractor's office. With the center part that is open and you could put your face down there. And the neck part articulates and comes up. You know it is the real deal. And a life size human skeleton hanging from a tree. Which I assume is a replica. But it looks like it. A skeleton and the table in a clearing in the middle of the desert in Mexico. And then has me lie on my back looking up at his face and his crazy hair. And he is shirtless. Did I tell you my chiropractor is shirtless? He is shirtless. And he puts his hands around my neck. In the middle of Mexico in a clearing with a skeleton my amateur chiropractor now has my neck in his hands. And he gives me a chiropractic exam that resembles every other chiropractic exam I have received. And then he does an adjustment that also passes as any other chiropractic adjustment I have received. And I say Johnny Tequila thank you for adjusting my neck. Can I pay you? And he said no. I just do this to help people. There will be no payment. But if you ever see me in a bar you can buy me a shot of tequila.  Then the next day was in fact your neck better? Well it is possible I am collapsing time. But the way I remember it I chicken wing back and over the next few hours I start to feel much much better. And the neck is OK. Do you think that Johnny Tequila-- when you think of Johnny Tequila is he an argument for chucking it all and moving to some quiet beach in some distant land or is he an argument against it? He is 100 an argument for. I cannot believe you asked me that question. A simpler life. Just crack people's necks drink tequila sing in the cantina and go home to my naked lady. Did I not tell the story to make it seem good? It seemed great!   Shane DuBow talking to Alex Blumberg in Chicago.  Act Two Long Talk on a Short Pier. Sam Mullins' friend Stesha was born in same month as he was in the same hospital. Their moms were best friends. So of course when they were little kids they became best friends. You know those bathtub pictures that parents take of their kids? There are bathtub shots of Sam and Stesha back when they were little toddlers growing up in this town called Vernon in Canada. Anyway one day his best friend Stesha moves away. He is devastated talks to her now and then. A couple of years pass until one summer. Sam told what happened that summer on stage at a storytelling event called The Flame. It was the summer before he started high school before he turned 13. Which is a really big summer. Because if you think about it you need to prepare yourself to go from a building with finger paintings on the walls to go into a new building with anti-drug ads and there is like condom dispensers in the bathrooms. And when you are sitting in the classroom looking out the window instead of the familiar jungle gym with a slide there is four guys wearing bandannas hot boxing in an Acura Integra. So my plan for the summer was pretty clear. I needed to get cool fast. I wanted to wear the right things to think the right things to do the right things. I was not even concerned about having my own unique style. That first year I just wanted to walk in already the epitome of what a high school boy was. So I went out and I bought a skateboard. And I was really bad at it so I just carried it around with me everywhere. It was more of an accessory than anything. And I started listening to some new music. And I was doing push ups and sit ups and learning some guitar. And I was learning how to handle my voice cracking. The secrets to not having your changing voice crack is to just not be excited or enthusiastic about anything ever.  I needed to learn how to play it cool so that I would be ready to talk to girls. Pardon me. To talk to women. So it was in the middle of this get cool fast regimen when one day my mom burst in. And she is like hey Stesha's on the phone! Pick it up! So I pick it up and Stesha's like hey Sammy! Guess what? I am coming to visit for a few weeks and I am actually going to be in town for my birthday! And I was wondering since I do not have a house in Vernon anymore and since you live on the lake I was thinking maybe I could have my birthday party at your house. And my mind was reeling. This was perfect. Because the best part of having a girl for a best friend is the birthday parties. At every one of Stesha's birthday parties growing up I was always the only guy. And I used to act like it was a drag but it was the best. It was wonderful. So now Stesha's asking me if I would not mind if she brings her 20 beautiful friends over to my-- her beautiful French immersion friends. Which in Vernon that is as exotic as it gets.  So they are gonna come over and put on their bathing suits and swim at my house? And I do not have to lift a finger? This was perfect to me. And this whole birthday would serve as a test at the end of the summer where I can prove to myself that I am cool and I am ready to talk to girls. So it is the day of the party and all the pretty girls are showing up. And everything's going great. I am playing them a burnt CD I just burnt on my new CD burner. It was all the coolest music I could think of. It was mostly just Blink-182. And we were all swimming in the lake and eating barbecue. And I was talking to the girls and catching up with Stesha. And I was doing my best to sit in a semi-reclined position with the sun hitting me at the right angle to accentuate my abdominal muscles. So it is a little bit later on and all the girls are out on the dock and they are all laying in the sun. And two of them are at the end of the dock and they are hitting a volleyball back and forth and they hit the ball into the water. And they are all like ugh I do not want to go in the lake! I am all warm and dry now! And I am like oh my God this is my chance! Time to be a hero. So I stand up and I am like I will get that for you. And I dramatically take off my sunglasses. And my plan was not to merely just hop in the water and retrieve the ball. No no no. My plan was to run to sprint as fast as I can and jump as far as I can. Because even at that age I knew that that is what women really want is someone that can run and jump far.  Right girls? So I took off. And I am running down the center of the dock and there is girls on both sides and everyone's watching me. And I might as well have had a cape on I felt like such a hero. I am running down the dock and with a few feet of dock left trouble. Because we were swimming for a couple of hours so the surface of the dock was really wet and slippery. And I slipped and I hit the deck literally. But I had enough momentum from my heroic sprint that I was now sliding on the surface of the dock. Now had I just slid off the edge and into the water it would have been totally fine. I would have been like Pshaw! That did not even hurt. I am gonna go and get the ball now. But that is not what happened. Because there was a nail up. And the nail cut me. From here to about here. And about here it caught on to my bathing suit.  Now had the bathing suit ripped and then I fell in it would have been OK. Or even if it fully caught my suit and it ejected me from the suit naked into the lake I truly believe that I could have brought it back. That would have been OK. I would have been like Wow what a freak accident! Could you pass me my trunks? I am gonna go and get the ball now. But that is not what happened. Because the good people at Quicksilver make too fine a product and my trunks did not rip. So what happened was I went over the edge and I swung and I hit my head on the pillar. And my legs were straight up in the air kicking like mad. And I am splashing around. My head is half underwater and my penis is out.  So I am upside down and I think I am drowning and I do not know what is happening. I am in fight or flight I am splashing. And what does one do when you are in what you perceive to be a life and death situation? Mom! Mommy! Help Mom! Help Mom!  And what happened next I have to give to you second hand because I was underwater. But legend has it that my mom was inside making a potato salad. And she heard me calling for help and she snapped into action and she knocked the screen sliding door off the track and she was hurdling over lawn furniture and weaving through girls. And she got to me and she pulled me to safety in a matter of seconds. And I was so confused. I was like what what the ? . What the ? And I will always remember my mom whispered in my ear Honey quit cursing.  And I am covered in blood and I am shaking. And I remember I turned my attention to the girls halfheartedly trying to conceal their laughter. And I looked out at the lake and I could see the ball. And it was long gone it was floating away. Thank you.  Sam Mullins. He is a comedian and comedy writer in Vancouver.  Act Three The Beachcomber. OK so the absolute beachiest radio show I think maybe that has ever been made-- I believe anyway-- was done by my first boss at NPR this documentary producer named Keith Talbot. He made this back in 1979. It was called Ocean Hour. And I love that show. Like I say I think it is beachiest radio show mankind will ever produce and here is one of my favorite parts. Just before I play this I should say this is such a piece of 1970s era public radio that there is no narration on the show giving the name of the interviewee who you are about to hear or where he is. That is how we rolled back then. Anyway I hope you like this. Here is a scrounger's life. Everything is like a beachcomber. I have lived as poor as a man can live and still survive in United States of America in the 1970s. Because everything comes here somehow sooner or later. Wood oysters the various other fish that you can get for the asking. Mullet which is the big good eating fish around here along with trout and catfish which come from the rivers. You have the river cat and the salt water cat. They seem to be cousins but they taste a little different. And in addition to all of that you get the kinds of things that the sea brings which is from boats. There is always a certain amount of movement of cargo in boats as well as fish. And firewood around here is for the asking. In a city like New York or Washington firewood I am sure costs 100 a truckload 200. Round here you can go out and fill it up for nothing. There is a theory for example in archaeology that all of the early settlements were on the coast of man. That that is where the easiest life has always been where everything was for the taking and you had the sea and you had the land together and the various mutations between them. And that is where food chains likely start where you have that melting land or that solidifying water. That is where the organisms get their start especially if you have the right climate. As a poor man it means that things are coming to me which do not happen very much on the prairie or in the big cities. Nothing comes to your door in a big city except a cop or a taxi driver or something. But here things will actually come to your door. I have a houseful of found objects and they get more beautiful all the time. And every day I pick up something. All kind of shells and driftwood trees. There is an enormous number of things that nature presents to you. This coast gives a way of life that is really almost-- this is like a myth to me. If you can imagine living like the 19th century 18th century. Thoreau could have lived here. Thoreau could still live here. And yet most people in America think that that has gone. And yet we are in a time warp here. Temporarily because as you see it is going. It is going hourly right now.  An excerpt from Ocean Hour in 1979. A link to that entire program is at our website ThisAmericanLife.org. Coming up David Sedaris and his family go to the beach. Except for one of them. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today after these awful weeks where we have all had to learn the phrase polar vortex to describe daily life in the United States we have decided that we are going to spend an hour getting away from all that with stories of places where it is hot with stories from the beach. We have arrived at Act Four of our show. Act Four Now We Are Five. OK if you are a beach family you go to the beach every year even bad years for your family. That is just what you do. David Sedaris has a story about that happening in his family. The story was recently published in The New Yorker. I am guessing that some of you may have read it. Here at our show we really loved this story and know lots of you have not seen it so here it is. Here's David Sedaris. In late May of last year a few weeks shy of her 50th birthday my youngest sister Tiffany committed suicide. She was living in a room in a beat-up house on the hard side of Somerville Massachusetts and had been dead the coroner guessed for at least five days before her door was battered down. I was given the news over a white courtesy phone while at the Dallas airport. Then because my plane to Baton Rouge was boarding and I was not sure what else to do I got on it. The following morning I boarded another plane this one to Atlanta. And the day after that I flew to Nashville thinking all the while about my ever shrinking family. A person expects his parents to die. But a sibling? I felt I would lost the identity I would enjoyed since 1968 when my brother was born. Six kids? people would say. How do your poor folks manage? There were a lot of big families in the neighborhood I grew up in. Every other house was a fiefdom so I never gave it much thought until I became an adult and my friends started having children. One or two seemed reasonable but anything beyond that struck me as outrageous. A couple Hugh and I knew in Normandy would occasionally come together with their wrecking crew of three. When they would leave several hours later every last part of me would feel violated. Take those kids double them and subtract the cable TV. That is what my parents had to deal with. Now though there were not six. Only five. And you cannot really say there used to be six I told my sister Lisa. It just makes people uncomfortable. I recalled a father and son I would met in California a few years back. So are there other children? I asked. There are the man said. Three who are living and a daughter-- Chloe-- who died before she was born 18 years ago. That is not fair I remember thinking. Because I mean what is a person supposed to do with that? Compared to most 49 year-olds or even most 49 month-olds Tiffany did not have much. She did leave a will though. In it she decreed that we her family could not have her body or attend her memorial service. So put that in your pipe and smoke it! our mother would have said. A few days after getting the news my sister Amy drove to Somerville with a friend and collected two boxes of things from Tiffany's room. Family photos-- many of which had been ripped into pieces-- comment cards from a neighborhood grocery store notebooks receipts. The bed a mattress on the floor had been taken away and a large industrial fan had been set up. Amy snapped some pictures while she was there. And individually and in groups those of us left studied them for clues. A paper plate on a dresser that had several drawers missing. A phone number written on a wall. A collection of mop handles each one a different color arranged like cattails in a barrel painted green. Six months before our sister killed herself I would made plans for us all to gather at a beach house on Emerald Isle off the coast of North Carolina. My family used to vacation there every summer but after my mother died we stopped going. Not because we lost interest but because it was she who always made the arrangements and more importantly paid for it. The place I found with the help of my sister-in-law Kathy had six bedrooms and a small swimming pool. Our week long rental period began on Saturday June 8th and we arrived to find a delivery woman standing in the driveway with seven pounds of seafood a sympathy gift sent by friends. They's slaw in there too she said handing over the bags. In the past when my family rented a cottage my sisters and I would crowd the door like puppies around a food dish. Our father would unlock it and we would tear through the house claiming rooms. I always picked the biggest one facing the ocean. And just as I would start to unpack my parents would enter and tell me that this was theirs. I mean just who the hell do you think you are? my father would ask. He and my mother would move in and I would get booted to what was called the maid's room. It was always on the ground level a kind of dank shed next to where the car was parked. There was never an interior stairway leading to the upper floor. Instead I had to take the outside steps and more often than not knock on the locked front door like a beggar hoping to be invited in. What do you want? my sisters would ask. I want to come inside. That is funny Lisa the eldest would say to the others who were gathered like disciples around her. Did you hear something a whining sound? What is it that makes a noise like that? A hermit crab? A little sea slug? Normally there was a social divide between the three oldest and three youngest children in my family. Lisa Gretchen and I treated the others like servants and did very well for ourselves. At the beach though all bets were off. And it was just upstairs against downstairs meaning everyone against me. This time because I was paying I got to choose the best room. Amy moved in next door and my brother Paul his wife and their 10-year-old daughter Maddie took the spot next to her. That was it for oceanfront. The others arrived later and had to take the leftovers. Lisa's room faced the street as did my father's. Gretchen's faced the street and was intended for someone who was paralyzed. Hanging from the ceiling were electric pulleys designed to lift a harnessed body into and out of bed. Unlike the cottages of our youth this one did not have a maid's room. It was too new and fancy for that as were the homes that surrounded it. Traditionally all the island houses were on stilts. But more and more often now the ground floors are filled in. They all have beachy names and are painted beachy colors. But most of those built after Hurricane Fran hit the coast in 1996 are three stories tall and look almost suburban. This place was vast and airy. The kitchen table sat 12. And there was not one but two dishwashers. All the pictures were ocean related. Seascapes and lighthouses all with the airborne Vs that are shorthand for seagull. A sampler on the living room wall read Old shellers never die they simply conch out. On the round clock beside it the numbers lay in an indecipherable heap as if they would come unglued. Just above them were printed the words Who cares? This was what we found ourselves saying whenever anyone asked the time. Who cares? The day before we arrived at the beach Tiffany's obituary ran in the Raleigh News  Observer. It was submitted by Gretchen who stated that our sister had passed away peacefully at her home. This made it sound as if she were very old and had a house. But what else could you do? People were leaving responses on the paper's website and one fellow wrote that Tiffany used to come into the video store where he worked in Somerville. When his glasses broke she offered him a pair she had found while foraging for art supplies in somebody's trashcan. He said she also gave him a Playboy magazine from the 1960s that included a photo spread titled The Ass Menagerie. This was fascinating as we did not really know our sister very well. Each of us had pulled away from the family at some point in our lives. We would had to in order to forge our own identities to go from being a Sedaris to our own specific Sedaris. Tiffany though stayed away. She might promise to come home for Christmas but at the last minute there would always be some excuse. She missed her plane she had to work. The same would happen with our summer vacations. The rest of us managed to make it I would say aware of how old and guilt trippy I sounded. All of us would be disappointed by her absence though for different reasons. Even if you were not getting along with Tiffany at the time you could not deny the show she put on. The dramatic entrances the nonstop professional grade insults the chaos she would inevitably leave in her wake. One day she would throw a dish at you and the next she would create a mosaic made of the shards. When allegiances with one brother or sister flamed out she would take up with someone else. At no time did she get along with everybody but there was always someone she was in contact with. Toward the end it was Lisa. But before that we would all had our turn. The last time she joined us on Emerald Isle was 1986. And even then she left after three days Gretchen reminded us. As kids we spent our beach time swimming. Then we became teenagers and devoted ourselves to tanning. There is a certain kind of talk that takes place when you are lying dazed in the sun and I have always been partial to it. On the first afternoon of our most recent trip we laid out one of the bedspreads we would had as children and arranged ourselves side by side on it trading stories about Tiffany. What about the Halloween she spent on that Army base? And the time she showed up at Dad's birthday party with a black eye. I remember this girl she met years ago at a party I began when my turn came. She would been talking about facial scars and how terrible it would be to have one. So Tiffany said 'I have a little scar on my face and I do not think it is so awful.' 'Well' the girl said 'you would if you were pretty.' Amy laughed and rolled over onto her stomach. Oh that is a good line. I rearranged the towel I was using as a pillow. Idnot it though? Coming from someone else the story might have been upsetting. But not being pretty was never one of Tiffany's problems especially when she was in her 20s and 30s and men tumbled helpless before her.