One of my coworkers here at This American Life Robyn was visiting New Orleans two years ago on a family vacation. And they had never been to New Orleans before. And they took one of those bus tours of the city-- you know where it would show you the sights and the French Quarter. And then there was some you know look at this telephone pole. You can see the mark for how high the water got during Hurricane Katrina. The tour guide was an older black man a local. She said he was really good. And there is this one moment during the tour that really stuck out. It was late in the tour. They are driving to the Lower Ninth Ward. And as we were coming toward it our tour bus guide says so look. We used to go down into this area the Lower Ninth Ward. It was really badly hit in the storm. You know that. But we stopped going down there because we learned that the people there just really-- they did not like the tours. They do not like the tours. They do not want people to come in and look at them and stare at them and look at how bad it is. And so we are not going to go in there. And it stuck with me. I just believed that he was saying something that meant something to him. It seemed like he was saying something sincere like we do not do this and we are not doing it for the right reason. And so I will show you some other stuff. But this is off-limits. The tour guide may have been sincere. But in addition it is illegal for tour buses to go into the Lower Ninth Ward. The city council made it illegal starting in 2006 because buses were in the way of cleanup crews. But the rule was widely ignored till 2012 when homeowners went to the city council to finally get it enforced. It really made me angry. I felt as if you are looking at me through an eye that says oh look there is another little animal in the zoo. Gwen Adams is one of the homeowners who went to the city council about the bus tours. Kim Ford's another homeowner. I am not saying that they will come in here to gawk at people no. I do not think there is anything mean spirited about it at all. I think they have a genuine interest to want to know how are the people doing what is going on with them. I get that. But guess what? That is not the way you do that. It was just so impersonal people say. That is part of what felt so weird. Back when I was in school like every day I look outside there is like a tour bus coming through. And there is like 50 60 people on the bus-- the big air-conditioned super comfortable ones. You would never see who was on the buses because they would not get off. They just come through and then leave. This is Jamal Preston. He is 18 just graduated high school. His family returned to the Lower Ninth two years after Katrina. Like they are coming through just for the sake of like oh look at how terrible-- sympathy aw. But your sympathy is because something bad happened to people. Your sympathy is not based on the people that you actually met in the neighborhood that had to deal with it. It is a whole different level. The 10th anniversary of Hurricane Katrina is this month. You probably heard that. There is been a ton of coverage-- remembering what happened and stories about the rebuilding. But the Lower Ninth this place that the bus tour will not take you into is a special case because this is the part of the city that was not supposed to come back. You remember this right after the storm? City officials said forget it. Do not get anybody back there. The mayor's planning commission wanted to turn it to green space basically a public park. And when they decided to not make it a green space? I guess well then-- excuse my French-- but enough hell was raised they figured they better do something different. This is Henry Irvin one of the hell raisers 79-year-old who is been called the mayor of the Lower Ninth by New Orleans' actual mayor. And then a lot of people started coming back. And then the city put in a lot of stumbling blocks too see. Investigative reporter Gary Rivlin did a nice summary of those stumbling blocks recently. The Lower Ninth was the last neighborhood in the city to get electricity and drinking water. Residents were allowed back months after they were allowed into other neighborhoods. FEMA trailers were slower to arrive here. Only one school was reopened and that only happened after teachers and parents cut the padlock on the building and marched on the superintendent's office. Meanwhile money allocated for homeowners to rebuild their houses-- 10 billion of assistance for Katrina victims throughout Louisiana was distributed by the state in a way that discriminated against black homeowners. That is what a federal judge ruled in 2010. And it is black homeowners who are in the Lower Ninth. Because of all this most people did not come back. The population of the ward is a little less than half of what it was before the storm. So half the homes are back. And they are bunched up at the bottom end of the ward the high ground near the Mississippi with bit patches of nothing in the top half where Mr. Irvin lives. They started working on that house. This house has been totally repaired. This house they have not done anything on it. And are they going to tear that down? They are going to be able to . . I would seen pictures of the Lower Ninth Ward-- probably you have too. But they did not prepare me for what it is like to drive around the north half of the ward the part above North Claiborne Street. It is like wilderness. But it is a very orderly wilderness-- a grid of streets laid out like a town waiting for developers who never showed up-- which you know it is-- tall grass filling the space between lots. So there was a grocery store here on this corner one time. Now it is just a foundation there. It is just a foundation that is all. This used to be  school right here. It is just an empty piece of land. Outside the Lower Ninth in the rest of the city the population is 90 back to what it was before the storm. Who you meet when you travel around the Lower Ninth are just some very willful people who have dealt with some of the worst destruction in the city and who are dealing with a lot of ghosts. It is still not clear exactly how many people in New Orleans died in Katrina. The official count is about 1000 a third of those by drowning. More of those were in the Lower Ninth than any other neighborhood. Today on our program we are going to take you on a walking tour of the Lower Ninth. We are going to make six stops. And at each stop we are going to do what the bus tour cannot do. We are going to meet some people. And think about this for a second. This is the neighborhood that the city did not want to exist. This is the neighborhood that has come back the least from Katrina. So of all the extreme situations you could get into after the storm these people have been in the most extreme. So what is that been like? Well from WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. We find out. Stay with us. OK so like I said this is going to be a walking tour. And our first stop is going to be the northeast corner of St. Claude Avenue and Gordon Street. So face the street. Just to orient you real fast the Lower Ninth is basically a rectangle with water on three sides of the rectangle. So as you stand here facing the street the Mississippi is a few blocks in front of you. The bayou is a little ways behind you. And the Industrial Canal's to your right a bunch of blocks. It is all pretty close. The Lower Ninth is just 20 blocks wide-- just a little over a mile. And if you turn around now and you face this building on the corner what you see is a two-story building. And the first story is faded brick. And those bricks were damaged during Katrina by rescue boats that knocked into it. A Wildlife and Fisheries guy told the current owner of this building 50 people were rescued from the balcony on the second floor. So back in the day locals will tell you that this was a medical clinic. These days it is a cafe-- well more than a cafe. You see the hand lettered sign out front that lists red bean and rice special ribs computer service VA benefits seafood. And the guy that we are here to talk to is one of those people who has thrown his whole life now into trying to push the Lower Ninth into the future Kirk Washington. Everybody just calls him Washington. Robyn spent a bunch of time with him. Washington is the least retired retired person I have ever met thanks to Katrina. He opened this cafe. Ah it is  in the cafe baby. Every day but Sunday when the cafe's closed he is here. Washington's a retired postal worker. He did not know anything about running a cafe. After Katrina he just saw that there was no place to send a fax or photocopy anything or look stuff up online which you need to do with construction permits and home inspectors and FEMA and the city. So he thought I will build that. Then he kept going with other things they needed-- food a game room with pool tables a small clothing store a recording studio. One day I watched him help a resident apply for a home loan rack a pool table for some kids cook burgers and sandwiches for six people and fax someone's proof of employment all in under an hour. He also rents rooms to people for cheap-- he owns two houses-- so folks can afford to get back on their feet. He does all this for one reason. To benefit the neighborhood to bring the neighborhood back you know. Washington's lived in the Lower Ninth Ward since the late '70s. He bought his house in the '80s bought the property next door to it too fixed them both up. He stayed during Katrina because he is one of those people who always stays during a hurricane. An estimated 2000 people in the Lower Ninth Ward decided to stay. 10 years later he thinks all the time about that decision to stay. I have been all over the world. I have been all through Vietnam everywhere. When that hurricane hit I had never been that scared before in my whole life-- my whole life. I have been through a whole lot of things scary scary things but that was as scared as I have ever been in my whole life. Here's how Washington survived the storm. Sunday the 28th the mayor orders the mandatory evacuation. That night Washington is at home with three of his neighbors-- the Taylors from next door and Isaac from across the street. They plan on riding out the storm together. Early morning on the 29th the hurricane hits winds over a hundred miles per hour. Washington calls the flying debris shrapnel because it would kill you. At his house the group is not sure what to do. I said this is going to be dangerous man. I said you all could stay if you all want. But if you all want to go I think you all should go and buckle down. Everyone goes home. The levees fail. The entire Lower Ninth Ward floods. All I could hear was this when that water came. I could hear little babies howling and screaming. I could hear ladies hollering and screaming. I heard my neighbor hollering and screaming. The air was full of noise people that was in dire need for someone to help them. I mean people was really drowning. They were drowning. And you know there was nothing you could do. That was the hardest part about things. What can you do? I mean you cannot go out there the wind is still-- you still have shrapnel flying all through the air. The water's rising so fast that hey you know how are you going to negotiate the water? Yeah I could swim. But guess what? I do not want to take no chances getting into the water. It was one thing that nobody should want to experience in their whole life. It got to the point that our neighbors we started coming out to survey what was going on. Well one of my neighbors drowned. One of your friends who was in your house earlier that night? Yes. That was Isaac. His full name was Isaac Castle. He was 58.  You feel you was a failure you know what I am saying? Because you could help but you did not. But it is the thing inside you that says well man I could have did more than what I did. And it just kind of gets to you a little bit because this person is gone you know. And I did not do anything about it. But I thought he was going to be safe. He could not swim. He could not swim. Washington got picked up by a Wildlife and Fisheries boat and made his way to Baton Rouge. Two days after Katrina he got himself to a Dodge dealership figuring no matter what he is going to need a car. And that is where standing alone in a used car lot exhausted he started to feel something for the first time in days. Of all the destruction and all the death and all the hollering and screaming is just hit me. I mean it was just like a whole three-story building just crushing me like a tornado going around in my head. It was just like wow all these things have happened and I am just blinking my eyes and just seeing all of them at one time. It was just like a nightmare. I came to reality like man man look. Did I go through all this? I am really alive and this really did happen. You know what I am saying? Everything that happened everything that happened this is real. This is real. It just hit me. It just hit me. What happened? You started crying? Yeah. That was it. People they was standing watching. And they could not deal with it so they went in the room. And they talk and talk and talk. And one of the guys came after he saw me. I quieted down some. The salesman? Yeah. He said man I have a car for you. He said you could get it right now. We are not going to charge you too much. So I pay in cash for the car. And I got on the highway. It was just one thing after another. He bought a white truck drove it to Corpus Christi Texas and back home three weeks after the storm during a time when most people were not allowed back into the Lower Ninth Ward. Washington says his veterans ID card worked as a pass. And he rebuilt both his houses one piece of sheet rock and one birchwood panel at a time. I spent a lot of time talking with Washington on three different days. And he never bragged or complained about anything. But I wanted to know what he lost in the storm which is how I learned about the cars. I lost a Mercedes Benz. I lost a Jaguar. I lost a BMW. I lost a Ford F-150. He told me he got them right after he retired. He took his savings and bought them at auction a car a year for four years. He got the last one just a year before the storm. He loved driving around in those cars. It was indulgent after a life of saving money and working at the post office. I do not talk about it that much. But when I get in my car I am sick as a dog because I do not have these cars. I really do not want another one of those cars because it is going to remind me and I feel that I am going to be more sicker than what I am. You will be more upset? Yeah. Sick sick to my stomach like this thing in your stomach-- nerves probably. Your stomach hurts a lot? It just has that little funny feeling. And when I get that funny feeling I know it is something that is triggering it and it is coming from my mind. It is coming from my head. Here's the tangle for Washington. He is throwing all this energy into rebuilding and making everything new again. But all the new stuff that he has now like his new bathroom and his new house his new business everything new reminds him of what was old daily. Brushing his teeth with running water reminds him of when after the storm he could not do that. Turning on a light reminds him how for a while after the storm he did not have electricity. It does not stop no matter how he tries to keep busy. I need things to do so that I will not get caught up in this mind thing you know what I am saying. So in order for me not to I have to occupy my mind with something. I have to because if I do not my mind is going to play tricks on me. Do you daydream? Sometimes. OK. I hate daydreaming. Do you have nightmares? Sometimes. You see that? Sometimes. It is constant. Do you have illusions of things while you are driving? Like you are driving your car and you think that you driving this Mercedes Benz or this Jaguar? You see what I am saying? I mean I cannot hide from it. It is real. I know it is there. I know what the symptoms are. I know it is impossible for me to treat it. It is impossible because daily things are going to bring me to it. Talking to you right now is bringing me to it. I walk out the front of my house and I look over at that door I see my friend. I see Isaac. Then I have to let it go. Let it go. I come down this street. When I am looking down from the bridge up there I am seeing nothing but the top of houses all water. And I am riding down the same street. I mean what? It is constant. It is something that-- the hurricane was just five years ago. 10 years. 10 years ago. Look at that. It is there. It is still there. It is just there. Washington points to people in his cafe. They are mostly storm survivors. He says talk to them. They are suffering too. He tells me about a customer a woman who lost her home in the storm has completely rebuilt it but will not move back in. Washington does not think she ever will. She is afraid he says. You can see it in her eyes when she talks about the house. I tell him I think I know what he means. I can see fear in his eyes too. He laughs and says no you cannot see it. You have to have gone through it to understand. Robyn Semien. We are on a walking tour of the Lower Ninth this hour. Kirk Washington's house is all the way on the bottom of the Lower Ninth right near the Mississippi. That is higher ground. That is the part of the Lower Ninth that survived the most. Houses are jammed together here and most of them are occupied. And just a two-minute walk from Washington's house five blocks away there is a bar that Kim Ford who you heard at the top of the show brought one of our producers Zoe Chace to. She was like go to this bar. It is the best. Call out the street name. Tell America. America this is Lizardi and Burgundy. And this place is a staple in the Lower Ninth Ward Mercedes Bar. Everybody in the Lower Ninth Ward knows this place. Mercedes Bar is one of the few bars they have here now. One local told us it was nine bars before Katrina. It is just two now. This is the second stop on our tour. As you face the building you can see that it is neatly painted white with green trim around the windows little New Orleans fleur-de-lis in gold and black. It looks well taken care of which is not true of the street in front of it you will notice if you turn that way. So many streets in the Lower Ninth are just awful and this is one of them. Lots of potholes and they are big potholes. And if you pull in there you are going down in a hole. The streets are horrible. A little bit of rain and it is water everywhere. You cannot even park here. The owner of the bar Mercedes Gibson says that the holes in the street are costing her customers and they are costing her money. And it is hard to pay the light bill at this point. Zoe spent some time with her and her customers. The holes in the streets are a real problem for Mercedes because neither she nor her customers are young. Well I describe it as a friendly bar and settle-aged people. I do not fool with youngsters. Settle-aged people like the bartender Mercedes' daughter Sharon. She polls the bar for me real quick to prove how dire the Lizardi Street parking situation really is. How far did you all have to park to get here? . Block away. A block and a half. Two. I parked two blocks away. . Are you all young people or senior citizens? I am a senior citizen. I do not know about the rest of them but I am young.  I am almost 70 years old. And I am 71 young. Are you all happy about walking a block and a half to get here? No!  So I sit with the settle-aged at a long table in the middle of the bar. Are you running away? Uh-uh. No I am . Have a seat. OK. I ask about the storm and it is like it just happened. The switch clicks right off the potholes and onto scenes from 10 years ago. Jean Gibson is nursing Crown Royal and water. She is a young-looking 60-year-old. During the storm she was with her first husband and two grandkids. They evacuated to Houston first and stayed in a hotel for a while. I was in one but they put me out. Why? Why? Because our money ran out.  Their credit card hit the limit. When she went to the ATM she found out that her bank back in New Orleans was out. The ATMs could not connect. She was stuck in Texas with no money. So she did something she never thought she would have to do. And that was to beg to sit on a curb with a one- and a two-year-old in Dallas with nowhere to go. And I sat on the curb because they needed Pampers they needed food. And I sit at that Kmart parking lot. And I sat on that curb and I begged every car that came out that parking lot. Keep this in mind. Jean was a middle class lady a homeowner living comfortably. Before Katrina she says one paycheck paid all her bills for the month. She worked for the city. She ran the benefits department for all the city workers. I mean I wore 95 blouses to work. I had Coach pocketbooks. And my husband was an extremely sharp dresser. Oh he was a sharp dresser-- good-looking sharp-dressing man. He wore 75 belts. That was nothing for us. This is the person who found herself begging for help in a parking lot saying things like-- If you could just give me some Pampers. Just some pampers and food for the children. You do not have to give me nothing just some food for the children. And a white guy in a black pickup truck he said miss you from New Orleans? And I said yes sir. I said my children are hungry. And they are still in the same diapers for three days. I would take the diaper and scrape the diaper and put it back on them because I had no choice. And the man he took me in Kmart and bought me a box of Pampers and some of them macaronis. But I had nowhere to-- The noodles? The noodles. But I did not nowhere to cook it. So I took them I opened them and I put that little sauce in them and they ate dried noodles. And they were kids. That is a treat for them. . I do not know about nobody else but I tried it. It taste good.  Then we stayed there overnight in the car kids hollering. They are hungry. I just kept washing my underwear in the gas station bathroom and putting them back on wet.  The man at the Exxon Station told me miss because you are from New Orleans I am going to let you keep coming in here everyday and wash your underwear. That is the least you could do you know? I was trying to sneak in there because I did not want the people to know I am going to wash my drawers. Think about what that must be like to have your life change so abruptly no transition. And I wanted to know did she feel like she was suddenly a different person? No she says. That is not what happens. She says you get very practical. It is just how do you solve the next problem? All you think about is what am I going to do? Well I am just going to beg. Had you ever begged before? Oh god no. Did you go up to people's cars? Yes. Yes. I had the one-year-old in my arm and the other one I was holding his hand. And as people passed I would even bang on their window. Really? Yes. And ask them can you please help me? Please help me and my babies. Because of the way I looked they must have thought I was a crackhead or something you know using the babies. And let me tell you the reason I thought that was because I used to think that. Jean moved around Texas for a month. Then she got a call five weeks after she left. Come back to your job in the city of New Orleans. And she thought maybe things are finally going to be OK. I never really thought I lost my life. That sounds crazy. I mean I thought I was going to come sweep my house out. With a broom. With a broom. You know I knew the streets would probably have some dirt in it. Driving into New Orleans early October. It was pitch black no lights just a few big military spotlights like a movie set a movie set of a war zone-- soldiers everywhere the hotels with the windows blown out the streets coated in mud and white dirt and so empty. And I said Lord have mercy look at my city. And it hit me yeah. It did hit me. But when I came across this canal I knew there was no humanly way possible that this Ninth Ward could ever come back. The people that you knew I do not see nobody that I know. People who know you you know them know your mama know your daddy know your brothers know where you live know you all had a black dog one time-- I am talking about those people. I am talking about people you did your first communion with and the people that would tell your mama you did something wrong. You will never see them again. So who am I? I do not know. Here is the identity crisis not in the parking lot begging for food. She just did not know until she got home to New Orleans that there is no chance of being who she was before. Jean's house is completely rebuilt. Like other houses here I have seen it kind of looks like a Pottery Barn showroom-- not lived in for very long new matching furniture nice though spacious. She is still working for the city. She has a new husband now. The husband she made it through the storm with he died in 2007. Now she is married to the son of Mercy D. Mercedes the bar owner. And she has this new big big family to go with him. They gather at Mercedes Bar almost every day. And so it is like yeah you have a new life. But it looks like a good life. Is it a good life? Looks are deceiving. You make do with what you have. And you try every day to get that other life back-- yes every day. Every every day. But it is not coming back. But that is OK. Tomorrow coming. I ought to be able to get some little piece of it. And there is tomorrow coming. It does not come back. Zoe Chace is one of the producers of our show. Coming up drive your Chevy to the levee to where the levee was not dry. That is in a minute when our tour of the Lower Ninth continues from WBEZ Chicago when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today on our program we have a tour of the Lower Ninth Ward the part of New Orleans that has come back the least since Hurricane Katrina hit 10 years ago this week. We have arrived at the third stop at our tour the corner of Jordan Avenue and North Prieur Street right across from one of the levees that collapsed a decade ago. If you stand here facing south with the levee to your right-- well first of all this is the part of town where Brad Pitt bought a bunch of houses with the Make it Right Foundation after the storm. And you see some of those right in front of you. They are boxy and moderne. Lots of them have solar panels. There are also a couple of regular houses on the streets some overgrown yards. The levee itself across those houses has a grassy embankment with a 14-foot concrete wall at the top. And most people you talk to down here will tell you the same thing about what happened right here at this spot on the levee on August 29 2005. It was dynamited in six places on the Industrial Canal. They got people that live on this street who will go to their grave and tell you that they heard the dynamite. And they heard an explosion and then the water start coming up the streets. That is just to keep the water from going downtown Bourbon Street. Because they did not get no water. They just blew the damn thing and send it this way. Lots of people heard an explosion. And lots of people say it was the government. The government blew up the levees to get black people out of the Lower Ninth. Lucrece Phillips lived on the other side of the canal. And she said flooding had started that morning but it was not much-- like as high as your car tires. Then all of a sudden we hear a boom like the windows were sucked out. Now we have them taped and all so they just wanted to blast but they could not. After the boom then the water went from the tire of the car to the second floor so fast. I think they blew the levees and they redirected the water from downtown. In the last decade there is been a ton of investigation into what caused this boom and what blew up the levees. The big official investigations did not find evidence of dynamite or of anybody blowing up the levees on purpose. So the question is what made the boom? Well the consensus is that it was not one boom. There were lots of booms coming from a few different sources like for instance when the levee on the north side of the Lower Ninth Ward cracked and toppled over at 400 or 500 in the morning of the storm. That would have made a huge boom like a thick branch snapping in half and then water would have rushed in. Other booms came from electrical transformers blowing up and from a massive barge that banged against the Industrial Canal levee later that morning like somebody beating on a huge empty steel trashcan one expert told me till it came over the levee and landed in the Lower Ninth. But it is also clear that people are not crazy to believe the levees were dynamited by the government. They believe that for some very good reasons. For starters the government's done it before. It is very real. It very much happened. And you combine that with the sound of the boom and it is not surprising that that theory has life. John Barry has served on the levee board responsible for protecting New Orleans the Southeast Louisiana Flood Protection Authority East. But he is a journalist. And before that he wrote a great book called Rising Tide about the 1927 flood that caused more devastation than Katrina did and that led city officials to decide that they were going to save downtown New Orleans by blowing up the levees in an area where poor people lived a spot that is just a 20-minute drive from the Lower Ninth. All this with the consent of the governor federal government and the president. They had to promise to pay for reparations to everyone who was damaged. 95 of the people who ended up being flooded out by this dynamiting were white. But they had no political power. Many of them did not speak English. They spoke an 18th century Spanish. They were referred to as Islenos. Most of them came from the Canary Islands. And it was dynamited. And it was kind of hard to do right? It was very difficult to do. That was a very good levee. They just had to keep going back and blowing it up again and again. That is correct. How many people were displaced? Roughly 10000. And did the government pay reparations? Well it was the city of New Orleans that was supposed to pay the reparations. And the city pretty much stiffed everyone who they had made promises to. There is another good reason that people believe that the government wanted them out and blew up the levees to do it. Gwen Adams who you heard at the beginning of the show talked to me about this. It is a more immediate reason a more personal reason. It is so believable because when people were interested in coming back to see what they needed to do in order to rebuild they said you cannot do that because we are going to green space this area. We wanted to come back and see what our property looked like. They held us off at gunpoint. When you attempted to get permits to rebuild they fought you tooth and nail at City Hall with permitting for every little thing. FEMA housing money was distributed with a formula that made it harder for families in the Lower Ninth to rebuild. City services running water schools arrived so much later in the Lower Ninth. In other words it is the things that the city and state did after the flood that made the idea that the government just wanted everybody out and it might have blown up the levees to achieve that seem so very credible. Well we have arrived at the fourth stop on our tour a little block called El Dorado. It just has a handful of houses on it. Face north on this block and you see an empty lot that is overgrown and smelly. And if you turn and face south you see two nicely rebuilt bright blue houses. How you doing? Good. How you doing? I am good. When Zoe from our program happened upon this street this guy Roy Bradley called out to her from his porch. You were the first house? Said he was the first house back on the block. And now they were trying to take his house. Come up he said. Come on up. OK. I am a radio reporter. OK. So I have a microphone . That is fine. What I am going through I need all the something. No I can tell. It is a-- it is a-- I can tell. Just saying. You are like bring that microphone over here. Please. Roy was dressed for football season though it was still summer-- a New Orleans Saints shirt Saints hat Saints slippers Saints socks. Zoe stuck around to get to know him a little bit. Roy's 46 and he is lived in the Lower Ninth for 46 years. Right awa