We have been doing a lot of stories lately on the radio show about police. And they have been pretty heavy we know. This is not a story like that. In fact kind of the opposite. When Miles and Katie's apartment was robbed they knew this was not going to be a big case. And if you got right down to it they did not have a problem with that. New York City cops arrived after the burglary. They had probably just come from some sort of situation where someone had gotten stabbed in the neck. And now they are in these kind of yuppies' apartment and we are running down this laundry list of things that had been stolen. And the list is like-- Oh it is so embarrassing. It is like an iPad an iPod an Xbox. They have got bigger problems. Yeah they got bigger fish to fry. Surveillance video from the building showed that the culprits were three teenagers who took the elevator to the top floor probably jumped down onto a balcony and then walked into Katie's and Miles' apartment through a sliding glass door. Then there is video of them leaving the building. Three teenage guys with three of our backpacks stuffed full. Wow so they are using your backpacks? Our own backpacks. So they did not even have any plans on how they are going to carry this out? I guess not. It did not seem like a very well-thought-out caper. This was more of a-- let us break into this building and see if someone's dumb enough to leave their sliding glass door open. Of all the things they lost the only thing that they actually cared about was their video camera. And they only cared about that because it had their wedding video on it-- the only copy. Katie filmed the wedding to show her brother but had not yet. My brother who I am really close to could not come to the wedding. And so it was really sentimental and I really wanted it back. And I was really upset. I was really really sad about it. So the morning after the burglary knowing the police were not going to be much help on this one Katie decides to jump into action herself. She goes onto Craigslist to see if the thieves have put her camera up for sale there. And boom she finds it immediately. Same camera in the same bag with all the accessories that she had specially bought for the camera. It had to be hers. And she calls the detectives on the case tells them the good news. Like I can get my camera and I can probably put these guys in jail. And he just immediately shoots me down and says you know there is no way of really knowing if that is your camera. We cannot help you with anything. The only way we would be able to help you is if you got the guy to give you a serial number off the camera and if you happen to still have the serial number from the camera and they match. And I think he was just thinking like that'ill never happen. Katie however saves all her warranties in a special folder. She does have the serial number. And to confirm that it is the same as the advertised camera she calls the guy on Craigslist and she concocts this story that she is a girl who needs to buy the camera for a school project. She puts on this supposedly tough-sounding Brooklyn accent that I would describe as kind of the Brooklyn accent you would hear performed by a kid actor on the Disney Channel. I made her do this for me. You do not want to hear it. And I told him that my boyfriend was going to kick my ass if I spent our last 300 buying a camera that broke the next day. And so Do you have the warranty for the camera? And he said No. He was like Uh I got this camera from my friend so there was no warranty with it. I was like OK well do you know like is there a way to find out if it is still under warranty? And he said Well I think you can find out if the camera's under warranty if you go online. And I was like OK well what do I need to do? And he was like Well I think you need to have the serial number. So you did not actually just ask him for the serial number. You wanted him to suggest the serial number? Yeah. Yeah. Because I thought if I asked him for the serial number then he would know right away what I was trying to do. Wow. So I was trying to get him to say it. She asked him Can you read me the serial number? And he says he does not have the camera with them. He will have to call her back. And she figures oh that is it. The jig is up. He knows she is lying. He will never call back. As Miles points out this story that she has made up it really makes no sense at all. Like OK she is got a sociopath boyfriend. Who would beat up his girlfriend over the very nerdy error of buying a video camera that was not under warranty.   It was not like he was drunk and he found her cheating on him or anything. He was like he is violent enough to beat somebody up but only if they buy a video camera that we do not have a warranty for. IN HOLLYWOOD BROOKLYN ACCENT Because God forbid something should happen you know and this camera breaks down. We cannot get our money back! We cannot get it repaired! You know what is gonna happen. It is like what? And then the guy calls back. Gives her the serial number. Of course it matches. Katie calls the detective to let him know. He says Oh really? Well what should we do?  And I was like You tell me what we should do. You are the detective. And he says Of course we will do a sting. Call the guy and arrange to buy the camera from him. Set a location. We will be there too. We will swoop in. We will nab him. 15 minutes later the police arrive to take Katie and Miles to the sting. Katie runs downstairs to meet the detective on the street. He tells me that there is been a change of plans. He does not need my husband to come anymore. He only needs me. I am not going to meet the burglar face-to-face anymore because it is not safe. And so he is got a different plan of how we are going to do this. At that point Miles arrives downstairs. I turn around to him and I just say Change of plans. They do not need us both anymore. They just need me. It is not safe for you to go. I will call you when it is over.   And he is like stunned. LAUGHING 'ecause that is not alarming at all. LAUGHING Yeah. Miles watches her get into the car and drive off. Inside the car Katie says the detectives tell her the new plan. She is going to stay in the car and talk to the guy on the cellphone keep him talking as the cops go and grab them-- though they are very skeptical. Basically saying like The chance of this working out is so small. Like This is never going to happen. Do not get your panties in a bunch. She and the Craigslist guy agree to meet at a CVS drugstore. Cops go inside. Then on the cellphone Katie asks him OK What are you wearing? so she can recognize him. She tells him OK I am in the make-up aisle. I am like Oh I am by the CoverGirl makeup. He starts walking down the aisle I guess and he says Oh I still do not see you. And at that point I hear Hands up! You are under arrest. And the same detectives who were brushing me off the entire ride out there then are walking over to the car with the video camera in hand high-fiving each other. And I hear them say like That was some real police work. Great detective work. The police could not be more surprised to be making this arrest. And to be fair as Miles pointed out it is crazy that it worked. There is so many different stages where the criminal should have bailed out you know? Like the fact that she comes up the story about I need the warranty. He calls her back. He makes the effort to call her back and said Did not you need a serial number for the warranty? It is like what? Like I cannot believe that he is playing along with it. Honestly like you do not get that level of service from real stores.  You do not. See but that is the whole thing is that she is an amateur sleuth but he is also an amateur criminal. Right. And this is the moment where they meet up. Right. So there would be no way a detective would ever spend the amount of time that it would take to concoct this ruse to go after this camera. So the only way that it could ever be solved would be if two amateurs met up. Well from WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today on our program amateurs-- the fact that they are not professionals that they do not play by the book that they have time on their hands to try whatever makes it possible for them to accomplish things the pros simply never will. We have three stories including amateurs stepping into one of the most powerful jobs in the world and one of the most commonplace. Stay with us.   Act One Theater of War. Sometimes a big professional outfit that is great at one thing takes on a task at which it has no experience at all and really no special aptitude for in any way. It is a rank amateur. Jack Hitt has this example. Back when the first President Bush was in office Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait. And for the first time since Vietnam really America returned to the battlefield. Derrick Brown felt called. And so he wound up at Fort Bragg North Carolina one of the largest military bases in the world. Back then about 40000 soldiers-- most famously the 82nd Airborne and other Ready Units that can be deployed in 18 hours. Fort Bragg is America's waiting room for war. When Derrick first arrived he was trained as a paratrooper. You know you would wake up at 500 in the morning. Then you would deploy out to the field. You would do a jump from 800 feet. I was an artilleryman so they would throw the tanks out of the planes. Then they would throw us out of the planes. So you would do these mock war exercises where people would try and attack you and kill you and you would be out in the cold and you would be digging more foxholes and just seeing how ground down you could possibly be so that when the time comes for war your body and mind have been pushed as far as possible. Every once in a while there would be something else-- a volunteer duty. I remember the captain of our unit he said he had this strange detail which was we had to mandatorily send one soldier from our battery to be a part of this musical. And it would last several weeks. You would not have to do any field duty but you would have to sing and dance. And everyone thought he was joking. And I raised my hand. And he said Great. Report to the Fort Bragg theater today. Were you the only person who volunteered for this? I was the only person who volunteered. And they had me sit in this room and this director first had everyone audition. And he asked if I knew of any songs that I could sing from any musicals. And I said Not at all. I had never sang or danced in my life except while running and singing cadences and Jody calls in the military. And he said Well just sing me something. And I remember singing Even Flow by Pearl Jam. Can you give a couple of lines? It is--  SINGING Even--  SINGING Even flow thoughts arrive like-- I think I was just impersonating Eddie Vedder the whole time.  OK. And somehow they thought it was good enough. And it turns out that no one was turned away. In rehearsals Derrick quickly got a sense that something different was going on here. This was not just your average musical revue. What kind of dancing are you doing? It is march dancing. I do not know if you have seen it but it is the director's idea to combine the honor and discipline of military movements with the bravado and panache of Broadway movements. But the thing Derrick remembers most more than 20 years later was not the song-and-dance numbers. It was the stuff in between. There were short films projected on the screen above the performers. And they were opposite of lighthearted entertainment-- grim testimonials about soldiers who'd died. Not in combat but drunk driving and in other accidents near the base all done in a dark bluntness one rarely sees outside driver's ed movies. We would go from show tune to a video on the screen of a fellow soldier that they would interviewed talking about how one of their fellow soldiers their friend died. And then-- uh-oh surprise! We would sing a show tune. And it was this progression of dance sad video sing a bit sad video. And then some guys come rappelling out of the ceiling for the closing number at the end of the hour for the final chance to cheer everyone up so they leave feeling inspired. It was insane. We would have discussions backstage which is what the-- what are we doing? Why are we doing this? How did this-- how did this thing even come to be? Excellent questions. How did one of the most straitlaced no-nonsense institutions in the entire country the US Army end up producing this piece of Dada musical theater? I wanted answers. So I went straight up the chain of command. Yes I am General Carl Stiner US Army retired. And I was the Commander of the 82nd Airborne Division during 1987 and 1988. General Stiner was at Fort Bragg. And he confirmed that yes for a while in the '70s '80s and early '90s there was this annual show which the entire base was required to attend. So there were three or four performances a day for a week or so during the Christmas season which is when accidental deaths spiked. We realized that we were having more casualties from off-duty activities-- mainly motorcycles-- than from thousands of parachute jumps and heavy equipment drops. You know we just needed to do something about it. Stiner told me that some years for every death of a soldier during training exercises there were almost 10 killed getting drunk and driving crazy. Wartime deaths we all know about and after-war PTSD. But this was a whole other kind of statistic-- pre-combat deaths-- which come when tens of thousands of teenagers anxiously awaiting war get pumped up jumping out of planes and firing heavy artillery. How could some beer and say a motorcycle possibly affect them? Originally the base had ordered mandatory safety lectures. But the soldiers just slept through them. So the United States Defense Department the greatest fighting force ever to march on the planet decided they would try show tunes. And that is the origin of what came to be called The Soldier Safety Show. I interviewed a dozen veterans from this era and they all remember the weird mash-up of gut-wrenching testimonials and cheery eye-high leg kicks. They all said You had to see it to believe it. And I wanted to believe it. When I called Stiner he told me that he had a videotape of one of the shows. You know I had a VCR of it. But age caused the thing to self-destruct. You could not even tell what it was the pictures and so on. And so we struck out. I will not bore you with the details. But finding a videotape literally took months. The public school library had a set of Soldier Safety Shows but not long before I called they went full-on digital and junked all their old school audiovisual stuff. A Freedom of Information request came up completely dry. Finally I happened upon Gudron Blackmon still working at Bragg who called back to say she had an old box at home and in it a tape. The label read 1989 Soldier Safety Show-- Life is Worth Living. SINGING This road of life we travel it can take us many ways. Early on we see a folk guitarist seated onstage plucking out a sad melody. SINGING But for all of these young soldiers whose lives had just begun-- Above him on a screen is a general. It is actually General Stiner himself entering a cemetery. And he starts talking about accidental deaths on base. When a soldier is killed I feel terrible. I get a sickening feeling a feeling of failure. We lost 26 this year and it is terrible. Charles. Adam. James. General Stiner occasionally kneels down and at one point removes his beret-- Unnecessary. And talks directly to a tombstone. We tried with you Tosher and we failed. Perhaps we could have done a little better if your friends had been more forthcoming to us with your problems. You were a great soldier. And we loved you. How many new graves next year? What do I have to do to stop these unnecessary and needless deaths?   The lights come up on a stage packed with 30 or 40 men and women in fancy dress doing some tap dance moves with lots of spirit fingers and jazz hands. It is a tribute to everyone who fought in World War II. And these absurd smash-ups just keep happening for the rest of the show just like all the soldiers told me. So who came up with this idea? Who was the mastermind of Operation Schlock and Awe? His name was Lee Yopp. And his journey to theater was not one anyone might predict. He had-- he had no personal taste. He ate overdone meat and he wore polyester suits. I mean he did not care what he wore. That is Bo Thorp a local North Carolina actress who was frequently cast in these shows. Yopp died back in 2006. I talked to other actors too and they all reacted like Reese Brown a paratrooper from the '90s.   See everyone laughs when I ask about Lee. No because it is funny because I have not thought about him in years. But just to think about just some of the things that he said every word he used every enunciation he used every colorful description he used was filled with 10 words that did not need to be there.  He did not say I am going to the store. I am traversing down to-- You know it was one of those things. But he had no room at all for shyness on stage. He made it a point of saying that if you are going to fail please fail loudly.   Please fail loudly and sing it as though your life depended on it.  It is odd because I would never met anyone like him prior to this point. It is like where did this guy come from? He was a high school football coach. That is Bo Thorp again. This was in Trenton New Jersey. And the director of the class play died suddenly and Lee inherited the class play. And it also happened that he had just broken his leg so he really could not go out on the football field. So that is how he got into the theater. And so he took his A personality football coach approach to life into the theater. This is Steve Currie who long worked as Yopp's stage manager. And within a very short period of time turned this little high school theater program into a major competitive organization that won the National Theater Award for high schools across the nation. And they went on a tour of Germany and Japan with this production he put together. And it just was like he was bit you know? He could not get enough of it. Lee Yopp wound up as the chief director of the Bucks County Playhouse outside Trenton New Jersey which is one of the farm teams for lots of Broadway shows. Yopp gave Bucks County his all spending lavishly even putting his own money into the shows. Lee had just taken a second mortgage on his house in New Jersey to use as an investment in a show called Smile Smile Smile. The reviews came out. It was Smile Smile Smile it was supposed to be funny. It was not it was not it was not. Period. It was one of the shortest theater reviews in the history of musical theater. Currie told me that Yopp bankrupted the Bucks County Playhouse-- and himself his personal finances so wrecked he could not get a phone in his own name. But then fate stepped in when Yopp bumped into an old Army buddy at an airport who was looking for someone who could direct theater at Fort Bragg. They were thrilled to death with this man who brought theatricality to the Army the last place in the world that you would think. The one financial backer-- That-- right that could afford him. Right. That could afford him. Exactly. The Defense Department. That is exactly right. Steve Currie the stage manager told me that with that money they built waterfalls and a set for a roller-skating number. Another time they planted the entire stage in real grass for a park scene with cops on horseback. Oh we had people rappelling from rafters. We had people in parachute rigging flying in over the stage. Cannons and machine guns and muskets and horses rearing up through the cannon fire. Thompson submachine guns firing. And these are all going off inside a theater. Oh yeah.   We would also trigger explosions that we would set into the stage floor. I would hook up these like flash pots. I got-- I got the guy from Special Forces-- he would get me all these what they call squibs which are these electronic fuses and we would create these great explosions. You could never do it today. Fire marshal would shut you down. But we were the Army. Wow. And what was impressive about it is how I realized that there was no end to Yopp. He had a special and unique way of making the simple more complicated than you could ever imagine it. Let me just take a moment to say how rare this is. I wrote a book about amateurs a few years ago those dreamers in their garages fiddling creating struggling. What keeps most of them stuck in their garage is lack of funders. Lee Yopp had hundreds of millions of funders-- the taxpayers of the United States. Everybody I talked to-- especially the cast and crew that were in so many of these shows the regulars-- all mentioned this one time one moment that stood out for them. It was 1982. There would been a terrible car accident this time involving one of the cast members' kids. Here's actress Bo Thorp. My son was nearly killed. I mean he was coming home from his first football game. He was 14 years old. It was October the 8th. And the young girl who was driving her father's car decided to see how fast her daddy's car would come down Sky Drive which is where we live. He remembers her saying 80. And when she went to put on the brakes the car went into a skid and then hit a tree. And so he was in a body cast for six months. She says everyone in the show was heartbroken of course including Yopp. But Yopp being Yopp saw an opportunity. He said Ah! You know what we can do? You think-- would you let us go up to the hospital? And I will bring a film crew and we will go up to the hospital and we will film Clay. And then he can-- and then he can make testimony on the tape. And I said Lee I do not-- I do not know that that is the right thing to do. Oh yeah absolutely! They will-- the soldiers will love it. They will-- they will understand it. It will mean a lot to them. You know I-- I was really reluctant about it 'ecause I thought that you know it was just not very tasteful.   A few weeks later there was Bo on stage. My 14-year-old son was in a very serious car accident. It happens like that you know? There is no warning. It just comes-- boom-- like that. We went up to Clay's hospital room when he was very sick. And he agreed to make this film. I hope you will pay attention. Then on the big screen Clay Thorp 14 years old lying in a hospital bed flat on his back in a full body cast. And Clay jumps right in looking into the camera as best he can reliving the accident calling out the miles per hour as if he were once again flying down that hill. 10. 20. 30. 40. 50. I told her to slow down. 60? 70? Oh my god! This is a dream. This cannot be happening. Here I am in this place. I am not normal now. I wish I could get out. I wish I could get out tomorrow. SINGING The sun'ill come out tomorrow. Bet your bottom dollar that tomorrow there'ill be sun. And then beneath the video screen a young girl comes out on stage. SINGING When I am stuck with a day that is gray and lonely I just stick out my chin and grin and say oh-- And-- and do you think this had-- I mean how-- how effective was this with the soldiers? Amazing. Absolutely amazing. Because these are 18-year-old boys. And when you are 18 years old and you are a butch kind of male your life is gonna go on forever. And you are-- you are special. You are gonna last forever. And you can do whatever you want to do. And-- and if you die so what? And Lee had a way of understanding that. He would do everything he could to prove to them or to show them the value of life and how short it is and how quickly it goes by. SINGING The sun'ill come out tomorrow. Bet your bottom dollar that tomorrow there'ill be-- You know what this is? It is the lecture I gave my teenage daughter a few nights ago when I handed her the car keys. Drive carefully. Buckle up. Please do not be an idiot. Every parent tries to come up with some way to say this to their kid. Lee Yopp had to crack that code for 40000 of them. And you know what? It worked. After the Soldier Safety Show started the average number of deaths at the base dropped by a third. SINGING Tomorrow tomorrow I love ya tomorrow. You are only-- At the end of every show one of Yopp's actors always came out on the stage to give the final safety lecture. We need your help. And we ask that each and every one of you join with us to make this pledge to always always wear your safety belts. The speaker asks everyone who believes in safety to stand and take the pledge. These are soldiers and they follow orders. Please-- So naturally up jumps everyone in the audience. And then the cast floods the stage for the final number and Yopp's last brilliant contribution to musical theater-- a guaranteed standing ovation at the end of every show. SINGING Everyone will sing!  Jack Hitt. He is the author of several books including the one that he mentioned in this story. It is called Bunch of Amateurs. It recently came out in paperback. Coming up babies having babies-- robot babies specifically. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose a theme and bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show-- Amateur Hour stories of how amateurs can accomplish things that the pros cannot. That is when they are not crashing and burning completely. We have arrived at Act Two of our program. Act Two What to Expect When You are Expecting a Robot. There is this thing that a lot of kids have to do in health class. Maybe you did this when you were in high school. The idea is to give students a taste of what it is like to be responsible for an infant-- and kind of what a pain in the ass it is actually. And they do this by making the kids carry around an egg-- or sometimes it is like a sack of flour-- for a couple days. Supposedly this jolt of reality helps prevent teen pregnancies. Which you know is a lot to ask of an egg. So these days some schools are using these robotic babies. These are plastic dolls with electronics inside which make them cry randomly all day and night. Their sleeping eating and pooping patterns are based on logs kept by real parents about real babies. The babies cost over 600 each. Hillary Frank went out to find out if amateur parenthood is more intense and realistic with these high-tech crybabies. The first time I saw a robotic baby was at my local pharmacy. It was one of those old-timey places with a candy counter and surgical supplies and a large selection of scented candles. One day I was in the store and I heard this teenage girl behind me say My god this baby is so heavy. She had a car seat slung over her shoulder like a purse. For a second I thought the plastic baby inside it was real. The real ones are heavier I told her. She groaned and whipped the car seat over to her other shoulder. At the time I had a three-year-old and I was dying to know if this girl's experience with the plastic baby was anything remotely like my experience with my flesh-and-blood baby. The girl told me she went to Glen Ridge High. Glen Ridge is the town next to mine in New Jersey. So I called the school and asked if they would let me hang out the next time the girls got the babies.   Oh and do not forget to support her neck when you pick her up out of the car seat. OK? Ms. Hogan the health teacher is setting up two girls with their babies. The robot babies are so expensive that the school only has 10 of them so the students take turns with them for two solid days of pretend parenting. In the class I visited the students on deck were Rachel-- Let us kick it. I am excited. My baby's here. And Paige. I do not know why I am so nervous about this baby but it-- it will be good. My producer Joanna and I followed them with their babies over the next 48 hours. Rachel and Paige are friends but they are about as different as two 17-year-olds can be. We will start with Paige. Paige is brimming with maternal affection for her fake baby. She pulls a flowered onesie out of her bookbag and shows it to Joanna. I brought clothes for her. Wait are these your baby clothes? Well I think some of them are and my mom saved them. And then I used them for when I used to play baby dolls. Just a note here about Paige's voice. I have never heard anyone talk like her before. She is not whispering or anything. This is just the way she sounds. You are really like going for the full immersion. I am. I am. Because I-- I was so excited to get a baby. So I know it will be so much fun. It will be hard. But it will be fun! To be clear there was no need to bring baby clothes. The doll comes with its own outfit. Paige is a devout Christian. She wears a purity ring. And I made a promise that I will not ever give myself away before I am married. 'ecause I think it is one of the worst mistakes somebody could do. So that is Paige. Now here's Rachel. I do not think that losing your virginity is giving yourself away. Rachel is the quintessential theater kid. She describes herself as liberal and bisexual. She is never had sex with anyone but she keeps a good luck condom in her drawer just in case. Just-- it is just in my room. I know it is there. Like I went on a trip somewhere once like by myself. And I just brought it even though I knew I would not use it. But it is just like for good luck. Rachel thinks she wants to wait until her 30s to have kids. She did not bring in baby clothes today for her robot baby. She thinks this whole baby thing will just make for a fun story like the time she joined the boys' wrestling team and wound up puking in the locker room. I have been more excited about the back story than anything else. Like I need to find-- who is the father? I need to figure it out. Was it left on my doorstep? The girls take their babies. Each is in a car seat. Each looks like a real baby-- except plastic with a huge speaker on its chest a vacant stare. Their lips are always pursed for feeding. And somehow they always look a little pissed off. Paige and Rachel head to class. Their first big challenge-- Do you know how much blood you are giving? Today is the blood drive at Glen Ridge High.  Let me take my gloves off.  Rachel is laid out flat on a table with a tourniquet around her arm. Her baby is on the floor behind her head in the car seat. The lab tech says-- You are not allowed to give her the baby? She cannot give Rachel the baby.   I do not like this. I want to take care of my baby. I do not like that sound. If those cries sound disturbingly real it is because they are recordings of actual babies crying.  Oh the baby really wants me now. And if Rachel could get to her baby here is how she would get it to stop crying. It has to be her. It cannot be someone else. She is being graded on this. So she is wearing a wristband that she swipes over the baby.  That identifies her as the mother. Next she would have to figure out why the baby is crying. It could need one of four things-- burping rocking diapering or feeding. To feed it you hold a fake bottle by the baby's lips and if she is hungry she goes like this.   When she is full she goes like this.  You have only two minutes to get it right. If you do not you lose points. If you do not support the baby's neck? More points off. So all the time Rachel's on the blood donor table she is losing points. The lab tech holds Rachel's arm pushes the needle into her vein. Ow ow ow! It really hurts now. It hurts more now. Ow ow ow. OK. Then like any stressed-out drama geek--   Rachel bursts into song. Opera.  Are-- are you singing because of the pain or because you do not want to hear the baby crying? It is a little bit of both. Mostly because of the pain. I am sorry Baby! Meanwhile Paige's baby seems to need attention constantly. She will feed it or rock it and it will stop crying but then start up again four minutes later. Then five minutes after that. Then another seven minutes after that. I think I have kind of learned already-- it is only an hour and a half into it. I have definitely learned this baby it is kind of like a normal baby but not 'ecause it-- I think a normal baby is not this needy. Of course a human baby is way more needy. But you know. Amateurs. Joanna and I follow Paige and Rachel through the rest of their classes. The babies wail through lectures through debates-- OK so what else-- In one class there are four babies going off. This is the most babyful class I have gone to so far. Which makes it feel more like a nursery than a school.   While ta