So a couple of years ago Michael wrote a book about Meryl Streep. And it did fine good reviews hit the bestseller list for a couple weeks. And Michael did something that I guess is a normal thing to do if you have worked on anything for a year and a half including a book. I would occasionally check its ratings on Amazon. And by occasionally I mean all the time. And I have to say most of them were great. There were a lot of people who really liked the book. Right now it has almost 300 customer ratings on Amazon. Let us just look it up. Do you have internet there? Yes. I have 295 customer ratings. 46 of them are five star ratings. 23 are four star ratings. So 23 of people who rated it loved it. So that is nice. But it was those other people the 8 who gave him one star the 9 who give him two stars. Those are the people he found himself getting stuck on. I have to say I am not proud of any of this. I am not proud of talking about this. I wish I was the kind of person who just floated in a cloud above my Amazon ratings but I am not. I mean some of the things that people wrote on Amazon just kind of cut to the bone in this way. If someone just says boring a book critic is not going to say boring. But if an average customer goes on Amazon and says this book is boring boring boring one star I think it is worse than a smart book critic explaining why something did or did not work. Boring bland hated it no. There is one that just said no. And it just makes you feel terrible. So I would check my Amazon score an unhealthy number of times. And sometimes before I went to bed which is a really bad idea because then you would just drift off to sleep arguing with these people in your head. But then Michael stumbled onto this strategy-- something he could do to deal with those feelings. This has happened. I was just spending too much time thinking about who these people were. And at some point I just clicked on one of their names. One of the people who hated your book. Yeah. And that brought me to everything else they had reviewed on Amazon. And I realized that when you do that you see what they liked. And once I saw what some of these people loved on Amazon it completely neutralized them. So let us go through some of the ones that you saw. OK. So Kathy gave me two stars. She says disappointing. Too much detail about people other than Meryl Streep. And not enough about Meryl herself. What did Kathy like? A cupcake stand that comes in lavender with polka dots. Five stars. And she just writes perfect. What is that say to you? That she has enough cupcakes that she needs to arrange them on a cupcake stand in polka dots and that makes her happy. My book cannot speak to that sort of-- let me try this again. Perfection to Kathy is this cupcake stand filled with cupcakes with polka dots. And my book did not give her that same feeling and that is OK. A reader had given him one star and said about his book a lot of words but not interesting. Gave five stars to bright red yarn. The person who gave him the one-word review no gave five stars and a rave to a tin kazoo. The person who said boring boring boring and also the author is so consumed with his lofty vocabulary that the reader falls asleep gave a rave review to a book predicting the end of the world by 2015. A woman named Wendy gave one star telling potential readers to move on. And what did she love? OK so Wendy gave five stars to an Amazon.com e-gift card which struck me as nuts. Why is anyone rating Amazon gift cards on Amazon? It is like saying yes this 20 bill is worth 20. Why rate this thing? This thing could not possibly be good or bad. Have you done the flip side of this? Have you looked up the people who loved your book to see what else they loved? No I do not want to know anything more about them. They are angels. Well we have done that. Let me read some of them to you. This is a woman who gave you five out of five stars. Interesting she says. This book was well-written and very interesting. Meryl's life has been full of interesting people and experiences and I enjoyed learning more about her. She also loved five out of five stars the Game of Gnomes Garden Gnome. Throne for the throne room. Cracks me up every time I look at it. It is in my bathroom where my throne is. And here's a picture of the gnome. Ugh. Yeah. That is a gnome. Yeah. She puts this in her bathroom? It is in my bathroom where my throne-- she keeps this gnome in her bathroom. And she gave it five out of five stars. And she also loved my book. I see what you are saying. It does not--  it is not great if you do it the other way around. OK one more. This person five out of five stars. He chronicles her relationships on-stage and off giving us a clear unique portrait of a professional. Also bought not one not two but three Amazon gift cards. Did she rate them? She rated them. Five out of five stars. Do not tell me this. She is one of the Amazon gift card people? Just buy something. Buy something that you like. A cupcake stand anything. Get a real thing and rate that. I am sorry. Just why? The way Michael sees it the fact that every single thing on Amazon every gift card every garden gnome every light bulb and USB cord and mop is measured against every book every classic film against every bit of journalism and fiction against the Bible and the Quran and the Bhagavad Gita. All on the same five-point scale? It is perverse. Those things are different. And of course these kinds of reviews are everywhere. I mean the way the world is now there is just constant feedback about everything. When you take an Uber you are asked to rate the Uber driver. We are just constantly leaving stars for things and leaving customer reviews. There is Yelp. Everyone is constantly assessing everything. That is true. Everything. Here for example is a review of the Great Wall of China. One star. Too crowded. Too much climbing. Missed the greatness of it. It was a lot of steep climbing time. The Parthenon. One star. It was just a big bunch of columns that lack artistic taste. The Statue of Liberty. One star. Imagine a combination of prison and the worst airport security. If you want to feel embarrassed to be an American then you can find it here. The Auschwitz concentration camp in Poland. One star. Total disgrace. There are no places to rest and reflect in peace. Surely a sight that witnessed one of the largest mass murders in history deserves some space for reflection. Falling apart and not well-maintained. Well from WBEZ Chicago. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today on our program in this world where now everyone is a critic we visit places where reviews really should not be happening and the story of somebody who very much does not want to leave a review and someone else with the guts to say no to all the reviewers and haters of one of the most hated and worst reviewed films ever made. And you know what that is? No? Stay with us. Act 1 Their Eyes Were not Watching God. So some things it just feels wrong when they are reviewed. And I know I just read you a bunch like that but want to hear one more? I know I do. OK this one is for the national park at Gettysburg one of the pivotal battlegrounds in the Civil War. A woman from Miami gave it three stars and wrote quote I guess it is a little moving when you think about freedom and all that stuff but really it is a field. So another thing it can feel strange to review or read reviews of? Churches. One of our contributors BA Parker learned this recently. I had not been to church-- any church-- in over a year and I would lost myself. I was miserable. My career was struggling. Relationships were strained. Little by little I could see myself fading. And going to new church felt like a last resort. One of my roommates suggested a church that she would been casually attending down the street-- First Corinthian Baptist Church.  The first Sunday I went I noticed a line half a block long mostly of white people in cargo shorts waiting patiently behind a rope. An older black man with church flyers in his hand could see I was confused. He waved me toward the front door and greeted me as if he were God's bouncer. It is a big place-- an old movie theater-- about 2000 seats marble floors ushers chandeliers. I walked down the crowded aisles and ended up sitting next to an elderly woman dressed in her Sunday best with this broad-brimmed regal hat. She reminded me of my great aunt Louise. When I slid into the pew she hugged me. I did not realize how much I needed that hug until my eyes started to tear up. So just try and find this opportunity to just release and to relax the different parts of your body. The service began with guided meditation and ended with communion and the choir singing Frankie Beverly and Maze's Happy Feelings. SINGING And these happy feelin's feel that happy feelin's. '70s RB with the blood of Christ-- I thought secular music? Lots of young black people? A pastor in jeans? I had found my home. There was only one problem. Above me in the far back of the balcony were tourists-- the white people in line from outside-- hundreds of them snapping selfies and gawking hovering like a gaggle of anthropologists studying black Baptists in their natural habitat. Every expression of worship every tear I shed every hug I gave every arm I outstretched to God I felt like I was on display for them. I felt exposed. Do you know ? There were baptisms. Some of the devout being baptized had overcome great odds. One in particular got the Holy Spirit and sobbed in the pool. Something unnamed and sacred had led them to that moment and all I could think about were the white people upstairs taking pictures of someone's life-altering spiritual journey so they could share them over brunch. It was really messing with my worship. White tourists visiting black churches is a thing especially in Harlem-- showing up for free music. It was not my first time hearing about it but I had never experienced it before. Sure there were some white congregants sprinkled throughout downstairs but they are members. For lack of a better phrase they are invited to the cookout. The tourists in the balcony-- they just want a song. I kept going to this church every Sunday but I felt like I was unwillingly participating in their gospel concert. I struggled to focus on what mattered to me most my own relationship with the big guy upstairs. I was navigating all that when I learned about the reviews. Tourists critique the church online writing reviews on websites like Yelp and TripAdvisor. Some were fine saying they loved the experience and thanked the church for welcoming outsiders. Others were not so nice. Quote The music was loud repetitive and vacuous. Church is to elevate us to God not bring him to human level. Two stars. From France This is a scam. The children singing are circus animals. One star. From Italy Do not choose this place if you are expecting the gospel style of Sister Act. One star. And this one is meant to be a compliment but I bristled. From Spain I will definitely repeat this experience if I go back to New York. Do not be afraid to go to Harlem on your own. A lot of white people live there. Four stars. Our worship was being graded on a gentrified curve. I got angry. I do not like the tourists but I do love the church. It has the familiarity and the warmth that I grew up with but none of the conservative intolerant baggage the kind that is hesitant to let women on deacon boards and has strict dress codes. My old church was more insular more of an old-school black Baptist space. If you saw a white person during service it required a whole quizzical discussion in the car ride home. Were they lost? Were they someone's special friend? FCBC had none of that and I found it liberating. So I kept going to the church. I was going to make the best of it but it was not easy. One recent Sunday at church engrossed in a 15-minute rendition of The Blood Will Never Lose Its Power I swayed to the song and meditatively mouthed the words with the choir over and over again. I was losing myself and feeling God's presence when out of the corner of my eye I noticed it-- the glowing of phones in the dark the older European man with the selfie stick the backpack-laden tourists stepping out before the sermon three or four at a time. --every single week we want to just say welcome welcome welcome. We hope that you feel the power of God. We hope that you feel that there is a shift happening in your life as well and that you can begin to take that shift all across the globe to your own homes. And so FCBC at this time let us give our guests a warm welcome. Let us give them a hug and show them some love. Amen.  We hugged the visitors as the church instructs us to do during the welcome. And immediately afterwards over 45 tourists upped and walked out before the sermon had even begun. And all I could think was the audacity. So rude. And you have got to get up every morning and let the enemy know that you cannot have my joy today. It belongs to me. Look at your neighbor and tell them neighbor I . Listening to the sermon I felt torn and distracted by the tourists. Why do they have to be there at all? Why do I care so much? I asked other congregants if having the tourists there ever made them feel uncomfortable if they thought it was a bit odd if they ever got self-conscious or if it was only me. One thought the tourists were fabulous. Another said they did not think about it. One woman said my not wanting them there was blasphemous. So yeah it seems like it was only me. It was confusing. Yes I do not want the tourists there. But what kind of Christian am I to be hating on people during a church service? So I went to the head of the church-- my pastor Pastor Mike Walrund-- to ask why are these tourists here? Why are we letting this happen? And how am I supposed to deal with it and see past it? Why do you want the tourists there? I do not necessarily think about wanting tourists. We welcome everyone. So I do not necessarily say well I want these people here and I want those people. Whoever comes I celebrate. And then we are open. So I know there are churches that have said that they would not allow tourists or when they do make the tourists pay a bunch of money to come in. They will take their money right? But for us I think everyone here is a tourist. And like I tell you I know the power of the word and how the word can spread and how people can take what they hear here and it goes places. Your words will go to places that you will never go. And so that is how I always look at it. It is an opportunity to spread this word and to get the message out that we are doing and expand and broaden our reach. And sometimes the people who expand and broaden our reach happen to be tourists. Pastor Mike also said my sensitivity about the tourists though he understands it is generationally different than the older black congregants who perceive the optics of having essentially a section for white people in a more ironic way than I do. And they see a lot of tourists who are predominantly white in the balcony because they know history enough to know that that is different because historically it was flipped. Well that was a practice in this country for years where African-Americans had to sit in the balcony and could not worship with white people because African-Americans were relegated to the balcony and could not engage with worship experience. He knows the tourists are not what everyone wants. But what Pastor Mike wants me to know is that the tourists are not just in the balcony and they are not just white. He says the balcony is for large groups of visitors and they just happen to be European. He insists the largest number of tourists in the church are not white. They are black. They blend in sitting down on the main floor with all of us. So he puts it back to me. Is my problem with tourists or with white tourists? It is white tourists. He tells me do not be prejudiced. It is wrong. If we start looking at people who enter our spaces of worship and because they are strangers treating them-- and because they are obviously strangers because of the racial dimension then we undermine ourselves as followers of the teachings of Jesus and as people who call ourselves Christians. And I know that. But I cannot stop feeling exposed. It looks the way it looks-- white people staring down on us praising God. The optics are all wrong. It is I guess because I feel a certain protectiveness because of the shared experience that we have as black people and I feel protectiveness of you. We are intoxicated by perceptions and image and optics. And optics communicate no substance. So the question is not what it appears. The question is do I care? That is the real question. And the answer is no. I cannot be consumed with people's perceptions of our space because then I will be trying to curtail what we do to respond to people's perceptions. No that is not who we are called to be. I cannot. So the optics of it mean nothing to me. Pastor Mike knows what it looks like making white people sit in a sectioned-off area. He knows it is provocative. But he is fine with it. It is not intended to be punishment. But that does not answer my question. How do I block them out when I worship? When I worship I engage God. I could care if it was one person or 2000. I do not care who is present. It is about me. And that moment is a sacred space. I do it in the presence of others who are celebrating God but that is a sacred moment for me. And my sacred moment cannot be intruded upon by anybody tourists or not.   Pastor Mike's words helped a little. I am aspiring to a new level of clarity in my worship-- more like his. But I am still working on myself. I am not there yet. I still do not want people there staring at us like we are all some source of entertainment for them. But going forward I am going to try to do what I can to get the tourists out of my mind and out of my way starting with this review of FCBC from me Parker from Baltimore. Went to FCBC one Sunday and then kept coming back. Helped me when I really needed it. And if you are a tourist reading this and wonder what the black congregants think of you taking photos during baptisms and baby christenings I for one do not love it. Please stop. Help make a great church better. Five stars. B.A. Parker in New York. If you google the First Corinthian Baptist Church it will take you to their website-- FCBC NYC-- where there are videos of sermons and guest speakers and all sorts of other stuff. I think we are not going to give you their address. Coming up a story about somebody who is studiously trying not to give a review. I think it is not too much to say that his very freedom depends on that. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program Everyone's a Critic-- tales from a world where everything gets rated and reviewed. We have arrived at Act Two of our show Act Two Mr. Chen Goes to Wuhan. So this next story is about somebody who is studiously trying not to be a critic because of where he lives and what he is doing. His name is Chen Cho Qiushi and he lives in China. And he is been going around that country to the most controversial places-- places that are the most sensitive as far as the Chinese government is concerned including the city at the center of the coronavirus epidemic. Chen shows up looks around gathers information and posts videos online with the truth of what he is found which is risky because China of course is an authoritarian country with a tight grip on information and total control over the media. The government's version of reality is what is reported in newspapers on TV and online. Inside China it is hard to get foreign news sources which is why when Chen does all this he tries very hard not to be a critic not to venture an opinion. Reporter Jiayang Fan has been watching his videos with fascination for a while now. I have been writing about China for years. I am from there and I have never seen anyone like Chen. This guy was not a professional reporter or political activist as far as I know. He was just a guy from the mainland who read about the Hong Kong protests in the state papers and wondered is that the whole story? What is really happening? And went to see for himself.  In this video shot on the waterfront in Hong Kong he is saying I want to see with my naked eye what is happening on the ground. I want to bear witness to the stories of the people on the ground. Chen's a talented talker a 30-something guy with very expressive eyebrows. He is running all over the city in a yellow press vest he bought after he saw online that reporters wore them at protests. He is a lawyer who is into public speaking. A couple years back he was in a reality TV speech competition kind of like The Voice for nerds. That was his first brush with being a public person. His videos sort of feel like an extension of that speech competition. Instead of talking and explaining things on a stage he is doing it out in the world.  In Hong Kong Chen's coverage is painstakingly neutral. He goes to a pro-democracy protest and also to a pro-Beijing rally. At both he tries to estimate the crowd size and the age of the participants. He spends one video explaining subtle differences between factions of the movement. At no point does he hint at his own political stance. In fact he emphasizes that he will not take a side.  He is saying I will try my best to put my prejudice aside and stay neutral about what I see. This neutrality thing is important because across China most people support or at least go along with the party. They are skeptical of people who defy the government. Those people are seen as troublemakers and dissidents. They are regarded with suspicion and their ideas are easily dismissed. Chen did not want to be dismissed. But what is more he did not act like a dissident. He quotes a state newspaper as inspiration for his trip and declares his loyalty to China. Watching him he seemed genuinely curious about the things he was witnessing and completely sincere.  His videos from Hong Kong reached hundreds of thousands of people on Weibo the Chinese version of Twitter. As soon as I saw them I wanted to talk to him though I was not sure how hard he would be to reach because his last video hinted that he might be in trouble.  It is shot from the airport. In it he says the Chinese Bar Association the Public Security Bureau and the Ministry of Justice have all called him telling him to come back and stop this nonsense. At one point he holds up his law license saying he knows he may very well lose it after these three days in Hong Kong. Once he got home all of his social media accounts were deleted and his videos were purged from the Chinese internet. But he was not hard to reach. When I got his number he picked up right away. He was little flustered. He explained he was in the middle of a family situation. His mom found out about his reporting adventure from a cousin's classmate freaked out and traveled hundreds of miles to his doorstep and moved in with him. He was funny about it.  We have been living together for over 20 days and it is been kind of awkward. She follows me wherever I go. Just now when I came down to take your call she ran after me to the elevator. That is why I was kind of bummed when I answered. Chen's mother was there to save him from himself he explained less he decided to go off once again and try something reckless. His mom kept watch on him 247. During the day she did not let him out of her sight. At night they shared his twin-sized bed.  Yeah I am uncomfortable but there is no way around it. It is the only way she feels safe. This all sounded very familiar to me. I have a mother like this too. Chen's 34 just a year younger than me. We both grew up as only children in '80s China. Our mothers have both expressed to us that if anything were to happen to us they would lose the very will to live.  The hardest thing to deal with is the effects on my family and loved ones. That is what pulled Chen back from his trip to Hong Kong-- not because he was worried for himself but because of the risk of complicating other people's lives. China was safe he told me. But he would been let go from his law firm and he had been interrogated repeatedly. On the day he arrived back from Hong Kong he would been grilled for eight hours straight. He had to run through every detail of where he was each day.  Then they took me through reeducation on the policies of the Communist Party how the government has a certain perspective about Hong Kong. They said because I was a lawyer I should support the Communist Party and its decisions and I should not go against them should not go to certain places and so on and so on. Then they tried another tactic. Then they took on a very parental tone. They said we are doing this because we care about you.  You are a young guy with a bright future ahead of you. You have won so many speech and debate prizes when you were young. You have appeared in so many TV shows. You have posted such great content and videos to social media. We think you are really talented. We are lucky to have such a great local lawyer.  But then you went to Hong Kong and jeopardized all of that. And finally they drove it home.  Are you married? Look at you. You are over 30 and you have not married yet. Your parents must be so anxious. People need to prioritize families. You need to start a family and have kids. That is the only way to have a normal life. So do not let your parents worry. You need to hurry up and get that straightened out.  So for a full day from 900 in the morning to 500 in the evening it would just be that. They were using different tactics like that trying to tell me why going to Hong Kong was wrong. But Chen was not that troubled by the questioning. He had been scrupulously neutral when he was in Hong Kong and he believed that would protect him and things would not get worse than this.  So I think it is because I worked so hard to be neutral and to not support or lean towards one side or the other that I was able to stay safe.  I asked him the question that had been on my mind all this time. Why did he do it?  It is just a passion. Sometimes people say oh that was so brave of you. You have risked so much in the pursuit of truth. I hate that. This has nothing to do with bravery. It is just a hobby. You have guys out there who like watches. You have guys who like to fix up their cars people who like to hike or to ski. This is my hobby. My hobby is engaging with and pursuing the news. It is just something I am interested in.  I can almost see him shrugging on the other side of the line. Chen sees himself as a curious guy collecting facts. He is not out to issue any kind of review. He is not trying to provoke or antagonize. The way he talks about his videos it is like they are an intellectual exercise more than anything else. I am surprised by how blas he is about the project given the cost to his regular life. I wonder if there is more to it if his composure is a kind of armor-- the one thing he can control.  A few months later in late January I do a double take when I see a video that Chen posts from the train station in Wuhan. It is the city at the center of the coronavirus epidemic. Apparently he had grabbed his selfie stick and hopped on the last train in as the government put the city on lockdown. It is startling that he is there because access to the city has been severely restricted and heavily enforced. There are very few news sources on the ground at this time. No one dares to go outside and many shops are closed. Chen is his usual energetic high-spirited self sneaking in jokes along with the information. He is bewildered by all the elderly people he saw on his trip who still were not wearing face masks. Are they insane? He asks.  As their kids we should force them to put on masks with the same energy they exude when pushing us to get married he says. I watched the video on YouTube where Chen now has a channel and almost half a million followers. It is a website that is banned in China. You can only access it if you hop the firewall which many people do. Some of them take his videos and spread them on Chinese social media. Over the next few days Chen goes on a tear through the city. He reports from the market where a number of early cases surfaced from a grocery store from a funeral parlor from the construction site for a hospital that is being built almost overnight.  Outside a hospital one night after hearing that the virus might be transmittable through the eyes he films a video wearing a comically ill-fitting pair of swim goggles.  There is a video shot from the front seat of a car where he is chatting with the four people piled in with him asking if they have enough food stocked up at home.  The guy in the front has six months stored. He would been preparing a long time for a food shortage though he thought it would be from a trade war with America not a virus.  Chen goofs around with the driver practicing his Wuhan dialect.  But he also spends time doing long interviews with locals drawing out intimate details of people's lives and their honest appraisals of the ongoing crisis. One night Chen hosts a livestream interview with a middle aged man who goes by the pseudonym Ah Ming. Ah Ming's father had recently died. He tells Chen that his father had gone to the hospital for a routine physical in early January. He was in his 70s and healthy. He could not have known then that the hospital was also seeing patients infected with the mysterious pneumonia. Soon after his father developed a fever that would not go away. Ah Ming details the frantic search for treatment in the final weeks of his father's life how because there was not adequate equipment at the hospital he had to spend a whole night pressing his father's leaky oxygen mask in place. He talks about the time a sudden lockdown at the hospital separated panicked family members from their loved ones for 48 hours. It is difficult to listen to Ah Ming describe his father's last day.  I saw with my own eyes as his heart rate dropped from 120 to 0. I held his hand and saw this happen. It was painful. He was in a deep coma already. When they took off his oxygen mask his mouth was still open. He suffocated to death. Ah Ming says he does not understand why the government did not start alerting people back in December to wear masks. He wonders why the state media did not cover the outbreak more thoroughly. If measures had been taken earlier he says my father would not have died. A few days into Chen's trip his own parents send him a video. They are sitting on a couch looking like they are trying very hard not to mess up the complicated process of FaceTiming their son.  We heard you went to Wuhan he says. Apparently Chen has yet again failed to inform his parents he was going on a reporting trip.  His dad gruffly chides him then tells him to do a good job and not to make trouble while he is there. His mom peers into the frame.  We support you she says. But be safe OK?  Chen continues making videos for the next few days and they are pretty grim. He posts one from inside a hospital covertly filmed while pretending to call someone. The patients and their family members are bundled up in heavy winter coats and blankets. Almost everyone is attached to IV tubes and oxygen bottles. As his camera darts unsteadily through the room there is a suffocating claustrophobia. In another video Chen comes across an elderly patient in his wheelchair-- gray limp unmoving. A relative leans on the chair holding his body up. As he films Chen realizes the patient is dead.  The woman explains through her face mask that the ambulance arrived too late to save him. Now she was trying to figure out what to do with the body.  There is a clip of a medical worker in a hospital parking lot. She is squatting by a car crying into her phone. A colleague tells her it is not that serious and she stands up shaking with anger. I have been coughing for six days she screams. Do not you dare tell me it is not serious.  For nearly a week Chen has been posting videos from a city teetering on the edge of a breakdown. For nearly a week he has watched from the sideline-- observing listening studiously reserving judgment. But then on January 30 when he appears on screen he is not reporting. Instead--  He is alone hunched on a bed wearing a tank top with what looks like a bedsheet wrapped around his shoulders. His face is pale and his hair is uncombed.  It is a 27-minute video muc