OK so one of my co-workers David Kestenbaum started telling me about this thing. And really I thought he was completely-- I just-- there was no way it could be true. It just seemed completely ridiculous. And then I got to say the more he explained the more it slowly started to seem like OK maybe he is right. Important fact to know about David before we go any further-- he has a PhD in physics worked at Fermilab on subatomic particles was on the team that discovered the top quark. And then this whole thing between him and me began when he told me to download an app onto my iPhone. It is called Universe Splitter.   OK so now I have opened it up. And there is like a gray steel fake steel background. And it says in white type on top of it Universe Splitter quantum-induced universe bifurcation. What do I do now? All right so tell me something you are having trouble making up your mind about what to do. You and I are recording this on December 31. Yeah. And I have had a week off. I grew a beard. I noticed. And I am trying to decide if I should shave it off. And so that is something I am trying to decide. I have an opinion on that but-- What is your opinion?  Actually I think it looks pretty good right now. OK so what does this Universe Splitter do? It lets you do both. Like it creates a duplicate of this universe so that in one you get to grow the beard and in the other you shave it off. Wait that is what we are going to do? Yeah. For pretend or for real? No no for real maybe. This is a thing. It is called the many-worlds interpretation of quantum mechanics. And there are a lot of really smart physicists who think this is probably what is happening. OK so how does this work? Like what do I do next? All right so there are two boxes there? Yeah. In one box it says In one universe I will now. OK so put shave off beard tonight. Hold on-- shave off beard tonight. OK and then the other box is labeled In the other universe. In the other one I will now-- Put keep beard. Keep beard. OK. And then what is below it? And then below it there is like a button with like an atom drawn on it.  Yeah. Like an atom like you would draw it in a 1950s cartoon. Yeah that is like the aesthetic of the whole thing. It is like an old piece of scientific equipment. So what does it do when you push the button? So if you push the button it sends a signal to a fancy piece of scientific equipment at the University of Geneva in Switzerland. And the equipment these days can be tiny like a little box you can hold in your hand. And it does the following. It takes a single particle of light a photon it sends it at a kind of mirror that can make the photon either go left or right. You can think of it that way. Like at random it will go either left or right? Well according to the laws of quantum mechanics which govern very small things it actually goes both. It is not that we do not know. It actually goes left and right at the same time. OK. So that is super weird right? But that is actually true and demonstrated and like we have known that since the '20s. OK. So then what happens in this device in Geneva? Yeah so the device fires a photon which can go left or right. And then the device looks to see well where did it go? And we know the particle's in both places right? But when the machine looks it only finds it in one place. It shows it went either left or right which does not make sense right? Because we know from the math that the particle did go to both places. So why did we only see it in one of those places? And what is the answer? All right so one of the answers is that the photon is in both places left and right but just in different universes. Wait. So you are saying that when you shoot the photon into the mirror it actually creates an entire duplicate of our universe. And in one of those universes the photon is on the left and the other it is on the right? Yes. It both went left and right. Those are just in different universes. The math of it makes a lot of-- the math of it is very like streamlined and simple. I remember the day I saw it in class and I was like oh my god. Maybe it is true. Yeah. So those boxes you filled out on the app-- You mean the box where I typed in shave off beard tonight and the box where I typed in keep beard? Right right. So it will basically choose one of those boxes if the photon goes left and the other box if the photon goes right. OK got it. You have to do what it says. You mean I have to keep the beard or shave off the beard like it tells me? Yeah. Yeah because when you press that button you are going to get back one answer. But there is going to be a duplicate universe in which there is a duplicate you sitting in a duplicate studio and a duplicate me and you holding a duplicate phone in exactly the same way. The only difference is that that phone comes back with the other answer. And then that version of me will do whatever it says on the phone? We know that other guy. We trust him. He is going to go do the other. OK I think I understand all this. Let us go ahead. Do you want to press the button? Yeah go ahead. Push it.  I do feel weird about it. I feel weird. I know it is crazy. I feel weird. You literally just put your finger right up to the button and pulled it away in fear. All right here it goes-- the split universe.   OK it says Input valid. Internet contacted. Geneva online. Device ready. Photon emitted. Quantum event.   Your universe has just split. You are in the universe in which you should keep beard. And right now in the other universe the other you is being told to shave off beard tonight. So after that I kept the beard that night. And friends at New Year's parties asked me about it. And if the universe did in fact split the other version of me in the other universe must have had different conversations. Maybe for instance somebody gave him a great idea for a show today that in that universe instead of airing this show in that universe you are hearing a totally different theme. And David just to be sure I am understanding this you are saying this is not a metaphor. You are saying there are scientists who really believe that a second universe gets created? Yeah for sure. I mean I think it is not most physicists. And there are some who think it is ridiculous for sure. But there are some would take it very seriously. OK where is this alternate universe that we are creating? Yeah I do not really even know how to think about this. But if this is true the universe is duplicating itself all the time. It is like a fundamental thing about existence. Well today on our program in a universe that may be duplicating itself all the time we have people who have become entranced by the idea of a parallel universe out there where things are different. In one of those stories things are better in the alternate world in one crucial way. In another story two parallel worlds overlap. In another a woman tries to visit-- she actually tries to go to the parallel universe. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act 1 Dreams From My Father. So I was e-mailing with a fiction writer that we have on our show sometimes Etgar Keret about today's theme. And he told me that his father used to spend a lot of time imagining worlds like we are talking about in today's program-- parallel worlds to ours that are almost the same as our world but not quite. And he said his father did this starting during World War II. His father was 14 living in Poland-- he was Jewish-- when the Germans invaded and started sending Jews to the concentration camps. During the Second World War him and his parents they hid in a hole in the ground that they dug for 620 days. So he had a lot of spare time. And when he was there he would imagine all kinds of things. He would imagine a world in which the Nazis did not exist or in which he was not a Jew or in which people just in general did not kill each other you know? And this kind of thing was something that he associated with being a child. Then he kind of felt that it interested him as a child then I will probably like it too. Back during the war his father could not leave that hole for almost two years. The Nazi headquarters was right there near the hole on the same property. A Christian farmer in his 80s would bring them food and haul out buckets of urine. They could not even talk a lot of the time. Etgar imagines it was like two years of meditation. My father the way that he would talk about his time in the hole he would say that he would sleep and then he would wake up and then he would ask his father if the war was over. And his father would say no so he would go and sleep some more. That is the way he would tell it to me. I think it is that kind of-- the softcore version. And was it like when you say a hole could they even stand up? No. They could not stand in it and they could not even lie down in it. They had to sit in it. And when the Russians liberated the town and they were brought out they had to be carried out because their muscles were so cramped that by the time of the end of the war they could not move them. Oh my god. So basically they are in this hole and they are sitting there? Yes. And you know it is like it is very very cold you know? It is way beyond freezing. And you do not have food. And you hear voices in German and you know that you can easily be killed. And you close your eyes and you think of another universe. Etgar's written lots of fiction that imagines parallel worlds of various kinds. And when I asked him if he wanted to do something for today's show he wrote this story-- a true story that starts when he was a kid. When I was six years old my dad worked at a pool snack bar not far from one of Tel Aviv's beaches. Every day at 530 in the morning he would leave home for the pool swim 2 kilometers shower in the locker room and get to work. He would not get home till 900 at night. 14 hours a day 7 days a week unloading boxes of soft drinks dressing toasted sandwiches brewing coffee in gleaming glasses at the pool snack bar up by the beach. Years later Dad always said those were the best days of his life fondly remembering how the salty air blowing in from the sea would mix in his lungs with the smell of the coffee and the imported cigarettes he used to sell at the bar. Coffee cigarettes and the sea were always my father's three favorite things. For me those days were not quite as happy. When Dad came back from work I was already in bed. And other than Saturdays when I would go off to visit him at the pool with my mom I never saw him at all. Not that I was bitter about this. Six-year-old children cannot really imagine a different world for themselves one where their father had more time for them. They accept reality as it is. And yet I missed him dearly. Seeing this my mother suggested I go with him every morning to the pool have a swim together and take a cab to school from there. I do not remember anything of those morning swims but the car rides with Dad are crystal clear. It is still dark as we sit in our Silver Peugeot 504 the windows rolled down Dad smoking Kent 100s and describing parallel universes that exist at this very moment in other dimensions-- universes where everything is precisely identical to ours-- same road same traffic light same cigarette in the corner of Dad's mouth-- all except for one tiny difference. And this difference Dad would change every morning changing the one detail in the parallel universe that differed from ours. Here we are in the parallel universe waiting at the exact same intersection for the light to change. Only in this universe instead of a Silver Peugeot we are riding a dragon. And here's another one where under my faded sweatpants hide gills which allow me to breathe under water like a fish. When I was nine my father got a new job. He no longer had to get up so early in the morning. And in the evenings we would all have dinner together and watch the nightly news. I was 22 by the time I moved out of my parents' house but I still made sure to visit them at least twice a week. And on Saturdays I would swim with Dad at the pool where he once worked. When I was 43 my father was diagnosed with cancer. It was tongue cancer the result of 50 years of smoking. By the time the doctors caught on it was at an advanced stage. And though we never spoke a word about it it was obvious to us both that soon he was going to die. On Mondays I take him in for his physical therapy. And as we sat in the waiting room to see the physical therapist with the British accent my father sometimes still talked about parallel universes where everything was exactly the same as ours save for one difference-- say that dogs could speak or that people could read minds or that the sky was purple. And when the milk white clouds floated across it they looked tasty enough to eat. At the end of every session the physical therapist would show me how to hold my father's arm when we walked together and what I should do in case he lost his balance. On our way home as we approached the corner of King Solomon and Arlozorov Dad would always stop. Do you smell that? he would say and point to the new cafe at the corner. Just by the smell of it I can tell you that is the best coffee in town. At this stage of his illness the tongue cancer was so advanced my father could no longer eat or drink. Instead he got all his food and liquids through a clear plastic tube straight to his stomach. On one of these Mondays after physical therapy while walking by the corner cafe on King Solomon and Arlozorov my father instead of just posing to praise the place as usual suggested we actually go in for a cup of coffee. Dad I said after a moment's hesitation you cannot drink anything. The tumor is blocking your esophagus. I know he said and patted me on the back but you can. We sat at a corner table on the sidewalk. I ordered a latte and a glass of water from the pretty waitress. And when she asked my father what he would like he asked for a double espresso. I stared at him confused and he smiled and shrugged. The waitress noticed Dad's guilty smile and gave me a questioning look. Not knowing what to say I ordered an oatmeal cookie. Until the coffee arrived we sat in silence. I wanted to ask my father why he would ordered the coffee at all and if it had anything to do with the waitress being pretty but I said nothing. Dad pulled a cigarette pack out of his shirt pocket and a lighter he had stored in his glasses case and set them both down on the table. We waited. A few minutes later the waitress returned with our order. She placed it on the table-- a latte a glass of water and a cookie in front of me and a double espresso in front of Dad. Aromatic steam rose from my coffee. I wanted to drink it. But doing that in Dad's face seemed unfair so I just kept staring at it. When out of the corner of my eye I saw my father quickly snatch the double espresso off the table and gulp it down in one sip. It was impossible. I knew it was impossible. After all I was there in the room when the oncologists showed me and my mother the X-ray with the tumor resting above the blocked esophagus like a scoop of vanilla ice cream on a waffle cone. My father she said then could never drink again. And here we were sitting together on a pleasant summer day at this hipster cafe me still staring at my steaming cup of coffee and him by my side smiling after killing off his double espresso. And for a moment there I thought maybe we were in a parallel universe. Maybe he told me enough stories ever since I was a little boy to tear open a hole in the aching heart of our universe through which we were sucked into a parallel one identical to our own in every way save for one exception. In this universe my dad could drink and eat as much as he liked and he was not about to die in just a few months. The piping hot coffee slid down my father's windpipe and into his lungs. When it got there Dad started to choke. He stood up and grabbed his throat with both hands. The wet wheezing noises he made were horrific-- the sound of a man whose lungs are flooded with hot coffee. A bespectacled man from the table next to us leaped up and asked my father if he needed any help. I just sat there paralyzed. The parallel universe I had shared with my father moments ago had vanished dropping me back into a far worse universe. A few more seconds of gargling followed after which Dad leaned over and coughed up evacuating all the fine Italian espresso that had filled his lungs. When he was done he sat up in his chair as if nothing had happened inches away from the puddle of coffee and phlegm and lit himself a cigarette. People at the tables around us kept staring at him. What did I tell you? He smiled at me and exhaled smoke from his nostrils. The best coffee in town. Etgar Keret. He is the author of many books. He writes about his dad and the rest of his family in stories a lot like this one-- emotional fables that happen to be true-- in his book The Seven Good Years. Act 2 Sorry Not Sorry. So it is kind of grim to say this but the moon landing-- that story of American triumph-- it could have gone in another way. In some other storyline from the multiverse Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin they land on the moon they walk around it is great. But then there is a problem and they cannot take off to come home. NASA thought this was the most dangerous moment in the mission the most likely spot it could fail. One of President Richard Nixon's speechwriters William Safire actually prepared a statement to be read in case that was the way the story went. At the top of the page in all caps it read In the event of moon disaster-- first line of the speech-- fate has ordained that the men who went to the moon to explore it in peace will stay on the moon to rest in peace. Pretty good. David Kestenbaum has this next story about another presidential speech never delivered that also feels like it slipped into our world from a parallel universe. You can find this speech framed hanging in the guest bathroom of a home in California. Here's David. The speech was to be read on the night of August 17 1998. It is in the house of Bob Shrum because he wrote it. Shrum was a longtime Democratic political strategist speechwriter and getter-outer of tight spots. Are you personally good at apologizing? Oh I have had to apologize so many times for so many things-- sure. What is the most recent thing you apologized for? Having a fight with my wife about what we were giving various people as Christmas gifts. This story is about an apology he wrote for a much bigger audience. That August 1998 Shrum was on vacation in Idaho staying with some friends and the phone rang. Well I did not have a cell phone then so somehow or other-- oh my office called me and said Mark was trying to reach me. Mark is Mark Penn who at the time was conducting polls and advising the President of the United States who at the time was Bill Clinton who at the time was in a lot of hot water. Impeachment might very well be an option-- tampering with witnesses obstruction of justice are very very serious charges. A moment when one political party said there were very valid high crimes and misdemeanors and the other party said that is ridiculous political posturing. Anyway there had been stories in the press for months at this point that Clinton might have had an affair with an intern Monica Lewinsky. Clinton denied it though under oath in a civil case and famously on television.  But I want to say one thing to the American people. I want you to listen to me. I am going to say this again. I did not have sexual relations with that woman Miss Lewinsky. But there was the dress with Clinton's DNA on it and recorded phone calls between Monica Lewinsky and a co-worker talking about the affair. At the time Bob Shrum got the call President Clinton was finally going to have to testify before independent counsel Ken Starr's grand jury. He would have to own up to the affair and then afterwards say something to the nation. But what? That was what the phone call was about. Shrum called Mark Penn back who asked if he would take a shot at writing a speech for the president to be delivered on TV just after he gave his grand jury testimony. It would be the president's chance to frame the whole thing maybe finally put it away and prevent the Republicans from starting impeachment proceedings. The country would be watching. Bob Shrum said OK. He hung up the phone and told his wife and the couple they were staying with on vacation what the assignment was. One of the people there said this better be good. Meaning you better do a good job? Yes. Yeah. So I sat at the dining room table and I wrote in longhand on a yellow pad which is how I have always written. I drafted it. What he wrote was a straight up direct apology. Do you have it there with you? It is on the-- well actually I can go get it. You want to hold on for a second? Shrum went to go get it from where it was hanging in what he calls the guest powder room. And to be clear there is other political memorabilia in there. It is a speech he is proud of. Can you read the speech for me? Yeah. It is not very long so I will. My fellow Americans no one who is not in my position can understand fully the remorse I feel today. Since I was very young I have had a profound reverence for this office I hold. I have been honored that you the people have entrusted it to me. I am proud of what we have accomplished together. But in this case I have fallen short of what you should expect from a president. I have failed my own religious faith and values. I have let too many people down. I take full responsibility for my actions-- for hurting my wife and daughter for hurting Monica Lewinsky and her family for hurting friends and staff and for hurting the country I love. None of this ever should have happened. Then he has Clinton apologizing for misleading people about the affair. And this is how it ends. Finally I also want to apologize to all of you my fellow citizens. I hope that you can find it in your heart to accept my apology. I pledge to you that I will make every effort of mind and spirit to earn your confidence again to be worthy of this office and to finish the work on which we have made such remarkable progress in the past six years. God bless you and good night. How does it feel reading that? I mean I remember writing it. I thought it was the right thing for him to say. And when I hear it now I still think it is the right thing for him to say. It is notable that Shrum had the president apologizing to Monica Lewinsky and her family. At the time Charles Rangel the Democratic congressman from New York called her quote a young tramp. She was the subject of jokes on late night television. Bill Maher said I think Monica Lewinsky is the one who should apologize to America. No one seemed to be thinking about her as a person whose life was now a wreck. Shrum was. Well I mean she was an intern a kid in the White House. And I thought that that made every bit of sense in the world. Shrum sent the speech into the White House. And then the day arrived. Clinton gave his grand jury testimony which was not broadcast. And that evening the president went on TV to give his speech. Shrum sat down with the rest of the country to watch it. We were just sitting around in the living room watching it on television. And at that point are you thinking maybe he is going to read my speech? Sure. I thought he might very well-- Bill Clinton who I worked with on State of the Union messages never exactly reads what you send him. So I did not anticipate that it would be necessarily word for word what I had sent but I thought it might be pretty close to it. It was almost diametrically the opposite. Good evening. This afternoon in this room from this chair I testified before the office of independent counsel and the grand jury. I answered their questions truthfully including questions about my private life questions no American citizen would ever want to answer. I not only remember hearing the first words but I remember the look on his face. He was really really angry. It is the private Bill Clinton who could get angry. And I have seen him angry but I do not think the country had seen him angry very often. As you know in a deposition in January I was asked questions about my relationship with Monica Lewinsky. While my answers were legally accurate I did not volunteer information. Indeed I did have a relationship with Miss Lewinsky that was not appropriate. In fact it was wrong. It constituted a critical lapse in judgment and a personal failure on my part for which I am solely and completely responsible. There are moments of apology in there and what feel like honest reflection like when he straight up admits the reasons he had been so evasive until then. I can only tell you I was motivated by many factors-- first by a desire to protect myself from the embarrassment of my own conduct. But the overall message is not I am sorry. I screwed up he seems to be saying but the real problem is the fact that I am having to talk about this at all. It is a private family matter. It is nobody's business but ours. Even presidents have private lives. He closes not by asking for forgiveness as Shrum had advised but by asking people to stop gawking. And so tonight I ask you to turn away from the spectacle of the past seven months to repair the fabric of our national discourse and to return our attention to all the challenges and all the promise of the next American century. Thank you for watching and good night. What do you think would have happened if instead that night he would taken out your speech and read it? I think it would have lessened the chances that he would have been impeached. Really? I do not know that it would have prevented the impeachment but I think it would have lessened the chances. It is possible his speech gets you to the same ending just with a slightly different plot. And after all there was a lot of momentum in Congress toward impeachment. But it is nice to contemplate a world where the leader of your country can stand up and acknowledge having made a mistake can acknowledge reality. An apology really is about the truth-- laying it out so we can all live in the same world together. It is impossible to imagine that happening now. Clinton seemed closer to it at that moment but he still could not do it. I wonder of all the possible universes in how many of them does Clinton say I am sorry you know? Not I am sorry for what happened or I am sorry if people feel-- but really like I am sorry. There may be a universe in which he did that. I am just not aware of it because I do not live in it.  Yeah that is not the one we live in. You want to know what I think? I think it is possible there is no universe in which President Clinton reads Bob Shrum's speech. Listening to the speech Clinton did give I kind of think he gives it in every possible universe. It was exactly how he felt. And the speech that you wrote while great was not at all how he was feeling at that moment. Obviously the speech that I drafted did not reflect how he felt coming out of the grand jury. In that sense can you fault him? I just think you want to do what fits the moment and you want to be true to yourself. The problem was that I think he was true to the angry guy who had just come out of the room you know? He was maybe not true to the person he was the next day. There are the yous in all the parallel worlds but also the you on Thursday and the one on Friday the one who is had some time to think and some sleep and a sandwich. For sure those are different people. David Kestenbaum. In some other universe he stayed a physicist for all of his life. In this one he is the executive editor of our program. Bill Clinton by the way later wrote about this address to the nation that night in his biography. He does not mention Shrum's draft of the speech but he does say that most of his advisors had counseled him to simply admit that he had made an awful mistake-- not to go out swinging. He did anyway of course. Weeks after that speech he backtracked in front of a smaller audience at a prayer breakfast with religious leaders. He took a different tone there. He said I agree with those who have said that in my first statement after I testified I was not contrite enough. It was much closer to what Shrum had written. He included an apology to Monica Lewinsky and her family. Coming up worried that you are living in a parallel universe where some very basic facts about your own life have been altered? That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. We have arrived at Act 3 of our show Act 3-- Sklar-Crossed Brothers. So if you think about it being an identical twin is kind of a parallel world situation. You know you have this other version of yourself stuck in the same world as you stuck in the same house as you. You see somebody who is just like you running around doing things that you might not do. Dana Chivvis has this next story about a mother her twins and a 48-year-old mystery. Annette Sklar had a lot going on in the winter of '72. In January she delivered twin boys-- Jason first followed by Randy 5 minutes later. Weighing 5 pounds 2 ounces Randy had to spend the first days of life in an incubator. They lived in suburban St. Louis. Annette's husband Dick had a job at a paper company called Tension Envelope. He worked long hours and traveled a lot. Annette was often at home alone caring for two infants-- feeding them changing diapers and making sure she did not lose track of which one was which because they looked exactly alike. Were you always scared that you might mix them up? Like from the day they were born was that a real fear? I tried to be really careful about knowing who either had-- what outfit they were on. I knew-- I was really careful about it. So usually we had outfits in different colors-- blue blue Jay and red Randy red. And then I did not think about it too much once I knew it was. OK.  That is how we did it. That is a good system. I mean I think I did feed them twice one of them and did not feed the other one. That happens sometimes. You did that. You did that. One of them was eating the other one was crying a lot. And I go why is he crying so much? She even had a back-up-- a creative redundancy she built into the safety plan for their identities. And that was diaper pins. She used blue diaper pins for Jason and yellow ones for Randy. Everything went smoothly for a while. And then at six weeks they had their first check-up. Annette dressed them in the same outfit-- a fancy number their aunt in Los Angeles had sent them. But underneath the clothes the diaper pin system was up and running. At the doctor's office a nurse took the babies out of the room. Annette cannot really remember why. Maybe she needed to weigh them. And a few minutes later the nurse came back in with the boys. And she goes oh we have such a great surprise for you. Now we have Pampers. We are just using them for the first time. So instead of using your diapers we used your Pampers. Oh no. And then they gave me all four of their tins. The nurse had changed the babies out of their cloth diapers and put them into disposable ones foiling the system entirely. She handed Annette a little bag with the diaper pins in it. The boys were completely indistinguishable. I was very upset. So they go oh you are going to be fine. You are fine. Of course they go you are fine. And we got in the car and I was so upset the whole way home. When she got home Annette put the babies on the couch and stared at them. At six weeks old they did not have distinct personalities yet. They weighed the same amount. They had the same bald heads. No birthmarks. And I am not kidding you they looked exactly alike. And so I was thinking I was a really terrible mother. Oh no. Then how can I really look at this and not see my own children and not know which ones they are? You know she called me in a panic. And she just said I do not know what I am going to do. I do not know which one's which. I do not know what to do. This is Annette's best friend Linda Wallace-- Aunt Linda as Jason and Randy know her. She lived in the same subdivision. Did you go over there to try to help her? No I did not. Yeah. Because if she could not tell them apart how would I be able to tell them apart? Right. I mean I could not tell them apart you know? She had the pins. Yeah.  Were you nervous to tell Dick? Were you nervous to tell your husband? Yes. You were? Yes. I was really nervous. So when he came home and he saw them and they were in 