OK so let us start here. This is a training video for firefighters in Amsterdam.    Three firemen in an office drinking coffee catching up-- and then one of them this big bald guy gets up to show the others this new helmet that he is just gotten picks up a box off the floor and says what is that? He makes a face. It stinks too. He smells his fingers. What is that?  It is pee. This conversation understandably turns to speculation on how the pee might have gotten there. Where did you find this? he asks.    At the depot.  Do you think it was a cat? It was not a cat.  The rest of the video which is entitled The Incident With the Helmet goes on for a few minutes explaining why it is not a good idea to pee in your colleague's helmet even if it is a joke. Like that can make people feel bad and unwelcome. And the reason the fire department needed a video like this was the firefighters were peeing in their co-workers helmets and their drinks and had been for years. This was a re-enactment of an actual incident. Amsterdam firefighters had a kind of macho frat house culture. And for women who came to work there or anybody who was not white it was rough in all kinds of ways-- pranks bullying racist jokes sexist comments. Women described the environment as alienating. One Moroccan-Dutch firefighter said What we want is not super special. We just want normal behavior normal treatment of people. The bosses had problems with them too. The firefighters would simply ignore certain orders to change the way they worked. Back in 2011 the mayor of Amsterdam commanded them to do some straightforward things like perform more home inspections pass out smoke detectors switch from 24-hour shifts to 8-hour shifts. A year passed and another and another. After five years-- still nothing. They would pretty much blown off his requests. The mayor did not like to hear no. Paul Vughts is a reporter at Amsterdam's biggest newspaper Het Parool. He is covered the fire department for over 20 years. He put his fist on the table and said And now it is over. And now I will send you a strong man. He will change the fire brigade in the way I want it to change. The strong man the mayor brought in was a guy named Leen Schaap. His firefighting experience before this-- nothing. He spent his whole career working at the Amsterdam Police Department. And he was not just an outsider-- he was somebody with a reputation for being a real hard ass. I expected a riot because the way they live in the fire stations being all day and nights they are together-- cook together sleep together-- that makes in the end that outsiders do not get in easy. Here in Amsterdam the fire stations are really like small castles in the neighborhood. There is 19 fire stations all around Amsterdam. There were 750 firefighters-- 500 full-time 250 volunteer-- a brigade with the same problems as lots of brigades here in the United States. And for sure not all firehouses are like this. But it is not hard to find examples. Outside of Chicago male firefighters broke down their female co-worker's shower door while she was in there showering. The chief handed her a towel and said Relax. It is firehouse fun. In Houston women say their male co-workers peed on their beds and when they complained they were labeled troublemakers. The city could not substantiate those claims but the Trump Justice Department has stepped in on the women's side. In Miami and New York black fire department employees found nooses at work. In Michigan a black firefighter found a banana on the windshield of his truck. Amsterdam is one of the rare examples of a city that really decides to take on the boys club culture in firehouses. And the firefighters do not lay down. They fight every step of the way. And one thing that is unusual about the guy running this department Leen Schaap is that he is shockingly frank about just how messed up his department really is. One of his tactics is to be utterly transparent and show the public what he learns is happening behind the closed doors of the firehouses. He is also blunt about the pushback he gets. And so unlike other fire departments and police departments with similar problems in this case for once we see exactly how bad things were laid bare. And we also see all the resistance when somebody comes in and tries to change it. We see just how hard that is to accomplish. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today on our show we have this very unusual look inside a place like this. Reporter Joanna Kakissis has been digging into this for months. That'ill be Act One of today's show. And this is such an embattled department that the only way Joanna could get most of the firefighters to talk to her was to change their names and replace their voices. So you are going to be hearing a bunch of that in what is about to follow. Basically only Leen Schaap and one of his main opponents let us use their voices. Our producer Miki Meek reported this with Joanna. You will hear Miki's voice in there now and then asking questions. Here's Joanna. To take on a bunch of tough guys the mayor hired someone who was used to being the toughest guy in the room. Leen Schaap climbed to the upper ranks of the Amsterdam Police Department by speaking his mind and not caring who did not like it. He got things done by moving quickly and aggressively. He ran the riot squad. He was known in town for forcing out anarchists squatting in a full city block of abandoned homes. Amsterdam is a progressive city and sympathy was with the squatters. Lots of people hated Leen for what he did. They threw paint bombs at him.   Only cowardly leaders do not show up. My interviews with him are filled with these kind of tough guy cliches.  This is a battle and one of us is going to win it. And it is not going to be you. Sometimes it was hard to keep a straight face.   I am in the fire department so I am not really worried about getting burned. OK. You are tough. You are tough. Leen smiled. He knows when he is laying it on thick. He is intense with reddish-brown hair and blue eyes that look incredibly icy if you have pissed him off. His first week on the job there is a welcome lunch for him. Firefighters do not show up. Then he gets an anonymous letter telling him not to enter any fire stations. He goes anyway and he notices right away there is nowhere for him to park. The fire station's parking spaces are filled with recreational vehicles.   Boats with caravans with camper vans-- because basically the firefighters were using this area around the firehouse as their private space saying we are here 24 hours. This is kind of our house. This is our place. Leen gave firefighters their first order. He said get all your personal stuff out of here. Then they said you do not run the show. You are not the one who decides this. He actually said You do not run this. You do not run this. What is your problem? That is what I said. What is your problem? And kind of belittling-- why are you getting so worked up about this little boat we have? And what was your response to that?   I told them you have to get these boats and the camper vans out of here. If not I am going to hire somebody to take all that stuff away. And they were like oh go ahead. And I took a step forward and stood my ground. You know I threatened to take a police crane and lift it out of there. Firefighters were furious and thought Leen was acting too much like an uptight cop. But everyone complied. They got rid of their boats and campers. Except for one guy who ignored Leen and defiantly brought a boat right back-- the only boat in the parking lot. Leen put him on probation and moved him to another firehouse. It was one of his first disciplinary actions. The guy retaliated by not coming to work and taking the department to court. Leen was figuring things out pretty fast. He estimated there were about 50 of these guys in the entire department-- guys who joined the brigade decades ago and now ran their fire stations. They kept tabs on their bosses through a private Whatsapp channel. Some firefighters called them The Brotherhood. Leen always called them-- The angry white men. We still have them. Angry white men he says who are against any change that would force them out of their golden cages. He knew guys exactly like this in his police department days.   These are tough guys some born and raised in Amsterdam or in the streets. They are built like a refrigerator. They have lots of tattoos. They have a big mouth. They are not so much super smart but they are cunning. And if you try to approach them with too much nuance then you are not going to make it because they know how to play you. And then a few months into his job Moroccan-Dutch firefighters on the force started coming to him about a particular guy one of The Brotherhood who called them cancer Moroccans. In Dutch this is a racial slur. When I asked for an English equivalent someone told me cancer Moroccan is like saying fucking Moroccan scum.   And also when he was supposed to put out fires in Amsterdam-West where there is a lot of Muslims living he would say that he had to go to the caliphate. This guy had a long list of charges against him. He walked around in a Nazi jacket he threatened to nail a crucifix to the shower door of a Muslim firefighter and he refused to go to a fire drill at a mosque. Again Leen--   This is really wrong. What if there is a fire in a mosque? Will he do his job? Will he save the people if he does not want to go in there now for the practice? And as a first responder in this multicultural city you cannot say that you do not want to go somewhere because of religion.   So when I heard about this case I thought I have to do something about this. I cannot lead this life. Leen fired him. It was the first time racism had been cited as a reason to fire someone from the Amsterdam Fire Department. So he would gotten rid of the boats he would fired a guy for racism-- progress. But The Brotherhood started a petition for the firefighter to get his job back. How did you feel about that?   It really opened my eyes. Instead of uniting around the people who were discriminated against they united against the person who was discriminating and they formed a block around him. The problem ran so much deeper than Leen thought. Why would not they want to stick up for the guy getting harassed? For Leen it was obvious. He instinctively sided with the firefighter getting picked on and he did not understand anyone who did not. That empathy for the outsider-- it made Leen an unusual commander. So he started investigating to figure out just how bad things were. The numbers were not encouraging. When Leen started there were only five female firefighters on the entire full-time force of 500. The fire department is not allowed to record race but he estimates that only around 10 of the force were people of color. These numbers did not reflect the city at all. At least a third of Amsterdam's population is non-white. Leen visited the fire stations and talked to firefighters over coffee at the long lunch tables there. And he learned that lots of them liked the changes he was bringing in. He had a silent band of support. He asked people about their experiences in the department and to his surprise people opened up to him. Through their stories he started to get a sense of what it was like to be a person of color or a woman in his fire department. Moroccan and Surinamese-Dutch firefighters said they were called rats and monkeys. The Brotherhood told some they did not belong-- that firefighters should be Dutch and white. One Muslim firefighter I am calling Ali told me that over time he learned to go along with the racial slurs. So when his co-workers called him bin Laden he acted like he was not upset. You have to ignore it. If they find out that you do not like it they will keep on coming back and back and back. Have you ever reported discrimination in the past? It was not possible to do that. Nobody does that. You could report whatever you want but nothing was going to happen. In the worst of cases when it really got out of hand what you would just do is shake hands on it and get it over. The one accused-- he will just say come on man. It was a joke. And nothing's going to happen. Leen hired a consultant to help him reach out to women who'd quit the department. They felt like they never belonged. They said harassment and belittlement happened every hour of the day. One woman said men in her station asked her to leave the room so they could comment on her ass. Men told women to sit in the windows of the firehouse as if they were prostitutes in the red light district. During job interviews women were asked how they do their jobs on their periods. One of the few female officers in the Amsterdam Fire Department is a woman I am calling Judy. The guys respected her. She was strong physically and she was tough-- had no problem standing up to these guys. But even she felt like she was constantly being tested like when a firefighter under her command purposely opened his towel in front of her. When she suggested that her boss has not put women into fire stations alone but with other women one of her superiors called her a highly educated moaning female. One night she was doing her rounds checking in on everyone and stopped by the canteen. I was saying good night to everybody. And then they were sitting and watching porn. Did not you say something then? No. So I did not say anything about that. Porn was a regular thing in the common areas of lots of the stations. I do not know why I did not say anything. I did not feel comfortable to say it probably. It is also me being influenced by The Brotherhood I think. Because saying something-- it is always uncomfortable to say that. So yeah I have to admit that I have avoided it too. Everyone's grip on what was normal was out of whack. Judy remembers a woman at a fire station who had this particular bedtime ritual. So she would go to bed and somebody would come to tuck her in. Wait. They tucked her into bed at night? What exactly do you mean? Oh tucking in-- it was like when you put your little one to sleep and you pull your blankets tight around the person. So the guy who would do that said I am going to tuck her in. And I felt uncomfortable about that for her. I mean it was her choice. But I would never do that because it makes a certain situation that I think you should avoid. She was fine with it? She did not mind this happening? Well actually I do not know. I cannot remember ever talking to her about that. Why? Yeah. That is a good question. Maybe I might be putting her more in danger. Or I might not be helping her. Or maybe I was telling myself well maybe it is her choice and she likes it or something. But yeah I do not know. Hearing all these stories Leen realized he had to spell things out-- what is normal behavior in a workplace. He wrote a manifesto on how to behave like a professional firefighter and sent it out to everyone. It begins All of us are going to act normal. Normal meant we do not yell at each other. We do not steal coffee from the firehouses. We do not make offensive comments on social media. We always wear our uniforms. We do not store our personal tanning beds in the women's dormitories if we are men. If you break the rules you will be punished. And if you no longer know what normal is please find out. One of the biggest ways firefighting is not like a normal job-- firefighters work 24-hour shifts. So everyone lives together. They work out shop for groceries cook watch TV play soccer sleep. Professional boundaries get blurry. Leen wanted to push the department to 8-hour shifts. It would make fire stations more like a workplace and less like a private club.   I think the fire department-- many of the firefighters will fight almost literally to the death to defend this 24-hour shift. Firefighters liked being together for 24 hours and hanging out and then getting a couple days off to spend with their families or hold down second jobs. And The Brotherhood argued that bonding in the fire station is essential. The pushback was so strong that Leen managed to open just one firehouse on 8-hour shifts as an experiment. The Brotherhood pressured firefighters not to transfer there. The guys in The Brotherhood are afraid to talk to reporters. Everyone I reached out to was worried he would lose his job. But I did get four of them to speak to me on condition that I not use their names. I will call this one Jan. He did let me use his real voice.  He said the problem in the department was not them. It was Leen. And tucking women into bed-- he said it was not sexist. I can only confirm that they did it to me as well. And I did not feel embarrassed about it at that moment. But-- The women would tuck you into bed? Is that what-- No the men. The men would tuck you into bed? Yeah come on. Yeah. There are jokes sometimes you know? I also went to bed and I stepped in my bed. And somebody else came from the shower and he was already before me in my bed. So these kind of things happen. But if you are a woman and somebody is tucking you into bed it is a different experience. And it is-- Tucking is not something that they want to shock you or they want to embarrass you or they-- Yeah. But I guess what I am saying is OK there are people who are minorities and who are women. They are just too afraid to speak out to you because they are afraid of repercussions. Listen. It is so stupid if I say all the time it does not happen or that does not happen. It probably happened with one female employee. And probably one female employee left also. Do you have to say then OK this is a sexist company or all the females are bullied or all the Arabic people are bullied? I do not think so. I asked him about the firefighter Leen fired-- the one who called the Muslim neighborhood in Amsterdam the caliphate and used racial slurs on his Moroccan-Dutch co-workers. He is not a racist. That is for 100. What do you mean by that? To me it is an incident-- still an incident in a big company. Do not make it bigger than it is. I am 29 years with my wife you know? If I focus on all the bad things that I said about her then we would never get married. You do not think they should have fired him earlier? No no no no. No. You do not have to fire him at all. As long as he is not running around naked in his roller skates he is OK with me. You think he can use a term like cancer Moroccan-- and you are not a racist? It is not OK. But in the heat of the discussion you say things that are not OK that you are not allowed to say. And the opposite party will do the same probably. Yeah. And who is right and who is wrong-- I do not judge that. I was not there. But one thing is for sure-- I know he is not a racist. How much do you think that the force should adapt to new firefighters? The thing is-- when we have the feeling that we are forced to change then it is going to be-- that is in my opinion the wrong way. So if you want to change the trick is not to force it and do it in a very clever way that you-- In a very what way? In a clever way that you change without noticing. That would be the perfect way. And this is not happening right now. This is what Leen says he was up against-- a group of men for whom normal meant keeping things exactly the way they would always been. I was just wondering-- does not a boss have the right to impose boundaries on workplaces? We are not in this business for him. It is not a job. It is a way of life worldwide. So let us make this very clear-- for us it is not a job. It is a way of life. Leen's approach to making big institutional change is based on a progressive fairly new management theory designed to curb lawless organizations. It is essentially-- draw hard boundaries. Make no concessions. Be consistent unrelenting. And in 10 to 15 years maybe there'ill be a real shift. It is arduous. The beginning is the hardest part. This approach made a lot of sense to Leen because of his experience on the Amsterdam Police Force. He helped clean up and reform the department. As a rookie cop he would seen the problems firsthand. He started in a corrupt precinct the red light district in the 1980s. He says cops stole sold drugs were excessively violent. Changing that meant rigorously enforcing rules writing up bad cops disciplining them firing them. Leen says it took about 10 years for the rules to be accepted as normal. But this confrontational approach is not the way things usually work in the Netherlands.   You know the Dutch culture is very much everything peace everything together no conflict. And with the fire department the traditional recipe is talking talking talking. The Dutch have this term polder model. They take pride in it. The idea is to bring everyone together despite their differences just like their ancestors came together to build dikes and dams to protect their land from the sea. Historians debate whether that is actually true. But anyway everyone from Parliament to the local amateur soccer club tries to make decisions this way-- through discussions and consensus. Leen did dabble with polder model a little in the beginning. He spent his first six months going to fire stations trying to convince people that diversity would make them a stronger fire department in a city with almost 170 nationalities and that women bring pragmatism and emotional intelligence to the brigade. But Leen was almost always met with blank stares. Guys told him women are not strong enough for this job. One of them said you just want an excuse to bring in a hundred broads. Again here's Leen.   Intellectually it is hard to have these conversations about diversity. And I do not intend to sound crass and I do not want to be unkind about my people but some of them are too stupid to keep having this diversity conversation and convince them that way. And at some point you just have to say that we are going to stop talking about it. We are just going to do it. And we are going to do it this way. This is an organization. It is not some kind of democratic kumbaya thing where we are all going to talk about it and then the majority rules. You can take it or leave it. He was done reasoning with them. He did not have to after all. He had the full support of Mayor Eberhard van der Laan who was wildly popular. The city adored him. He snubbed Vladimir Putin when he was in town because of the Russian leader's anti-LGBT views. The city council backed the mayor and he backed Leen-- which meant with the mayor's support Leen could do whatever he wanted. And he had a big idea for how to get the kind of accountability he wanted in the fire department. Coming up-- you can discipline people you can threaten their jobs. But when all else fails try a talk show. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's show Burn It Down-- we have two stories of people who think they have no other choice. It is time to burn everything down make enemies do what has to be done. We are in the middle of Act One. A policeman burns down a firehouse. Joanna Kakissis in this act is reporting on the Amsterdam Fire Department the resistance to change from inside the department and in this half of her story how the bigger politics of the city start to shift everything. Quick program note before we start the second half of this. Joanna discovered when she started looking into this story that the fire commander's partner who is a journalist is somebody who Joanna has worked with in the past. Joanna has not discussed the content of the story with this journalist. The journalist was not involved in this story in any way. Again here's Joanna. Leen had devised a very unusual plan. But to pull it off he had to enlist the mayor. He did something that I have rarely seen any public official do-- he took all his criticisms about his own fire department and made them public. And by doing so he made himself the biggest critic of some of the most beloved figures in Amsterdam. Imagine the head of the police department in New York or Chicago publishing a long list of all the bad stuff their officers had done. It would blow up in their faces. That did not happen to Leen. Here's how he went about it. He started by writing a single letter to the mayor detailing his findings about discrimination and bullying at the fire department.   He read the letter. There was a certain surprise because I think he literally said I thought there were all kinds of things going on. But it turns out there was even more going on than I thought. But now I actually have the proof. And now we are going to work on this together.   In response the mayor wrote his own letter blasting the fire department and sent it with Leen's to the city council making them public record. Reporters pounced. Did you and the mayor-- did the two of you talk about it as a strategy? Yeah.   It was absolutely my idea. And I knew it was going to end up in the media. I knew this was going to make the papers. So that was something that I thought before-- that if I write this letter there is going to be a certain amount of pressure that would get the municipal council and also the public to see that something needed to be done.   This was very very calculated even to the point where I did use words that I knew the media would pounce on to get a discussion going. Like what?   Racism discrimination bullying exclusion-- these are terms that I know are going to get people's attention. It is really unusual for a public official to do something like this.   Yes. It is extremely unusual. But it makes it very effective. And I looked at what former fire commanders did and I felt that they did not use the possibilities they had enough. And I consciously decided I am going to make war. And that means you have to get your hands dirty and you have to go public. Do you remember any discussion you had with the mayor or with anyone else who was less sure that this was the right way? Um ja. Yeah? OK.   What I noticed with the people around me was mostly fear. And so that was a lot of the people in management here. They supported me but they were kind of reticent. Because they knew this kind of organization-- if you go looking for a fight you are going to get a fight. Did the mayor ever have any reservations about this as a strategy? Not one second. The details in Leen's report landed on the front page of the main newspaper in Amsterdam. Then the mayor and Leen went on a media blitz.   Here's Leen on the radio show flinging open the doors on what really goes on inside a firehouse. The host of the program says to Leen So what you found was a very macho culture. Can you give me some examples of that?   Well if you are sitting at a table and you are Moroccan and something comes on TV about Islam then people start talking about those cancer Moroccans. And when you are sitting there as a serious professional firefighter it has an effect on you. And then of course you are the exception. Like hey we do not mean you. It is those other cancer Moroccans. That is one example.   And I have got people telling me I can survive the 24-hour shift. I will just stay in my room. And then as a group you could think oh OK. Somebody's spending the whole shift in their room. But you could also think what is going on here?   And that is really what I want to happen-- that we are able to engage with each other in a healthy way. People wrote to newspapers saying they were repulsed by the firefighters' behavior. City council members said they were shocked. The mayor told Leen to keep pushing on with his reforms. But inside the firehouses Leen's tactics did not go over well. His support shrunk. Even people who agreed with his goals who thought he was fighting the good fight felt like he was smearing everyone lumping them together making them all look bad. The way that he did that-- he turned every firefighter against him. This is a longtime firefighter of color in the brigade. Leen and the mayor went about it really radically. They used the newspapers to try to turn public opinion against us. There were very very hurtful stories in the newspapers that we were racist that we were sexist-- all kinds of old stories really from a decade or more ago were brought back to paint a black picture of us. And of course The Brotherhood was pissed. It was a public declaration of war. On social media firefighters called Leen and the mayor know-it-all political losers and vile full of lies. They wrote Indict this mayor and have him sued for defamation and Thanks Leen we are all painted like a bunch of racists. Inside the firehouses the atmosphere changed. Attitudes hardened. Again here's Ali the firefighter of color who says his white co-workers called him bin Laden. He said things got worse for anyone who was not white. Something literally broke. And now for the first time you see that people for instance will not shake your hand. There is this tradition. After we put out a fire we always sit on the side. We have a coffee and all the firemen shake each other's hands. That is really a tradition. And now for the first time since I have been here white firefighters are refusing to shake our hands. Meanwhile Leen got more done than ever. He doubled down on recruitment went to mosques and dinners during Ramadan tried to convince more people of color and women to join the fire brigade. Slowly those numbers have increased. He also backed managers who disciplined bad actors. He streamlined work shifts opened a new firehouse and improved fire prevention. He made homes safer by sending firefighters door-to-door in the city. Leen with the backing of the mayor was making the kinds of changes he was hired to make in exactly the way he wanted to make them-- quickly and aggressively. But then something happened that Leen had not accounted for. Six months into his job Mayor Eberhard van der Laan revealed he was sick-- lung cancer. A half year later he died. Immediately the ground started to shift under Leen. When the mayor died The Brotherhood grew emboldened. Here's Leen.   People commented that it was great that he died. And there was even somebody when van der Laan was on his deathbed who said Van der Laan the cockroach is slipping away.   And that was quite shocking-- that somebody is on his deathbed from cancer and you are rejoicing in that. But for them it really was one enemy less. Soon a campaign to push Leen out of his job kicked into high gear. Retired firefighters and unions rallied around The Brotherhood publicly demanding that the city investigate Leen for bad mouthing the fire department in the media. Firefighters did interviews anonymously denouncing Leen in a conservative newspaper the biggest paper in the Netherlands. From the moment the mayor announced he was sick Leen started getting anonymous death threats. One letter said a hitman was being hired. Another targeted his 14-year-old daughter. He was told the threats were coming from inside the fire department. In the summer of 2018 Amsterdam got an energetic new mayor the first woman in the city's history-- Femke Halsema. She was Leen's new boss and spent many years in parliament as a high-profile lawmaker representing the left-wing Green Party a champion of women's rights. As a politician she pushed for tax breaks to address poverty. She also wrote newspaper columns and made a documentary about Muslim women. Mayor Halsema condemned the death threats against Leen and publicly threw her support behind him. But not long after she started Leen remembers her stopping by for a private meeting. He told her about some of the changes he was trying to make. Her reaction shocked him.   When we were having this conversation about racism and discrimination the mayor herself came with the following example. Apparently she heard from one of the fire stations or one of the fireman told her that we have a number of black colleagues working here--   --and there was one that all the other firefighters were calling Haar which is a Dutch name. And that was not his name. It was a racist wordplay joke. They looked for reasons to say no to him so they could say No Haar or in Dutch Nee Haar which means Negro.   The mayor laughed about this and said this is really funny. I find this extremely hilarious. She seriously laughed?   She laughed very loudly. And for me that was really a pivotal moment in which I realized I am fighting against all this and I am dealing with a mayor who thinks this is funny.   I told her I was immensely shocked that she had to laugh about these so-called humorous remarks. And I really asked her what is goin