From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. So one of our producers Zoe Chace had this whole plan to follow this senator for a year as he ran for re-election. And it was an interesting story because the senator is a Republican who does not like the president. And he talks about that all the time and the president seems to despise him. So would he be able to convince Republicans to vote for him? Republicans still overwhelmingly support the president. Zoe wanted to see him make the pitch. And then something happened that threw a wrench in her plans. Zoe? Yeah he resigned. He stopped running for office. Yeah so that kind of put the kibosh on that story. There was not a story anymore. Yeah. Explain who this is. Jeff Flake senator from Arizona-- he resigned from the Senate on October 24. And that day he gave this big resignation speech on the floor of the Senate kind of slamming the president. In this political moment it got a lot of attention. It is time for our complicity and our accommodation of the unacceptable to end. We must never regard as normal the regular and casual undermining of our democratic norms and ideals-- the personal attacks the flagrant disregard for truth and decency. And this attitude you might say is the reason he had to resign. He would been very outspoken about the president. He wrote a whole book calling the president basically unfit for office and a menace to our democracy. And that is why he could not win an election in Arizona. There were polls that showed he only had a 22 approval rating among Trump voters in Arizona. So how could he win a Republican primary? So the story is dead. But then in December something happens that changes everything. Yeah this thing happens where a Democrat gets elected to Senate in Alabama which is weird. Doug Jones becomes the senator of Alabama against accused child molester Roy Moore. And that changes things because John McCain is out for medical leave. The Republican majority in the Senate is now down to one vote-- 49 Democrats 50 Republicans. Any one Republican senator can theoretically stop a bill by voting with the other side. And suddenly this one renegade Senator Jeff Flake not beholden to the president has a lot of power. Zoe. Hi. Hi Senator. Long time no talk. So how does it feel to be the most powerful senator in Congress right now?  Seriously. Where did you get that? A lot of people.  You are running in strange circles then. It does give you more leverage though right? I mean are you feeling that? Well I do not feel it yet because it has not happened yet. But when the new senator is seated then perhaps. This is as much as you will get Jeff Flake to admit he is excited about something. He is an understated guy. I can tell he is pleased. Flake's essential for Republicans to get to 50 votes. For all the things they need 60 votes for in the Senate. He has new leverage there as well. And so Zoe asks Jeff Flake could she watch him try to execute this new-found leverage? And he said sure and she is been following him since then. Because Flake is in this interesting position. Any Republican who is up for re-election this year there are all kinds of things they cannot say or do because Donald Trump and his voters will punish them. They cannot cross the president. They cannot cozy up to Democrats. But because Flake is not running it is like he is bulletproof. It is like he has this superpower. He can do anything he wants say anything he wants take risks to get things done. And he decides to do something with that new-found power and leverage. And what he decides to do is pass what could be his very last bill. And the thing he goes for in this bill is DACA-- legal status for kids who were brought to the United States by their parents and then grew up here in the United States. It is 800000 people who have signed up officially as DACA kids. Super popular issue-- 80 of the country supports giving the Dreamers legal status. The president said he wanted it. The majority of the Senate wants it. If anything should be able to pass it should be DACA. So Zoe followed him trying to pass DACA for four months. She talked to him when he would come off the Senate floor when he was heading to the White House. She hung out with him in his office when he was stressed out late at night. And of course you probably know Flake he does not succeed right? DACA does not pass. The president tweeted in fact just last weekend in all caps no more DACA deal. DACA is dead. And so today on our show what you are going to hear is you are going to hear Jeff Flake fail. And just to say it of course it is not a big surprise to anybody that Congress is dysfunctional. And it is hard to get anything done in Congress. But watching somebody actually trying to do something to pass a bill you see how the nature of Congress' dysfunction has changed in ways that are very specific to Donald Trump. And OK yes we take for granted right now how messed up Congress is. We do not even think twice about that. But for this hour I would just ask you to open your mind and heart to the idea that there is another way this could have gone with DACA. And arguably it should have gone if our democracy was working like we read about in high school that when a vast majority in a democracy want something it happens. For Jeff Flake after those four months were done-- after playing the game the way everybody else does which you will hear him do at the beginning of the story-- politicking and horsetrading votes. After all that even he comes to see differently how Congress should operate. So that is our show today. It will be in four acts which correspond roughly to the four at bats Senator Flake gets to push DACA forward. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. So if you remember back in September President Trump ended President Obama's DACA program leaving Dreamers in limbo with the threat of eventual deportation. And he gave Congress six months to pass a bill six months to fix things for the Dreamers. The deadline was March 5. The clock started ticking. That is how long Jeff Flake has to get this done. And let us just jump right in with Act One-- Act One The Bluff. And we are going to start at the first place that Jeff Flake can try to exercise his leverage and his new-found bulletproof superpower. And that is December. It is late December when Congress is all about trying to pass their tax cuts. You might remember this. They wanted to give the president a big victory before the end of the year. They wanted to prove that a Republican House and Senate and White House could work together to actually get things done. The date is December 19. Zoe Chace takes it from here. We zoom in on Flake's Senate office in the Russell Building. Because the Republicans are so desperate for a win and because Majority Leader Mitch McConnell needs every vote he can get no Democrats will vote for the tax cuts. This is Flake's moment that he was counting on. It is an opportunity to use the leverage he has to move DACA ahead. He and Chuck Schumer the Democratic leader cook up a plan. He proposes a trade to Mitch McConnell-- my vote for the tax bill in exchange for a promise to get a DACA bill on the floor by the end of January. And now they are just about to vote. You are the last holdout on this tax bill. Am I? Are you undecided on how you are going to vote on that? I mean if you are negotiating for something outside of the bill you never indicate where you will be for certain. Never say what you are going to do. . This is a bluff. Flake loves the tax bill. He loves tax cuts. He knows he is going to vote for the bill even if he does not get what he wants. Eventually he tells me that. But he does not tell anybody else. We hop onto the Senate subway. And another reporter tries to get it out of him. Have you made up your mind on the-- I am still working. --tax vote. I am still working on the DACA issue. The funny thing is the tax bill can pass without him. They think they have the 50 votes they need already. If you are some kind of Congress nerd and you are counting Doug Jones has not been seated yet. John McCain is out on medical. But who knows? They just got the 50. Bob Corker Republican from Tennessee he recently came around for no apparent reason. With things in flux like this maybe someone could flip. And then Flake would have a lot more leverage. And Flake's been working on a DACA bill with other Republicans and Democrats a bipartisan bill. And he wants that bill to get a vote. Bring it to the floor. Agree to bring it to the floor. Use me as an excuse. Say we have got to get Flake. So we had to agree to DACA. That is done a lot. I mean you have-- How do I describe Jeff Flake? Suit and tie clasped hands earnestly looking at me on his office couch. I mean he is a senator. He is deeply earnest to the point where he is kind of dorky. He is a Mormon. He is super disciplined. He often goes to the gym twice a day. He has this way of being more hopeful than it seems like he should. When it comes to Mitch McConnell the leader of the Senate Flake often seems like Charlie Brown running to kick the football to McConnell's Lucy. But right now he feels like the power dynamic has changed. Jeff Flake is suited up. He feels like he has some moves. About immigration when Flake talks about it he often talks about economics. We are an aging country. We need workers. He has a libertarian mindset about it. The economics are personal to him though. He grew up on a cattle ranch in northern Arizona. His dad hired undocumented immigrants. And he got to know them. And he liked them. He writes about one of them in his book this guy he grew up with Manuel. It is in that kind of tokenizing style that politicians can use when they write about real life people caught up in national policy. But I have spent enough time with him to know that his feelings on immigration-- they are sincere they are deeply held and they are different from a lot of his colleagues. So Manuel. Manuel came when I was just very young. And he was young himself. He was 16. And we thought he was old and wise. And he worked in the shop mostly on the farm and would fix just anything that broke. And baling wire duct tape-- some of it was not pretty. He was never much of a welder. But he-- Flake worked all summer on the ranch too. He says he was always breaking the equipment. So he ended up hanging out a lot with Manuel talking about his girlfriend. One conversation that we still laugh about-- he is asking if I was dating anybody else. I said no no just Cheryl. And he said-- his English by this time was pretty good. But some of the phrases were a little off. He said Jeff you know the saying. He said when the cat is gone the mouse he can run around.  And-- Flake was on Manuel's side. When the border patrol would come and do these roundups Flake would pull his hat down low over his head and ride his horse in the opposite direction of where the workers were trying to lure the Cessnas away. He just saw Manuel at his dad's funeral last year. Manuel's got a green card now seven kids. One's adopted. A merit-based system he says like the president has called for-- it would not account for all these guys I have known who made their lives here made the country better. That is how he sees it. Flake's worked on immigration bills practically every year-- 2003 2004 2005 2006. He was part of the Gang of Eight that tried to do comprehensive immigration reform in 2013. DACA is the bare minimum of what he would do if he could. He would love to make it much easier for more people to work and live here. But there is no place in his party for that idea anymore. DACA though DACA is different. Most people like DACA. As we rush Aaron Sorkin-style through the Dirksen Building he explains how he gets even more leverage if another Republican peels off. That is what he is waiting for. And the most likely person that could be right now hours before the tax vote is Senator Susan Collins. And she called me this morning. And she has some issues. Collins has her own deal also unrelated to the tax bill that she is trying to use her tax bill vote to get leverage on. She wants some stuff to patch up Obamacare. And she is been threatening to vote against the tax bill if that is not addressed. Yesterday Majority Leader Mitch McConnell went on the Senate floor and promised to address her issues. But Flake says Collins' situation is still a little shaky. She had a long meeting with the vice president today. So she is close. But it is still working on a few things. That is good for you huh? But-- But she is not going to necessarily pull what you are pulling. She is pulling for something else. Right. She pulling for something else. But we both-- it works out. He ducks into a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing. Meanwhile calls are flooding into his office. You are a Republican. Support the president's tax bill. Have a spine. Vote against the president's tax bill. When I catch up with Flake that night he still has not heard from McConnell. To be clear what Flake is trying to get is modest. He is not trying to get an actual DACA deal done or a formal announcement. He just wants a sort of pinky swear from the Majority Leader. The Majority Leader will not make any public promises about DACA right now. Flake believes that is because he is scared. It will make Republicans in the House flip out and endanger the tax cut bill. OK fair enough. He can work with that. But notice just how hard it is to get this simple thing done. Flake heads off to talk to McConnell to try to get his firm commitment. And he leaves me behind in his office where I suffer two off-the-record hours with his Chief of Staff Chandler Morse one office over from Flake's. We talk a lot. What did you think was going to happen? Chandler is a character I wish I could tell you more about. I am allowed to reveal the following things from those hours. Between calls and emails he ate a seven-day-old seven-layer bean and salsa dip. Then he ate a Popsicle. He texts and emails like his life depends on it. At 10 oclock that night Flake shows back up with news. Now what? We hustle into his office. And he runs me through the story of the two hours that just happened. So right-- so you left here you went to go talk to the Majority Leader. Well he was over in the Mansfield Room. We are all eating dinner and I sat down. And he said you OK on this? I said no no. I said I need to know if we have a commitment to bring this bill up in January because that was what we were talking about before. To bring up the DACA bill. And he said I cannot. I cannot commit. I do not want to commit to something that I cannot deliver on. And the spending bill is now kicked into January. And I just cannot. Oh no. And so I said well you could not do it in December. And I understood that. But January even if there is a spending bill we have to do on the 17th that still leaves quite a bit a month. No I cannot do it. Cannot commit. And so I just walked away. Then later he came back over a bit and just said I hope you understand. I just cannot commit. I never commit to bring bills up. McConnell does not like immigration. Flake thinks he thinks it is generally a losing issue for their party. Plus McConnell has the votes without Flake. And anyway I am guessing he sees through the bluff and knows Flake is going to vote for the tax bill no matter what. Jeff Flake is not a sulker exactly. But it is hard to imagine what else he could have been doing over dinner while Chandler was upstairs chewing on a popsicle stick and texting him. He was out of moves. But then after McConnell left the vice president called him Mike Pence. And Flake gets back a sliver of leverage. For Pence they do not want any Republican voting against this bill. They just want it to look pretty. I mean obviously. The White House wants every Republican on board for the tax vote. It will look good that way a united front. Pence and Flake go way back. They were famously tight when they were both in the house. They have been strained lately. This has caused Flake a little anguish. They do not agree on the president. There is always a pretty intense wistfulness mixed with defensiveness when Flake talks about Pence. And he talks about him a lot actually because that is his only big connection to the White House. Their long friendship was forged when they both stood up to President Bush over No Child Left Behind and then again over his prescription drug plan. They both love tax cuts. They both hate spending. Anyway he is a bit tortured that he and Pence are on different sides now. And Pence he and I are close. We talk about tax cuts. And we have been working on this stuff for a long time. This has been-- best friends in the House. I think it is been a personal kind of thing for him. And I understand that. We always stuck together back then. We like to stick together when we can. And I think he saw it as his personal mission kind of too. So he gave me all kinds of good reasons. Frankly to vote for the bill I did not need to hear them. But Mike you know he is a good friend. But I have made no commitment after that call. Remember he is actually voting for the bill but not letting on to his buddy Mike. This bill that under different circumstances they would be celebrating together. Also there is a good chance Pence knows Flake's bluffing. So they are kind of playacting with each other. I mean did it feel bad? Yeah well and I mean yeah. Mike said well we are going to get this done. The president's committed. I am committed. Paul's committed in the House. Paul Ryan Speaker of the House-- Pence is saying they will do it DACA. Everybody wants to do DACA. But they are not going to publicly commit to doing it right now. The Senate they know they have got to get it done. It will get done. Your name is going to be all over it whatever else. I said if they will get it done I will step back take my name off of all of it and just vote for it. Just get it done. I just want to get this done. And he said no I know. I know. Just know that we are going to get it done with no commitment. As Flake's recounting all this to me late night in his office we are interrupted by a phone call. Were not there just points today where you were like I should just say yes.  Oh go ahead. Hello. It is Lindsey Graham. Lindsey Graham is Flake's Republican partner in crime on the DACA bill. He is kind of the Ernie to Flake's Bert wisecracking where Flake is earnest and shy. It turns out there was a final dramatic scene that happened just before Flake came back to talk to me that he was about to tell me before Lindsey Graham called. But now I get to hear him tell it to Graham on the phone. Hey you know what happened? So after dinner in the Mansfield room in the long call with Mike Pence-- Mitch called me. What did he say? He gave a commitment. Firm. Did he? Yeah. You got that right. In a surprising twist not long after Flake hung up with Mike Pence Mitch McConnell called his phone and abruptly reversed himself. I do not usually do this McConnell said to Flake But-- And he went on to give Flake what he wanted. He committed to bring DACA to the Senate floor in January for a vote. The bluff worked. Even if McConnell saw through it to begin with he decided he had to be sure of him. Flake got his DACA vote promise. And it happens Flake learned because of what happened with Susan Collins. She called me while I was on the phone with Mitch. Flake was on the phone with Mitch McConnell when Susan Collins beeped in. He put Mitch on hold clicked over said hi to Susan told her to hang on a second. I just put her on hold while I finished the call with Mitch. He clicked back over to McConnell. He wanted to make sure he got his commitment. He got it. Then he hung up with McConnell and got back on with Collins. And then learned that the deal with her had gone south. She was calling Flake to let him know her deal with McConnell had changed and see where he was at. And where he was at was psyched because he just moments ago gotten what he wanted. This is good news I can hear Graham crowing on the other end of the phone. But anyway we got the commitment. By the end of January they are going to bring up our bill. We have just got to finish. We have just got to finish it. That made my night! Graham yells. OK. They hang up. Bye. And then almost immediately his phone rings again.  It is Vice President Mike Pence. Flake tells me to stop recording. OK. I later piece together how this all went down and learn just how convoluted the backstage maneuvering was that night that finally got Jeff Flake what he wanted. Leverage was not enough. He also got lucky. Mike Pence seems to be the reason that Susan Collins' deal and Flake's deal both changed at the last minute. And their deals changed because of another issue I did not see coming abortion. Susan Collins wanted that Obamacare fix. At the eleventh hour these antiabortion activists met up with Mike Pence because they heard about Susan Collins' Obamacare fix. They thought it would result in federal dollars going towards abortions. They did not like that. Mike Pence is passionately vigorously against abortion. That is his big issue. Pence then met with Collins. As best I can tell this meeting changed things for Collins' deal. And she was unhappy about it. And in fact the provision she wanted did get kicked down the road. After all that McConnell's office wanted to be absolutely certain of every Republican vote because they would been burned by a defection just three weeks before. So McConnell made a game-time decision to call Flake and give him what he wanted with DACA. The Sergeant at Arms will restore order in the gallery. And later that night when the tax bill comes to the floor-- Senators voting in the affirmative-- Alexander Barrasso Blunt-- Collins votes for it. --Collins Corker-- She votes for it even though she apparently got shivved at the last second. --Daines Enzi Ernst Fischer Flake Gardner Graham Grassley Hatch Heller Hoeven Inhofe Isakson Johnson-- Act Two Flake's Second at Bat-- Now with the President. It is weird to be inside a senator's office listening to him gossip with other lawmakers like a kid on the phone and then see that gossip become news and then government business. A commitment on a cell phone between two guys seeps out through the halls of the Capitol and onto cable TV. The lawmakers are negotiating a bill impacting undocumented immigrants. Immigration specifically DACA. Really DACA is at the center of everything. And keep in mind Senator Jeff Flake is expecting a DACA bill signed in the new year. McConnell gives a press conference on December 22 a few days after the tax bill passes. We have a commitment on a bipartisan basis to address the DACA issue. And there is a working group. And I have said to them if they can come up with an agreement that the administration is comfortable with will devote floor time to that in January as well. Pay attention to that phrase. --an agreement that the administration is comfortable with-- Sounds as monotonous as the rest totally standard. Just keep it in mind because that is not the deal Flake thinks he got. Anyway now that Flake has dealt with McConnell he has to get the White House on board. Up till now it is been relatively normal political horse trading. Now all that is going to change. It is not an easy thing for Flake to do to ask Trump to work with him. Trump and Flake do not get along in a very loud and public way. Like recently Trump went to Arizona and trash talked both Republican senators first John McCain and then-- And nobody wants me to talk about your other senator who is weak on borders weak on crime. So I will not talk about him.   Nobody wants me to talk about him. Nobody knows who the hell he is. Here's a question. Have you talked to the president? Has he called you or anything? I was at the White House on the NAFTA issue. I saw you on TV sitting next to him. That hostage looking photo I guess. That is-- You did not look relaxed. In this photo his lips are pressed together. He looks like he is sitting as far apart from the president as he can get. One of the NAFTA renegotiation meetings-- Flake's a NAFTA fan. Trump calls it the worst trade deal ever made. As soon as I walked in that room I thought I am going to be next to him are not I? Yep. But he did pull me aside and said that he had spoken to Mike Pence and others and that he expressed again his desire to move ahead on DACA. He said we are going to get this done. This conversation weeks ago remains a North Star for Flake. The president said we are going to get this done. So we are going to get it done. He believes that. He understands that what the White House wants for DACA is the wall. And for a while the main question is what is a wall. How expensive? How many miles? In December the White House finally gets specific. It is going to be 2 billion worth of wall this next year along with other border security stuff. Flake is like great. We are moving forward. And then just after the New Year the loop de loop begins. The White House is like surprise and drops this list on them. It is the hardest of hard-line immigration policy dream wish list. The White House threw the kitchen sink in and just all of it. Let us do a sign on policy sanctuary cities. Let us do everything. Let us fund the wall the whole thing. Let us put that in there. This is not what Flake thought this bill was going to be. Honestly it surprised me too. Given what the White House had been saying it was an abrupt right turn. To get any deal in the Senate Flake knows it will need Democrats and Republicans both. And now the Democrats are mad. Democrats are slamming the administration's plan for a border wall including Senator Dick Durbin who said-- Dick Durbin's like you are piling all these draconian immigration enforcement measures on the backs of Dreamers. That is not what we have been negotiating. Trump's like maybe the government needs a good shutdown if you are so mad. The Democrats are like yeah maybe it does. That brings us to January 9 a big meeting between the White House and lawmakers. It is the first with Democrats. So it is a big deal. It is supposed to get everyone on the same page. Smooth out all the misunderstandings so they can make this happen. But as is routine for this White House there are some distractions. As you may remember the Michael Wolff book Fire and Fury has just come out. Richard is not it remarkable that we are talking about the president's mental state? People are openly questioning the president's sanity on every TV in the Capitol. This is not mentally stable behavior. 100 of the people closest to the president believe that there is something wrong here. There is also news of potential military strikes against North Korea this morning. Reporters catch Flake in the Dirksen hallway. Senator Flake on a separate foreign policy note there is a report today that the administration is considering what they are calling nose-- A bloody nose? Bloody nose strategy in North Korea where they would strategically strike several sites. Have you seen those reports? No I have not. I have not. I have to look at it first. Hi Senator Flake. I am Reyna. I am a Dreamer. We have met. Oh hi. That voice-- that is a woman who comes up to Flake a DACA recipient named Reyna. This is starting to happen a lot. Everywhere we go in the Capitol we run into DACA kids. Sometimes it is in big groups in matching orange shirts and orange beanies yelling Dream Act Now. Reyna came here with a small group. She drove 48 hours from Arizona. And she is different from other Dreamers I meet at the Capitol. She is more like a Politico reporter than an advocate. She knows there is a bipartisan bill in the works. She knows that Flake is working on it. She knows there is a meeting today at the White House. She says we are just kind of worried to see if you would see something happening in terms of the deal coming closer. I am just really kind of worried to see if you would say something happening in terms of the deal that is coming closer. We are going to the White House right now for a bipartisan meeting. And it involves 27 people. That is so many people. A bipartisan meeting with 27 people. Reyna and Flake worry together that is too many. Too many. It is not going to be that much negotiation. But we are-- all I can say is we are doing all we can. Well thank you so much for your leadership. And we just want to be able to be helpful. All right. Thank you. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. All right. When Reyna talks to senators she talks strategy. She does not tell her story. To be honest that is the way to talk to Flake I think. He can seem a little cold when it comes to constituents. I rarely hear him talk about what Dreamers want. He talks about what Schumer wants what McConnell does not. Reyna and the other Dreamers are in the weirdest legislative cul-de-sac imaginable. Their issue is immensely popular which you would think would be an asset. But in fact it is a curse. Reyna comes to learn that. Flake's seen it already over his many years' negotiating immigration deals. We have always had the DREAM Act or DACA solution before it was called DACA that we realized that we could have taken to the floor in either the House and Senate and passed relatively easily because there is so much public support out there. But it was always put as part of the broader package because we needed the other things as well. Because the Dreamers are so popular they are often used as a spoonful of sugar to make tougher immigration measures easier to swallow-- stuff like border security restricting visas or on the Democrat side legalizing even more immigrants. That is the curse of DACA. The most valuable thing about it on Capitol Hill anyway is the possibility that it could be used to pass other stuff. So even though we are a democracy even though 80 of the country wants DACA the country does not get what it wants because there is no incentive for Congress to just put it to a straight up or down vote. And everybody here takes this for granted. So when President Trump canceled DACA in September DACA become this sort of brass ring again everyone grabbing at Dreamers for their own agendas. That is why Flake thinks nothing will happen in this White House meeting-- too many people too many agendas. There are people there today who I am convinced do not want to deal at all. And so anyway that is what my concern is. OK all right. I will see you when you get back. I was not allowed into the White House meeting. So I was expecting to just get Flake to tell me later. That proved to be unnecessary. I am thrilled to be with a distinguished group of Republican and Democratic lawmakers from both the House and the Senate. We have something in common. We would like to see this get done. It is DACA. We have been talking about DACA for a long-- There are TVs all over the Senate building tuned to CNN. Chandler Flake's chief of staff and I are getting coffee. And notice the cameras are not leaving the room. All of Washington ends up watching almost the whole meeting on cable TV. This is a pretty infamous meeting talked about a lot since. It is one of the starkest moments of reality TV of the Trump presidency. The part at the beginning where everyone's getting along. The president calls a potential deal a bill of love. Truly it should be a bill of love. And we can-- His agenda seems to be prove to everyone he is not crazy. Prove his own tweet that he is a very stable genius. Maybe because of that he says yes to things he is never wanted before or since. At one point Senator Feinstein offers a straight-up DACA bill no wall attached. Would you be agreeable to that? Yeah I would like to. I think a lot of people would like to see that. But I think we have to do DACA. But Mr. President wait. Kevin McCarthy House Republican is like no dude. No. Trump moves on to another guy. Jeff? Jeff-- I crane my head at the TV to see Flake at the end of the table. For those of us who have been through comprehensive reform that was six seven months of every night negotiating. He says doing all the stuff that you are listing that you want Mr. President by March 5 that is too hard. That is why we would make it a phase two. We do a phase one which is DACA and security. And we do phase two which is comprehensive immigration. And I think we should go right to it. I really do. We do one. And we then do the other. But we go right to it yes. Flake got him to say just what he wanted-- phase one and phase two DACA and wall first maybe one or two other things. The bigger more major changes the White House wants 