Earlier this month when the bomb went off in the St. Petersburg subway station killing 14 people Anna Nemtsova was in a cafe in Moscow. She is a Russian reporter currently a correspondent for The Daily Beast. The bombing was blamed on a suicide bomber a 22-year-old from Kyrgyzstan. But in this cafe Anna says as soon as people saw the news on their phones-- Minutes after the attack took place in St. Petersburg people were still in shock and the first thing that came up to their mind was that the government was blowing up St. Petersburg metro. Nobody else but the government. That was a shocking conspiracy theory that they heard-- Right. So they have no evidence that that is true. Zero. Absolutely zero evidence. Yeah. And they say they are doing this to distract our attention from their opposition rallies. She is talking about the opposition rallies that were just a week before the bombing-- the largest in years-- in dozens of cities across the country. So people thought-- Now they are trying to distract our attention from the protests. The fact is though the 22-year-old suspect in the bombing really might have done it. Investigators have released a still of him entering the subway taken from video surveillance footage. They said they have DNA evidence too. But no evidence so far linking him to ISIS or any other radical group. And no group has claimed responsibility for the bombing. But even if the government did produce definitive evidence Anna says people would take it with a huge grain of salt given the general level of misinformation disseminated by the government all the time. Russian state TV right now says for example Syrian President Assad has nothing to do with the chemical attacks in his country. And in the aftermath of the St. Petersburg bombing all sorts of rumors and conspiracy theories started circulating in Russia. On state TV Anna saw a pro-Kremlin commentator named Alexander Prokhanov peddling a theory that was the exact opposite of what people in the cafe thought. That theory? This attack was plotted and performed by the same people who staged the anti-Putin protests in Moscow. So in other words he blamed the Russian opposition. He accuses them of blowing up a train with people in St. Petersburg. The day of the bombing 500 journalists happened to be in St. Petersburg for a conference with Vladimir Putin. And lots of people said the timing was intentional that the bomber wanted so many journalists there to cover the event and help the government foment fear about terrorism and distract from the protesters. Or possibly the complete opposite. The bomber wanted all those reporters to embarrass the government with lots of coverage of the atrocity. A Moscow cab driver told Anna the fringiest conspiracy theory she heard-- that the cops did it. So the taxi driver was saying uh-huh the police blew up the train themselves to receive more money to fight terrorism in St. Petersburg and to receive epaulettes to be decorated. I have to say I find that theory even more depressing than the thought that the government would set the-- It is extremely depressing. It is extremely depressing and it is madness. It can drive you crazy. When you hear so many completely opposite theories and people jumping to conclusions without having any information any evidence the truth is dissolving. It is becoming more and more blurry. And it is not just Russians speculating about what happens in Russia. We speculate too. Especially about Russia's leader Vladimir Putin who is either you know a man battling suicide bombers or possibly a man who gave orders to blow up 14 innocent people to take everybody's mind off some protest marches. There is a journalist named Keith Gessen who was born in Russia and has written about it for years who recently wrote quote at no time in history have more people with less knowledge and greater outrage speculated about Russia's president. Is he a political genius? Is he a man just trying to get rich? Is he a guy who wanted to be part of NATO and an ally to the West who we spurned and now he is acting out of revenge? Today on our program we try to understand a little bit more about who Putin is and how he operates. He is been in the news for months. And I will be frank. There are still some basic things about him and about Russia I went into this show feeling like I really did not understand including-- I do not know if you have heard this one-- did he come to power in 1999 by first killing off a few hundred innocent Russians? And do people think about that and talk about that in Russia today? That is going to be the first thing we take up. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us comrades. Act One Going in with a Bang. So have you heard this story? I just heard this for the first time recently. Long before this month's St. Petersburg bombing there was another bombing that people speculated about. And in that one there actually was some evidence that raised real questions. It happened right when Vladimir Putin was coming to power. This was back in 1999. Boris Yeltsin was president running Russia. Putin was the prime minister. Not well-known not well-liked polling at 2 as a possible presidential candidate. And then-- Putin had only been prime minister for a month-- there was a series of bombings of apartment buildings in Moscow and elsewhere. 300 people died. Putin blamed it on Chechen rebels invaded Chechnya started the Second Chechen War which he won. It was a popular war. Catapulted him into the presidency. When he took office he had 53 of the vote. And even back then when he took office in 2000 there was a question. Did he bomb those buildings himself to create the pretext for the war and his own rise to power? If he did of course it calls the legitimacy of his presidency into question in a big way murdering his own constituents-- exactly the kinds of Russians that he claims to be serving and protecting as president. One of our producers Robyn Semien talked to reporters who covered this and reviewed the evidence with them. Before we get to the more mysterious aspects of the bombings a quick summary of what happened. The bombings came in fast succession. Four bombs in two weeks in random locations in Moscow and two other cities. Early September was the first one. A bomb in a truck went off right outside an apartment building collapsing it. Over 60 people died. Days later thousands of miles away another bomb goes off on the ground floor of a nine story apartment building. Nine stories flattened killing over 90 people. Within days there was another one and then a fourth. Buildings destroyed in the night while people were inside sleeping. David Satter was in and out of the country at the time. He is been reporting on Russia since the '70s. It was an atmosphere of panic. The whole country was terrified. People began to fear that any apartment building could be blown up in the middle of the night and any family could be buried under the rubble. There are 30000 apartment blocks in Moscow and night patrols were organized in all of them to prevent terrorists from putting bombs in the basements. The government immediately blamed the bombings on Chechen guerrillas. Scott Anderson is another reporter who is written about the attacks. Chechens tend to be more darkly complected than your typical ethnic Russians so anyone who was darkly complected on the streets of Moscow was subject to arrest or being beaten up. And so a lot of people from the Caucasus they would just stay inside. They were afraid to go out in the streets. But this story that Chechens were behind the bombings was kind of fishy. For starters it was three years after Chechnya and Russia had finished a war-- the First Chechen War. Chechnya basically won. They signed a peace treaty. Again Scott. What motive did the Chechens have to start this bombing campaign against Russia when they pretty much had everything they wanted? There was no reason to fight the Russians at this point. Right. They would won the war. That is right. They had won the war. So why commit acts of terror that were big enough to start another war? And just logistically it would have been hard to pull off. Even in 1999 Russia was a very heavily policed state. And so certainly by after the second or third bombing there were police checkpoints certainly all over Moscow-- all over major Russian cities. So the idea of these bombers moving around-- and these are kind of crude explosives. They are very heavy. 50-Kilo sacks of explosives you need to haul around so you need a car. So you are going through checkpoints. And with the whole hysteria against Chechens certainly anybody who was again darkly complected going through a checkpoint was going to be thoroughly searched. Even some people in the government questioned the official account. David Satter was in Moscow right after the bombings. And a friend who had good connections told David there were people in the security services who suspected the FSB-- that is the modern version of the KGB basically-- might be behind the bombings. So David asked to meet some of those guys in person. And they agreed. But this was such a dangerous idea they wanted to make sure they were not caught. So they had this very private conversation in a very public place-- in the center of Moscow. I do not want to give away too many details-- It is OK. --but it was in a store of some sort in a building not far from the Bolshoi Theatre. And people coming and going but we did not give any indication what we were talking about. Just a couple of men standing there talking about something. The agents did not have proof but some things just did not add up. For example the simple fact that the buildings were blown up with hexogen which is a very very powerful explosive that is used to top off artillery shells and is available only in one factory in Russia which is tightly guarded by the FSB. It is also at military bases. But how would terrorists get hexogen at all the agent said let alone drive big quantities of it around Russia unchecked? When you heard this stuff were you thinking these arguments were convincing or were you also thinking well? I was not completely convinced that this was a government provocation. But what convinced me was the bomb that did not go off the fifth bomb. The fifth bomb in yet another city-- Ryazan. And this is where the story about the Chechens seems to really fall apart and where the story gets truly strange. September 22 1999 2 and 12 weeks after the first apartment bomb. A couple of residents in a building in Ryazan noticed something weird. One guy a bus driver who lived in the building saw a car a white sedan parked outside the building. Maura Reynolds was a foreign correspondent for the LA Times back then living in Moscow. She talked to the guy who told her the license plates on the car did not look right. They had a local city code on them for Ryazan-- the number 62. But he told Maura when he looked closer he saw that the number-- It had been written on. It had been drawn on by hand. It did not look like it was stamped into the metal license plate. Like with a Sharpie or something? Yeah. Like a magic marker on a piece of paper taped over the license plate. Oh. And that was immediately something that he thought huh? So he calls the police. In the meantime two men get out of the car. And start carrying heavy sacks of something into the building's basement. The people jump back in the car. They take off. That is Scott Anderson again. The local police show up. They went down into the basement and came running back up saying it is a bomb. It is a bomb. Ryazan is essentially sealed off within hours. Thousands and thousands of soldiers and police cordon off the city and they begin this massive dragnet for these two men and a woman who was the car also. Local FSB start combing through evidence. A detonator was found in the basement.  Here's a TV news clip from then from a documentary about the bombings called Disbelief. The reporter says the sacks were discovered by police.  The sacks were taken to a lab that concluded the contents were hexogen the same explosive used to blow up the other buildings-- the stuff that supposedly only the FSB and military had access to. One day after the bomb scare prime minister Vladimir Putin who remember has only been in the job for a month launches the Second War against Chechnya over the bombings. He says quote the question is closed once and for all. We will pursue the terrorists everywhere. If they are in an airport then in an airport. And forgive me if we catch them in the crapper then we will rub them out in the crapper unquote. Meanwhile back in Ryazan local police find the mysterious white sedan and the two suspects. They were not Chechen. They were Russian. Russian FSB agents with FSB IDs. The head of the FSB Nikolai Patrushev goes on TV and is like there is a totally reasonable explanation for FSB agents to be caught doing this. The whole thing was a drill. This audio of that announcement is from a documentary about the bombings called Blowing Up Russia. First of all there was not an explosion and an explosion was not prevented. But it was not good work. It was an exercise. He goes in front of the cameras. He makes this little statement. Again Scott Anderson. He does not take questions. He walks away. It is just like oh yeah that was just a military exercise. As for the hexogen there was no hexogen he says. There were no explosives. The white powder in the bags he explains was sugar. Maura Reynolds talked to people who lived in the apartment building in Ryazan back then. She says people were angry and they thought their own government had tried to kill them. Though of course since this was Russia-- They would not say it quite that way. What they would say over and over again was in the form of a question. Whose interests were served by this? Who had something to gain? It does not make sense but who had something to gain? Would you ask them who do you think? Yeah. And what would people say? Who else? The government. But let me say that some were not willing to go to say that out loud. They would say who had something to gain? And then there would be a pause and they would raise their eyebrows. And I would say who do you think? And they would say who do you think? At the time there was still something of a free press. People could speak out and did.  This is tape from a TV special on an independent channel the NTV network which has since been taken over by the state. The special is like a talk show with a host some FSB higher-ups and people from the building who are pretty mad. Again this comes from the documentary Disbelief.  He is saying the people of Ryazan and many other towns just do not believe all these stories. I am sitting here and just cannot believe the story the FSB is telling. I myself am a military officer. I was a senior officer for 28 years. I was in charge of countless exercises. What these generals are claiming about this so-called exercise I just cannot believe my ears. All of this unfolds very quickly. Putin becomes prime minister in August. The bombings are in September. The war starts in September also. Putin is the public face of the war and it is going well. This is when his popularity soars.  And on New Year's Eve at midnight the president at the time Boris Yeltsin makes an announcement.   Boris Yeltsin announces-- completes a shocking announcement that he is going to retire. He is going to resign the presidency effective immediately. He names Vladimir Putin acting president. Putin's very first act his very first presidential decree is to stop all corruption investigations into Boris Yeltsin. These investigations had been going on. The elections are supposed to be in June. Instead he moves them up to March which gives opposition parties very little time to organize. And then he wins the presidency outright in March. So in this incredibly short period about eight months he goes from being a complete unknown to being the president of Russia. Maura Reynolds says when Ryazan happened she saw it in local news reports but it was not a huge story. The FSB may or may not have planted explosives. It was not clear what it meant. And it was quickly drowned out by the invasion and the war. Only in retrospect did it start to seem significant. And in retrospect there were other pieces of evidence that started to seem important. I will tell you one more. Right after one of the bombs went off in Moscow-- this was the third bomb-- the speaker of the Russian Parliament a guy named Seleznyov mentioned the bomb but got the city wrong. Mind you he was in Moscow and the bomb was in Moscow. But he said the bomb went off in Volgodonsk. Here's Scott Anderson. So you could say oh well somehow he said Volgodonsk instead of Moscow except that three days later an apartment building in Volgodonsk was blown up. Wow. Raising the question of how Seleznyov knew about the bombing three days ahead of time. The next thing that happens is--  After the bomb finally did go off in Volgodonsk another member of parliament a guy named Zhirinovsky confronts the speaker about how suspicious this looks. He says you told us on Monday that a building in Volgodonsk was blown up three days before the explosion.  Zhirinovsky calls the act monstrous and says he will try to keep the speaker from being re-elected but he is hard to hear because they keep cutting his microphone off. Someone calls Zhirinovsky a scumbag and then a scoundrel who deserves to be shot. Finally Zhirinovsky turns around walks away and gets hit in the back with a folder of papers. There was an official government investigation into the apartment bombings. Trials convictions all held in private not open to the public or press. People were convicted. They were not FSB agents. They were not Chechens either. There have been people outside the government who tried to look deeper into the bombings but overall that has not gone well. Most notably an independent commission of human rights activists politicians and investigators. Again Scott. The head of that commission was killed-- was murdered shot to death in front of his house. Another member of the committee died under mysterious circumstances. Anna Politkovskaya investigative journalist one of Russia's leading investigative journalists was murdered in her apartment building. She had written casting doubts on the apartment building bombings. And of course Alexander Litvinenko came out publicly accusing the Putin regime of doing the apartment building bombings. He is poisoned with polonium in London in 2006 and dies. Radioactive poison. Polonium-210 slipped into his tea. A British investigation determined two FSB agents had killed Litvinenko and that Putin had likely signed off on it. In his autobiography which came out in 2000 Putin roundly denied any FSB involvement in the bombings writing quote What? Blowing up our own apartment buildings? You know that is really utter nonsense. It is totally insane. No one in the Russian special services would be capable of such a crime against his own people unquote. David Satter has been researching this since it happened and has written two books about it. He is convinced the story went like this. Before the bombings even before Putin came to power Boris Yeltsin and his administration were plagued with corruption investigations. He worried they could eventually point to him and his family especially if some other party or someone unsympathetic to him became president. So he looked to appoint a prime minister who he could trust. He fired two other guys in just three months before landing on Putin. Then he and Putin together had the apartments blown up as the pretext to go to war and in the patriotic glow to install Putin and quash the corruption investigations. Scott and Maura are not so sure. For Maura when it comes to the bombings she gets that something was done by design and that it appears to be for political purposes. But as for who was behind the bombings exactly she cannot tell. If you ask me what I think I have to say to this day I do not know. But this is what I would say. Right now it does not matter. What do you mean? Because whether the government or people around Putin played a role or whether they did not the effect is the same. Either you believe what they said about the bombings that there were terrorists out to kill ordinary Russians in which case you are frightened and the world is a very scary place or you believe that your government or someone connected to the government could be bloody-minded enough to kill 300 innocent civilians in their beds in which case the world is a very scary place and you should be frightened. This is how it works in a police state. You should be frightened. And that is how the government exercises control. It is been nearly two decades since the bombings and I wanted to know what do people in Russia think about them? Putin is still their president. How big a deal are they? Are people walking around wondering if their president came to power by killing hundreds of Russian citizens? So I interviewed four people who live in Moscow. None of them said they were big supporters of Putin. Three of the four had heard the rumor that he was behind the bombings. None of them believed it or wanted to believe it. I cannot know the truth so I cannot say a 42-year-old screenwriter told me. A 22-year-old student I talked to said she did not want to know if it was true. As for Ryazan only one of the four a telecommunications specialist had heard anything about Ryazan the sacks of sugar any of that. He knew all the details though. Read a book about it. And he believes Ryazan was an FSB drill. The one person who'd never heard the story that Putin might be behind the bombings was Yuliya a 40-year-old lawyer.  It is just not something that people discuss. The media does not say anything about it. The families do not talk to each other about this. And friends do not talk about this to each other. Does it just seem like old news?  Yes absolutely. So I ran through all the facts with her all the evidence that Putin might be behind the bombings. She said she did not care. Does it sound like a ridiculous theory I asked. Yes she said. Most likely. Some ridiculous theory. Robyn Semien. Act Two Mr. Popular. So here in the United States we are told that Vladimir Putin is incredibly popular in Russia and the statistic you see sometimes in the press is that he has an 84 approval rating among Russians which of course is insanely high. We think US presidents are doing great when they get to 55 or 60. But that 84 is that real? Is that just from some Russian state agency that is controlled by Putin? Well we asked Charles Maynes to look into this for us. He is an American radio producer based in Moscow. Charles is that number real? Well it is real. These are real polls where large numbers of real people really do answer questions. Russia has two big polling firms that are essentially state-sponsored and one that is independent. And all three of these get basically the same numbers. This month Putin dropped by 2 to 82. And American pollsters like Gallup and Pew they also get the same results. In the 80s? Yeah in the 80s. But are people just saying that they like Putin because they are scared to say anything else? Well that is part of it especially with older people. There was a poll done by this Levada Center-- this is the independent pollster in Russia-- saying that 26 of all respondents said they are afraid to share their views of the government with pollsters. So that probably inflates the number but just how much is not really clear. So if 82 is not the right number do we have any sense of what a more accurate measure of his popularity might be? Some pollsters say it is the so-called electoral rating. This is when you ask Russians who they would actually vote for. Like The Levada Center has this poll they do where they say if the presidential elections were held next Sunday who would you vote for? And then only 55 say they would vote for Putin. And that is again the independent pollsters. The state one has a figure that is a little higher-- 64-- but that is hardly the 82 84 that we have seen. So what I get from this is take the 82 84 approval rating with a grain of salt but it is true that most people approve of him? Yeah. He is still really popular. OK. So to hear what that approval is all about and what people think of him we asked you to talk to some people who like him which you did. People across the country. And then you put together this story about one of them. This was someone I knew would not exaggerate their feelings about the president because they were talking to a foreign reporter someone I have known for decades.  That is her talking here Olga Sergeevna Dmitrieva. I lived with Olga Sergeevna and her two children back in the mid-'90s when I was an exchange student in Moscow. It was a good five years before Putin arrived on the scene. Over the years she took in several American exchange students.  That is her telling me I was her favorite. And I tell her I always say I have a Russian mom.  She says I always say I have an American son who I do not see as much as I like. We took the tram to her apartment building through the neighborhood I lived in with her family back in the '90s and she started pointing out all these changes. A new playground new stores. And just by the new museum they are building a community pool. Now none of this was here back when I lived with them. It is all part of the prosperity that is come to Moscow since Putin came to power. And it is why Olga Sergeevna and lots of people in her generation-- she is in her 60s-- it is why they love Putin. When I lived with Olga Sergeevna and her family Boris Yeltsin was president and things in Russia were really really tough. In fact there is a poll for that. It says 68 of Russians think nothing good happened in Russia during the Yeltsin years. Nothing.  Olga Sergeevna says life was hard back then. People did not have enough money. Grocery stores were empty. And they only began to clear with the arrival of Vladimir Putin. It seems almost hard to remember now but when Putin first arrived as prime minister in 1999 Russians had no idea who he was. He was this awkward public speaker back then. His suits were ill-fitting. The guy never smiled.  Hardly says Olga Sergeevna the specimen she sees now. She told me Putin's appearance was predicted earlier when mystics said one day a man named Volodya would save Russia. Volodya is short for Vladimir. Lots of the older generation will tell you stuff like this.  Nobody thought that savior would be Putin. I mean let us face it she says. He is kind of short. No one believed he would change Russia. That Russia would rise from its knees. But it did rise from its knees. His predecessor Boris Yeltsin was seen as this buffoon visibly drunk in meetings with world leaders. An embarrassment. Putin was younger. He did not drink. The fact that he was a former KGB agent at least meant he was disciplined and educated. He spoke German practiced judo. And he brought an end to the chaos of the Yeltsin years during which the ruble had collapsed several times. The government was constantly reshuffled. And a few insiders the so-called oligarchs became billionaires while most everyone else lost their savings. But as soon as Putin took over the economy boomed mostly because of oil prices shooting up. And soon he exiled or arrested oligarchs who'd been running the country behind the scenes. A lot of people talk about how Putin saved Russia.  If you compare 1994 and 2017 Olga Sergeevna says the difference is night and day. In 1994 '95 we did not celebrate holidays. Nobody was in a festive mood. The theaters were all closed because nobody went. Nobody had money.  Under Putin she says she lives a comfortable life has a job can afford to travel can go out to eat or to the theater. It is hard to overstate how important this is. During Putin's first decade in power Russians had never lived better particularly in the bigger cities. People like Olga Sergeevna became part of something that was happening for the first time ever in Russia-- the emergence of the middle class. Over time this economic miracle turned Putin into sort of a folk hero. There is the side of him we know in America the guy flying jets or riding horses shirtless. But in Russia he is cultivated this image that he is frugal lives modestly works all the time. A political analyst told me Putin's seen as the only one who can fix anything or improve people's lives the one who keeps corrupt bureaucrats in check. He is the good czar. For Olga Sergeevna it was not just that Putin made the country better. It was that he could do no wrong. I love Putin. Why?  Because he is smart intelligent cultured athletic she says. He is even a musician plays and sings.   I asked her if there is anything he cannot do. Her response?  He cannot cook. But he does not need to. Finally I said come on. Is not there anything you do not like about him? Anything at all? Nyet. Nyet. Nyet. Nyet! No! While we were talking Olga Sergeevna brought me over to her computer started scrolling through her Facebook page. She subscribes to a Putin feed just to see what he is up to. And her feed is filled with pictures of him. Putin snarling. Putin laughing. Does not he look like a benevolent lord she says. I just want to point out here that Olga Sergeevna does not work for the government or Putin's United Russia party. She is an accountant. She has been for decades. With a daughter who lives in London and a son who works for an American tech company.  One of the things Olga Sergeevna likes best is that Putin stands up to the West. And that is a big thing for Russians.  As Putin likes to say when they curse me in the West it means I am doing the right thing. When it comes to the bad things Americans hear about Putin-- that he is corrupt that he is secretly one of the world's richest men or that he is meddled in the American elections-- Olga Sergeevna says that is all lies perpetuated by Western journalists. People like me. A reminder that we have this ongoing joke where she tells me to leave our Putin alone and she says she means it.  I ask her about the many opponents of Putin's who have ended up dead. The journalist Anna Politkovskaya or Alexander Litvinenko the KGB whistleblower who was poisoned with a radioactive isotope. Who poisoned him she asks. Some say it was Putin I tell her. Oh please. Everyone says it is Putin.  The moment somebody sneezes or farts in Russia Putin is to blame. I say but what about the opposition leader Boris Nemtsov? He was killed. But she interrupts me and says--  Nothing of the sort. Nothing of the sort. There was an investigation. Nemtsov died over a love triangle. She does not buy any of it. In fact a lot of Olga Sergeevna's opinions are things you might hear on state TV. But I think with Olga Sergeevna and the other people I talk to-- people who love Putin-- the moments I understand them best are when they talk about the past everything they went through before Putin arrived. It is why sometimes I think the real reason people like Putin is not because they believe he will keep moving Russia forward into the future. It is because they fear someone else-- anyone else-- might drive Russia back to the past. Charles Maynes in Moscow. Coming up the Steve Bannon of the Kremlin except he accomplishes all kinds of stuff and is not on the verge of losing his job. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program The Other Mr. President stories of Vladimir Putin and those around him. We have arrived at Act Three of our program. Act Three Maybe Pay a Little Attention to the Man Behind the Curtain. There is a quote that we heard while we were working on today's program from a writer named Peter Pomerantsev. He said that if the old Soviet Union was 75 violence 25 propaganda in today's Russia those numbers are reversed. It is 25 violence and 75 propaganda. Propaganda was radically reinvented under Vladimir Putin its tactics and its methods by this one political operative. Sean Cole explains. The operative's name is Vladislav Surkov. He was Putin's deputy chief for more than a decade starting in 1999. In Russia he is what is referred to as a political technologist. But those are a dime a dozen. At the top of his powers Surkov had a much more ominous if unofficial title. He was known as a grey cardinal. He does not look like a shadowy mastermind. He s