Bill Langworthy makes reality TV shows. He was one of the producers of The Hills. And he says that he is always been surprised even after doing this for years at how people end up doing things on television they would never do in real life throwing themselves into the part so completely they even confuse themselves. I mean we literally shot scenes before a husband and wife and midway through the scene the wife turns to me and says Hold on a second is this for the show or are we really fighting right now? And I could not answer her. So Bill never totally got why so many people would let themselves do so many embarrassing things on camera that they would never do normally. And I would always say gosh if I were on one of these shows if I was in this situation I would just handle myself so differently. And after years of being in jobs like this and thinking all that he went to a Dodgers game. And I was there with my ex-girlfriend's best friend. And all you need to know-- it is my ex-girlfriend's best friend. This is a girl that I cannot kiss under any circumstances. There are just so many rules against that. And this guy comes around whose job it is to find people to go on the Kiss Cam which is when they put the camera on you. Oh and it shows up on like the jumbotron for the stadium to see. Yeah exactly. And so we were also there with two of our friends who were married. And so they signed up that yeah we are going to come back later in the game with a camera on you guys. So you guys will kiss and everyone will see it on the jumbotron. And they will cheer. Yeah and sort of realized now that that guy and I have exactly the same profession which is we try and find strangers to do embarrassing things on camera. But at the time none of that is registering with me. And so several innings later and several beer runs later we have managed to switch seats. And of course that is how they do it is by what seat you are in. You know 50000 people you do not just say it is the tall guy with brown hair. So the Kiss Cam comes around and instead of being pointed at the married couple it is pointing at me and my ex-girlfriend's best friend. Because now you are in those seats. Exactly. And so I have a producer who is looking at me. I expect something of you. The stadium is literally screaming at us. Five seconds earlier I would have promised you under no circumstances would I ever kiss this woman. And I leaned over and kissed her on the lips. He knew he did not have to kiss her. There would be no penalty. There was no contract. No money had changed hands. That did not even cross my mind. Not doing it was not an option. You could not have paid me 1 million to do it but I was on camera I had to do it. Yeah but that makes no sense. You of all people know that you do not have to do it. I certainly would have told you that right ahead of time. But yeah I just got this feeling that I was letting everybody down I was letting the producer down that I was letting the audience down. 50000 people were looking at the jumbotron. They wanted one thing and one thing only. I realize I guess I am just not that much different than the people that I put on TV. Well today on our radio program people who are driven to act very differently than who they really are flipping their personalities completely doing the exact opposite of what they normally do. You only go that far if there are very powerful reasons to do it. In Act One it is somebody doing this for money. In Act Two it is somebody doing it for love. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One The Audacity of Louis Ortiz. Usually when you play a part the expectations are pretty clear. There are lines. There is a script. There is a storyline you follow. So when you are on the Kiss Cam you kiss. When you are Hamlet you stress out. You know what you are on stage to do. Our first story today is about a man who found himself in a part with huge expectations and no script whatsoever. He had to make it up as he went along. It comes to us from filmmaker Ryan Murdock. A warning to listeners that this is a story that is partly about race and a racial slur gets used. 2008 was a hard year for Louis Ortiz. He was living in the Bronx but he lost his job as a phone technician for Verizon over a year earlier. So he was collecting workers' comp and playing in pool tournaments for extra spending money. But then things started to change. I think it was like August '08 people were like oh dude you made the front page. I am like what? I do not know what the hell people are talking about. So I look at the page Daily News I believe it was and there is this dude with big ears just smiling. He is running against Hillary or whatever. And I am like all right I do not really get it. I think it is the big ear thing. Three weeks went by of those jokes. Louis is a Puerto Rican guy in his late 30s. He describes himself as an occasional voter. And he had not really been following the election. Then at some point Louis went to his usual bar The Williamsbridge Tavern to shoot some pool. Pat Tebelis was tending bar that day. Louis sat down and asked for a Corona. I just mentioned it to him. I said did anybody ever tell you you look like this guy that is running for the president? And I said Yeah. Who this dude Obama? And he goes Yeah. You really look like him. And he says Yeah. yeah yeah. He sort of blew it off. I am like I do not see it dude. And I said No no really. You really do. And he says Nah I do not know. I said I am telling you. You go home and you shave off that goatee and mustache. I am like uh-uh. I as not taking this off. Ever since he is been in the Army Louis had had facial hair. For more than a decade it had been the same-- full mustache full goatee. He never would have dreamt of taking it off. But then Pat brought up something no one else had. I told him I said You could make money. If this guy does become the president it is a tremendous opportunity for you to make money if you want to go in that direction. You know first black man to be the president of the United States. I said This is powerful. And I am thinking hey cha-ching. I need money right now. I am unemployed for a whole year so I start listening to the dude listening to the dude. I said Look I will tell you what. You go home. If you are willing to shave your mustache and your goatee put on a white shirt put on a tie look in the mirror. If you do not think you look like this guy I said then just grow your mustache and your goatee back. Take the shot go see. So Louis walked a few blocks back to his one-bedroom apartment found the clippers found the razor and got busy. Once I took it all off I looked at myself put the aftershave on looked at myself in the mirror and I was like holy . It was just wow wow wow. I cannot believe this. I cannot believe this. Holy . What the  everything. All the holy whatevers everything was there everything all at once. And it was a good feeling because being broke unemployed for a whole year-- hypothetically I saw dollar signs all in the mirror all around my face all around everywhere. I put on a suit. I did not even have a suit. I put a suit top. I had a jacket some bull  shirt a rinky-dink tie. And I went right back out with the shorts that I had left the bar with. So I leave the house with a suit top and shorts and sandals on the bottom walk back into the bar and say Hey guys what do you think? And everybody's jaw dropped like everybody screaming like yo dude are you serious? You look just like this dude. I said to Louis I said I am going to tell you something right now. I said There is like maybe three people in the country that look like him and he is one of them in this whole country. You really really got to look at it long and hard to figure out who is who. It is just striking. If you just like gave it a quick glance dead ringer like twin brother. Twin brother is actually a good way of explaining just how much Louis Ortiz really does look like Barack Obama. I have been filming Louis for months working on a movie about him. And I have looked at his face for hours on end. I have studied the details. From certain angles the resemblance is hard to believe. His right side slightly from above at 45 degrees perfect. His left side slightly from below is just as good. From those directions you would have to take your time to tell him and Obama apart. Also from behind you know the ears. There is even details that seem impossible. The hairlines are the same. Louis just like Obama has a mole next to his nose. On Louis it is just on the opposite side. If he smiles Louis gets that crinkly-eyed thing that Obama gets. And when he gets serious he does that chin-up squinty thing too. But it is not perfect. The resemblance is at the level of maybe a double take. I have seen people wonder aloud Is that him? And reach for their cameras before they realize it is not. Up close in person one second he is Obama. The next he is obviously Louis. Then he is Obama. Then he is Louis. It is weird. But back to 2008 back to the Bronx back to the bar back to Pat. And he said I am telling you Lou you got something here? And I am like Yeah I could see but what do I got and how do I-- you know I am not an actor. How do I do this? Whose door am I knocking on? And he just told me first things first you need head shots. So I was like What is a head shot? Pat Tebelis the bartender had what he described to Louis as a little experience in the business meaning show business. He would been an extra done some modeling a commercial or two. Pat immediately set about mapping a plan for Louis a plan that to Louis sounded far-fetched. Keep in mind this was a rough time in Louis's life. Again he would been fired from a job he would had for more than a decade. He was in the middle of a lawsuit trying to get his job back. His daughter had just returned home after a nasty custody battle with the parents of his late wife Louis's late wife who died of diabetes several years before. So there he is sitting across the bar from this guy he barely knows who is basically telling him he would hit the jackpot that his life could be totally different if he just put in a little money up front. He was telling me numbers like 200 for head shots 200 for a suit. And you have got to go here and there. And I have my regular normal everyday life problems and I was very reluctant to take the few bucks that I had to go and throw a Hail Mary up. At least I thought it was a Hail Mary. Louis had his doubts but he scraped together money for a photo shoot and borrowed money to buy a suit a new one and one with pants. He got a list of agents enlisted some friends. And from the back of the bar they stuffed envelope after envelope with resumes and head shots. At home Louis was experimenting with what he started calling the look practicing in the mirror then more trips to the bar. It was not until sometime in late September that he decided to take it public in a big way to take it for a real test run. Yeah I had gotten an invite to a Yankee game. And they were like We got an extra bleacher seat. I am like All right great. This was a historic day for the Bronx. It was the last game to be played in the old Yankee stadium and the park was sold out filled to capacity. I went into the stadium and went into the bleachers with the suit on. I told the guys I was with-- a bunch of retired cops couple of telephone guys-- I am like Yo dude this is a real crazy look. You guys are really going to protect me right? And they are like Oh we got you we got you. I am like OK. Once we get up there we are all fun and games. They start playing around like Hey watch it we got Obama coming through. We got Obama coming through. And then once people from further away started noticing the commotion that was happening more people started looking. The more people that start looking the more people that start looking. So everybody's looking from close to far to-- you know before you know it--  jumbotron. Everyone said Hey you are on the jumbotron. And I am like Are you serious? So I am like Let me go with it. I started waving at people and people started going nuts. And this is September a month and a half or whatever before election time. Obama had a lot of hype. And it was just exciting. Is the game actually happening at this point. Is there baseball happening? Baseball is happening but a lot of fans are lining up to come take pictures with me. People were lining up. Can I get a picture? People were bringing me their babies to kiss their babies and take pictures with their babies. I mean it was just crazy. It was like oh my god. You feel like a star. In some weird way you feel like the president. I am like damn how must he feel if I am feeling like this? And I am not even the real dude. Imagine how he feels whenever he goes and people are just going crazy over him. On Election Night Louis who three months earlier had not even heard of Obama was in the Bronx watching the votes come in like a man with a lottery ticket watching the winning numbers on TV. At some point the race had not been called but he put on his suit and headed out of the Bronx. We start driving towards Manhattan to hook up with some friends me and this kid Benny. And we are like yo I want to be downtown when this whole thing goes down. My mother's like  please be safe please be safe. So I start heading down and all of a sudden I pull up at a gas station and I hear gunshots. Bla bla bla bla bla bla. And I am like oh my god let us get back in the car. And then I hear people screaming. Ah! And I am like nobody got shot. People are celebrating. So I turn on the radio and I just hear people screaming gunshots people screaming out the window everywhere. I was in the South Bronx mind you. So that is when I knew he won. And I am like I am in. I am so in. I did not know where I was going to end up. I did not know if I was going to make a ton of money or a little bit of money but everybody's celebrating Obama. It is like everybody's celebrating Obama. So everywhere I walked in with a suit it was my party. It was my party everywhere I went. And it is a pretty crazy feeling. This could really just turn somebody's life upside down. It turned my life right side up. My life was already upside down.  This is sound from Washington Square Park Louis's last stop on Election Night. He got there around 200 or 300 in the morning and the crowd was still celebrating. Ever since his big day at the Yankees game Louis had adopted a sort of homespun guerrilla marketing strategy. Mostly it consisted of put on a suit find a place with a lot of people and just show up. These appearances were for free. Louis got nothing but he was hoping eventually they would turn into money. In just a few minutes of tape from Election Night one after another people stop Louis. They giggle and point. They use words like awesome and amazing. And they are left with this weird contact high like they almost met Obama. And they want a picture so they can fool their friends. One astonished lady asked him What is your name Obama? At one point the crowd mobbed Louis and actually picked him up carrying him through the air chanting Barack Obama Barack Obama.  Barack Obama was now President Obama and Louis started getting serious. He signed on with an agent then two. And to get gigs one of his agents asked Louis to make a pitch tape something to send out to people who might hire him. My name is Louis Ortiz. I am a 38-year-old Puerto Rican American who landed the look of a lifetime. For the tape Louis wrote the script himself and filmed it in a stairwell. It is cheap and lo-fi. Louis has his suit on and he is trying hard but it is awkward. He is not sure what he is supposed to be doing. At one moment he turns from side to side in the empty stairwell waving at imaginary crowds. And then he makes his best attempt at an Obama impression. Thank you. At this defining moment change has come to America. With that said change has also come to my life in a monumental way. And this brings us to Louis's biggest problem. He cannot seem to manage a convincing Obama oppression for more than a thank you or two. Louis looks more like Obama than any impersonator I have ever seen but there is a key difference between a look-alike and an impersonator. And that difference is huge in terms of money the potential money Louis could make doing this. I mean maybe you have seen Reggie Brown or Fred Armisen guys who do President Obama on late-night TV a lot. They look way less like Obama than Louis but the impression carries it. But Louis's agent sent out his pitch tape anyway. And pretty soon he got a call. He landed an audition for HBO for Flight of the Conchords. Yeah Flight of the Conchords. I am like what the hell is that? I never of Flight of the Conchords. Flight of the Conchords was a hipster comedy about a band from New Zealand not really something Louis would watch. But soon he was in his suit waiting for the producers to call him in. I am sitting there at the audition place. They were like Oh yeah just wait right here. I am sitting there and I see this other dude walk in in a suit. He was a light-skinned black dude. And matter of fact when that dude walked in I am like please do not let some other dude walk in here looking more like Obama than I do. I looked at him he looked at me and he walked right out. He walked right out. Please put your hands together the 44th president of the United States. The Flight of the Conchords role was actually perfect for Louis because they were not looking for someone to play Obama. They were looking for someone to play an Obama impersonator. In the show-- season two episode seven if you are curious-- Louis does not appear until the final scene. Here the joke is that the prime minister of New Zealand thinks he is meeting Obama but everyone else knows it is not really the president. It is Louis who in a way is sort of playing himself. Oh yeah I met him back at the agency. I also do Usher and sometimes Will Smith. The agency? What is he talking about mate? Uh CIA. I mean your first job to be HBO? At that point I said wow. I mean I felt accomplished right there. I felt like I did something like I really finally did something. I want to put my daughter to college and I want to pay all the bills at home want to get my girl out of debt. I want to buy a house for my mom all that. Yeah you think about all that. You think about all of it and living life not just surviving like I have been so many years. So it felt within reach. I thought that this could lead to something really big or something but not the way it actually did. Day by day Louis started picking up more work doing Obama. Gradually it started to feel less like a string of uncertain events and more like one thing was leading to another. Louis even started calling himself the Puerto-ack Barack. Before he knew it he was booking high-profile jobs overseas. There was a big-budget movie in Japan a comedy where Louis as Obama negotiates a fictional peace treaty.  There was Australia where Louis was cast as the lead singer of a band a super-group of Nobel Peace Prize impersonators called the Nobel Funk Off-- Louis as Obama and various other impersonators as band mates including Go-Go Gandhi Nelson the Mandela Martin Luther the King. This group performed at one point for the real actual Dalai Lama. You heard that correctly-- Louis met the Dalai Lama. But Louis's first taste of international work was in Korea where a company flew him all the way to Seoul to shoot a commercial for a cable service called SkyLife.  Do you know HD has ? The commercial was set to look just like the Inauguration-- podium teleprompters Louis in a dark winter coat and a bunch of non-Asians who'd been rounded up to sit in rows behind him. Change right now.  . SkyLife.  And that was how in a 19-hour plane ride Louis went from being someone with a bunch of problems he needed help with to being someone who had people catering to his every need. For example Louis has MS. Most of the time it does not bother him but he gets tired easy. In Korea with the jet lag the busy schedule he was drained and exhausted and did not know what to do about it. I actually found out that it was on them that it was OK for me to go get one of those massages from the hotel the yatsu-- what do you call them?-- massages that the start smacking up your back. Taka taka taka taka taka. What is that? Shiatsu? Shiatsu there you go one of them massages. Man once I found that out I was down there. I hit it at least twice. But I tell you what I was so in peace out there. Things were so clean out there. People were so humble. Hospitality was incredible. To be treated the way I was treated out there to not see arguments in the street to not see garbage and stuff like that coming from the Bronx where I am from it just sucked coming back. Coming back was like am I really going back to the US? After Korea I wanted to move to South Korea. After Japan I wanted to be in Japan for the rest of my life. After Australia-- that is the latest one-- I want to move to Australia. It is like I feel like that every time I leave the States. The big jobs did come with big paychecks. The Japanese maybe paid the most 10000. By the time all of this was in full swing Louis was making enough to pay off some bills and debts and do little things like take his girlfriend out to dinner. But the money also went quick. Louis started investing in his new career. He enrolled in acting class bought another suit and got his teeth whitened. He even started flirting with the idea of having surgery to close a small gap between his two front teeth one of the little giveaways that sometimes ruins the Obama look. But even the big ticket jobs were not really enough to get Louis out of the financial hole he was in and they tended to be few and far between. Early on Pat Tebelis the bartender had advised Louis in order to launch this whole new career this Obama business that Louis should take any job. There was no telling what could lead to his big break. And it was advice Louis took to heart. Most of the jobs were the small ones-- emceeing awards ceremonies political picnics union rallies cameos on television. But there were also things that were even stranger further off the expected path. I said OK rappers pay me some money. I am going to be in the video. I am going to play the president. Here's the full premise of the music video Louis was hired to be in. President Obama's helicopter gets shot down and he is captured and tortured by Arab terrorists. Then the rappers Waka Flocka Flame and French Montana show up in full camo guns blazing and rescue him.  Because Louis looks so much like the president the footage from this shoot is very weird to watch. Take after take Louis is tied up in a chair. There is fake blood all over his shirt. One guy in Arab clothing is pressing a knife to his throat. Another guy is holding a taser and a blowtorch a few inches from his arm. The whole time this is going on the director is yelling at Louis. But he is not calling him Louis. He is calling him Barack. And rolling camera. Just look at me Barack. Get mad Barack. And struggle struggle guys struggle struggle struggle. Look towards me Barack.  Damn he looked like Barack right there. Let me get that-- Is there a type of job that you would turn down because you just would not want to lend the president's image to something? That is my producer Ben Calhoun asking that question. A job that I would turn down? Louis stumbled around for over a minute a minute and 22 seconds actually-- I would definitely turn down a few jobs. --before finally telling us the one job that crossed the line for him. I have had offers to do pornos like Barack Oboner Nailin' Palin. I cannot see myself doing all that craziness. The jobs Louis felt most conflicted about though are not the strange things he was asked to do on camera. It is the live appearances. And he did a lot of them. Actually a lot of the small jobs were ones in which Louis was paid just a little money to show up in person in a suit for a couple hours kind of like having a living cardboard cut-out of the president to take pictures with. These were some of the fireman. These were two of the friendly ones. So those guys were nice to you. Yeah. A couple of guys were nice but it was just so many that were not. Louis showed me pictures from one of these jobs. The number of a bar named Rathbones had hired him to show up and take some pictures on Saint Patrick's Day. The bar was a big hangout for New York firefighters and there were lots of them there that day. Louis says he figured they would done a parade because many were wearing FDNY shirts.  There he is. Move out of the way. There is video of all this. According to Louis the crowd was a few beers into their day and they were pretty much hostile from the start. In the video as Louis walks in you can hear guys say something about black Irish. Louis looks uncomfortable nervous. He stands with his back against the wall and attempts a presidential wave and smile. Somebody yells beat it. And then the crowd starts to boo.  Here the video suddenly cuts out. Louis says what followed was an hour of people throwing things at him shoving him and shouting. You are the worst  president. You  suck.  nigger. Wow. Yeah all kinds of horrible things. It was bad. At one point Louis was behind the bar serving beers where things seemed a little safer with some distance between him and the crowd. I had somebody-- they got on the bar and they saw me when I started approaching the bar. And he tried to actually grab my head like trying to do some motion like that. By motion like that Louis means that the guy tried to shove Louis's face into his crotch. And I just backed up. And I held myself so much from just knocking that dude out. I did not want to let the Bronx come out of me and just punch somebody in the face because I am doing this thing like I am the president. So I have to compose myself. Nobody's going scream the N-word to Obama. Nobody's going to have the balls to do that but they will have the balls-- oh look at that dude. He looks like Obama. He looks like that N-word. Like wait a second. I have gotta hear this  for him. I have lived in New York City all my life. I know how crazy people in New York are. I have never had to experience the racism like I face it now. It oozes out of people skins now when they see my face. At first Louis had friends from the phone company dress up like Secret Service with earpieces and sunglasses just for dramatic effect. But after a few bad episodes Louis got genuinely scared for his safety. Before going out he would tell his friends to stick close and be ready to actually protect him. Who is the most belligerent person you have encountered with the whole Obama thing? The most. Were not too many words said but I remember somebody looking at me walking out drunk out of a bar. And I am walking in and he looks at me and he goes Oh man you are so lucky I am drunk. And he just started pointing like if he had a gun in his hand. He is pointing at me like You suck. I did not get called the N-word. I did not get cursed out. But just the fact that he was drunk pointing his hand at me like if he had a gun that was just unnerving. That really bothered me. But even with the hecklers even when these jobs went badly even when the jobs were hard to come by the look was an escape for Louis this weird superpower that he could use any time he wanted. I have watched Louis in front of a crowd of third graders in a school near his apartment in the Bronx where they asked him to give a speech. Louis was nervous but when the kids saw him they saw the leader of the free world this historic figure. One girl could not stop crying. He originally began impersonating Obama for money to make a few bucks and it turned out to be so much more than that. How do I explain this? When I first discovered this look if I was home down and out and I felt down about anything I would throw on the suit shave up look at myself in the mirror and I would go somewhere hit downtown Manhattan. And now my attitude went from down here to up here. And now it is up because people look at you. When they see me in the suit they look at you and they are like Oh wow dude do you know who you look like? And I feel like a million bucks like I have no problems in the world. I never want that moment to end. And when it is all over and I have to go home and take off the suit that is when it is like ugh back to my problems. Unfortunately for Louis his problems got worse. Louis' new career was tethered to Obama's and as the president's first term wore on and his approval rating slid the look-alike jobs slowly disappeared. Eventually Louis decided to put the Obama stuff on ice go down to Florida and be with his daughter. The plan was he would go there and wait for his job situation with the phone company with Verizon to sort itself out. He said he was looking forward to being Louis the phone guy again. I went to see him. My first day there we went fishing in the fenced-in man-made pond outside his parents' apartment complex. And he explained to me his deal with Verizon. Louis had been fired in late 2007. According to him a string of events led to a heated argument with his boss. Louis stormed out closed the door pretty hard kind of slammed it and the window broke. Louis was fired. He filed a wrongful termination lawsuit. And in late 2010 his case went to arbitration. If it went his way he would get thousands and thousands in back pay. My lawyer broke it down. It is pretty much a hands-down case. So what is your financial situation? Broke as a joke. I mean I get Obama gigs here and there but you know my deal. I am waiting on these boys to pay me my retro-pay from Verizon. His lawyer called in late November. When Louis picked up she did not sound excited. Louis asked Should I be sitting down? And she said Yeah. At that point he knew the arbitrator had sided with Verizon. Louis was now empty-handed no job back no retro-pay not much of anything. My dad has been down here for like four months already probably more never mind. Like five six. I do not know but he is really cool. This is Louis's daughter Reina. She is 15 a great basketball player a serious student funny and just a really nice kid. Back when the Obama stuff heated up and Louis was traveling a lot he sent Reina here to live with his parents. They had not seen much of each other since. But now the two of them could be a family again. Every day at 530 in the morning Louis would drive Reina to school. And at night they would hang out after she got home from basketball practice. Yeah it is kind of better. He is a fun person to be around. That is why I like when he is down here. Louis spent his days in Florida while Reina was at school figuring out a plan to piece his life back together. He would gone to a phone company in Florida but they said they were not hiring. At some point he got in touch with his agent who told him how successful other Obama impersonators had been that there was still money to be made. With campaign season approaching demand would probably be high. But his agent said he would need what he lacking the first time around a better impression. Specifically she said work on the voice. And I want to thank all of you. So Louis started watching Obama speeches on YouTube listening to them on his iPod over and over practicing the cadence the timing and the delivery. Every single American gay-- Gay-- --straight-- --straight. --lesbian bisexual transgender every single American-- Every single American deserves to be treated equally in the eyes of the law and in the eyes of our society. It is a pretty simple proposition. Now I do not have to tell you that uh we have a ways to go in that struggle. As you can hear Louis really is getting better. And once again the Obama stuff is starting to feel like Louis's best and only option. But Louis thinks New York is a better place to take another shot to start getting Obama work again. And that means leaving Reina. He told me the news like two days ago or three days ago. And it kind of sucks because I am going to miss him. Did you tell him that? No. I would never get that emotional with him. I do not know. But I do feel  for him. I wish he could just stay but he says he has his work to do or whatever over there so I guess not. I guess he cannot stay but whatever. I have not seen him in like four years and then he comes and then he just leaves again. But whatever. It does not bother me. Y