For years David liked playing this not so well-known board game called Diplomacy where he would get to do things and act in ways that he would never do in his regular life. He describes the game as a cross between Risk poker and the television show Survivor. Basically there is a map of Europe you are assigned a country and you are trying to take over the world. There is no dice. There is no element of chance. And so is it about like bluffing and alliances and stuff? Yeah. There is a lot. Alliances are key to the game because you play with seven players. The only way for anybody to sort of overtake anyone else is for two people to team up against one. Team up and attack that is. Before each turn there is 15 minutes where everybody negotiates with everybody else about who is going to work with whom. And then everybody goes off and writes down on pieces of paper who it is that they are going to attack. And then all the papers are read out loud and everybody finds out who is aligned with who and who double-crossed whom. People stab each other in the back so much in this game they do not even take the time to say the full phrase-- stabbed in the back. Everybody just calls it stabbing. David played with a group of guys his buddies always by email. Once a week they would email each other the next moves which meant that the game would take months. David thought he knew what he was doing but his friends wondered about him sometimes. You know there was a time when I made like a pornographic Photoshop of this one player with his phone number and his social security number on it and I told him that I was going to post it on the internet if he did not cooperate with me. And you know I think that some of the people in the game felt like that was-- that had crossed the line like that was out of bounds. Wait. You took Photoshop and you basically took his head or face and put it into a porno image with his social security number and-- --his phone number and I think I put where he worked. And you threatened to put that online. And you were serious? I do not know. I figured it would work so I did not know if I was bluffing or not. Wait and so the people who you were playing with thought that that crossed the line. Why does not that cross the line? It is definitely crossing the line. But the thing about diplomacy I think is kind of sick is that people will tell you nothing is out of bounds. Well maybe not nothing. But it is a game with a certain amount of yelling and bullying and psychological manipulation. And the boundary line is not always so clear on what you should be doing. Another time that it seemed like David might not be perceiving where that line is the same way that his opponents did. It came at the very first game that he played with other people in person-- like not on email. He had wanted to play in person for years but his buddies were not into that. And so finally he got his chance when a friend invited him to an informal tournament in Connecticut. And I was sure that I would love it. And I rode out there with him. And so where was it? How many people? It was in this weird mansion on the coast of Connecticut. And I do not know there might have been-- Of course it was. There might have been like 50 people there and the people were like camped out in the yard. Mhm. It was at midnight and the wind was howling and the lightning was striking. And-- It was like on a cliff overlooking-- it was like-- Is this true? This is true. It was just some sort of rich family that loved Diplomacy. And so they would host people at their home. It was definitely a weird scene. It was like-- it was this really fancy house and people all sort of-- there were boards all over the house and out in the yard. People were all sort of playing Diplomacy. And the first game that I played I was really digging it. You know I thought this feels good and I feel like I can hang with these guys and I was playing well and totally did not feel out of my element. Did you win? I did not win. In fact I stabbed a guy. Stabbed a guy-- he double-crossed him. They were allies but then David saw a way to take some of his territories and he teamed up with a different guy against him. And after the move was over the guy that I stabbed wanted to talk to me. And he pulled me aside and he says why did you do that? And I was like I am sorry man. I did not really think that I could work with you. I wanted to work with this other guy. And he goes you can go fuck yourself. And he puts his finger in my face. And I said what? And he storms over to the board and like knocks his stuff over and says I quit. I am done with this asshole. Fuck this guy. And he is storming around the house making this big scene. Everybody in the tournament is like watching us. And I am freaking out. I am like is this serious? Is he serious about this? And he is like this fucking guy and he is pointing at me and yelling. And then I watch him go around the house to every board and like tell the story of what just happened to his friends. And like I can see him pointing at me. I asked the people on the board-- I said I do not understand what is going on you know? Why is he doing this? I do not get what this is about. Like all I did was stab him. And they are like uh you know you were a little bit out of line. You were a little bit rude. Or maybe he had not been rude. Maybe he did nothing wrong. Maybe this guy was just pretending to be mad to mess with David's head pretending to be a hothead because that image could be useful with all of the other opponents in the coming rounds of the tournament. David had no idea. So I am like looking around the room and I am realizing I do not know anybody here. Like I really felt at that point like I could not trust anybody. Then the people in my game who were throwing their arm around me and be like-- he is just messing with your head do not worry come over here and talk to me. You know I was like-- I do not know how to process this. And I also felt like-- this is too intense. I cannot handle this and I feel so uncomfortable. So I just got up and left and left the tournament. You left? Yeah. And I never played Diplomacy again after that. Years passed. And then he saw that the world Diplomacy championship was going to be in the United States this year. And he thought maybe he would try to play it one more time and record it for our program. David's a reporter. His full name is David Hill. He usually writes about sports for the website Grantland. And he vowed that this time playing Diplomacy was going to be different. He knew that he needed a new approach to the game right because he could not even figure out why other players were reacting to his moves the way that they were. Like this was a game where you are supposed to stab people in the back but the way that he was doing it people were just freaking out. He lacked diplomacy. Well this time I figured what I really needed was somebody who could teach me tactics like diplomatic tactics-- you know the tactics of diplomacy-- so that I could go into the game confident that I was playing correctly that I was not making any mistakes. So I found somebody who could sort of be my coach. And that person was not a gamer. That person was a diplomat an actual real life diplomat-- in fact one that you may have heard of Dennis Ross probably best known as President Clinton's Middle East envoy. Dennis Ross brokered the Oslo II Accord. He also helped the George H.W. Bush administration on German reunification back when the wall came down. He is been an advisor to President Obama. And in case you are wondering how this man who is not just brokered international deals but done it in some of the most contentious conflicts in the world responded when he was asked to use his expertise and give advice to somebody at the world championship for the board game Diplomacy well once it was explained to him what the board game is his answer was-- sure sounds like fun. Hi. Hey. Nice to meet you. David Hill. Hi David. Dennis Ross nice to see you. So did that feel amazing to have him with you? Yeah. It definitely felt amazing. You know I felt like I am back and this time I am going to win you know because this time I got the big guns. Ambassador Ross apparently took to the game immediately. And we have the story of what happened when David brought his ringer to the fight when he brought a professional to an amateur match-up. Today on our program stories of trying to figure out who has your back and who is looking to stab you in the back and trying to sort out one from the other. Also you know there all the people who want to have your back who try to have your back but you are probably making a mistake to depend on them. We talk about that too. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Absolutely Stabulous. All right. So you have this set up right. David Hill takes Ambassador Dennis Ross to help him win at a board game tournament. Here is David. The world championship of Diplomacy brought together almost 90 top Diplomacy players from eight different countries. Most of them were middle aged men. All of them were nerds-- and not the Chris Hardwick Olivia Munn kind of nerd homespun nerds-- the real deal-- nerds from all over the world in a prototypical nerd setting a basement-- in this case the dim basement of a dorm at the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill. I strutted into that dorm with diplomat Dennis Ross by my side. I was worried about intimidating the other players. I did not need to worry. Nobody was scared-- amused maybe. Only one person in this room had counseled four presidents and everyone's reaction was-- meh. In fact the tournament director felt he had to rig the game in our favor by assigning me Russia the strongest of the seven countries on the board. When they announced the assignments people actually laughed. David Hill. Russia.  So what I want you to do-- I quickly lost my confidence. Who was I kidding? I was up against the best in the world and I would only had an ambassador in my corner for the first game on the first day of a three day tournament. So I decided all I wanted to do was to survive to the end of this game to know that I could do this. I was freaked out. But Dennis Ross was unfazed. If you play with such anxiety everybody is going to know it. Yeah. They are going to read it. You know when I was negotiating I could read the body language. I could tell if someone was really nervous. I once had in one negotiation I explained to somebody what it is we needed. And it was clearly way beyond what they thought we were going to go for. And my first impulse was looking at this person-- this  should never play poker. I mean he literally blanched. So you know the other thing is you have got to be cool. Sure. Right? Got it. Got to have a poker face convey confidence even if I do not feel it. Right. Seven of us gathered around the board. We nodded brief hellos put 15 minutes on the clock and bam-- time to negotiate. Since I was big bad Russia I was instantly the most popular person in the room. All the other players started well flirting with me. So hi Russia. How are you doing? Hi. I am good I am good. How are you? Are you figuring out the swing . A little bit little bit. That was Austria. Next was Germany. So if you wanted to work with me against England next year I would be very happy to help you by cutting them off say from Denmark or whatever else it is that you need. Italy. What I want to do is get into a three on one fight. Right? I want to you and me and either Turkey or Austria. OK. And Turkey. Russia and Turkey often ally with each other in this game. The shorthand for their alliance is RT. Here's Turkey. RT is probably my favorite alliance on the board. Mhm. So-- OK. I mean no matter what happens you know when I start with the two way I am sticking with you. Right. But then I am vulnerable if you cooperate with Austria then right? Then you could push me out of Russia-- that is the thing that I-- That is not going to happen. Oh sure. I understand. No. I mean that is not going to happen. I am sticking with you. OK cool. Everyone was pretty convincing I have to say. I did not know who to believe or who to trust. But Dennis did not hesitate. For him it was just another day at the office. He took me into the hallway to confer. I think Germany is playing a long game. And is just asking you-- he is doing it in a very clever way. Right. The same with Italy. He is doing it in a way where it does not look like he is trying to ask you to do things when he actually is asking you to do something. And the Turkish player I think is the one guy who is committed to you in a way that I think is most convincing. Dennis said that Turkey reminded him of someone someone named Sergey Tereshchenko. Tereshchenko was the Soviet Foreign Minister's Chief Assistant. When Dennis first met Tereshchenko he knew he was going to have to work with him on the issue of German reunification but he was not sure if he could trust him. Early on he said to me-- at a certain point he said look the future of my country depends upon a different kind of relationship with the United States. And the way he said it to me made me feel like it was not a manipulation. The way he said it was almost exactly the way the person who is playing Turkey conveyed-- I am going to be there. Even the inflection was the same. I mean for me it is like I had this memory sort of flash before me as I listened to him say it and the way he said it. Sold. I allied with Turkey. This turned out to be smart. Later in the game there were plenty of moments where I simply had no idea what the hell was going on. But Turkey knew what he was doing and he had an interest in keeping me alive. Since you are my number one ally I will just tell you if you go down I go down. I mean you are critical to me. I mean you have to be able to defend yourself. Can you give me the supply side of this so that I can make it a build? Oh. In the fall-- not now but in the fall. I am not ruling it out actually because I need for you not to collapse up here. As the game unfolded everyone was going after Italy everyone but me. So Italy came over for a chat. What do you want to have happen over the course of the next two years? My long term plan would be for you and I and Turkey to kill Austria and then you and I to kill Turkey. It was a tempting offer and I was flattered. Italy was one of the best players on the board a former world champion named Chris Martin. But saying yes to Italy meant turning against Turkey and Turkey had been a loyal ally. So Dennis said no. It is like they say. You have got to dance with the one that brung you. I still think that even though Italy is clearly the stronger player Turkey is a more reliable player. I was still so nervous I kept out of the fighting for as long as I could. I watched Germany and England turn on France and eliminate him from the game. I could not stall forever. I knew that eventually I would have to go to war. I just did not know who I should fight. But Dennis watched me talking to Germany who bears a more than passing resemblance to Jason Statham. I was so anxious you could hear me tapping my lapel mic with a pen. All right. I promise you I am will not go after any of those four regions. This turn. Absolutely. I cannot promise what is going to happen in two or three turns' time at this time. I understand that. But it is at least a promise of a commitment that I can make this turn. OK. I cannot say further than that. OK Dennis' evaluation? Look what he told you is he is not doing anything this time. But what he also told you basically-- He did not know what he could do later. Well what he is telling you is he is going to do it later. That is what that meant. Yeah. So I declared war on Germany and advanced on Munich. Munich. Munich. He went to Munich. He is attacking me. Cheeky. Later Germany told me this was a great move. Maybe that explains why he was so ticked off about it when I did it. I have never lied to you. From now on you cannot rely on that. What you are doing is you are encouraging me to attack you. I understand that. But I would like to say that I have not lied to you either. You would not-- yeah OK fair enough. Lying is something Dennis had very strong feelings about and his feeling was never do it ever. You do not lie in real diplomacy because it always comes back to haunt you. Anyone you are dealing with now you know they are not going to go away. And so once you lie that is always there. You do not lie. He also told me that overall I should keep my attitude in check-- no bullying no badgering. This is just what I wanted to hear. My experience with playing cutthroat like when I blackmailed my friend or got cussed out in that creepy mansion always ended badly. I was relieved to hear there was a way to be good at diplomacy without making everyone hate me in the process. Piedmont holds.  supports Munich. Vienna supports Bohemia. Budapest to Romania-- After five or six hours it got to the point where there were two major alliances each one taking up about half the board. What that meant was a stalemate-- a six way draw and we would all have to split the points for the game. I was fine with that. So were the other people in my alliance. But the other side wanted more points. More points would give them a better shot at winning the world championship. So they pulled each person from my side into the hall one by one. And they offered each of us a deal to stab our friends. When Italy returned from his meeting in the hallway they followed him back in the room still hassling him. They went up one side of him and down the other until he snapped. You are going to hold us hostage to a possible point where you knock us down to here.  No no. Look they cut me out. I do not care. No shut up. I am going to talk. OK? You are going to hold us hostage for five hours while you grind down and you still cannot cut us out right? Because there is a 13th center standing line that all of us can get behind.  Everyone in the room took a step back. This was the first time tonight any of us had seen Italy show any kind of anger. And it occurred to me is he faking this as a tactic? Dennis had said anger was a good tool but only if you use it sparingly. If you use it all the time it has no effect. And if you want it to have an effect it has to in a sense have drama to it. Italy was down to a single army. He was a dead man walking if the game did not end soon. This was a smart time to get mad and it was working. Can I finish my fucking sentence? Well I have now finished my sentence so of course you may. OK. It is one turn. I want to see the fall played out. Our opponents agreed to only go one more turn before conceding to a draw. Nobody broke. Just like Dennis advised Turkey and I stuck together to the very end with our new allies Italy and Austria and the game was over. Yay. Yay. It is over. It is over? Good game. It was just like I would hoped. I survived. I got through the first game a draw with the best players in the world. Before he left Dennis Ross said farewell to our opponents. I want to tell you how much I was impressed by this. It is not every day that a diplomat sees people who have a kind of instinct for what real diplomacy is. You guys do it as if you are breathing. It is like breathing oxygen for you. And notwithstanding some obvious differences between the real world and this I still think that all of you would be good in the reality of diplomacy not just in the game of it. Austria pipes up-- so are you hiring? So are you hiring?  I have a card. Thank you so much for your comments. The good vibes died there. Day two Dennis was gone. And without him everything went to hell. My opponents were not polite or patient anymore. People admitted they would been nicer when Dennis was around. I think they might have wanted to show the diplomat just how diplomatic they could be. There were fewer attacks and stabs than usually happen-- but that was yesterday. You fucked it up right? I mean Austria really boned the game of Russia. He boned my game. Day two was Lord of the Flies. I stuck with the principles Dennis gave me-- pick an ally and stick with him do not lie. But it was just like in that weird mansion. I felt like everyone was mad at me. And this time they all told me I was not vicious enough. This time they all wanted me to stab my ally. They laughed in my face and told me I was a fool. Everybody stabs they said. That is part of the game. I refused and the gloves came off. Are you going to be paid for writing this story a burly Scottish player asked me? Because I am losing three day's wages to be here so that I can get screwed by you. He told me I was not just playing badly I was ruining the game for everyone. I got mad and not in the smart strategic kind of way. Let me submit this to you. Perhaps maybe your failure in this game was that you did not do very good diplomacy with me or with Germany. That is your failure not mine. So maybe that is why I am tired of people telling me that I fucked the game up or that I should play differently when maybe you should play differently and you should diplome better. Eventually my ally a high school math teacher named Brian ended up stabbing me. He watched me go to the mat with the other players to defend him then he chopped me out of the game for a few extra points. I was incredulous. I pulled him aside and asked him why he sold me out. He said I guess I am just a hard motherfucker like that and turned and walked away. I am not a hard motherfucker not even in a game. I really wanted to play the game of diplomacy using actual diplomacy being respectful and truthful and it did not work. I felt frustrated and angry. And my only consolation was-- at least Dennis Ross thought I would make a good diplomat. I mean that is what he told me so who cares what these nerds think. Hi. I did not win the tournament Ambassador Ross. You know I did not bet the house on you doing that. After I got back home I called Dennis Ross. I told him what I would been thinking since the tournament-- that the game seemed to require players to be cutthroat and it was not for me. I do think that you were probably wrong about me at the end of the day. I think that I am probably not cut out for the US Foreign Service. Well I did not say you were cut out for the US Foreign Service. Well that is what I took away. That was my take-away. That is how good he is. He never lied to me. He never told me I was cut out to be a diplomat. And somehow I came away from our conversation believing exactly what I wanted to believe. David Hill. He wrote more about the world diplomacy championships for Grantland. You can find that at Grantland.com. Or there is also a link to that article at our website thisamericanlife.org. Coming up a do-gooder who does not have the back of most of the people who want his help. That is in a minute from Chicago public radio when our program continues. This American Life-- I am Ira Glass. Today's program Got Your Back-- stories of trusting people to protect and guide you even in situations where it is not so certain that that is a good idea. We have arrived at Act 2 of our program. Act 2 By the Waters of Haggle-On. You may have heard this audio on the internet. A guy named Ryan Block called Comcast to cancel his internet service. He wanted to change to a different provider. And 10 minutes into the call he started recording. OK. We would like to disconnect. We would like to disconnect please. OK. So why is it that you do not want this faster speed? Help me understand why you do not want faster internet? Help me understand why you cannot just disconnect us. Because my job is to have a conversation with you about-- I mean keeping your service about finding out why it is that you are looking to cancel the service. Can you disconnect us by phone? Can you disconnect our service? Yes or no? But what I am trying to find out is why do not you want-- Yes or no can you disconnect our service? --the same offer a brand new customer is going to get faster internet than anyone can provide you? Why do not you want those services? Because I am not interested in your services any longer. OK. So you are not interested in the fastest internet in the country? Nope not interested. OK. Why is that? Can you disconnect us by phone? Are you capable in your system of disconnecting our service yes or no? This recording goes on and on for eight minutes. OK. So you do not want to get service? You do not want something that works? No. I guess I do not want something that works. So why do not you want something that is good service and something that works? I mean is this like a joke? Did we like call-- are you punking us right now? After this call went viral someone from Comcast called Ryan block to apologize. At this point 5 million people have listened to this online. And I think that it is so popular because so many of us have been in some situation like this where against some company we feel totally powerless. Well every other week in The Haggler column in The New York Times people write in with their unsolvable consumer problems. And then reporter David Segal steps in and takes their side. He has their back. He publicly approaches the company and tries to get them to do the right thing. I work on behalf of people who have been driven insane by indifference insane by the experience of knocking on a door knowing that someone is on the other side of that door and they will not respond. If you can get those people behind the door to respond it is like a magic trick. It feels like a magic trick to the reader. A while back David Segal stepped in for a guy-- he said that he had signed up for a free trial of e-greeting cards from a company called Blue Mountain Greeting Cards. The company required his credit card info to give him the free trial and so he did that and then he clicked some buttons. And then the next thing he knew they told him that he was a monthly subscriber. So he tried to cancel right? This is from his email to David Segal. I went back to the Cancel page. But it just said-- we are sorry but we are unable to process your cancellation request right now-- end quote. Funny is not it that once you have paid you cannot cancel. I am out 19.99. Can you get it back? William Potash Brookline Mass. So I got in touch with Blue Mountain and they fixed this problem really quickly. So good news right? David tried to reach the consumer which he always does for the column. And suddenly this guy who had been emailing him back and forth for days stopped returning his emails. His column deadline approached. David got a little more frantic. And so I just went all out. I was like-- I got research to find his mother in New Jersey. I tried to find out where he worked just to like get this information. I need to speak to you. Finally like late on Thursday night I get a call from a guy named Phil Potash. And he is like hey I understand you are trying to get in touch with me. And I said yeah you wrote to me-- William Potash? He said oh no I am not William Potash I am Phil Potash. I am like who is William Potash? He said that is my 10-year-old son. Oh. It was a boy who had written me completely convincingly as an adult. It was this completely-- you know credit card-- it was written like just deadpan as an adult. And I think the kid decided-- I do not want to get on the phone with this guy because he is going to hear that I am a 10-year-old boy. I remember sitting with friends saying like what could explain why William Potash will not call me back? Let us rack our brains. What could explain this? Please like-- And what was your theory? I had no idea. I remember being completely stunned. And it turned out he is 10 years old. He does not want to talk to me because he has not hit puberty. When you write a column like this of course tons of people get in touch wanting you to take their side and get their backs. And the overwhelming majority David Segal says he simply cannot help. Like 95 out of 100 he cannot help because he says these customers they are not in their right. They are-- People who do not have a legitimate beef. And this is most common with warranties. So they bought something five years ago. It had a three year warranty The Haggler should step in and get a refund. Wait and they understand that? They understand that the warranty ran out two years ago? Yeah. There is a fair amount of that. Here's someone who wanted something from a camera store. And they said we do not have it. We do not have it in stock anymore. So let us refund your money. And he is like I do not want a refund I want the thing that I ordered. And they are like well we do not have the thing you ordered so let us send you your money back. And he writes to me and is like can you make them send me the thing that I want? And I am like no they do not have it. Like what am I supposed to do?  I do not really understand how I can help at all. So I mean I think that this is a big part of my life just sorting through complaints that are not really good complaints. Here's one. In January 2013 we traveled to Myanmar and purchased two wooden statues in a shop in Yangon. That is the least promising start--  --to any letter I have ever read because the idea that The Haggler has any juice in Myanmar is ludicrous. It is also like-- Like some guy in Myanmar you are going to be-- woo The New York Times. Yeah I am going to call them up and they are just going to start quaking immediately and be like-- oh did you see The New York Times? Yeah we have a refund going right now to this person.  Do you think that writing the column for five years has made you more sympathetic to companies than you were at the beginning? Yes. Not to the customers. Oh I am sympathetic to both. I mean when companies misbehave-- and I see a lot of companies misbehave-- I am absolutely sympathetic to the customers. But I hear from enough entitled customers to feel sympathy for companies. What you see is the worst of customers and the worst of companies. David Segal of The Haggler column in The New York Times.  One Woman Show. There is this woman named Hamida Gulistani. She advocates for women's rights in Afghanistan helping women who are being beaten by their husbands or forced into terrible arranged marriages. And doing this work in Afghanistan is just as hard a job as whatever it is that you are imagining when I say those words. And for a few years when the US presence in the country was at its greatest she did feel like somebody had her back. She felt safer. She saw some progress. But now with the US pulling out her situation is changing. It is gotten way more dangerous already. We do not have her back in the same way at all. For two and a half years Kevin Sieff has been the Bureau Chief for The Washington Post in Afghanistan and he has this story about the change that she is facing. A quick trigger warning for anybody who needs a trigger warning that this story does include descriptions of incidents of violence against women. Here's Kevin Sieff. Before the US was there as her ally Hamida was pretty much on her own doing a job she invented for herself out of nothing. She had no role models. She completely made the whole thing up. She started doing this in 2005. At the time she had just gotten a nursing job at a clinic in a place called Ghazni City. It is a sprawl of mostly mud-baked buildings in eastern Afghanistan. At the clinic Hamida basically had a front row seat to how brutally women were still being treated four years after the American invasion. Patients arrived all the time in burkas with bruises and broken bones. One day a pregnant woman showed up at the examination room.  As she laid down I noticed that she had like these brown dark spots around her eyes. And then also as she lifted up her arm I could see she had all these scars. And I asked her what happened. She would not tell me at the beginning. She said oh you know I fell. Well I just joked with her too. I said oh I fell once too and you know I was also hurt. And then she all of the sudden starts crying. She had guests over and somehow she had messed up the food and husband you know had beaten her up. And she lost her baby when she was two months pregnant because of the beating. Hamida convinced her to go to the press. Afghan media outlets have popped up in Ghazni because of funding from the US. And Hamida thought a woman speaking out against her husband would be news. Maybe they could use the local media to shame the woman's husband. Maybe they could even get the local Prosecutor's attent