When Amy and her dad were loading her mom into the car Amy did not think this would be the very last time her mom would go to the hospital. But her dad did. In fact he called a priest a priest who Amy's mom Janet was friends with to hear her mom's confession and administer last rights just in case. Her mom had been diagnosed with cancer two years before and Amy says it was clear she did not have much time left. So we got in the car and I set the GPS for Weill Cornell and we got on to the Long Island Expressway and-- Amy had driven this trip dozens and dozens of times over two years of treatment-- to Weill Cornell Hospital in New York City from out in Long Island. It was a straight shot up the expressway. Amy knows the way by heart but she always uses the Waze app because it reroutes when the traffic's bad. And I have become like such a slave to the GPS I just follow it like I am a robot. And I am following it and at one point my dad's in the backseat. My mom's sitting next to me in the front seat. And at one point my dad said like where are you going? Like why are you going this way? And I do not even know exactly where I was. I think it had taken me to the Cross Island and then an exit in Queens. And he was like why are you going this way? And I was like the GPS says-- I am just following the GPS-- LAUGHING like I always do. And then it told me to make a left on Broadway in Queens. I made the left and dad was like oh my god Janet we are going to go right by-- Janet do you know where we are? It had taken them right to the neighborhood where her parents were first a couple working together in his family's business. The GPS told them to make a turn. On that corner is a bakery. It is an old Italian bakery. It is been there. And I think I have the name of it somewhere. Yeah it is called Parisi's Bakery. And it is right on the corner there. It is been there forever. And my parents used to always pick up their bread for their big Italian meals with my grandmother. She would be like get the bread at Parisi's. Go to Parisi's. Get the bread. Wait when they were how old? When they were you know teenagers. Like when they were like 19 and 20 and they were working in Queens. And my dad was freaking out about the bakery and so I pulled over and I said Dad why do not you get a loaf of bread? And he jumped out of the car and he went and got a loaf of bread and some cookies for my mother. Amy drives on and the GPS next routes them right past this diner the Bel Aire Diner. --that they had breakfast at every morning when they were in their 20s. Before they would go to the factory they would go with my grandfather sometimes with my uncle too. And they would sit at the counter and they would have like a doughnut and coffee or like-- And my dad was pointing at everything like and this is where-- and Janet do you remember? We used to go here and look I cannot believe this is where we are right now. This is crazy. And there was a restaurant around the corner that is no longer there that is where my father had proposed to my mom. It was weird. Their little-- that was the world of their beginning. Those were the blocks they spent the most time on when they were starting out you know. It was very strange to just end up right there. And how many times had you driven them from their house to this hospital? Oh my god. Oh my god. I mean Oh god it is not a number I can even count. How many times had it sent you this way? Never never. No we never went that way. Did you say much? Or was it really like between the two of them for most of it? No he was-- it was really him. It was really Dad just being like Janet look at this. Oh my god do you remember when we used to walk down this way every night after work? It was like he was like a kid. He was really excited. He was really excited to be there like visiting a museum of your childhood or something you know. Yeah well it is like that cliche almost like that when you are dying your whole life will flash before your eyes except you guys were actually like doing it on location for real thanks to the GPS. LAUGHING Yeah exactly. Waze really had it planned for us.   Amy says once they got to Queens she suddenly found herself in this moment that was really about the two of them as a couple the couple they were before she was born. Her parents got together when they were 16. And she says the older she is gotten the better she is understood how well suited her parents were for each other in all kinds of ways. Growing up she says every night they would pull out a guitar after dinner and sing together the two of them harmonize on Beatles or Bob Dylan songs just for themselves because they liked it. Amy says she did not realize how unusual it was for parents to do till she got older. This is a home recording of them from just a few years ago.  And now the time has come and so my love I must go. And though I lose a friend in the end you will know. Oh oh. Amy's mom Janet died a week after that ride to the hospital. But in the car that day in Queens her mom looked around at the stuff her dad was pointing to and she was in it with him smiled and said yes when he asked did she see? Meanwhile at the wheel was Amy the driver. I am trying to keep both their spirits up like a maniac you know. So I am basically like reflecting my father's enthusiasm and you know I am the one that pulled over in front of the bakery and said just jump out and get a loaf of bread. You know it is fine. We are OK. Like we were not-- she was not in pain and we were there and it was going to take as long as it was going to take. And you know we are Italian and bread makes us feel better. So get some bread. It is This American Life by the way. I am Ira Glass. Today's episode we are calling The Ferryman. It is about people who transport other people to some destination. And in preparing for the show today a bunch of us were looking at the old Greek myth of the ferryman you know whose boat carries souls across the river to the afterlife. His name is Charon and he is just like awful. It is this frightening figure the way that Virgil and Dante write about him-- just unruly white beard terrifying eyes. Does not seem to talk hardly ever but when he does it is pretty aggro ordering people around. Kind of exactly who you would not want to be ferried by in a frightening moment. Who you would want of course is someone like your own kid somebody who is actually worried about you wants to make it as OK as possible. Today on our program we have a bunch of stories of people going from one place to another who need safe passage. And if you picture like a long lineup like a continuum of ferrymen where at one end is Amy who is trying to be kind and at the other end is the immortal ferryman Charon who is definitely not all the ferrymen in today's episode fall at different paths between the two on that lineup. We hear about who they are and what gets them through their jobs where they see so much along the way. Stay with us. Act One I Was a Teenage Smuggler. So the first story is about a very particular version of the job of getting people from point A to point B. You have probably heard of all the people trying to illegally cross the Mexican border into the United States recently. It is the most in two decades. Here's what you might not know. I did not know this. Many of the guides ferrying them across the US-Mexican border are kids. This is mostly because of us because of the United States. The US government as a general matter does not prosecute smugglers who are under 18. So those kids can lead migrants into the country get caught and they do not get charged with smuggling or illegally crossing into the United States. They are just sent right back to Mexico. Needless to say this makes them very attractive for the cartels who run these big operations crossing migrants. Some kids get coerced into doing the job or into staying at the job. And it can be dangerous getting so close to the cartels. But for lots of kids it is just a job. It is just money good money. Kevin Sieff a reporter for The Washington Post spent months with a bunch of these kid smugglers and got to know them talked to them about what it was like to do this particular kind of ferrymen's job. Here's Kevin. In parts of northern Mexico human smuggling almost feels like Little League. The kids boast about who is better-- faster up the border wall more skilled at hiding from the border patrol. They post on Snapchat about the migrants they cross. On Facebook one kid I know changed his profession to smuggler. That is how this other kid Israel learned that this was even a job-- on Facebook.  He was 15 with chubby cheeks and a wispy mustache. He liked posting pictures of cute miniature horses. One day he was at his grandma's house and some clips another boy had posted of his exploits popped up on his feed. And what did you think when you watched these videos?  That I wanted to do it too. I saw he was getting a lot of money and I said I want to do it too. He messaged the guy out of boredom and curiosity. Can you take me along? The guy said sure. Meet me in my house. And so Israel got dressed the same way he did for school-- jeans cross trainers. What are smugglers supposed to wear anyway he thought. And he headed out. Again he was 15. They picked up a handful of migrants who were hiding in a house nearby and took them to the Rio Grande. It was night when they waded into the river. The migrants followed behind them in inner tubes. Israel helped lead them pretending he knew what he was doing.  I thought what am I doing? But I was already there and I thought OK let us just continue forward. Once they got to the other side it was a quick climb over the border wall about four minutes. The other smuggler told Israel the technique-- sort of like climbing a tree just a little harder. They helped the migrants get over one by one. Israel remembers being like wait that is it? We did it?   It felt great. It was easy. I mean there were no complications at all. There was not even immigration. I thought this is not even hard. The people they had crossed looked up at him this little kid like he was a boss. The next morning Israel 15 years old walked across the international bridge to get home like he was just another tourist returning from shopping in Texas. When he got back to Mexico the cartel paid him a wad of cash for helping out. The normal rate is about 100 per migrant.   When I was a little kid I used to wash cars. I made what a worker makes in two weeks-- I made it in one night. You feel like money is never going to run out that you are always going to have money always always. Once he started doing this more regularly he would post pictures of the money he got on Facebook with emojis of a smiley face with dollar signs for the eyes. This is the engine behind one of the world's largest human migrations. People are handed from smuggler to smuggler like links in a chain until they get to the border. And when they get there the last guides who take them on the last mile of the journey are teenage boys doing teenage boy things. Like there are these two brothers Jassiel and Alfonso. They are like the class clowns of the smuggling world. Here's Alfonso.   The funniest well is my brother because he is kind of crazy. He does things that you should not-- you should not really do at the border patrol. He will get naked and start running. Like this one time Jassiel had crossed the river with a group of migrants. Border patrol agents showed up and he started to run. He knows he can beat them no problem. I already have-- I already have like a record for running. They are older. They already have like wrinkles. He got back to the riverbank with them still in pursuit. One of the agents shouted at him. He said the patrol boats were coming. The agent was like you are stuck. There is no way to escape. And I said to him I said no way. There is always a way out. He told me that you think you are so-- and I told him no well it is just too bad. I am not going to let myself get caught. I said you do your job and I will do mine and we will go home happy. That is when Jassiel took his clothes off jumped in the river and swam across to safety.   You need to come back and we need to catch you. And I said yes but today was not your day man. Sometimes Jassiel videotapes his crossings and his narrow escapes. It is like proof of how good he is at the job and a chance to show off. Even though the job is illegal they post the stuff all the time on Snapchat and Facebook like this one video Jassiel sent me. It is of him crossing a big group of migrants.  They are running through a farm on a dirt road. He is yelling go go go you did not come here to stay at the slowest one a young woman with short brown hair. Her arms are flailing like she is at the end of a marathon. She is running barefoot holding her shoes. But even though this whole thing feels so intense Jassiel stops to crouch down on his knees. It looks like he is going for a more dramatic camera angle.   A white Jeep Cherokee pulls up and about 15 migrants pile in. And then the video cuts off.  I asked Jassiel if word of his exploits had spread. Like is he famous among the other smugglers?   Yes. Yes there are a lot-- I mean there are two songs about me and my brother. First I was like yeah right. And then he sent me a link. It was a slickly produced song with a video. Like some of the other kid smugglers he would commissioned a local rapper to write it. Because if you are 15 and making thousands of a day why not? Every day we are crossing the whole border the chorus goes.    Here's the part where they name-check Jassiel and his brother.   I spent six months talking to dozens of these kids. And there was one in particular who everyone kept talking about. He is the one who is been at it the longest who is crossed the most people. And he is just kind of fearless about how he does it. He asked me to change his name so I am calling him Antonio. We are also altering his voice. He is become a master of his craft the Michael Jordan of smuggling. He learned about the job when he was 12 when he was just a little kid with a buzz cut wearing a school uniform.  Well I was coming out of school-- I was in like the sixth grade and I was walking. And well I bumped into a friend who was older than me and he said I am headed to work. He was dressed in full camouflage like a soldier and I said damn you are going to work? What kind of work? And he said I take goats to the other side. And I said  you take animals over there or what? He said nah man I take people over there. They pay me. They pay me in dollars. He is been at it five years now. The way some kids study game tape that is how Antonio approaches migration even if his tactics can sometimes sound kind of callous.  I always ask for like the skinny immigrants know what I am saying? Wait why skinny? So that they can run like I can. Because if immigration is chasing me or something I am not going to wait for anyone. Well I have always worked with a big number of people. I have never worked with a small group of persons know what I am saying? He learned all the curves in the river and all the tricks how to brush away the footprints wear camouflage. He memorized the patrol schedule of the immigration agents. One day we were talking about his favorite crossing points and he started describing the map of this part of South Texas that he would built in his head street by street. He would memorized the city parks the local high schools the places where the mesquite trees are thickest in case he needs a place to hide. Antonio was never great at school or sports but this he would found his thing. Even his stepfather asked him to smuggle him across. Antonio was 17. And despite a couple of new tattoos he looks like a kid. Many of the migrants are decades older than he is tired from the thousands of miles they have already traveled. So he tries to puff himself up to seem taller than 5' 5. He thinks of Al Pacino's character in Scarface his favorite movie. Before the trip even begins Antonio sits the migrants down and launches into a pep talk. He tries to sound commanding.   You see I say in a little while in the forest we are all gonna walk along my path all very hidden crouching down without making a peep. Now in less than 10 minutes we are going to go over the wall. And when we go over the wall the guys picking us up will be waiting for us. And after climbing down we are going to take you to a warehouse and we soon will be on the other side eating some really good food. Antonio loves to brag about how good a smuggler he is how hard he is to catch. Some of the other kids roll their eyes at what a loud mouth he is. He dropped out of middle school to focus on smuggling. With his earnings he bought a closet full of Air Force Ones and a car a Ford Focus. He gave his mom an allowance. She told me it helped pay the rent and cover household expenses. But Antonio and the other kids are aware that they are doing the work of the Gulf Cartel which controls the border. The Justice Department calls it one of the most violent and brutal drug-trafficking organizations in the world. Antonio knew who those guys were the big bosses. They yelled at him when he screwed up and got caught. Sometimes they pressured him to do more dangerous work like take drugs across in big bags. They sent him text messages. come on man do another run for us. Every time he says yes Antonio gets closer to them. The border patrol are watching this play out every day. The agents spend much of their days chasing around juvenile smugglers and then just spitting them back into Mexico hours later. Some have been caught more than 100 times but they just keep going. The agents even put photos of the top kids on the walls of their office. I learned that from a senior border patrol agent in South Texas and his partner. He asked that we not include his name. We have our list. So we have our list of top 10 kids. Wait you have literally a list of 10 kids? Like the 10 most wanted-- not most wanted but 10 most productive kids? Yes sir. Why? What does that do for you guys? I mean we just keep track. Can you tell me like is the list on the wall of the office somewhere? Or like--  CHUCKLING In my office yeah. Is it really? Yes. We were sitting in a conference room in the border patrol office about 30 feet from the Rio Grande. The agent was across the table from me. And when he talked about the teenage smugglers it was with a kind of mix of amusement and annoyance. Like I cannot believe this is my job chasing a bunch of kids. I asked the agent if he knew the kid we were calling Antonio. He just smirked. Like there is one kid in particular that I have been spending time with who I feel like you probably know. His name's  What about him? Is he on the top 10 list? I would not really want to answer that to be honest with you. Yeah. Is there anything you can tell me about him? Just that he-- I mean he is good at what he did you know. You think he is out of the game? I am not sure to be honest with you. Yeah. I mean he was careful at what he was doing. He knew what he was doing. He was one of those kids maybe that it is like hey I got you three days ago and you will laugh it out and it was kind of like that funny but annoying. Like you were just like man you know we got you next time or we got you this time kind of deal. To him it kind of feels fruitless. The border patrol's mission is to stop illegal migration and here he is in the front lines just catching the same kids every day. He gives them food. Sometimes the kids lose their shoes in the mud so he gives them these border patrol flip-flops. Then the kids are just sent back home. And it is like OK see you in a few days. I mean you are hoping that-- kind of like a teacher right? You are kind of hoping that when you talk to these kids and tell them hey man you know next time this can happen. You can end up drowning. You can end up-- something bad can happen you need to start behaving. And you are hoping that maybe it sinks to one of them. The massive record of apprehensions each of these kids has it is only relevant when they turn 18. If they are caught then prosecutors can try to use that history against them. One agent told me his colleagues celebrated the 18th birthdays of the most prolific kids and high-five them in the office. Until then there is not much that they can do. The agent after he catches the kids takes them to Mexican authorities who take them to the small shelter about 400 yards from the border. I was at the shelter one day and in walked Alfonso one of the brothers from the song with a bunch of other smugglers who had just been apprehended and released by border patrol. They were all sitting on plastic chairs in the shelter's lobby. It felt like high school detention-- a group of boys kind of proud of themselves for getting in trouble punching each other in the shoulders waiting for their moms to pick them up. A woman at the shelter named Perla Sustaita processed Alfonso the same way she had many times before. It was his 13th apprehension. She had the blas expressions of a very tired assistant principal asking questions from a script she had memorized. She typed up the answers in the shelter system.  How did you cross the river? When did they detain you? Why did you cross? She asks while Alfonso answers flatly. And then he waited for his mom to come pick him up. All these kids know that they have only until their 18th birthday and then their loophole disappears. So they all have to decide what they are going to do next. Israel the one with the wispy mustache was 17 when we spoke. He told me that even though he still had time left before turning 18 he was definitely done. No. Not again. I am fine with my girlfriend you know what I mean? Getting caught and losing seven eight years of being with my family with my grandmother with my dad-- my grandmother is old. Like can you imagine if they locked me up and suddenly I get a call telling me your grandmother died? No. I would rather spend my time here calm. I prefer not to have money and be free. I am at peace now. He has not crossed the border for months now. Most kids stop when they are 17. They move on with their lives. Instead of bringing people across the border they get jobs in the giant factories that send windshield wipers and steering wheels to the US. Some try to smuggle themselves to the United States and stay there. That was Alfonso as plan the brother from the song who I would seen getting processed at the border. Then there is Antonio the one that the border patrol told me they were tired of chasing. As he got closer to his 18th birthday he started posting photos of himself holding an assault rifle on Facebook. He talked about his links to the Gulf Cartel and the methamphetamines he was taking. I would been talking to him for months sometimes in person and sometimes over the phone. Often I would call and he would puzzle through his next steps. Maybe he would work fixing laptops he said. Maybe if he walked away from the cartel his sisters would help him with some money. Oh and did I know any American girls he could marry? He asked me once. Another day bored at home he changed his profession on Facebook to border patrol agent. He just seemed kind of unmoored. Then one day not too long ago I called to see how he was doing.     That sound in the background there he told me that was a pistol.       He told me he was going to kill someone and that he was getting paid to do it. A truck arrived to pick him up and the call ended abruptly. I did not know where he was or where he was going or any details of his plan. I called Antonio the next day to see what happened. He told me he would gone on the hit and fired his gun but missed. His friend was shot but survived and they ran off. Then a few days later Antonio was taken by armed men from his mother's house in the middle of the night. He was handcuffed and beaten for three days. I went to visit him at his house a one-bedroom apartment about a mile from the border not far from the industrial corridor that has sprouted up since NAFTA. He sleeps on a mattress in the kitchen under a poster of The Last Supper. There were still scars around his wrists from where he would been handcuffed. No one could explain why he would been targeted. Antonio told me it was because he was high on pills and the cartel does not allow that. But it seemed likely to me that it had something to do with his shift from teenage smuggler to hit man and the botched mission. He is still getting messages beckoning him back to smuggling. The other day he got one. Do you want to cross another group? He turns 18 in February. These days he catches himself looking at his snapshots like an old man looking through photos of vacations he took when he was young. I asked him why they were so important to him. Just to remember what I did he said. To remember what I did in life. Kevin Sieff. He is a reporter for The Washington Post. He also did a print version of this story with pictures and videos and they are great. And you can find it online. If you want to hear more of Kevin's stories he is often on Post Reports The Washington Post's daily news podcast. You can find it at postreports.com or wherever you get your podcasts. Act 2 The Last Ride. So reading up this week about the best-known ferrymen in the world the one from Greek mythology Charon what is striking about him is it is really hard to find many details about what that trip across the river was like with Charon guiding the boat to the Underworld. Like what happens in that boat? Conversations fistfights acting out sullen moping? Like what happens? And what is it like for Charon making that same trip over and over for all eternity transporting everyone who has ever lived? Well the writer Marie Phillips was kind enough to sketch it out for us. Her story is read by actor Noma Dumezweni. Deep in the belly of the Underworld the River Styx oozed like a deadly snake black water glistening like scales. All around was darkness heavy and sulphurous. The gloom echoed with the wailing of doomed souls those unable to pay the single coin demanded by Charon the ferryman who'd pluck it from his passengers' mouths with a thick crooked finger. Charon's oar propelled the boat through the water lapping and lapping like a-- like a cat drinking milk thought Mrs. Ruth Langley of Basingstoke Great Britain recently deceased at 83 from a stroke suffered while dusting her husband's collection of miniature model warplanes. Mrs. Langley had never had a cat let alone listened to one drink. Her husband had allergies. Mrs. Langley believed in being prompt. She would been the first on the boat taking her seat at the very front next to the mysterious oarsman a hulking giant with a furrowed brow his hooded eyes fixed on the horizon. He seemed she thought a little ill at ease. This is nice is not it? She said. I always wanted to go on a cruise. Charon said nothing. The Mediterranean or the Greek Islands. You must know all about them of course. Are they wonderful? Charon said nothing. I always pictured myself sunbathing on deck while a handsome waiter brought me glasses of amaretto. I wonder what amaretto tastes like. Have you ever had it? It sounds so romantic amaretto. I suppose there'ill be plenty of opportunity to try new drinks once we get there. Charon said nothing. Well anyway my husband hates boats. Oh I do not mean to offend. I am sure when his time comes he will think this one is lovely. She glanced behind her to the cowering mortals weeping and screaming and clutching at one another in despair then turned back to her host. It is really motion sickness that is his problem. And this is a very smooth ride. You have a wonderful technique. You should be very proud. Charon said nothing. Is it exciting meeting all the famous people? It must be. Did you speak to Princess Diana? What was she like? I have always thought she seemed so compassionate like Mother Teresa but chic. Charon said nothing. You know what I think is a really nice touch? No first class. We are all literally in the same boat. You never know who you might end up sitting next to though it looks like nobody famous died today. Oh well. Oh but I am very happy up here with you no complaints. Charon said nothing. Mrs. Langley gazed out into the murk. Her hands twitched in her lap where her handbag ought to be. I do not suppose she said you remember a man called John Farmer? About mid-height sandy hair died in 1994 after a bus hit him? It made the local paper. He used to take me to dances when I was a girl. He made me laugh held my hand. He wanted to marry me but I thought there was more out there. I always wondered what if? So I thought maybe if you drop me off where he is-- oh of course he moved on. But his wife Linda is still alive. She remarried a software engineer from Penzance. Younger man. And then there is my husband not here yet but soon enough. Probably enjoying the silence up there haha. Always did say I talk too much. But he loves me. I suppose that will all be quite complicated here. Love. Charon said nothing. John probably would not look at me twice now anyway. I am an old lady. Charon said nothing. Mrs. Langley looked up at the ferryman. There was something so dignified in the way that he stood there rowing implacably onwards. You are a really good listener she said. Charon turned towards her. The woman talked. They always did. Every trip without fail. One of immortals would detach itself from the group attach itself to him and start chattering. It never changed. Sure they were different mortals but how different were they really? It was like a swarm of rats. You could probably tell them apart if you look closely but who'd want to do that? The woman talked. Most of the time they were begging and pleading. They were so desperate to be returned to that thing they called life. They had not caught on yet that life or existence at least was the one thing that they had in abundance. For all eternity in fact. Charon had some things to say on the subject of eternal life should he ever feel inclined to speak. Notably that it went on for a very long time. But Charon did not feel inclined to speak. Who would he speak to? The rats? The woman talked. Love was the other thing they never shut up about. Each of them thinks that their own love is so special so unique that their love never dies. They are about to get a lesson in undying love all right. There was a reason the gods specialized in transient passions that burned hot and fast and usually ended up with the other person turned into an animal. But maybe it would not be so bad a companion. A still silent presence in this maelstrom of mortal jibber jabber someone to share the long nights the glide of the boat through the water the velvet embrace of the darkness the sweet music of abandoned souls sobbing in misery. A few words floated out from the talking woman. He made me laugh held my hand. Charon's hand was so callous from manning the oar that it resembled stone. Someone to hold his hand. Yes. He could see the value in that. You are a really good listener she said. He looked down at her small frail. Her hair puffed up in a piteous attempt at prettiness. Wide eyes searching his lips softly parted. He gently took her chin then shoved his finger into her mouth and felt around. No coin. He tossed her into the water. Never any coins these days. Still he had to check. He reached out his hand and beckoned the next mortal towards him. Actor Noma Dumezweni reading a story by Marie Phillips who has by the way a whole novel about the Greek gods living in contemporary London behaving badly called Gods Behaving Badly. Her latest book is Create Your Own Midlife Crisis. Coming up somebody whose job it is to get living people from one place to another past a massive barrier put in place by a dead man to stop them. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's show The Ferryman stories about people whose job it is to transport us from point A to point B and what that is like for them what happens along the way. We have arrived at Act 3 of our program. Act 3 Better Call Dave. So this next story the point A and point B that the person has to travel between are not far apart at all. And yet it is a really hard job. It requires a lot of special knowledge and specialized skills particularly this one time when he was hired to take the living across to get to the treasures of the dead. David Kestenbaum explains. I met Dave McOmie 