From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Sean Cole sitting in for Ira Glass. And our show today is about rules and when it might be OK to break them when it is even right to break them. About a year ago summer 2019 my friend Benjamen Walker was in Nairobi in Kenya working on this project with some folks from the London School of Economics. And about four days into his trip he found himself downtown idly walking past this big huge recreation area called Uhuru Park. And boom. There was the protesters. How many of them were there? Like 300. There is what 300 people here? Just a mass of people-- like men. And the thing they were protesting was Uber. They were Uber drivers on strike. Like I said 2019. You might remember there were a lot of Uber strikes all over the world around this time. Uber had been in Kenya for about four years and these drivers had the same complaint that is followed the company wherever it is gone. Uber makes too much off the rides. They make too little. They want more of the pie. And they were mad. Benjamen waded into the crowd of strikers with a microphone because that is what he does. He hosts a podcast you might have heard of called Benjamen Walker's Theory of Everything. And this story was right up his alley. He is done lots of stories about the gig economy and its discontents. This one driver Jafar said one thing that would get them more money is rules more rules. It is just about regulations number one number two regulations number three regulations. We need regulations from the government. Because when you are regulated you cannot come over here make money vote in New York Stock Exchange flow to your whatever-- IPO-- and investor billionaires come and take. Yeah? Yeah. And when we have regulations we will never see a driver working 18 hours a day. Are we together? How do you win? That is what I want to know. How do you win? Solidarity. That was another driver there. Solidarity means everyone participating in the work stoppage. Except from what Benjamen saw that week there were plenty of other Uber drivers still out working. In fact even as they were all standing there 300 strong protesting against Uber-- We are now on strike and there is another guy carrying passenger around-- No no. You see there is car here packed with passenger. Oh no. So there is like a road that goes through this part of the park. And some guy Uber driver decided to go through the protest. Through the protest? Yeah. And they know he is an Uber driver how? He has the little Uber sign in his window or something? Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah. And they swarm his car. And then--  --they let the air out of the tires.   That is how I am going to deal with them. Let the car stay down eh? That is how we deal with traitors. And what did the guy do? He seemed pretty upset. He kind of sat there in shock for a while. He stayed in his car. He got out. Eventually even some of the protesters helped him move it out of the way. Of course. He is still our brother anyway. Good or bad he is still our brother. We fight them and we help them at the same time. Yes. This was one of two Uber drivers that tried to drive through the middle of the protest while Benjamen was there. And one of the protesters said oh the reason they are still driving is that with all of us on strike the surge pricing kicked in. So the ones who keep at it make more money which is to say it is hard to beat Uber at this game. House always wins. But then as they all stood around discussing this one of the drivers told Benjamen about a kind of a workaround they had up their sleeve-- a cheat code. So all right now I have a question for you. So the last two days I took some Ubers I told you when I was here. Yeah yeah yeah. So I am here till Thursday. I am not going to take another Uber. What do I do just find a taxi driver at the hotel? And he is like oh you can just go karura. Karura is the way we normally call it. It is our language. Karura you get a rider. You look at the estimate. You switch off the app. You go with the estimate which means Uber will not get the commission. So just to be clear imagine you request a ride and it automatically shows you how much it is going to cost. And when the driver shows up you say to them how about I hit cancel on the app and just give you the estimate in cash cutting out the middleman? That is what we call karura. So if I was to say to a driver I want to go karura is that how I would say it? Yes yes can you go karura?  Yeah you can tell the driver can you go karura? He will understand.  Mr. Benjamen. Yes. How are you? I am good. And you? Fine fine. Hold on. Wait wait wait. I want to-- all right so this ride-- hey where is my ride? My ride is 380 OK? Mm-hm. I want to give you 400 and we go karura. And I cancel. OK. All right cool. So I canceled it. Yep. So how did it feel once you did that? It felt great. On the one hand it solves all of my problems for the rest of this trip. But also I almost feel like I have gotten the answer to my question because I wanted to know how you win. And there is something about going karura which is basically using the tools against the company. I mean it is great. And it is subversive. One of the protesters referred to it as economic sabotage-- i.e. until we get more rules governing Uber we are going to break some. I asked Uber if I could talk to a company rep in Kenya about going karura. A spokesperson for all of sub-Saharan Africa wrote back saying in part Repeat canceling by either a driver or rider could be flagged by our fraud technology which will then result in an investigation. She also said it is not safe to go off app for the passengers or the drivers-- which for the record some of the drivers will tell you too that they do not like to do it because having a record of the trip is safer for them. Of course going under the radar like this is not really anything that novel. Cab drivers in New York will sometimes say hey how about I turn off the meter and you pay me in cash? But they do not have a name for it. Benjamen and I both wondered you know why karura? It is the name of a forest in Nairobi Karura Forest but none of the drivers Benjamen rode with could really explain it beyond that. OK I do not know who came up with that name. And when I started calling around to drivers and transport officials in Nairobi this funny thing happened. Karura yeah.  That is what we call it. All of them giggled when I said it. Like oh that. You want to know about that? How do you know about that? And one of the drivers said oh you can go karura. Yeah it is called--  Yeah karura. I know karura.  Yeah.  Karura. One of them told me before Uber came to town those informal taxis that you haggle with a lot of them stationed themselves around Karura Forest. So now it was a kind of catch-all phrase for paying any sort of driver under the table. That is the most rational explanation. But there was this other explanation that came from a driver who I am calling Roger. Karura yes. I think I have a clue. He is 30 years old has a one-year-old son been driving since Uber first came to Kenya. He is also a graphic designer has a degree in business and IT. He is worked in the hotel industry. He is done a lot of things. Karura is a forest. Yeah. So we are assuming these are laws that we just got from the forest. So it is quote unquote jungle law. Let me call it jungle law. You are saying jungle law? Yes jungle law. So it is something not allowed and again it is something not in the constitution of Uber. Something not in the laws of Uber. Yes a jungle law we formed ourself. I see. So if Uber are the authorities then karura is sort of skirting the authorities. Yes definitely. Got you. Yeah. How does that feel when you are going karura versus using the app? You see it is a nice feeling. Let me say that because you are having an extra coin. Extra coin. And you just feel like you have worked for it and you do not-- and nobody else deserve to get a share of it. I can say you feel empowered in terms of you feel like you are open-minded entrepreneur. Entrepreneur yeah. Reason being the company wants this and the client wants this. So what do you do? You have to open up your mind and either to take the decision to make an extra coin or probably to listen to the company and go home empty-handed. Right it is up to you at that point. You have to make-- Yes it is up to you. --an independent decision. Yes. But it is breaking a rule. Yes yes yes it is. I mean I guess I wonder if that factors into the decision making of like well I know it is a rule. Should I break this rule? Like we are supposed to follow rules and everything. Because you see at the end of the day the reason why you get up and decide to get into business is at the end of the day you get home with something you see? So if you decide your priority is following rules most of the days you are going to get home empty-handed. And most of us are young families. You see we have wives. We have kids in the house. So if you decide that you are going to be strict to the letter that you are going to follow all the rules believe you me your family is going to sleep hungry. It is not just empowering to break the rules sometimes. Sometimes it is necessary to break the rules-- or anyway it feels like it is. And today on our show we have stories of people defying regulations violating the social contract to make a point and in one case to strike out against the inequities of a sixth grade class. Please stay with us. Act One Time Bandit. There was a moment this year when I watched someone break the rules right in front of me in the most dramatic way. Dramatic is the operative word because it was during a performance. It was not just in front of me. There were hundreds of people in the audience. This was during an event that I go to every year if I can make it on New Year's Day. It is a 10-hour-long marathon of performances-- I call it a marathon-- at the St. Mark's Poetry Project in a 200-year-old church in Lower Manhattan. So imagine a soaring cavernous sanctuary with a podium on the altar up front. Mostly the marathon is set up as a kind of churn. There are more than 150 people on the program. And it is not just poetry readings but bands play and there are choreographers and comedians. I have seen Patti Smith perform there and Philip Glass. And everybody only gets two to three minutes each to read or play or whatever. The time limit is a big deal because they need to fit everybody in. Occasionally someone gets on stage in between acts and tells everybody to keep it short. Anyway the sort of rule-shattering moment that happened was not one of the famouses onstage. It was somebody I would never heard of. Jerome Ellis is a composer performer and writer. His recent work-- Jerome Ellis composer and musician but he did not have an instrument with him or even anything to read off of. He just climbed up on stage stood in front of the mic. And I have to admit I was really just looking down at my program and not paying attention when he started talking. The Brazilian state of Mato Grosso do Sul has a law mandating that cell phone companies offer a 50-- And then he stopped talking like for a while. And I think it was at this point that I looked up and saw him sort of staring wide eyed maybe trembling a bit. I am playing this in real time by the way. Normally I would edit these silences down but I wanted to give you a sense of how confusing this was at first and uncomfortable. 50-- I had no idea what was going on. So far he had said The Brazilian state of Mato Grosso do Sul has a law mandating that cell phone companies offer a 50-- --discount to-- And then you can hear he is doing these kind of little breathy clicks and pops.   And I was like oh it is some performance art thing like cell phone companies' spotty coverage in Brazil. To their customers-- With 50 discount to their customers. With-- And then he breaks into Portuguese.  --customers with breaks in the timing and fluency of speech. That is the customers who have speech impediments like myself. So that is what was going on. They have to-- the customer has to present-- Jerome has a stutter. --a signed statement from a speech language-- A significant one. Speech language-- speech language pathologist to prove their pathology. I first encountered this law in a book about strange laws from around the world. The author of the book was mocking the law. But I see in the law an attempt to address the issue of temporal accessibility-- Temporal accessibility. --when it comes to-- when it comes-- when it comes-- when it comes to disabled speech. So when I was first invited to participate in this magnificent event I was struck by the two-minute time limit which later became a two- to three-minute time limit. And I understood intuitively that the purpose of this time limit was to create as non-hierarchical a space as possible. But in removing one hierarchy the time limit introduces another. A time limit assumes that all people have relatively equal access to time through their speech which is not true. Stuttering is very unpredictable. I can rehearse something as many times as I want but I do not actually know how long it will take to say anything until I have to say it. What you just heard is about half of Jerome's performance as he performed it that night my commentary not withstanding. It clocks in at about five minutes practically twice the length permitted itself. I will play you the second half in a bit. But in just those five minutes I would gone from barely paying attention to being totally rapt. Everybody was. The pauses continued some of them longer than what you just heard. And in an enormous room packed with people there was barely any other sound. I do not remember hearing a cough or a paper rustle. We were all just kind of spellbound-- partly I think because as Jerome said himself what was happening on stage seemed so very unpredictable. That is what it felt like in the audience. And in the weeks and months since then I realized I just had all these questions for Jerome the way you wish you could call up the person who made the weird obscure movie you just saw that you cannot get out of your head or who wrote the book you just read. I just wanted to know how he thought of what he did how it felt to do that. Jerome. Sean hi. Hey. How are you? I am doing well. So I called him on Skype. He is got the friendliest face and had not had a haircut in a while like everybody. Jerome told me he got the idea after the director of The Poetry Project sent him an email inviting him to perform and mentioned the time limit. And just reading that gave him this twinge of stress. And I was like-- I was like-- I noted the stress. And I was like oh I think I am interested in going towards that stress and exploring that. He says that confusion I felt at first that is what he was going for. Because it is so common for people to have that feeling upon meeting him. They do not know what is going on until he tells them. It is not easy to bring hundreds of people simultaneously into an experience you live everyday but he managed it. I also wondered if he had kind of improvised what he was going to say but he says he wrote it all out ahead of time and rehearsed it reading it off his phone while walking down the street which was way easier than reciting it onstage he says. What was the shortest amount of time that it took when you were preparing when you were rehearsing it? I would say-- I would say two and 12 minutes. Two and 12 minutes got it. Yeah. And that was important to him he says to write something that someone who did not stutter could recite within the time limit. So in that way he was simultaneously adhering to the rules and breaking them at the same time. And since stuttering is unpredictable Jerome says there was a chance the whole thing could have taken him only four minutes. Then it was a funny situation where stuttering less might have made it harder for people to understand the point he was trying to make. I figured simply being on stage would make him more likely to stutter but Jerome says no. It is in fact quite soothing to be on stage because it is like-- you know it is like I actually feel that I am-- that I have the time. And in some ways the stage-- the stage-audience relationship is a more temporally accessible environment than other environments of verbal-- verbal-- verbal-- verbal communication that I engage with. Like when he worked at the Columbia Law Library just to give you some background of his life offstage. Jerome worked at the circulation desk. And not only did he have to take in calls but he had to transfer calls to other people. So answering the phone that is one temporal expectation. And then having to explain to someone else who is calling while the first person's on hold now he is squashed between two temporal expectations. It was stressful. Also this show and radio in general is not usually an accessible environment for differently-abled speakers. I am leaving in a lot of Jerome's stutters in the interview part of this story but I am still cutting out some of his pauses and repeats-- and mine for that matter. As a group of professionals we are biased toward more fluid talkers. I became acutely aware of that while editing our conversation. And just to let you know I tried to quote unquote clean up his answers as little as possible because I want to bring you into Jerome's daily experience too. Anyway I think Jerome stuttered less than usual on the call with me because I know he stutters. He says it helps to disclose it relaxes him. And then there are other subtler ways that he is able to tame it sometimes when he is talking to people. Sometimes I refer to it as my stutter but sometimes I refer to it as the stutter. The stutter. Because to me stuttering is not bound to my body that it is a phenomenon that occurs between me and whoever I am speaking to. I like to think of it like it is something that we share. And when Jerome's in a conversation with someone he stutters partly because the burden to talk smoothly is only on him. Exactly exactly. One way of saying that is like oh he is stuttering. But there is another way that is like there is a stutter happening you know. And we are both contending with it. Exactly. And his talk at The Poetry Project was that on a grand scale. That is what he wanted-- for each of us to shoulder a little of the weight of the stutter that was happening. The reason for those long silences on stage is something that I did not know either. Jerome's particular kind of stutter is sometimes called a glottal block. The way he explains it when your vocal chords are at rest they are apart. And then when you go to talk they come together and vibrate. But sometimes Jerome's vocal chords get stuck in the middle between being at rest and touching. So he can still make little sounds with his teeth and tongue and lips but not his voice. And talking to him on Skype the same thing would happen as when he was on stage. When the glottal block came he got this look-- a kind of frozen wide-eyed stare like he was stunned. Except on stage it was more dramatic. His face would turn upward. And I remember thinking to myself is that just effort? Is it fear? Yeah. And I know the look you are-- you are speaking about. Yeah it is like some stutterers will-- their body will-- will in fact move a lot while they are stuttering. Their face will-- will move in certain ways which I do sometimes. But in general my body response is actually-- is a freezing. And-- and I stop breathing often too. Just like-- like it feels like everything stops for a second or five seconds or longer. So part of it is that-- is that I am freezing. Part of it feels like my body goes into a kind of supplication or prayer almost. I have a friend who once referred to it as watching-- watching me ask for the word and wait you know. And wait for it to come? Wait for it to come yeah. Yeah because I often look up. It is a very specific state. It is like this-- there are some ways in which I like totally leave the room. And I think that speaks to the looking upward. And I then just like-- I will like-- I will come back once the word arrives. And it was not fear he says. He does have a lot of fears in his daily life-- taking too much of someone's time not being able to order at Shake Shack when there is a line behind him. But this was not that. If he was afraid of anything it was falling back on the tactics he usually uses to get around a stutter-- synonyms for example swapping out a word he is blocked on for one that is easier to say. He did not want to do that on stage. And I did not realize that until now that I think that was the primary fear. And I did do that like two or three times and I regretted it afterwards. Do you remember which words you did it on by any chance? Yes. To their customers with-- So there is the Portuguese word-- With. Disturbio.  --which I had literally translated to-- in my text I translated it-- translated it-- translated it-- translated it-- translated it-- translated it to just-- to disturbance. And as you just saw that word still is like very hard for me to say. So what I did in the performance was-- Customers with-- I said breaks. --breaks-- Breaks in the timing and fluency of speech. --in the timing and fluency of speech. And that was one that I did not like that I did that. What I wanted to do was what I-- I just did with-- with you is just wait. Wait for the word. Wait for it. But it was especially-- especially D's they can be really painful. Wow. So that is why I avoided that one. And I was frustrated with myself. As soon as it happened-- like breaks to me it does not capture what I wanted to capture. Are names particularly difficult? Yes. Yeah yeah. Because there is no synonyms for them you know. Jerome blocks on his own name. Has since he was four years old when his stutter started. So now trying to say his name or any name he says it is like he is four again. I even-- I even in some situations-- for a few years I would say John. John is my middle name. But very interestingly I then began stuttering on John. And then I-- and then I would start saying Sean because sometimes the sh sound is easy. Like the juh sound has a harder attack. And also you know obviously Sean is just an incredibly beautiful name. And that was really-- I mean that was my-- that was my main reasoning for doing it. I was just like well if I am going to-- if I am going to choose a new name why not just go straight for the top you know what I mean? Just go for the top man. So you know. And then I started stuttering on that you know. I mean I just find that-- that so beautiful. It is like it is always outpacing me in a way. You find that beautiful that it is outpacing you? Yeah yeah. I mean I find it painful too but I-- but I find a deep beauty in that. What is the beauty? Well for me it is this quality that it is like-- the stutter it feels like this thing that is so deeply entwined with my body my mind my emotions everything. And yet I cannot figure it out or I cannot grasp it. And even more so like when I think I have grasped it like when I think I have outsmarted it even like by switching my name there is something about just how elusive it is. The second half of Jerome's performance was just one sentence. It took him four minutes and nine seconds to get through partly because it had a name at the beginning. The Black feminist-- The sentence begins The Black feminist scholar Kimberl Crenshaw once wrote and then a quote. Climbing on top of Crenshaw's name alone took him about a minute 45 seconds. I have not paused the recording of the performance by the way. It is still running underneath this. My chest was hurting so much. And while I was doing it I was like god should I just like give up and leave you know? And I was like no. I mean I have done that so many-- like I mean there is so many moments in life where I just like-- I just stop speaking because I just do not want to put in-- in the labor of finishing my thought or finishing my sentence. And I was like no I do not want to do that here. I wanted to show the audience the labor that is involved. And this is labor that I often or sometimes will not put in. The Black feminist scholar-- But it was around this moment that the feeling in the room started to change again. There was no more confusion obviously and any concern or tension was gone too. Black feminist scholar-- By this point the importance of what Jerome was saying had landed on us. And the marriage between the thing he was saying and the way he was saying it-- like a poem elongated. So it just took us a little longer to catch up. Kimberl Crenshaw once wrote-- I am going to stop the recording for a second and just read you the quote so you can sit with it during this last part. It goes Treating different things the same can generate as much an inequality as treating the same things differently. Did you feel kind of punk rock to be doing that or like badass to be like-- Yeah. I mean I felt like it was an act of resistance. And like-- and like I am-- as a musician the first music I studied really deeply was jazz. And I remember very distinctly when I was in middle school that I would be-- I would have my jazz CDs at home. And often they would be like four tracks because each track would be like nine minutes long. And then I remember like looking at my friends' CDs of-- of punk rock for example as you mentioned and like you know much shorter tracks. I remember-- I remember noticing that at that age and like thinking about what that meant. And there would be this refusal to adhere to the length of a pop song for example you know. And for me there was always a racialized element there too that there is like a Black resistance against certain structures of time that like no this track is 11 minutes long. And if you do not want to listen to it then do not listen to it. But like-- like I am like-- like we are-- like our-- what we are trying to achieve in this music is different in some ways than what a three-minute song is trying to achieve. Treating-- treating-- treating-- treating-- treating-- treating-- treating-- treating-- As a Black person I am also thinking about the way that time and access to time is racially inflected. You know there are many moments in the world when-- Treating-- --a person of color is just not given as much time to speak. Treating different things the same way may generate as much inequality as treating the same things in different ways. Thank you.   Jerome Ellis Jerome Ellis. To learn more about Jerome Ellis and his many projects visit jeromeellis.com. That is J-E-R-O-M-E E-L-L-I-S dot com. You can also follow him on Instagram. It is ellisjerome. Coming up a story that perfectly encapsulates what my father always called the Golden Rule. Them that is got the gold makes the rules. That was his joke. That is in one minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Sean Cole sitting in for Ira Glass. Today's show Made to Be Broken stories about regulations guidelines proprieties that people upend for some just cause as opposed to just 'ecause. Act Two of our show today It is All About the Jeffersons. When he was a kid comedian Tone Bell was a rule follower. But there was one time he got into really big trouble broke the rules in a serious way. And there is a Polaroid picture commemorating the moment. In his family it became one of those iconic photographs sort of family lore. They just called it the Polaroid. He explained the backstory to producer Elna Baker. When Tone started sixth grade at a new school he got Ms. Dillard as his homeroom teacher. His neighbor who we are calling MP told him that is not the teacher you want. You want Ms. Jefferson. He definitely let me know that he had the better teacher but I still did not know why. I mean I did not know if it was because she was young and it was math but I quickly learned why you wanted Ms. Jefferson. Why do you want Ms. Jefferson? Ms. Jefferson ran her own bank. Yeah a bank. She was a math teacher and she gave out fake money to the kids. When you did well on your homework or tests you would earn what she called Jefferson bucks as in Ms. Jefferson not Thomas. They came in denominations of one five and 10 and were actually printed. There was definitely a Jefferson mint. They were bills. They were straight up bills-- smaller than a real dollar bigger than Monopoly money but it kind of had that feel of Monopoly money. I mean it looked like-- I mean 12-year-old money. It looked like money. I am 99 sure her face was on it. Tone was not in Ms. Jefferson's homeroom like MP who'd go to her homeroom four or five times a day. But he had her once a day for math so he got to earn Jefferson bucks too. You could also make them for good behavior like being quiet or helping her pass out papers. I remember seeing one of my classmates open a door because one of the girls had stuff in her hand. That was like chivalrous so he end up getting some money. I was like oh should you go open doors? I did not know you could just be out here opening doors. Like I do not know. I am putting that on the list. Like oh shit I got to open some doors now. I mean she had to notice it. So you are doing what? Oh you are going above and beyond. I mean you are knocking stuff off tables. You are knocking people's books off tables and then picking them up just so she can see a good deed. And then you are looking back at her like you see what I did right? At the end of the week you could cash your Jefferson bucks in at the Jefferson Market a little store Ms. Jefferson set up at her desk. Here you could buy an extra 10 minutes at recess as in everyone's coming inside and you are like here's 5. I am going to keep playing Red Rover by myself. Or you could buy school supplies cheap plastic toys like little green army men and candy all sorts of candy. This was obviously the top seller. The kids even ranked it in order of preference. So the Fun Dips and the Blow Pops and the Airheads were definitely I want to say like the top-tier candy-- maybe Skittles like the long Jolly Ranchers. And you can tell. You could tell especially with the Jefferson bucks-- like if you only had 2 this is the drawer she opens because that is the cheap candy. Like you do not have enough. Like you got to pick from this bullshit candy. Tone loved it. But then one day a few weeks into the school year this thing happened that changed how Tone thought about the Jefferson bucks system and he could not get it out of his head. He was sitting with MP when he noticed something. I mean I remember him having that plastic pencil case-- you know pencils protractor ruler all the stuff that you needed. He had so much money-- he had so much money what that bag was used for turned into a wallet. I mean it was just wads of Jefferson bucks. I remember him taking that out. And it was almost like a secret because he did not want everybody to-- and he threw me a couple dollars. And I saw-- I was like how do you have that much money? It blew my mind. And then hearing like oh I made 11 today. I am like you made 11 today? Today?  It as not even 2 oclock yet. You got more time. Tone had been working his ass off for weeks and all he had was six bucks which was a tiny fraction of what MP had. Tone was earning a minimum wage and MP was Jeff Bezos. He had to really sit with it before he understood how this could be. MP had Ms. Jefferson for homeroom and for math which meant that he saw her four times throughout the day. Tone only saw her once for math. Of course MP had way more Jefferson bucks. I remember seeing it and being envious and being jealous and wondering how I do that. And just like let me switch my energy up. I will study more. I will be politer. I will not talk in class as much. Tone tried all sorts of strategies to make money. But now that he saw the flaw in the system he could not unsee it. Everything was a reminder of how much more opportunity the kids in her homeroom had. It was almost like they had on fur coats and shit and driving Cadillacs. It almost felt like it made them dress better. It was like they were in the capital and we were District 12. We were just poor people trying to make it and they are the elite. And did that make you mad? Oh it made me so fucking mad. It made me so mad because you do not know-- like you know the rules and you know what is supposed to work but then it does not work. But you see it worked for others. To Tone having money also meant something really important to him-- impressing girls. There was one girl in p