I think when someone dies when you are grieving there are things that you expect to feel. But sometimes grief can come out sideways take strange forms. I remember I think the day my son died or the day after I hit myself in the face. I do not know why I did it but I gave myself a bloody nose. And there was a hospice worker there who'd been helping our family. And she said to my mom-- she was like oh yeah that is normal. Do not worry about that. Oh we see that all the time. Yeah.  I could not believe that my baby had died. And I just punched myself yeah in the nose. This is Rob Delaney. His son Henry was about to turn three when he died from a brain tumor. And Rob says the grief that he felt was physical like physical pain and fatigue and confusion. He forgot the PIN for his bank card did not recognize a guy who he worked with all the time. And he is talked about this publicly. He is a comedian and an actor. He is currently on a TV show that he co-created called Catastrophe. And he talks about his son's death when he is asked hoping that it might be useful or comforting in some small way to other parents going through this. And it is interesting when he discusses his son's death. In public he is pretty even-keeled except when he gets on the subject of how people in his life reacted to Henry's death how it was hard for some people to acknowledge what had happened. Here he is on a British talk show. So my wife was pregnant for example when Henry died OK? And there were some people who would find out about that. And I have never seen such relief on people's faces. They would be like oh so another big thing-- so I do not have to talk about his dead baby. I can talk about his new shiny baby that is coming. And I wanted to kill those people because I mean that is not news. It is great but we all know pregnant people. Big whoop you know? People get pregnant. But my fucking two-year-old a little bit before his third birthday he died in my home on my couch. When Rob was nice enough to come into the studio to talk to me about all this. He told me he gets it. Seeing somebody in pain makes lots of people uncomfortable. They do not know what to say. They sidestep. They avoid. I am sure in my own life I used to do it in the past too. But if you would like me to quote get over not the death of my child but say this wave of emotions that are making you uncomfortable then the best thing to do would be to let them happen and let me feel them and then they will sort of dissipate organically. And then we can carry on with whatever idiotic thing you want to do you moron insensitive person. The least another person can do in the human family is to bear an ounce of my shipping container ship of pain by accepting that I am upset sad angry confused. Some people just have a hard time acknowledging death. And that is true when they hear about somebody else's losses and it is true when it is their loss to face. When somebody close to them dies they look away avoid grieving throw themselves into work into drinking distract themselves with TV get stuck ruminating over feelings of guilt or shame that they could have done more for the person who died. It is common to do that and it is more common if your loss was bigger. And one of the reasons that I was so interested to talk to Rob Delaney is that when his two-year-old died Henry he did not do any of those things. He did not look away from the pain. I think one reason that he was sort of inclined or able to do it this way is that he is sober has been for a long time. This is something he is talked about in his standup. He told me that when Henry died some of the skills that he learned from years of sobriety -- where you try to face what is real as unflinchingly as possible -- those skills turned out to be very helpful. So that when the incredibly intense storms of sadness and anger and confusion would come up I did not try to manage them or push them away but rather to let them move through me as they needed to do. Knowing that you just have to go through it. Yeah. Yeah. I think it is really important to acknowledge it is going to be a real nightmare for a good long while. And you are going to cry and you will probably puke sometimes. And I know that is not the sun will come out and everything's going to be fine. I really try to not do that because there is going to be enough people that are going to blow smoke up your butt and waste your time. And I do not understand that approach. So I do try to be kind of brutal when I talk about it. And I feel like the worse of a picture I can paint then the better friend I have been to you. It is This American Life by the way from WBEZ Chicago. I am Ira Glass. Today's radio show is going to be about people figuring out how to grieve most of them kind of inventing it for themselves and mostly doing a decent job of it. We got interested in this because we are at this moment right now where so many people are grieving. COVID deaths are nearing 600000 here in the United States. The worldwide number is officially 3.5 million but it might be twice as many as that. So what helps in these situations for people experiencing the most traumatic kinds of grief? In Rob Delaney's case it is now been three years since his son died. And I talked to him about what he has learned over that time about what works and about what helped him. Yeah the most helpful thing for me has been other bereaved parents. Because when you come together more useful than any of the words that anyone said to me would be if I saw a parent whose child had been dead longer than mine had and I saw that they were able to tie their shoes. Was their shirt tucked in? Basic functions-- just watching them pick grapes off of a stem and eat them. And I thought if they can do that then I will be able to do that one day hopefully. Also he says in those groups with parents whose kids have died they can say things out loud with each other that they cannot say to most other people. It was kind of funny because things are said and happened in those meetings that would scorch the eyeballs of your average person who has not had an experience like that. I mean I am not going to generally talk about the physical circumstances of Henry's death and his body after he died. But with other bereaved parents we can talk about that unbelievably precious time that you spend with your dead child's body. But if you were with your child when they died caring for and attending to the body of your child after their life has left them-- are some very beautiful and loving conversations that we have had there that I could not have anywhere else but that are very precious to me and to them. Why do you-- why do you think it is so important to talk about that moment after your child dies and you are there with your child's body? I mean I guess it is like being to the moon of a distant planet. It is somewhere you never think you would go. So to be able to talk through that with another person is helpful. It reminds me of this thing that when they treat trauma one of the steps one of the most important things is to go back to the moment that the person was traumatized and have the person talk it through and examine it and get their head around it. Yeah I believe that because I repeat to myself the story of my son's death in very simple terms of his illness and death. And I say them out loud to myself when I am walking around walking down the street. My baby boy got sick. We took a while trying to figure out what it was went to a lot of doctors. They found out what it was. It was very bad. It got worse and worse. And then he died. And he is dead. I cannot even believe what I just said you know? I know talking to you the thing that I did not understand before we started talking is just like oh you have to keep looking at it because it does not seem real. It is just hard to believe it is real. Yeah. I mean for me it is as unreal as if the Martians landed on my front lawn. Rob says that three years in he knows he is doing better though he said that he has not figured out how to talk about that publicly yet. Because he thinks the message you will get better is pushed way too much and the message this is going to suck and you are going have to live through that is not pushednearly enough. He told me the waves of grief do still come but they are less often. And Henry's still on his mind a lot. In fact he told me he thinks about Henry as much now as he thinks about his three other children like equal to the other children so a fourth of that time. And he likes it that way. It still hurts he says. But he would not have it any other way. Act One Goodbye Mr. Facey. So a couple of months ago the transit authority in New York City the MTA created a memorial for its workers who died from COVID. The memorial is a video. It is simple. Picture after picture of each person bus drivers train conductors cleaners their faces in black and white. Behind them a solid color background. This what you are hearing now is the music that plays as they go by. And there is a poem which appears in seven of the languages spoken on the trains and buses of New York City. The video got passed around on YouTube and ran on video screens in some subway stations. The MTA lost more employees than any agency in New York City. As of today 164 people. 164 have disappeared from train lines and maintenance shops and break rooms. One of our producers Chana Joffe-Walt wondered what it was like for surviving transit workers to watch a memorial like this for the co-workers people who died doing a job they are still doing. Here's Chana. I talked to a lot of transit workers. They had a lot of different feelings about this memorial. They felt recognized. They felt angry. They felt exhausted. They felt lucky to have survived. Some wanted to watch it over and over. Some wanted all of us to watch it over and over. Some could not bring themselves to watch it at all. One station agent told me she believed it should be in the Metropolitan Museum of Art. For the purposes of this show though about grief I want to introduce you to just one person I talked to about the memorial-- Francis Lai-Fang. Francis stood apart in his reaction to the video. His boss and mentor died of COVID and he is in there. And the whole time we talked Francis seemed to be in the middle of a feeling that he was trying to work his way through. I met him at a shop. He works in hydraulics for the MTA. He is 52 years old a manager. He told me there is an office upstairs where we could talk but it took us 40 minutes to get there as Francis eagerly pointed to every fan pump and truck along the way. What we have on this truck is going to be pumps to pump water out of any situation that we might encounter. When there is an emergency when water covers the subway tracks or snow blocks the stairs or platforms the people in hydraulics jump in these trucks race across the city and clear the way. Francis is a man who manages somehow after decades to still be enamored with the objects of his daily work. And once that sucker starts running 1500 gallons a minute. COVID arrived here at the hydraulic shop in March 2020. One of Francis' workers came in coughing. The next day Francis was coughing. Day after he was in quarantine and getting calls from all of his co-workers-- all sick. I was scared for them because you could hear it in their voice you know? And I would call every morning. And I am like yo. Once they answered I felt good. Once the phone was answered I felt good. But if you did not answer my heart was starting to worry. Because it was just you did not know because people was dropping like flies. Then Francis got another call. He said yo you heard about Facey? And I was like please do not tell me. Please do not say it. No no no. And I just kept saying no no no no no. And that is all I could say was no no no. Clarence Facey a 58-year-old superintendent from Guyana who cleared the vast subway system after numerous floods over numerous decades had died. He was nine months away from retirement. Francis met Clarence Facey three decades ago when they started in hydraulics. Francis was 19 years old. Clarence Facey was not that much older but Francis looked up to him from the beginning called him Mr. Facey. He studied the way Mr. Facey focused the way he talked. And in particular Francis admired the way Mr. Facey could always keep his cool even when he was disrespected. You could see that he is seconds away of just losing it but he always had that way of just-- always liked to keep things nice and smooth and calm. He was the coolest cat. I will go crazy over stuff. He would-- calm down. Do not take it personal. He always said listen man it is just a job. We are going to be here and then we are going to be gone. They were mostly work friends. But sometimes they would go out with other West Indian guys from the shop. Francis is from Trinidad. And for years after their shift Mr. Facey would give Francis a ride to the train station. They would chat about the property Facey owned in Guyana and how he planned to go back when he retired. The memorial the MTA made it serves partly as a marker a way to say here are our losses. It is now time to grieve them. And Francis feels that. Yeah it is been a year. It does feel like it is time to grieve. But it has not come for him yet. He says it just never felt real. From right after Clarence Facey passed in early April. They had a service right? But I could not go. I was quarantined. Do you think it would feel more real to you had you been able to go to the service? I know who I am in funerals. I definitely would have cried. There is always that one point where I just cannot hold it anymore. And I break down and I cry. And I know how West Indians are. They always sing this one song. Oh my gosh it kills me. It just brings the tears but I still-- I still have not shed a tear yet. I have been close and I was close. But I still have not shed a tear. And it is going on a year and change. And I know I will. It is going to come one day. It is going to come. For the rest of our time together Francis keeps circling back to this the fact that he has not yet cried. This is not something I asked about. But he seems to be actively trying to figure it out. Why has not it happened? He could not go to a funeral in person so he did not cry. Then there was the memorial online a few weeks later. They had a service for him but it was on Teams like a video. And they show him. And I could not believe it but I still did not cry. But I know me. I am telling you it is going to happen. I asked Francis did he want to cry? Did he wish he could? He said no. It is just weird. It is weird that I did not. Not after he died after the services even after I got out of quarantine and came back to work. It was weird. It was very hollow. I would come upstairs. They had a bunch of pictures on the door. So that was tough just seeing-- What do you mean pictures on the wall? They would have memory pictures of him from different times. People had pictures from when he was younger when he first came in. They had the whole doors full of pictures. I still did not break down. I still did not cry. When he left work at the end of the day and Mr. Facey was not there to give him a ride to the train he did not fall apart. All the times he rushed to Mr. Facey's office to tell him something forgetting he was not there anymore. Even on the one year anniversary of Mr. Facey's death Francis and a bunch of guys went out to his graveside drank told stories left bottles of gin. Still he says no tears. I do not know. What is it to grieve someone you have worked with? It is not like Clarence Facey was a close friend of Francis' or family. Every person in that memorial video has loved ones. And then there are dozens maybe hundreds of other people like Francis people who sit a few circles out people who lost the co-worker who they always said hello to on the way to the bathroom the woman they always chatted with in the break room the person who was just always there. Clarence Facey had been there for Francis' entire working life. And now he was not. When the MTA put out the memorial video Francis saw it posted online saw people passing it around. He waited. It was not until recently that he sat down and clicked play. He told me he watched each face pass by until he got to Mr. Facey. 408 at 4 minutes and 8 seconds in. Wait you know which minute he is in the memorial video? Yes and when his picture did come up it had the tears there man. It is just the tears did not fall. When we first started talking I read Francis as someone who was holding back turning away from grief. But Francis is actively engaged in some small ongoing grieving process. Repeatedly noting every single time you have not cried that is a kind of grief. Not the kind that overwhelms you. It is not falling down on the ground sobbing grief. It is just an ambient feeling that hovers. It is a grief that just sits there. On our way out of the building I learned that Francis actually made his own memorial. And it is kind of a tribute to this version of grief. He points it out as we pass by Mr. Facey's office door. And I got a plaque for him made up. And I put it outside his door on the wall. But I did not put it that he passed away. I put it that he retired. His last day when he passed away was his retirement day and that is what I did. And I-- You did not want to put that he died? No I cannot do that. Some people ask me well he never retired. And I am like I know. But I am not going to put a plaque of my friend is gone you know? I am going to say he is retired. That is how I see him as gone. That is the way I see it. If they decide to take it down it will be when I am gone. It is a simple black plaque with gold lettering on the wall. I ask if he will read it. Will you read it? Me? Yeah. No I cannot. No? OK. He says I cannot do that. So I will. It reads Clarence Facey hero of the Hydraulics Department hired August 21 1989 retired April 4 2020. It thanks Mr. Facey for believing in them for guiding through example and inspiring with passion for being a mentor a co-worker and a gentleman. Quote We appreciate your humble leadership. You will always be remembered as a great example. With great honor and respect from your Hydraulics family. That is very beautiful. The closest Francis ever seems to crying is right then standing by the plaque. But he does not. Puts his hands on his face says Oh boy and moves along. This is the memorial that works for Francis the one where Mr. Facey is honored but does not die one that acknowledges the grief that sits in this office and still allows him to keep moving. Chana Joffe-Walt is one of the producers of our show. Act Two When It Rains. So there is this concept that people who study grief talk about called cumulative grief. That is a pile-up of losses that happen either all at once or in quick succession. This is something that one of our producers Sean Cole unfortunately became personally familiar with this year. Here he is. The pile-up of things that happened to me it was four different events that happened over the course of just a few months. I only saw one of them coming the first one. My stepfather Ed who I adored died of a really aggressive lung cancer on December 31 2020. You might have heard him on the show before actually. I talked to him for a couple of different stories. One way in which I was really lucky I got to spend a lot of time with him in person in his final weeks. In October right after his diagnosis I interviewed him at the hospital about the election which would be his last. At that point he still was not sure how much time he had left. He just knew that it was not a lot. But he said that did not bother him. I think it is an excellent time in the next two or three years to die. Why? You are avoiding all sorts of huge problems. We have global warming coming out big time. The country is still going to be divided even if Biden wins. Europe is going totalitarian. This country is going more totalitarian which is scary. So there is not much to look forward to. Things I would like to see are answers to big questions. Is there intelligent life in this universe? There is none on Earth. Six weeks after recording that in early December I watched him reach for the TV remote thinking it was a phone. Then he asked me what the remote was for. We learned later that on top of everything else he would had a stroke. It was really then that our grieving began the kind of pre-grief. He spent the last five days of his life in hospice-- in-home hospice mercifully. They brought in a hospital bed and set it up in my mom's old bedroom. She died in 2015. My sister Maggie and I co-managed Ed's care squirting syringefuls of morphine into his mouth helping the nurse's aides change his diapers. Early that final week he asked me in this hoarse whisper How long before the cancer wipes me out? They do not really know I said. Then I said Are you ready to die? He looked at me. No man is ready to die he said. Do you have any feelings about it? I asked him. His face kind of softened thoughtful like he was checking. No not especially he said. I do not know what I would been expecting to hear. His heart finally stopped around 330 in the afternoon on New Year's Eve. When the reality sunk in I bent down kissed his forehead and started to cry. I cannot explain this and maybe I do not need to. But it was different when Ed was breathing. Even though he was unconscious you at least knew he was alive. They say nothing prepares you. I had been living in a house with a rapidly-dying hospice patient for a week. It had gotten to the point where Maggie and I were even wishing for this moment because what kind of existence is that? And yet when the moment came I just was not ready. I am still not ready. After we left the room I went back in and hugged Ed's dead body one last time. Ed you fucking asshole I said burying my face in his neck. And then I said I love you so much. Then I did not say anything. Then I said This probably is not sanitary. Losing a parent can make you think the biggest thoughts. Like for instance this one-- when someone dies they do not just die. It is like they keep dying in pieces as time wears on the moment of their demise drifting farther and farther away from you like a raft heading for the horizon. It happened with my mom. I found I did not want to leave that early temporal orbit of her death before it became just another thing that happened to me. That said I did not face my grief about my mom head on when it happened. I distracted myself tried to quote get back to normal too quickly and get drunk and loud at events. I did not want to make mistakes like that this time. I wanted to take time and really feel the loss maybe go somewhere and just sit by myself. But I was not really able to. Because losing Ed led pretty directly to the second thing I lost-- my relationship with a woman I will call Melanie. See another big thought I had staring into the portal that Ed had just passed through took kind of a weird shape. I thought I am going to be 60 in 10 years. 10 years ago I turned 40. I remember turning 40. It feels like almost no time has passed. And what did I want to do with the rest of my days here on Earth? There is so much I have been putting off a long list. And something I knew definitively now was that having kids was nowhere on that list. Melanie did want children eventually. We would been together a year since before the pandemic fell in love fairly quickly. It was the first serious relationship I would had in a while. Also during long stretches of 2020 we barely saw anybody else in person. Certainly did not hug anybody else. Lucky for me she is insanely funny and caring. Lying in bed one morning a month after Ed died I told Melanie what I decided about children. She cried went home came back 36 hours later. We sat on the couch. It was civil tender even. Melanie felt bad. I do not want to abandon you she said. But I need to take care of myself too. I understood. I think it was around this time that my sadnesses were already starting to compete with each other almost cancel each other out. I was aware of not being able to feel the loss of the breakup enough or not proportional enough to the importance of it like that part of me was already taken up. Then a few weeks after the breakup two months after Ed's death the third thing happened. Melanie sent me a picture of a home pregnancy test. I at 49 years old had never seen one at least not one with the two lines on it indicating it was positive. Melanie had been taking birth control when we were together. I think she must have missed a day-- one day. Now when we were a couple Melanie was pretty clear that she did not want a kid right now. But now that she was pregnant things were different. Melanie was paralyzed with indecision did not even know how to decide what to do. I know it sounds self-centered and beside the point to focus on how I felt about it. It goes without saying that my stress was puny compared to hers. But midway through that week pacing around my apartment late at night I snapped and started weeping. And I was not sure why which one of these upheavals it was about or just all of them. Maybe more than ever I just wanted to talk to Ed. I had already started to face the fact that I would never be able to go home again. It had not hit me yet that I would also never be able to call home again. Melanie and I were supposed to get together the two of us that Saturday night to discuss what we each were thinking. But we did not get the chance. Because then the fourth thing happened. That Saturday afternoon I got a text from my stepmother my biological dad's wife. Your father had a heart attack it said. He was in a hospital in Massachusetts unconscious. Talking with Melanie about how the rest of our lives were going to pan out would have to wait. For the second time in two months I had to say goodbye to a parent. My dad-- Mac was his name-- was also 90 had been going downhill with dementia for years. He would tell you a story and then 10 minutes later tell it again ask the same question over and over again during a short visit. But he never forgot who any of us were was still able to recite poems and song lyrics he would learned when he was younger still charming. He charmed the nurses at the hospital right up until he slipped into unconsciousness in the ICU. I stood right by his bed for a lot of my visit to the hospital. His wife and three stepkids and a couple of grandkids were there too. I felt bad for them and for my dad. And-- this is strange-- I knew that I was sad but it is like I was holding the sadness in my hands outside my body because I did not know where to put it. The thing about cumulative grief when the losses pile up in quick succession like this you can get overloaded and end up grieving none of them. Experts on this stuff will tell you that just like you love everyone in your life differently and separately you have to grieve them differently and separately when the time comes. I love my dad. He and my mom divorced when I was five. Ed entered the picture a year later and eventually moved in with us. And proximity took over as it does. Standing in the hospital room one of my stepbrothers said something genuinely funny and I laughed. And he told me my laugh sounded exactly like dad's. It used to be I did not like being compared to my father. But now it made me feel closer to him in a way I needed right then. I wanted to stay there all night like some of the others were going to but I could not. I had to get back to New York to go with Melanie to the OBGYN the next day to confirm the pregnancy and learn about our options. It is not lost on me that just as I said goodbye to two fathers there was a real possibility of becoming one myself. Whether or not someone is equipped to be a parent it seems like one prerequisite is not being filled with abject terror at the very thought of it. And I am not the type of person who could tell the mother of his kid that she is on her own. I asked Melanie's permission to talk about all of this on the show by the way. She said yes as long as I told her ahead of time what I was going to say and identified her as little as possible. I stayed in the examination room while they did the sonogram and they said they thought Melanie was about four weeks along. The next morning I woke up to a text from my stepmother saying dad had finally died. When my editor at the show and I talked later that day I said you are not going to believe this. Melanie ultimately decided to terminate the pregnancy. In the end she felt clear about it. Even still she sat on my couch afterwards in tears. Said she could feel that it was not in there anymore somehow. She called it a dead thing. Any nascent relief in me was swallowed up by sadness and concern. This was the outcome I would hoped for but it is not like it felt good. And it never would. It was its own kind of loss. It is been five months now since I held Ed's lifeless body in my arms. I am still distracting myself from my grief too much I think with work and also drinking partying with friends now that we are all vaccinated. The difference now as opposed to five years ago when mom died is that I know I am avoiding grief. And it feels like I turn and kind of glance at it multiple times a day sometimes longer glances than others. I still do not know exactly how I am supposed to proceed how to pull all of the different losses apart in order to grieve them separately or in what order. Do I do it sequentially? Do I have to finish with one before starting on the next one? There is one other big thought I had. Not in the wake of dad's death or Ed's death but back when my mom died. I would forgotten about it until all this happened. I was asking myself why we were all even here what it was all for. I do not have any faith or doctrine. I am not even secure enough in my understanding of the cosmos to be an atheist. But I did come up with an answer. It is simple and it makes even more sense to me now when I think of how Maggie and I looked out for each other when caring for Ed got really stressful or Melanie and I being present through even the hardest conversations or the folks at dad's hospital bending the COVID rules letting us all crowd around his bed for hours. The reason we are all here I think is to get each other to the other side. Sean Cole is a producer here at our show. Coming up saying goodbye to yourself. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program Good Grief. You know it is hard to talk about death. It is hard to know how to face it. It is hard to know how to grieve. Today for this Memorial Day weekend we have people figuring out for themselves inventing for themselves how to deal with loss. We have arrived at Act Three of our program. Act Three The Caretaker. So there are memorial sites that are planned out over years by official committees and designers and architects. But sometimes something happens that leads to such an outpouring of grief such an overflow of emotion that a site to mourn and commemorate just springs into existence spontaneously. Hundreds of individuals show up lots of them with photos and signs and other stuff. The intersection of 38th Street and Chicago Avenue in Minneapolis is like that. It is the place where George Floyd was murdered by police officer Derek Chauvin last May. One of our producers Bim Adewunmi went to see what it is like. This used to be a busy intersection but now it is almost entirely vehicle-free a block in every direction closed to traffic. Cup Foods the convenience store on the corner is still going. But other businesses like the Speedway gas station have been transformed. The whole space has been reclaimed and none of it is sanctioned by the city or state. That independence is most notable at the Speedway gas station. The sign has been painted over. It now reads People's Way. George Floyd Square is not even really a square. It is a wellspring an organic creation in the aftermath of a traumatic event. As you walk up right in the middle of the intersection you see a giant metal sculpture of a fist jutting into the sky a black liberation flag billowing in the breeze on top of it. All around the sculpture is a ring of bricks and cinder blocks. And it holds hundreds of tributes-- flowers protest signs handwritten quotes plus several photos of George Floyd and other Black men killed elsewhere by police brutality or otherwise-- Ahmaud Ar