From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. OK give me a level. This is me about how much how loud I talk. Not long ago one of my coworkers here at the radio show Neil Drumming and I took a field trip to Philadelphia. We are going to Amalgam Comics and Coffee. It is a comic shop. It is a comic book store. Yeah and also like a coffee shop. No no. I got that from the name.  Yes. But it is I think the first comic book store owned by a black woman on the East Coast. On the East Coast? We have to add that? I think we do. We are here because recently Neil has gotten really interested in Afrofuturism. And there is this whole intersection between Afrofuturism and comic books. The founder of something called the Afrofuturism Network is speaking at this comic store on this particular day. And what exactly is Afrofuturism? Neil's been prepping for this question. I do not know. There is-- there is like a long-winded academic Wikipedia explanation which I have never even been able to internalize or remember honestly if we are being honest. What I like about Afrofuturism it just seems very-- it is like this way of talking about black people in a way that is really hopeful. It is this idea that we would be engaged in the same kinds of things that you know science fiction writers have always talked about-- that we would be engaged with technology that we would have a future in space that we would master time travel that we would have a future in Utopian or Dystopian landscapes. It is like-- So partly this is about science fiction. That is really just the tip of the iceberg. And the science fiction part is meaningful because while there have been black characters in sci-fi for a while now they are almost never the protagonists. They are never the ones driving the action. And for so long in so many imaginings of the future in so much science fiction there were no black people at all-- which as Neil points out makes no sense. He says you can tell black people are going to make it into the future because they have survived so much already over the centuries. One of the things that is sort of really specific about Afrofuturism that I like is that it takes into account the past in a lot of ways. It imagines that you know black people have forms of survival through you know the slave trade through persecution that that is almost a technology in itself the ways in which we have come through those things. Oh I see. The survival skills. Yeah. And that everything that is been a part of our culture has made it possible for us to pave the way for the future. That is the thing that I like about it I think-- the feeling like despite whatever trials or travails you have come through that you will exist in the future. That just kind of makes me-- it makes me kind of like love being black. It makes me feel what I love about being black-- like oh yeah you know we can get through this. Things I have known about forever Neil says are now called Afrofuturism. Old-school stuff like Parliament-Funkadelic's pimped-out trippy rides to outer space which predates the term by 20 years. RAPPING All right Starchild. Citizens of the universe recording angels we have returned to claim the pyramids. Partying on the mothership. I am the mothership connection. And lately you see lots of famous black people excited about Afrofuturism. Rihanna and Solange appear in black space-age fashion. The director of Selma and 13th Ava Duvernay is making a TV series based on a novel by the woman who is kind of a godmother to the movement-- sci-fi writer Octavia Butler. That is after Duvernay finishes the science fiction classic A Wrinkle in Time with black actors in lots of the leads. Donald Glover's last Childish Gambino album was a tribute to Parliament-Funkadelic. And Janelle Monae's tour a couple of years ago was a whole sci-fi stage show with men in lab coats and a story about androids. She sings about spaceships. SINGING Baby ooh. l'ill reprogram your mind. Come on get in. My spaceship leaves at 10. Oh! And comics-- Neil and I were in Philadelphia for comics after all. The thing that Neil was most excited to see in the comic book store was the new Iron Man where-- I do not know if you have heard this-- in the comics Tony Stark is in a coma replaced by a black teenage girl Genius. And she invents a suit that is comparable to Tony Stark's Iron Man suit which is like my favorite piece of fictional technology anyway. As he points out replacing Tony Stark with a black teenage girl that pierces right into the Arc Reactor heart of the techno superhero sci-fi pantheon. I mean think about who Tony Stark the original Iron Man is. Right. He is a wealthy white man. He is like a millionaire white guy. He is the unattainable. Like it is great to have a robot suit and save the world but how do most people imagine themselves in that context? Yeah. Whereas this girl her education takes her to this place that a billionaire once was at. Like that is-- I mean that is inspiring. It is moving. I do not know. Maybe I am being-- I have been thinking about it a lot. And like why has my interest been sparked so much recently? I have always loved science fiction right? But the idea that like-- the idea of black people in science fiction appeals to me now because of that notion of telling your own story because the way black people are talked about it is often a bleak future. And a bleak present. Yeah yeah. A bleak present and maybe no future at all you know what I mean? Yeah. And so I mean think about-- I do not know. I mean I do not-- maybe not everyone feels this. But I have been watching. There is just a lot of videos of terrible things happening to black people. I mean it is literally like almost a genre. And there is got to be a parallel narrative you know what I mean? There is got to be a parallel narrative. And I think for me the parallel narrative is Afrofuturism. And so I do not know it is a way of feeling like-- it is so hard for me to say this without laughing at myself. But it is genuinely hopeful. It is like a way of feeling hope. We sit on a curb way too long talking about this and finally head inside the comic bookstore. It is bright and spacious and smells great like fresh coffee decked out in posters for Wonder Woman and Spidey and X-Men and Moongirl. The store was busy because Afrofuturism enthusiast and author William Jones was there to give a lecture on the history of black people in comic books. He popped a slide of a comic book cover from the '60s onto the screen This is 1966. Now we have the introduction of the Black Panther-- not affiliated with the political organization. And the reason why I say that is because Marvel Comics recognized that maybe people are going to think we support the Black Panther Party. So they briefly change his name to the Black Leopard. It did not last and folks were not buying it. Most of the crowd is black. And nearly every adult Neil and I talked to was familiar with the basic ideas and iconic figures of Afrofuturism including the owner Ariell Johnson a super-energetic 34. She and Neil talked about the subject for a while and it became clear that for Neil Afrofuturism is really about the future. But for Ariell it is about the present something she sees everyday. Black people today black people who are alive and walking around it is like we are Afrofuturism. There is a quote that says I am my ancestors' wildest dreams. And I think that is true. It is like when we think about our history in this country from when we were first brought here and the condition that they were in you know the freedoms that we have now the things that we are working to accomplish and achieve those are only things that they could have dreamed about in their wildest dreams. They could not have imagined-- it is like I own this store you know what I mean? So I am Afrofuturism. You are Afrofuturism. The fact that we are walking around we are defying and challenging stereotypes and negative images. It is been a hard week for stereotypes and negative images. And it is been a brutal week for the past returning into the present. Mobs of men carrying torches people arguing about Confederate statues and George Washington's slaves. It is been a week where lots of us have wondered about the future in this country and where things are going. Against that today we pose another way to see the world another way to look at the future and the past that puts it in some context and helps us make sense of things maybe gives us a little hope. I am joined in the studio right now by my colleague. Neil hello. Hey. Hey. OK so my thinking is-- well our thinking is since I know really very little about this about Afrofuturism and you know like-- I think I know a little bit more quite a bit more. OK. So our plan is that I am going to go away at least till halfway through the show and you will stick around. Yeah. No I have just been-- I have been writing pieces and talking to people all over the country about this. So I feel like I have a little bit of a grasp on it. OK. All right so I will see you halfway through. Till then I am going to throw some sci-fi here. You have the conn. I appreciate that. All right stay with us. Act One Metropolis Now. I started really puzzling over Afrofuturism a couple of years ago when I went to an Afrofuturism conference in New York. Up until that day I would mostly heard the term used to refer to musicians like Sun Ra or to science fiction by Samuel Delany or Colson Whitehead. But at this conference there were Afrofuturism artists designers programmers filmmakers fashionistas healers yoginis. There was even a woman selling homemade hot pepper sauce in the lobby. I began to realize that Afrofuturism was not an art movement in the way that I thought of like Cubism or Impressionism. It was not static or rigidly defined. The people at this conference who were so liberally applying the word were doing so because they thought it made their work seems somehow more active and vital. But I did not understand exactly how. As the term became more ubiquitous and The New York Times used Afrofuturism to talk about Beyonce's wardrobe changes I was still trying to figure out the essence of the thing. Like what makes something Afrofuturist? I called the woman who'd given the keynote address back at that conference in 2015 activist and writer Adrienne Maree Brown. Adrienne told me that if I wanted to see Afrofuturism that I should visit her hometown Detroit Michigan-- a post-apocalyptic city she would said. The auto industry is nearly gone the city's infrastructure is crumbling many people cannot afford basic resources like water and light. It is like the setting for some dystopian sci-fi story. As soon as I started reading up on the place I came across this headline in the Detroit Metro Times. Inside Ingrid LaFleur's Afrofuturist mayoral campaign. Wow. There was a woman running for mayor of Detroit and the basis of her platform was not socialism or libertarianism. It was Afrofuturism. So I flew out there to hang out with her. I got to hear her do some fundraising give a speech talk to some potential voters and we drove around. And see all the different types of architecture here. Ingrid is striking impeccably styled and glamorous yet still very bohemian with a shock of gray in her perfectly coiffed hair. She pointed out her favorite landmarks. We visited a compact urban farm where they make something edible called Afrojam. We rode past a spot in Detroit is North End where George Clinton's band Parliament-Funkadelic played one of his most iconic albums. George Clinton did create the Mothership Connection in Detroit and he performed it here on Oakland Avenue which is the street that we are on right now. Taking a reporter around and bragging about your hometown is what you would expect from anyone running for mayor. But it was not long before Ingrid the Afrofuturist showed up as well. The mothership is this wonderful symbol of our future space. And for me it is this reminder of this empowering future space that can-- the possibilities of that and how it is always present. We were talking about stuff I knew. I grew up listening to Parliament records too and reading the comics on the album covers. I always thought it was cool groundbreaking stuff. But when Ingrid talked about it she scaled it up to something more grand and spiritual and a little esoteric. To be honest I found her a bit difficult to follow on this and other topics. But with her enthusiasm she was just fun to listen to. And anyway I came to Detroit to find out about Afrofuturism and here she was-- someone super-eager and ready to talk about it whether or not what she said made sense to me. But my orientation even within Afrofuturism has always been cosmic. I am a cosmic person. Here she is discussing time. Time can be defined in 20 million different ways. It can go diagonally up it can go diagonally down below our feet-- and just like in the universe right? And here she is on the subject of lunch. Pleasure has to resonate all through the future through your movement into your world. A pleasurable experience for me eating-wise would be eating a great green salad. I am going to time travel a little myself here and let you know that Ingrid LaFleur did not win the primary. She never even got on the ballot officially. When I was there with the election rapidly approaching she was still sorting out her policy points. She talked to me vaguely about reviving Detroit is creative economy to rival the glory days of Motown and about the city's litter problem. Two days before the primary she published a more thorough plan that called for among other things a universal basic income for Detroiters paid partly in digital currency. I guess that is pretty futuristic. But at the heart of Ingrid's campaign was an idea that I found far more compelling than any specific policy she put forth. In her plan for Detroit she writes In order to manifest true revitalisation we must consider the histories and oppressions of the black American population. The foundation of every institution government police education the museum was built to silence disallow displace and render powerless black Americans. These institutions were never created for black Americans to truly prosper. It is time for a new plan. That is not something you hear from many politicians. But it makes sense here because Detroit is 80 black. Fixing the city means fixing it for black people. Ingrid sees Black Americans as the protagonists in the story of Detroit its future and its past. When I was growing up people loved to say it was like 110 black. It was super-black. It was just black. This is the other thing about Ingrid. Maybe she is idealizing I would not know. But she carries a shining vision of Detroit is past with her everywhere she goes. We drove past vacant houses and empty lots. So much of Detroit is falling apart neglected or abandoned. But underneath it all she still sees a vibrant city populated with a thriving black middle class. I grew up walking through this park at dusk. There would be people riding bikes jogging playing squash at dusk-- like it is getting dark. And my mother and I we felt completely comfortable and safe walking through these woods. In the car we talked about Afrofuturism. At one point I told her about the conference that I would been to and how by now I would heard the word Afrofuturism used to describe everything from comic books to condiments. But it was not coming into focus for me. I was starting to wonder if it was just a term for putting a positive spin on anything a black person has ever done or will ever do. Like I was moved by the optimism that seems inherent in Afrofuturism. Yes! But I was also like if it is everything then what is the point of it? But that is the point-- imagining a more healthier present and future and kind of recontextualizing the past so that it is empowering instead of victimizing. It is our way of not only surviving but it is also a way of healing within the moment because there is constant traumas that we are dealing with-- historical and present day. So it is a way of allowing ourselves to shape-shift to accommodate whatever comes our way. Ingrid eventually dropped me back at my hotel. Earlier she would given me a greasy brown bag containing a cookie which I now finally got around to eating. It turned out to be the most delicious gluten-free cookie I had ever tasted. But I was still feeling hungry and a bit confused by our conversation. Whatever bigger point she had been making about Afrofuturism I was afraid that it had been lost on me. I went looking for a burger and a stiff drink to mull it over. At a bar over bourbon I met a guy that I am going to call Sam with dark skin and hints of gray in his sideburns that betrayed his boyish face. He was dressed for a night on the town-- light blazer Burberry shirt patterned silk scarf. I asked him and another patron both Detroit residents if they would heard of Ingrid LaFleur for Mayor. They had not. When Sam got up to pay his check after we would only been talking for a few minutes he surprised me by asking if I wanted to go with him to check out some of the other spots around town. I was not dressed for it and I would left my recording equipment in my room but what the hell? Sam said it was OK for me to describe what happened next. Sam had a nice car a Mercedes. It never cost him more than 10 to park it in a lot. He loved that about Detroit-- parking was so cheap. He would moved here from New York sometime in the late '90s and fallen hard for the city. As we drove he talked up the real estate. He talked about his job and the IT business he ran out of his home. Things seemed to be going well. We met up with Sam's friend Rick a bald bearded alpha male type in a reddish leather jacket and followed him in his new BMW to a place called The Griot. It was the type of establishment once commonly referred to as grown and sexy. Rick ordered another round of bourbon and some wings and flirted with the bartender. By now it was clear that these guys were looking to meet women. And that was weird because of this thing that Sam had told me earlier while we were in the car together. He would said that not too long ago his wife had gotten sick and he would taken care of her for a year. And then she died leaving Sam and their teenage son with only each other. Sam did not actually want to be doing what we were doing tonight. This is like only his second time out as a single man. He did not feel ready to meet women to date. But he also felt like it was time. He could not wait forever. So he was doing what he felt like he had to do to move forward. Sam and Rick took me to a few different spots that night. But the one that I remember the most was a place called Floods. From the outside it looked like a common family restaurant. I thought it was closed until we rounded the corner and saw the cluster of people leaving their cars with the valet. Inside Floods was huge. Sam said it was probably about 2500 square feet. A massive bar separated two rooms. At one point there was both a band and a DJ playing simultaneously. And wall to wall there were well-dressed grown-up black folks dancing and singing along to classic soul funk and RB. It reminded me of how Ingrid had described the Detroit she grew up in and its thriving black middle class. 110 black she had said. Super-black just black. I would been drinking all night. So yeah I was already a little in my feelings. But I swear I teared up at the sight of it all. Sam had not wanted to come to Floods at first because he thought too many people would recognize him. I think he did not want to be judged for being out on the town after his wife's death. And when we walked in he seemed a little uncomfortable. We split up for a while and later he found me standing in a corner at the edge of the dance floor mesmerized. He pulled out his phone and showed me the number he had just gotten of a beautiful woman who walked in earlier and drawn quite a bit of attention. Earlier in the day Ingrid had said a bunch of Afrofuturist stuff to me about Detroit shapeshifting and reckoning with its past and healing. I felt like I was seeing some smaller version of that now with Sam. Most days he was probably just a guy in some pain struggling to survive this very traumatic thing that happened. But tonight in spite of that Sam was imagining a better future and doing something about it. He smiled shouted some words of encouragement at me over the music and waded back into the crowd. His spirits were up. His evening was not over.   Act Two Past and Perfect. So there is this idea that occurs over and over in Afrofuturism that summed up basically says the past is always with us. It affects us. It has the power to make us stronger if we learn how to use it properly. Some West African cultures represent this idea with the image of what is called the Sankofa bird. It is a bird walking forward but with its head looking backward meaning no matter what we carry the past with us into the future. In one of the most well-known Afrofuturist novels Kindred by Octavia Butler the main character finds herself traveling back and forth between her normal contemporary life in the present and the world of her ancestors in the Antebellum South where she is treated like a slave. And the two time periods start to merge. That is fiction. Our next story is told by a woman who went through a version of that in real life. When I graduated from NYU with a BA in Drama and a mostly unplanned double major in Anthropology my mother asked me what are you going to do with that act in a museum? This seemed especially rude coming from a sociologist but she had a point. For the first few years of my adult life that is exactly what I did. During those years Azie Dungey was living in her hometown a suburb of Washington DC working as an actor at night in plays for which she was paid almost nothing. And to make some extra cash for Christmas she took a gig time-traveling to the least desirable job of the 18th century. She was a slave or she played one anyway performing for tourists at George Washington's estate Mount Vernon for weekend events called Mount Vernon by Candlelight. The halls of the mansion were decked for Christmas. Visitors would walk through stopping in each room to meet a character and hear their monologue about the season. There was Mrs. Washington beloved wife Dr. James Craik Washington's physician and best bud Nellie Custis sweet-natured granddaughter and me Caroline Branham slave. I had a script that I used to talk about Caroline's life. It was short. Besides the odd I am a slave at Christmas too a slave to my husband and kids joke from 40-year-old white women people were interested and respectful. After Christmas I decided to stay in the job. It started out fine. The winter weather meant the visitors were mostly local and relatively few. I enjoyed my daily walks on the treelined lanes soft snow falling on my hooded mulberry-colored cape as I looked out at the stunning view of the Potomac River. And when it was too cold I would stay in the library and read through musty old books and primary source letters and notations that helped me understand this distant world I inhabited and the woman I portrayed. I was Caroline Branham a real woman who had been housemaid to Mrs. Washington. I studied Caroline's life and times for months. And every day when I put on a beautiful crimson dress with tiny yellow and green flowers I became her. With each eyelid I laced on my corset I felt myself get closer to her posture how her body related to the world. With my hair pulled back in two large French braids under a bonnet I sat on a bench and set my fingers to the work Caroline did-- rows of stitches on shirts and brightly colored embroidery. I could picture her laying down her head at night next to her husband Peter and their six children-- Wilson Rachel Jemima Leanthe Polly and little Peter. I imagined how she hoped that one day they would wake up in a world better than the one she would been given. Then spring came and tourists from around the country started pouring into Mount Vernon. My job was to simply be available to the visitors to talk to them and answer their questions as Caroline. This time there was no script. And I realized pretty quickly that just being there existing as a black woman in that place was a threat to the fantasy of a noble America. I was the stain on George Washington's white house. And I watched them grapple with this right in front of me-- me the least confrontational human being you will ever meet. I mean it took me until I was 25 years old to tell my mom I did not liked her baked tofu smothered in Kraft barbecue sauce. Some people were so uncomfortable with me that they bumbled through the first random thing that came to their mind. You are a slave? Oh OK. So are the vegetables in the garden real? Fake vegetables. This is an outdoor garden. They are literally coming out of the ground and there is a man standing there watering them. Or they immediately asked questions with obvious answers that they just had not thought through. Why do not you go up to Massachusetts and go to school instead of being a slave one person asked? Right as soon as I can get rid of this very obvious brown skin steal a horse and a map that I cannot read I will be on my way. Or they would go into immediate denial mode like the old woman who out of nowhere yelled at me George Washington had no slaves. I said yes he did. She responded no he did not. And this went on back and forth until her son got embarrassed and pulled her away. Or they offered another offense as some sort of defense. But the Irish were slaves too. OK that is not really true and what the hell does that have to do with me? And of course there were those who would take the opportunity to teach me instead. You know slavery was a good industrious life where you got room and board for your work. Mm-hmm-- a one-room cabin they built themselves with eight people sleeping on a dirt floor and a bag of corn meal every week. Room and board. It was just a bizarre situation to be in playing Caroline. I would be sitting next to Miss Nellie in the midst of her roleplay who'd be going on and on about the lovely letters that her dear grandpapa George Washington had written her or all the fancy soirees that she attended. We would be in the greenhouse with a gorgeous garden outside on an estate that overlooked the Potomac. I would literally hear white visitors sigh listening to Miss Nellie read from her letters full of nostalgia for this time long gone. They would talk about how much simpler things were back then how touching George Washington's letters were what a fine man and how lucky Miss Nellie was to live such a charming life. It was charming. I was charmed by it. Then it would be my turn. Here's what I talked about-- how my husband is rented from Mrs. Washington's relative and how he could be sent back at any time how I go home to my cabin at night hoping that none of my children have been sold that once my friend was whipped so bad her fingers were torn and she could not sew for three weeks-- all real stuff from Caroline Branham's life. One time an old lady just walked up to me while I was talking hugged me whispered I am sorry and walked away. Another time a man handed me a 20 bill so I guess that was reparations. In Caroline's day there were typically no more than 10 white people who lived in the Washington household at any given time. Meanwhile there were 316 slaves. And who was there to tell their story? Me. I was the only black actor. So I felt like it was up to me to be all 316 people to research them too so I could talk about my friend the blacksmith or Delphi the wool spinner. I learned so much about being a slave that to this day there is space in my brain devoted to this information. Like I can tell you how to shine silver with horse urine which herbs to use to make your owner sick but not kill her how beating a slave and then dousing them with salt water to disinfect the wounds was called pickling. Pickling-- I hate that I know that. As my time at Mount Vernon went on I began to notice there was something that would happen in particular with white men. It was like almost despite themselves they would act out the power dynamic from 1797. I can remember at least five times when a white man of a certain age sat on a bench way too close to me and said something like I used to be into a black girl back when I was young. Then he would pause presumably waiting for my response. What am I supposed to say to that exactly thank you? Once a man got physical. I was walking down the lane on a particularly hot and busy day when a tall burly white man grabbed my arm pulled me towards him and said show me where you are branded. I was startled and could only get out the words sir I have not been branded. And then he and his wife began laughing heartily. Well you got it good up here. We are from South Carolina and they branded them down there. Girl you got it good. And then one time one of the guys I work with also in costume wearing a tricorn hat he and I were walking from the farm back to the mansion and we decided to take the forest trail. We were having a nice normal conversation when out of the blue he says hey let us re-enact a slave rape. You tear up your clothes a little bit and go running out the forest screaming and I will follow behind you pulling up my pants. He laughed. I did not say anything. I just sort of tittered. I  tittered. That is an old-timey fancy way of saying I laughed with the bastard. I laughed because I did not know what else to do because I felt completely and utterly powerless. I started calling in sick a lot because I was sick a lot. My stomach would twist and turn. I would sometimes get a choking feeling and cough as if to vomit but nothing was there. I had terrible headaches and I could not do anything but sleep. And one day it occurred to me that Caroline felt this way too this exact way. The farm manager who oversaw slaves on the Mansion House Farm noted that Caroline quote complained of a pain in her head and side and had quote a very dry bad cough. George Washington's friend Dr. Craik is recorded as having treated her for such bad stomach pains that he had to bleed her give her stomach drops and prescribe 20 pills for bowel obstruction. My job was to inhabit Caroline's life but she started inhabiting mine. I had this weird sensation that I was living in multiple time periods at once like the Sankofa bird. I started seeing Mount Vernon everywhere in the modern world. An evolutionary psychologist wrote a blog post for Psychology Today where he claimed that he objectively proved that black women are the least attractive of all races of women with science. This happened in the year of our Lord 2011. I saw this only a few days after reading Thomas Jefferson's Notes on the State of Virginia for work. Apparently Jefferson-- who by the way was known to have slaves with the lightest skin possible-- had come to the same conclusion about my race and gender over 200 years ago. He said that black men prefer white women and black women are preferred by orangutans. Oh so that is why I am single. Then Trayvon Martin. I was watching the news one evening about a black boy harassed and pursued by a white Latino man who was convinced that he did not belong in his neighborhood. And because of this compulsion the innocent black boy ended up dead. My heart was in my gut. The first thought that came into my head he did not have his pass. Pass? I shook it off. No that cannot be right. When a slave left their plantation they had to carry a pass from their master or overseer saying where they were going and when they were expected to return. Not having your pass or your free papers if you were free was dangerous. At any time any white person could stop you and demand to see your pass. If you did not produce it you were thrown in jail. Having black skin alone was enough to make you suspicious and a white stranger could be the judge and jury of your fate. Trayvon Martin did not have his pass. There is a thing white people say to black people all the time. I have had it said to me. Why do not you just get over it-- it being slavery and all historical oppression. Why do not you just get over it they say. It is in the past. What I would say to white people in response is that you are not over the past. Every year you flock from all over the country to Mount Vernon and other places like it to monuments and museums and reenactments. There is President's Day and the fireworks th