Luke was eleven when his family moved from the normal boring suburbs to what amounted to basically the coolest place on earth. His dad got this job as the manager of this tourist park called the Butterfly Farm. --that had domes filled with rainforest and exotic birds and butterflies and a miniature train track and pony rides and mini bike rides and a launching ramp for the water skiers who came and skied-- Also a spider house a picnic area a snake house and a guy named Vic who did a show with his collection of deadly snakes. It is This American Life by the way from WBEZ Chicago. And the only bad thing about being 11 and living out in the countryside on the grounds of such an incredible place was the school that Luke attended. This was in Australia outside what was then a little town called Wilberforce. And the other students were these tough kids who did not accept Luke at all which is why it was such a great day for Luke when his whole class took a field trip to the Butterfly Farm. It was my place my kingdom my turf and I felt extremely excited and filled with anticipation that I could kind of relax and show off at the same time. Show off especially because his dad had asked the snake handler Vic to come in and do a show for Luke's class. Normally Vic did not work during the week. There were not big enough crowds to justify it. But Luke's dad knowing this would be good for Luke asked him to come in special. And that meant that I was going to help Vic. We would been living there for about six months. And now my brothers and I we were allowed into the snake room the snake house. And he would deal with the poisonous snakes and we would deal with the nonpoisonous snakes and the pythons. So that was fun and that was exciting as you could imagine for an 11-year-old boy being watched behind the glass by his 80 classmates and teachers. Oh right you are going to seem like this brave kid dealing with snakes and getting to do something that is so cool. Yeah totally cool and I would be totally at home with it because I was by that stage and loved doing it. Every weekend I would watch Vic do his shows. I knew them off by heart. And I just used to love standing there amongst the crowd every weekend and feeling everybody's amazement as he would milk the death adder and show the venom dripping down the glass. And Vic was fearless. That was his world. He was very very comfortable handling snakes. And they came up and all the kids piled out of the buses. And I got to saunter out to the buses and say hi to my teachers. And the day began. And so at a certain point around the middle of the day it was time to see the snake show. So then everybody's in the snake house. I am in there with Vic putting the snakes in the bags. Everybody's watching us through the window. This is just prep for the show. They would put the snakes into bags and then they would carry them to the stage for Vic's presentation. And all of a sudden this incredible thing happens. Beside me Vic picks up a tiger snake the second-deadliest snake in Australia. And it bites him three times tf tf tf like that. And it made this little sort of thump thump thump sound on his hand as it bit him. Had you ever seen that before? No no nothing had ever gone wrong. I had never seen a snake bite a human being before. And now I saw it from one of the deadliest snakes in the world and it was massively powerful the moment of the bite. And it was a triple bite bang bang bang. And Vic drops the snake and he says damn and starts sucking the web of his hand where the snake bit him. And I am completely astonished. I am just on my knees looking at him thinking what happens next? How bad is this? Well I knew it was bad. I heard him give the talk every weekend about how bad the tiger snake bite is. And Vic says listen run down to the kiosk and get me a pint of milk. So I say OK and I run out the door. And I have got a task now you know? And there is this little general store kind of kiosk thing at the place. So I run down. I get the pint of milk. I say this is for Vic. Like I do not have to pay. This is the beginning of all the rules of the day being broken you know? It is one of my clearest memories of this day is how everything went the way it should not have gone and all bets were off. I get the pint of milk. I run back up. He opens it and he drinks this pint down drinks the whole thing down in one long mouthful. And I say so are you OK Vic? And he is like yeah yeah everything's fine mate. Everything's fine. Let us do the show. And this is because like milk is some sort of thing you do if you get bitten by a deadly snake? I think the milk thing was just one of those weird old wives tales or one of those Australian Bush recipes that this helps if you get bitten by a snake. So we are ready to go now. We have all the snakes in the bags and we leave the snake house. And it is this weird Pied Piper kind of thing. It is me and Vic weighed down with these little blue canvas bags filled with writhing snakes. And we all walk down to the snake platform where he gave the shows followed by all of my classmates and our teachers and the only other people there that day at the Butterfly Farm was a couple of busloads of kids in wheelchairs. They were kind of the spina bifida kids or kids who are disabled in various ways. And they were there with their minders these middle-aged women mostly pushing these very disabled kids in wheelchairs. So they too are following us all down for the big snake show. And the snake platform was about the size of a boxing ring. It was a raised platform and people would circle the platform on all four sides. And Vic begins the show. And he gets about 10 minutes into the show and he is holding a green tree snake which is a thin little whippet-like snake. And suddenly he says uh ladies and gentlemen I am going to have to stop the show now because-- and he is standing straight up and his eyes glaze over. And he is instantly unconscious that is clear and he starts to fall backwards. And at the instant that he falls backwards the snake in his hands he releases it and it falls over the edge of the platform and into the lap of one of these kids in a wheelchair and starts writhing around in the kid's lap. OK crazy and nobody knows what to do. The snake is on this child's lap. And because Vic has turned stiff as a board-- He does not break his fall at all. He is completely unconscious from a standing position. And he hits the wooden platform with this thwack this enormous thump a horrible cracking sound of his head hitting the wood. So at the same instant this kid in the wheelchair this kid had sort of claw hands and so on and he is looking down at the snake in his lap. And he starts to just go--  And everybody around the kid in the wheelchair just runs away screaming including the lady who is looking after him. At the same instant Vic has hit the ground and his arms have spread out and arms and legs spread in a kind of star shape. And I am staring at him and the kid. And then I catch the eye of one of my teachers who is looking at me as if to say what is going on. So I have to act suddenly. There is this moment now where I suddenly realize that I am the one with the greatest knowledge and that my teachers in a sense are standing there powerless and beginning to be freaked out and not having a clue what to do. It was an amazing moment. And an amazing moment for a kid to have at 11. Like when you are 11 you do not get many situations where you are the one and adults need to look to you to take control of a situation. Yeah. So I run over to the kid and there is this moment where I look in his eye and I say something like it is OK. And I take the snake out of his lap in the way that I was taught to do which is gently and without any jerky movements and run up the stairs onto the platform. And that is the moment where I see how incredibly bad things are in terms of Vic's state of health. And so what does it look like? First of all it is horrendously embarrassing because he is pissed his pants this guy who I looked up to so much. And it is everywhere. The whole bottom half of his body is soaked and it is all around him spreading on these floorboards. It was very much no longer a matter of this is so good for me because this might change my place in the pecking order amongst these difficult school kids in this difficult situation but just a matter of oh my god I think Vic's dying or Vic's dead. His face is almost black by now. It is this kind of bruised purple-black color. So I put the snake back into the blue canvas bag and tied the knot the way Vic had taught me. And then I said to my teachers I will get my dad. And then I proceeded to sprint up the hill to the house screaming at the top of my lungs Dad Dad Dad! It was a pretty far way to go. And he gets his dad and Luke's dad came back with them. And when they got back none of the adults had taken any action at all. One of Luke's teachers was kneeling next to Vic but he was not administering CPR or doing mouth to mouth or anything at all. He was just kneeling there not sure what to do. Luke's dad lifted Vic's limp body into the car tore off to the hospital. And that was it. Luke gathered up the snakes and put them back where they belonged. So Vic survived. But the incredibly sad thing was that was the last snake show he ever gave in his life. He was on a kidney machine for three months. His skin took three months to gradually gradually return back to its color. And that was it. Yeah. That was kind of end of career. When I tell the story even now it is absolutely vivid and it is always vivid in my gut you know? All of the main moments of what happened that day are still in my gut. It is to this day one of the most vivid and intense memories in my life because in some weird way it was a turning point. It was one of those series of events heading towards adolescence and heading towards developing a concept of yourself as an autonomous human being as an adult. And how often in your life do you have a moment where it suddenly becomes so utterly clear what you have to do and only you can do it? I think it is really rare. For me that was it. That was that moment. I mean I love every moment of my life. And without sounding pretentious I hope it does not sound pretentious but at some absolutely primal level it was this deeply satisfying sense of actually doing something heroic. Well today on our radio show stories of people saving the day and what takes them over when they do it. And these stories of people who jump in are just seized by the sense that they have to act. They do not have a choice. They will not be able to live with themselves if they do not jump into action. There is something incredibly pure about it. Our show in two acts one in the wilds of Mexico one in the halls of academia. Stay with us. Act 1 Midlife Cowboy. We have this story from James Spring who lives in a city that is not so far from the Mexican border San Diego. At 39 I took a little inventory of my life and found myself to be unremarkable in almost every way. For more than a decade I would held a job writing ad copy in radio commercials in San Diego. I had a wife two kids two mortgages TiVo prescription reading glasses and about 20 extra pounds that I no longer had the energy or ambition to lose. My 40th birthday was only a couple of months away in April. My wife Kelly had a brighter attitude about it all. We will throw you a big party she said. It will be fun. I do not think so I said. I did not want a party. It is your big 4-0 she said. Think about what you want to do for it. I did think about it for a long time. In the end what I thought was I am going to do something big to help somebody else in a big way. It is going to be a great big thing. And when it is done I am going to feel really really good and helpful. What do you mean help somebody my wife said. I do not know I said. It was still pretty shapeless inside my head. I used to be a boat captain. I knew parts of Mexico better than pretty much anybody. Maybe that was a start. Who are you going to help my wife said. Help them what? I do not know I said. Something's going to come up. Maybe an earthquake will hit and I will help dig people out. Maybe a helicopter will go down in Baja. I could help find it. This was all met with the most epic of eye-rolling and sighing. At least twice a week this conversation continued to divide us. She would talk about party planning and I would have to remind her that I might not even be around. I might be out you know rescuing people. April arrived and still no earthquakes or helicopters. So on Friday about 5 oclock right after work I thought maybe I should be a little more proactive. I did a Google search on two words that seemed to make the most sense for my plan-- Baja and missing. It might be time to explain the Baja part. In the late '80s I worked in the area that the Drug Enforcement Agency calls the Western Mexico Baja Corridor. But I was not one of the good guys. It was over 20 years ago. I had just dropped out of college and I was a little aimless. I reconnected with a friend that I will call Alex back in San Diego. Alex had put together an enterprise moving methamphetamine along the West Coast. Right about the time I arrived a new law had been passed in the US that made it tough to get the main ingredient ephedrine. But I was pretty sure we could still get it in Mexico. The border was less than a half hour away. The ephedrine pipeline was easy to establish and soon it got filled with other stuff too-- coke marijuana. Personally the drugs held no attraction for me which made it easy to justify my actions. I mean if these dirtbags wanted to ruin their lives with meth let them. It turned out I was really good at the job. I got to know my way around Mexico around the marinas and hidden ranchos and dirt airstrips around the cops and soldiers. I came to love the Baja Peninsula. But during this time the business was falling apart back on the US side. Alex and his pals had developed bad drug habits and they got really sloppy. I would been away in Mexico during two police raids on the house in San Diego but I was there for the third one. I was arrested and taken to jail with the others. But the cops did not have a warrant so they had to drop the charges. I moved out of the house. But a couple of weeks later some bad guys came in the middle of the night black sweatshirts black ski masks. They beat Alex into a coma raped his girlfriend. They stole everything they could get their hands on. After that I packed up my red Jeep and I drove south to Baja. I did not come back for four years. By the time I moved back to San Diego in 1993 I would fashioned myself into an upstanding citizen an ambitious and enthusiastic member of the workforce. And life rolled along pretty much like I suppose it does for most people-- an HMO a 401k a family. I kept waiting for the other shoe to drop but life was really steady. It was good far better than I deserved. And so on the eve of my 40th birthday I brought up Google and typed the words Baja and missing. The top result on Google was a day-old newspaper article about a fugitive couple wanted for kidnapping and murder. The story essentially was that this couple Richard Carelli and Michelle Pinkerton were a pair of chronic meth heads who killed their landlord in San Francisco. And then they drove to Santa Cruz and kidnapped their own six-year-old daughter from the grandparents who'd been given legal custody. And oh yeah also on the run with them their two-month-old baby girl with Down syndrome. Clearly these were not great parents. A year earlier they were holed up in a motel when police raided the room and found them with a pile of stolen property and methamphetamines. Their daughter Viana then four years old was found hiding under the motel bed. The newspaper picture of Viana showed a smiling little girl with blond hair and blue eyes and a dress with pink polka dots. She looked just like my daughter Addie. Police had been searching for Viana and her parents for more than three months. This article said that a month earlier a tourist might have spotted the family in a town called San Quintn on Baja California's Pacific coast. Meth head kidnapper murderers on the run-- I was a former meth supplier. I absolutely do not believe in destiny but Jesus Christ. There was a link to a Missing flyer with pictures and a phone number to call. I dialed and a switchboard operator answered for the San Francisco Police Department. I realized I had no idea what to say. Hi I said I am calling about a flyer for a missing girl Viana Carelli. A flyer sir the operator said. Or I guess a poster I said like a Missing poster. Sir do you know the whereabouts of a missing person? No I said I just want to he-- I just need to talk to somebody in charge of the Viana Carelli case. Can you spell that sir? I spelled the name. She put me on hold three times. Obviously I had not called the right person. I looked up other contact info for the San Francisco Police Department. I made a couple more calls and quickly realized I needed to fake a little more competence. Here's what I was going to say. Look I am certain that there is a team of officers and volunteers conducting canvassing and search parties. I would like to volunteer to join the effort. But the conversation never got that far. Instead each time nobody knew what I was talking about. I finally convinced somebody to transfer me to the Detectives division. I got an answering machine saying that the office was closed until Monday morning. The lack of information the lack of interest by the police department was surprising-- unbelievable really. This whole story had become front-page news because of the way the San Francisco police had already bungled it. The newspaper said that after Carelli and Pinkerton's landlord was reported missing the police did not respond for a month. And when they did finally arrive at his building to look for him they found his tenants Carelli and Pinkerton unwilling to let them search the property. A police dog keyed on Carelli's van in the driveway. There were blood stains visible in the open garage but the officers had no warrant. They allowed the couple to drive away in their beat-up white Mercury sedan. The cops eventually towed Carelli's van but then incredibly they did not search it. On the impound lot somebody finally looked inside and found the body of the landlord. He would been dead for six weeks. By this time Carelli and Pinkerton were already hundreds of miles away. Cell phone records showed that they made it as far as Vegas and then for three months nothing. So maybe the San Francisco police were not the best resource here. I looked online for volunteer groups flyer passer-outers candlelight vigils. Again nothing. All that was left at this point was the little girl's family the grandparents and an uncle that the newspaper had called the family spokesman. Probably every nut job in the world was calling them the smarmy investigators and the psychics grifters con men. I found the uncle's phone number and then just sort of dialed. It went exactly like you would think it would which is to say badly. If your main objective in a conversation is to convince someone that you are not crazy you have already lost. Essentially what the uncle said was thank you for your concern. The police are doing everything they can. We appreciate the support. And then the call was over. I was on my own. To be honest it felt sort of good sort of familiar but better because I knew without a doubt that this was the right thing to do. I was going to Baja. Now I just had to go home and tell my wife. She was not happy. You said you were going to help people in an earthquake she said. This is not our problem. This is not your fight. She was crying and yelling. They are drug addicts. They are murderers. She spent a long time listing reasons why I should not go. I understood why she was worried. Baja's rough. Every couple of weeks there is another string of beheadings or a government official hung from a bridge usually thanks to the drug cartels. Last year a guy nicknamed  the Stew Maker confessed to dissolving the bodies of more than 300 of his victims in acid. These stories helped keep Baja pristine free of tourists free of development free of laws. It is like the old Wild West. And like the Old West there is no cell phone service so Kelly knew she could not even call me down there. I kept repeating the one thing she could not argue with. Nobody's looking for those little girls I said. If I do not go who will? The next day Saturday I packed-- gas cans topo maps GPS water jugs fix-a-flat. I sent an email to my boss saying that something sudden had come up and that I would be taking a vacation week or maybe two. I took the lousy Missing flyer that I would found online and redesigned it. I added a picture of the infant and a photo of a car from the Autotrader that matched Richard Carelli's white Mercury. I translated the flyer to Spanish and changed the headline to read  which means kidnapped. I went to Kinko's and printed 2500 copies. Baja California itself is a dusty peninsula that begins near the San Diego-Tijuana border and ends 1000 miles later in the resort town of Cabo San Lucas. There is only one road that runs from top to bottom. And at various points along the way it passes tiny villages and military checkpoints and about two dozen of the state-run Pemex gas stations. Without much to go on this is what I chose to believe. Richard Carelli knew nothing of Baja. He spoke no Spanish and had no friends. He had no weapons at this point and no money. The family was still traveling in the Mercury sedan. They would not willingly double-back through military checkpoints or cross into areas where they would be required to show ID and register. Between the beat-up sedan and the newborn they had to be somewhere close to the highway. I spent the first day passing out flyers at gas stations at police stations at military checkpoints where I also passed out old Playboy magazines I had put in my truck to grease the skids with soldiers a trick I resurrected from the old days. I made countless stops and starts. At every market and rancho near a dusty crossroads I told the story. Not a single person had heard it before but they were all titillated now by the drama of the murderous couple and their poor children. Just before dark I arrived in San Quintn the town where the couple might have been spotted a month earlier. Taco stands bars hotels campgrounds nobody had seen or heard of the family. I went to bed sometime around midnight but I could not fall asleep. I lay on the lumpy mattress and tried to envision every possibility. Were Carelli and Pinkerton living in a village? Had they squatted in an abandoned ranch? Had they found a benefactor? Were they already dead? I wondered if maybe I was insane to be here. And some time before I fell asleep it hit me that they might not even have come to Mexico at all. The next morning I woke to the sounds of roosters day two. I got in my truck and headed south. I had my doubts but I figured I had to keep going. An hour later I came to a tiny farming community called Santa Maria. I went into a market and left a stack of flyers. A small group of men was milling around a pot of coffee. When I went back outside to the gas pumps the guy who ran the market came out with one of the flyers in his hand. These people he said they were here. Really I said. Somehow I doubted it. He looked at the flyer again. They bought water milk and potato chips. They asked if we sold diapers but we do not. His grocery list was so specific. They were here. They had to be. What vehicle were they driving I asked. This one. He pointed at the flyer. How long ago? Three weeks. The timing was exactly right. Did you see the children I asked. No he said. I thanked him and left with a new plan. I would race straight down to the Baja Sur state line the halfway point of the peninsula where the family would be forced to register. I would bribe the immigration officials for a peek at the book and confirm that Carelli and Pinkerton did not sneak past. And then I would double back and they would scoop them up like a net. I was driving so fast now that the tire squealed on the turns. Before a half hour passed I reached the village of El Rosario. The Pemex station there could be the last gas for 200 miles. I would probably filled my tank in El Rosario 300 times. It was too important a place to not stop for a minute and hang some flyers. I jammed on the brakes and skidded across the lane into the gas station. I was posting a flyer near a gas pump when one of the attendants approached.  he said. I saw her the blonde. Where I asked. At pump number one he said. She asked me about a cheap place to eat. When I said. Three days ago. Three days I said. You mean three weeks? Days he said three days ago. Next door to the gas station was a small motel. I showed the flyer to the two ladies working behind the reception desk. When they saw it they both shrieked and covered their mouths. Yes the family was here in El Rosario. They were living in a small house just two doors away from the home of one of the receptionists. Yes they were still driving the white car but they would been trying to sell it in the village. And yes the little girls were still with them. But the infant whose name was Faith was very sick. The blonde woman they told me was earning money by teaching dance lessons to children in the village for 10 pesos an hour 1 an hour. The house was 100 meters away less. What time are the classes I asked. 3 oclock one of them said. I looked at my watch. It was 245. Carelli and Pinkerton were here now a block away. Things were moving so fast through my head that it felt like Earth time had stopped. I could suddenly see everything that I needed to do next so clearly. I told the women at the motel not to tell anyone about our conversation. I ran back to the gas station and ripped down the flyers and took back the stack I would left. I needed to get my truck and its American license plates off the road fast. It was a tiny town. I had to assume that word would soon get back to Carelli and Pinkerton. I drove a half block to the town's small payphone office and hid my car behind the building. An operator connected me to the uncle in Santa Cruz. I found them I said. I told him the story as quickly as I could. He gave me a phone number for a US marshal handling the case and I got him on the phone. I found them I said. The US marshal seemed doubtful annoyed. I let him know that I could get together a team of local police and go get Carelli. Do not do anything he said. Call me back in one hour. I looked at my watch again. It was now after 3 oclock. Dance class was in session. If I called the US marshal back in an hour and he instructed me to contact the local cops-- which was the only reasonable option-- that whole process might take another hour maybe more. And it might be too late. I went across the street to the cinder block police station. Three cops were gathered around a small television watching a movie with Chuck Norris and a midget. I later figured out that the movie was Lone Wolf McQuade the 1983 classic in which Chuck Norris's character makes an incursion into Mexico to take care of business. Hey partner where are you headed? Mexico. Mexico? What the hell for? They got my daughter. Well hold on I am coming. It is not your fight.  I need to speak with the comandante I said. One of the cops leaned back in his chair. I am the comandante. What do you want? He was clearly irritated by the interruption but he led me to a tiny room with a metal desk and closed the door. When I would finished telling him the story he radioed his off-duty cops and told them to report to the station immediately. They called for backup from San Quintn. The dance class was half over. In the police station bulletproof vests were pulled from lockers. Weapons were loaded. One of the cops found an extra flak jacket that would fit me. At the one-hour mark I dialed the US marshal from the telephone in the police station. It is no good he said. The paperwork's not in order. He told me we would have to wait until tomorrow. There will be no tomorrow I said. There are two white men in this town Richard Carelli and me. Pretty soon he is going to know it if he does not already. And then he is going to do whatever it takes to run again. The marshal exhaled sharply. Ugh he said. Call me in a half hour. You got to be kidding me I thought. The Mexican cops stood all around me waiting for the word. I told them that I needed to make one more phone call. I dialed the uncle in Santa Cruz. Look I said. The US marshal says that we have to wait until tomorrow. I explained that it did not have to be this way that I did not work for the US Marshal. But this was not my decision. It was his family. Only he could decide. He conferred for a few moments with the grandparents. And then he said the paperwork will be ready by the time it is needed. Go do it. Mexican federal cops arrived from San Quintn a few moments later four unmarked truckloads full of guys with big mustaches and leather jackets. Most of them carried assault rifles. One of the trucks was sent out to observe the house. They radioed back to the station that the children were out front with the mother. A few seconds later came the report that the father was now outside too. The leader of the federal squad said vamonos. Then he put a hand on my chest and ordered me to stay put. 10 minutes later they returned. Michelle Pinkerton and the children were in the back of one truck. Carelli was handcuffed in another. They jerked him out of his seat and stood him in front of me. And when he saw me the fight drained out of him. Any fantasy he might have held about the arrest being just a Mexican shakedown was dead. He asked me why he was being arrested. I did not respond. Viana stared out the door of the other truck wide-eyed and nervous. Michelle Pinkerton was working hard to convince her daughter that everything was OK. She held the baby tightly in one arm and hugged Viana with the other rocking them both gently against her. We caravaned back to the federal headquarters where a big group of cops whooped as Richard Carelli was pulled from the truck and led up to the station. Michelle and the girls were taken out of the other truck and Viana watched in horror as her father was led through the doors. She moved onto the sidewalk and stood next to me. She was really dirty but she seemed healthy. Hi I said. Hola she said. Speaking Spanish now huh? Si. You OK? Si. The cops asked me to wait in one of the offices with Michelle and the girls. Viana kept asking about her father. Michelle assured her that he was fine. She was trying to find another blanket to wrap around Faith. The infant was so tiny and her breathing was raspy. Michelle did everything she could to not look at me. I sat for a long time just watching her trying to stave off this new reality. Viana leaned over Faith and kissed her forehead. The baby cooed and Viana laughed. And Michelle draped her arms around her daughters and she smiled a smile so sad that I had to look away. Carelli was next door in a jail cell. He called to me sir excuse me sir. Can you please tell me why we are here? Sir please. One of the cops entered the office where we sat and grabbed a leg shackle this heavy black iron thing that looked like it belonged in a dungeon. He carried it to Carelli's cell. Viana started to cry. I have a daughter I said to her. She is four. She looks just like you. She likes to play princess. Do you play princess too? Viana nodded. Michelle straightened up in her chair and asked me are you from here? No I said. I am from California. Her eyes teared up and she nodded. Yeah. This was not what I signed up for. She just seemed like a mom. Where was the screaming the blaming the meth head excuses? Where was all the horrible parenting? Had they all been cured by their time here? Suddenly I did not really feel like I was riding in on the white horse. I just felt like I was meddling with somebody's family. What right did I have to upend the lives of these two little girls? What does the baby need I asked diapers? Michelle nodded. Yeah and formula. I drove into town and bought way too many baby supplies and some stuff for Viana too. Then I stopped at a taco stand and bought three dozen carne asada tacos. Viana lit up when she saw the food. Did you bring food for my daddy too? I asked the cops if it was OK for her to deliver tacos