I had a weird conversation with a congressman this week. This is Mark Pocan Democrat out of Wisconsin. The main sponsor of a bill to do this thing that protesters have been calling for the last few months abolish ICE the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency. His bill would terminate the agency. Immigration enforcement would continue but a bipartisan commission would hand off the stuff that ICE does to other federal agencies and eliminate anything it deems inhumane or cruel or a violation of international agreements. After one year the agency would not exist. It would be abolished. But the politics of this are so peculiar that in our half hour conversation the congressman could not bring himself to say the actual words that he would abolish ICE. Do you want to abolish the agency? I think I have answered that question a few times Ira. But just yes or no. Do you want to abolish the agency? Ira for a half hour I have given you a conversation on this and I think I have explained what I am trying to do. Do you have the bill because do you need me to shoot you the words. I am not sure if you have it in front of you. No I have it in front of me. It says to establish a commission that would terminate Immigration and Customs Enforcement. It is establish a commission to reassign the essential duties that were created by ICE to other agencies and to get rid of the unnecessary duties. That is the essential thrust of the bill and that is what we are trying to accomplish. Right. So you do want to terminate the agency? You do want to abolish the agency? I want to make sure the essential duties of the agency-- To understand why he was talking this way let me tell you the story of his last two weeks in Congress. It began when he proposed this bill to abolish ICE. Mainly he and his co-sponsors were objecting to the way that President Trump has the agency going after undocumented immigrants these days. One of his co-sponsors Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal told me they had no illusions about this ever making it to the floor of the House. No no no. Because no immigration bills on our side get brought to the floor not even ones that have significant co-sponsorship including Republican co-sponsorship like the Dream Act. And so it was very clear to us that this was just a messaging bill for us to be able to really talk about how outrageous the agency is. So they introduced their bill and it got some Democratic support. But you know who really loved it? Republicans. They have really jumped the sharks on the left. This is the Speaker of the House Paul Ryan. They have really-- it is an amazing it is the craziest position I have ever seen. And they are just tripping over themselves to move too far to the left. They are out of the mainstream of America. For months now actually conservative media have loved any hint that the Democrats want to abolish ICE. Fits into their whole narrative that the Democrats are soft on immigration and adds a kind of wingnut extremist edge to it like people who call for the abolition of the Internal Revenue Service. In that way abolish ICE is the build the wall of the left blunt like a punch to the jaw exciting for those who believe in it whackadoodle for those who do not. And if you get right down to it maybe not the very best way to fix the problem that it is supposed to fix but that is not what we are here talking about today. Here are Jesse Watters and Laura Ingraham gleeful on Fox. I cannot believe they are doing it. It is political suicide. Good luck on turning that into a platform that actually wins votes. President Trump tweeted The two biggest opponents of ICE in America today are the Democratic Party and MS-13! I love that issue if they are going to actually do that. They are seriously talking about that? It did not take long just one day. The Republican leadership in the House was like you want to abolish ICE? Great. Here's House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy. Well you know what? We are going to have a vote on the floor. So Mark Pocan and a few of his co-sponsors did something you do not see very often. They told everybody we have this bill do not vote for it. Basically it is a trap. Clearly there was no real intention to see that bill pass. They were trying to use it as some kind of a gotcha at election time. Apparently the Republicans saw this that all the Democrats were ready to go on record and vote all of them together and say they do not want to abolish ICE which is exactly the opposite message that the Republicans want them to be carrying into midterms. So they ditched that plan. The bill did not come to the fore. Instead this week Republicans in the House took a different tack. The clerk will report the title of the resolution. House resolution 990 resolution supporting the officers and personnel who carry out the important mission of the United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Behold a House resolution in support of ICE and also incidentally officially denouncing anybody who calls for the agency's abolishment. Calls to abolish ICE it says are an insult to these heroic law enforcement officers who make sacrifices every day to secure our borders enforce our laws and protect our safety and security. No surprise it passed easily 244 to 35. Most Democrats 133 of them simply voted present and thus avoided being on the record either for or against the agency. That is just how radioactive how politically dangerous this whole idea of abolishing ICE is. The phrase abolish ICE does not even appear in the Democrats' bill to abolish ICE. And I suppose that is why Congressman Pocan did not want to say the phrase out loud with me. Well from WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today on our program we have two stories from this hot potato of a federal agency one that does so many things I bet you know nothing about one that has expanded its powers rapidly. Stay with us. Act One We will Talk About It in the Car. So in this show about ICE before we get started it seems like it might be a good idea to do a very quick primer on what exactly ICE is. The agency has only been around for 15 years. It was created after September 11th. The idea was Customs and Border Protection would be the agency at the actual border stopping people there. ICE would deal with the interior of the country and a lot of its mission at the beginning was very post-911. It was all about catching terrorists arms traffickers cyber crimes transnational gangs child predators catching criminals of various sorts. One department of ICE went after undocumented immigrants. But it was not nearly as robust. It did not do as much until after immigration reform failed in 2007. Since then that part of the agency has stepped up its game under rules set by each new administration. President Obama still has the record for the most people deported but President Trump of course has unleashed agents like they have never been unleashed before. Today they can question pretty much anybody they meet and put them into deportation proceedings even if they have no criminal record even if they have lived here productively and peacefully for decades. ICE has brought back worksite raids. They are involved with the family separations along with Customs and Border Protection. This week there were and of course it is a unique week because every day families that the Trump administration separated at the border are being reunited. The administration has a court imposed deadline to get everybody back together by Thursday July 26. That is why they acknowledged that they are not going to make it or maybe even come close which brings us to our first story today. And OK I realize there is a lot of coverage out there of parents being reunited with children. But we came across this audio that we thought was unusual and took us inside the world of that in this way that we had not heard elsewhere. A reporter named Jeremy Raff who is with The Atlantic has been following this one lawyer in Texas for this documentary he is making. And he is friends with one of the producers of our show Nadia Reiman and shared with her this material that he is been videotaping of this lawyer trying to reunite one mom and her son. Quick warning that we have unbeeped the curse words here in the podcast. If you prefer a beeped version of our show maybe you are listening with kids it is at our website. Here's Nadia and you will hear from Jeremy the reporter later in the story. Jodi Goodwin the immigration lawyer speaks pretty good Spanish for a white girl. She is effortless in it moves through her words in neatly accented Norteno tones dropping perfectly placed Spanish f-bombs.  dialing numbers you know just waiting for somebody to answer the phone. How are you doing? That is her on the phone with an ICE officer. She is in Harlingen Texas way down in the southern tip where she is been practicing immigration law for more than 20 years. So she knows these guys. She is grown up with them. I mean I care about them. I mean they are my friends. They are people that I work with all the time. I mean we have known each other for like over two decades. We have seen our kids be born we have gone through health issues with our children. The kids go to the same schools. Yeah yeah I am here. She is on the phone trying to get a Honduran woman named Anita out of detention and reunited with her son Jenri. They have been separated for about a month. An ICE agent told her that Anita should be out on bond but she is not. Are you freaking kidding me? I know. This woman has a freaking five year old. OK who is my best bet with the supervisors to get this overridden? Because this is bullshit to have one policy for some people and continue to cause prolonged trauma to a fucking five year old. Even the ICE agents that Jodi's known for over two decades have conflicting info. One says yeah she should be out soon on bond. The other is like no we are not giving bonds anymore. But Jodi talks to a manager and she gets them to release Anita. Anita's kid Jenri though he is at a shelter nearby. It is called BCFS. To get him out Jodi has his birth certificate and Anita's ID. She is emailed all the necessary paperwork but she is still not sure how it will play out. She is seen other parents do this and be told you can visit for an hour but you cannot have your child back. Come back again tomorrow. One parent had been told this four times. Four days in a row they showed up hung out with their kid for an hour and still no reunification. So recently some parents have been buying tents and threatening to set up a camp right outside the shelters refusing to leave until they get their kids back. So Jodi tells Anita about this and says do you want to sleep outside if that is what it takes to get Jenri back?  Si. Anita's like yes. While Jodi is explaining all of this to Anita she is going through this huge stack of papers. She turns one page and there is a black and white photo of Anita and her son. It was taken just a few moments before border patrol separated them. Anita sees this picture and starts to tear up. Jodi notices.  And she is like hey we are in this fight together.  Those tears we are going to save those tears for when you get your kid back.  The mama bear is going to come out. We are going to be a mama bear tomorrow. So the next morning they drive to the shelter armed with paperwork. It looks like a church. There are basketball courts outside there is classrooms. Jodi and Anita knock on the door and they go inside. And then some BCFS employees take them to this room and there is Jenri. No need for tents or mama bears or anything. They are ready to release them. Anita's thrilled but her five year old who has not seen her in a month-- Jenri was sitting in a chair and he remained seated in the chair. And he did not get out of the chair. He did not run to his mom. And that shocked Anita. She started crying and she knelt down on the floor in front of the chair where her little boy was sitting. And she tried to give him a hug and she asked for forgiveness a lot of times.  over and over again. And then she kept talking to him and she pulled herself back a little bit so she could see his face. She put her hands on his face and she asked how he was and if they had treated him well. And he did not say anything. She kind of just gave it a few seconds to make some eye contact. It was probably about a minute later that he reached his arms around and gave her a big hug and I think they probably hugged each other for about two minutes before they let go. It is not clear why it was so quick to get him out. Jodi's best guess is that it is some combination of all the media attention plus the upcoming deadline for reunifying parents and kids. On top of that if Anita had set up a tent outside which she was totally ready to do it would not have been great press. So all this audio was gathered by my friend Jeremy Raff from The Atlantic and I am just going to let him mostly take it from here. When Jodi and Anita went to pick up Jenri he was there but he was not allowed in the shelter. So he waited outside. It was like 100 degrees out so he was under a tree. After a long time I see first I catch sight of Jodi and she is walking next to a woman in a sort of starched blue button up with the BCFS logo on it. And then next to her is a really little boy like smaller than I thought he was going to look like holding Anita's hand. And the four of them are walking out. I have seen a bunch of videos and photos online of parents being reunited with their kids grabbing them like a life raft while the kid looks confused and far away. But they usually stop here. I would never really heard what happens next once the parents and kids are left trying to figure out how to be with each other again after weeks of not knowing where the other slept or ate or when they were coming back. Jeremy is with Anita and Jenri while all of this is happening. They walk up to Jodi's truck and they open the door and like you know Jodi has a kid the same age as this little boy and so she brought some of his toys along and they are in the back seat. And so he is like checking out these little monster trucks that Jodi brought for him.  He is saying toys toys.  She is like we are here we came for you are you excited? And he is sort of like information overload at this point.  He is telling her that he brought her water. He is saying mommy I brought you water for you to drink too. Yeah he brought his mom little gifts. He brought her water. He brought her a little bracelet he was really proud of that he gave her as a gift. And then he had a little watch on that he was super proud of all day a little Superman watch that lights up with like you know blinking. He is like trying to put this little watch on his mom's wrist. We stopped by this gas station and Jodi kind of buys Jenri some treats I think trying to make him feel like a regular kid again.    I am crammed in the backseat with Anita and Jenri in the car seat. He is got a little car seat for little kids. And Anita just turns to him and starts asking him all about what happened after they were separated.   So Anita's asking him like where did they go where did they take Jenri after they were separated. And Jenri's telling her her  --icebox you know you sleep on a little mattress on the ground with a space blanket. So Anita's asking him if there were lots of kids with him and he says that he was cold and so he turns and he says to someone teacher I am cold can I have a blanket. And that person who I am guessing is probably like an ICE officer or something or a-- Border patrol agent. Someone there tells them no not yet. And then when they finally give him a blanket Jenri's saying that he shared it with another kid. And his mom is like you shared it with another child. And he says yep. And she says that is really good sweetie. Yeah I mean this is her first time seeing him and I think she is just looking at him trying to imagine what he is been through while she has not been able to be there with him.     Anita's struggling But Jenri seemed like he was doing just fine. He had chocolate. He was surrounded by toys. The next step was for them to get on a plane to go stay with a relative in another part of the US while their asylum case was being processed. But it is a small town. There are not a lot of flights. So they go to a shelter run by Catholic charity where they can spend the night. When they get there Jenri is taking in every bit of his mom's attention like a sponge. They are like in a little dorm room at this shelter and they are just sort of reacclimating. They are like in a bunk bed just she is tickling Jenri they are talking. They are sort of like reacquainting themselves. So there is this thing that happens. In Spanish there is two ways of saying I love you. There is te quiero which means I little love you. Like I love you but it is for things that are not necessarily permanent. And then there is te amo which is like I love you love you for like I love you with a capital L and that is for things that do not ever go away. And you do not throw a te amo around but you can say like te quiero like a little bit is here.  And so Anita is telling Jenri she is like guess what. And he is like te quiero. And she is like no te amo. So she is like no I really love you.  And he kind of giggles and he is like te queiro like I little love you.   That went on late into the evening. But then around 1100 PM things took a bit of a turn. Jenri was still really excited and was not going to sleep anytime soon. And one of the nuns came in to kind of settle everyone down make sure they had everything they needed you know for the next day leaving. And Jenri's like running all over the place right in this little room. And he eventually reaches for the TV almost like he is going to rip the TV off the wall so this nun says oh do not touch that you know. At the shelter it was actually sisters not nuns. And he just starts repeating do not touch no touching. No touching no touching over and over again. No touch no touch no touch! No touch! OK I think it is time  so we can take him out of here.   No touch no touch no touch. And you know while he was saying that I said hey where did you learn how to say that in English you know because he does not speak English. And he said over there where I was in the shelter. We do not actually know a lot of details about what happened to Jenri at BCFS but that is one of the rules some of the shelters have. You cannot touch other kids. The sister told Jeremy she thought Jenri was afraid he was going to be taken away from his mom again. And then after things calmed down about an hour later I spoke with Anita and I ran you know what I saw by her and she told me that that is exactly what she thought happened too.  Anita says Jenri told her I am not your son anymore. He said that he did not want to sleep there. He said the lady the sister was a bad lady too. The next morning I met them at the shelter and Jenri was fine again. I mean they said bye to everyone. He hugged that nun that same nun that scared him so much. He was back to being a regular kid and Jodi drove them to the airport. And it was both of their first time on an airplane and when we got up into the air they were looking out the window from the plane and Anita's telling Jenri see the river down there remember when we crossed the river. Remember that. And look down there that is where mom was in the detention center. And they were leaving that behind for the moment. Jeremy Raft with The Atlantic. He is making a documentary about this story. You can watch the trailer at theatlantic.com. Nadia Reiman is a producer for our show. You may remember a few weeks ago we did a story about another lawyer in Texas Rochelle Garza who is trying to get her client out of detention and reunite him with his 12-year-old daughter. Just the other day we heard from them. She was finally able to get the dad out of custody and he went out to pick up his daughter at the shelter she was at. They are together now and still in this country. Coming up a whole part of ICE that does not want to be part of ICE and what in the world do they do. That is in a minute on Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life I am Ira Glass. Today's show ICE Capades We have two stories today about the agency US immigration and Customs Enforcement. ICE is such a big agency and does so many things prosecutes criminals goes after terrorists detains tens of thousands of immigrants. Sometimes one part of the agency is actually at odds with the other parts. You see that in this next act of our program. Act Two The Iceman Cometh. Miki Meek has this story of two brothers who tried to turn the tables on somebody who was doing some pretty bad stuff to them. The way that ICE is involved will become clear as this unfolds. Here's Miki. Back in 2012 Christina Corbaci had this meeting that was totally standard something she would done hundreds of times that turned into something she would never experienced. She is an immigration lawyer in Boston. Two brothers came in Brigido and Walter originally from Guatemala. They were living in the US without papers. I think they came in to talk about one of the brothers in particular to find out what he and his wife whether they had any options. It did not look good. He and his wife both had deportation orders. Christina told them. I doubt that there is any concrete real options for you to legalize your status right now. And then I remember them saying OK well now that we have sort of gotten through this we want to tell you why we are really here. It was a test and she passed. The brothers wanted to see if Christina would be honest about their chances. There is a whole world of people who prey on undocumented immigrants tell them they can get them legal status when their cases are impossible. It is just a way to take their money. Because Christina passed the test they spilled out the real reason why they were there. It was about an immigration official named Patria Zuniga. She worked for US citizenship and Immigration Services out of their Miami office. They met her through a friend who said great things about Patria. Patria got her legal documents to travel out of the country in return. Patria was helping her whole family get green cards. So they called and from that first conversation on the phone Walter said she seemed super competent.  She was familiar with my immigration case. She mentioned the number of times that I had entered the US with a visa. She knew how many times my wife had applied for TPS. TPS stands for temporary protected status. It is a humanitarian program.  And that gave me trust that she was going to help me. Patria told them their families were eligible for a particular category of green cards and that she could help fast track their paperwork. But there would be a cost 7000 for the children and between 10000 and 11000 for each adult. The numbers did not seem crazy to Brigido. They had lots of fines and violations to clear. But it would be hard for them to pay all that money upfront. Brigido was a truck driver and Walter worked construction and ran a small computer repair business. So Patria agreed to let them pay in installments. They used all their savings and started borrowing from family and friends. And Patria actually drove out to pick up the payments in person. They liked her. She moved here from the Dominican Republic and became a citizen herself. She came across as smart and confident but also warm and down to earth a real family person. She was in her late 40s and sometimes she brought her two older daughters and grandkid. Patria told Brigido and Walter their green cards should be ready within three to six months but then she said they hit some delays and extra fees. Patria would tell them I am going to need another 200 for mailing. Oh no this fine came up on your file. That'ill be another 1500. They asked for receipts. She said she would send them and never did. Then she started disappearing for weeks at a time before suddenly popping back up. Once she told Walter that she would had a heart attack.  But as soon as she got out of the hospital she was going to Miami right away to get the papers. They start to wonder if she is ever going to deliver if they have been scammed. Months drag on. It was hard to talk about this with anyone. They felt ashamed for dragging their families into this. Walter had even referred one of his friends to Patria.  I felt uncomfortable with myself because I thought how could I have fallen for this. Patria's phone calls became more aggressive and threatening. She tells them if they do not turn in all the money fast she will cancel their applications. She will tell ICE agents where they live. Walter refuses to give her money. Brigido still holds out hope that she will deliver. Going to the police did not feel like an option because they were undocumented. Here's Walter.  She says look If you report me you are going to be sorry your entire life because I have but to snap my fingers to deport you or to have you disappeared. I kept turning it over and over in my mind and I said to myself there is no way out. You failed. He and his wife both started to crack from stress. One day driving on the highway he blacked out barely pulled over in time. All along they were paying Patria in mostly cash. Walter said she told them straight out that the money was for bribes. She said she and her bosses in Miami had been helping people out like this for 15 years. Walter says this would be totally normal back home in Guatemala but his brother Brigido he understood the payments differently. He thought these were real government fees though after more than a year he was fed up. He was out nearly 34000. Walter was out 28000. The two of them they are very different personalities. Walter's talkative wears his long hair in a ponytail. He used to teach at a university in Guatemala and uses lots of big words when he speaks. Instead of saying we had to clear our heads he will say we were oxygenating our minds. Brigido's more reserved quieter but more of a leader. He is the older brother and it is Brigido who decided to start an investigation. He found a guy named Rolando who was sure Patria was about to deliver his papers. He just had to make one last payment.  He still owed about 7000 to Patria. And I asked him would he be willing for us to try to come up with some evidence. And he said yes and he asked me how to do this. So I said for him not to deliver cash but money orders. He had Rolando go to the post office and purchase seven separate money orders each for 1000. He then sent them to Patria.  They should have been cashed by immigration but instead her daughters cashed them and even she cashed in a money order. So that made it quite clear that this was a swindle. Next Brigido called a meeting in Worcester where he lives. It is about an hour west of Boston and has a big Central American community. He put out word through other undocumented immigrants in town that anyone who'd been in touch with Patria should meet him at a public park.  And there were about 40 people who showed up to this meeting in a park. This was the moment he realized her scam was much bigger than just him and his brother.  I myself was surprised because I met people that I would never seen before. Everyone was afraid. We were all afraid. And at that moment I felt a lot of contempt for her for what she had done. One woman said she lost 80000. Other people had taken out high interest loans second mortgages or drained their kids' college funds to pay Patria. Lots of them met her the same way the brothers had through one of their good friends in Worcester a woman named Nubi Melendez who was really close to Patria. People dropped off envelopes of cash for Patria at Nubi's house. Brigido purposely kept her in the dark about the meeting. He figured she was in on the scam.  I said we were all victims of Patria that there was no doubt about it at that point and that no one should hand over any more money because it was a swindle. And I wanted to know who would be willing to pursue this to its final consequences. Everyone said they were. When you say final consequences what did that mean?  That she might carry out her threats to report us to immigration and have us deported. Sure it was dangerous to go after a corrupt immigration official. But by that point the feeling was so what. Patria had all their information. She was probably going to get them deported anyway. Again here's Walter.  I was not going to stay silent. I was going to find a way for that woman to pay for what she had done because what was the worst that could happen. We would be deported to Guatemala. Well we came to a point where we said it does not matter. And so this is how days later Brigido and Walter landed in Christina Corbachi's office. At that meeting at the park everyone decided Brigido should find a lawyer to talk to. People started calling him Don Brigido as a sign of their respect. So he and Walter went online to research law firms. They chose Christina's because they saw that her boss was a retired immigration judge they trusted that someone like him would know how to report Patria. His name is William Joyce and he did have a thought for Christina. He was like hmm why do not we call ICE. ICE is in a federal building right across the street from the firm in downtown Boston. And that was like the last thing I would have thought of because to me that was like oh yeah let us you know call ICE on these people who are undocumented. Who just showed up because they trusted you. I mean when he said that what was going through your head when he said that? Like oh I do not know about that. I guess my first thought was like well what about the police right local police. It just did not seem that there was any possible way that going directly to ICE the agency best known for arresting detaining and deporting undocumented immigrants would end well for Brigido and Walter. Even if they got Patria fired and all their money back would not ICE have to deport them? But then Christina's boss told her about a separate division within ICE that most people have never heard of Homeland Security investigations or HSI. ICE has two big branches. There is the side that does deportations and then there is this other branch HSI which does other kinds of criminal investigations broadly having to do with national security. They go after human trafficking money laundering MS-13 child pornography and anyone messing with the immigration system. Last year they were in the news for helping capture the drug lord El Chapo. HSI is actually the second largest investigative agency after the FBI with more than 6000 special agents. Anyway Christina's boss knew some people at HSI and told her we do not need to give them any personal details now. Let me just reach out. And HSI they got back to them said sure we will send an agent over. Remember they are right across the street. I did not know whether I could trust them. I mean logically it seemed like we should be able to. But it is almost like we were delivering them into their hands. And then are you guys is there any formal assurances you are getting from ICE? Does anything get signed? It was all verbal. That is so nerve wracking. Yeah. The agency promised that they did not care about anyone's immigration status. They just wanted to get more information about Patria's crime. Still the very idea of meeting with ICE scared off most people from the park. Out of that group of 40 only five or six other people said they would show up with Walter and Brigido. The brothers were terrified too. Walter had overstayed his visa and Brigido had a deportation order. Their wives decide to skip it. So Brigido Walter and the others showed up early for the meeting. They sat waiting around a giant conference room table swiveling nervously in leather chairs on wheels. And then an agent from HSI walked in and introduced himself a scruffy guy in t-shirt and jeans. Special Agent Robert Rice. I am an agent with the document and benefit fraud task force. Agent Rice told me he agreed to the meeting with the lowest possible expectations. Normally he did a lot of financial crimes and identity fraud complex schemes where people were forging documents and lying to the government. He had never done a case like this and when he strolled in he did not actually expect to find people there. I have never seen anything like it. These were for the most part undocumented aliens. They do not come running to law enforcem