A friend of mine ran her own small business. It was just her and this guy the bookkeeper. And she loved the bookkeeper. The bookkeeper did the billing. He kept the accounts. He saw that vendors were paid on time. He did basically all the stuff that to my friend was just kind of drudgery. She used to say that she did not know what she would do without him. They were really close. So it was this great setup for years. And then one day the bookkeeper disappeared with her money. Classic inside job. Perfect one. The bookkeeper knew everything. My friend totally trusted him. And sometimes I wondered was the idea of using what he knew and taking the money like this little bug in his brain eating away at him for years. Once he figured out that he could take the money was it hard for him not to take the money? Well today on our radio show we have two stories of people who get inside. They get inside some system. They truly understand the system. And then they have to figure out what to do with their insider knowledge. One of the stories is this incredible tale of money guys on the make right when the housing market was starting to collapse. The other is this story of cops and robbers drug busts and drug users playing a cat and mouse game. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One Eat My Shorts. Something you hear from a lot of people on Wall Street this crisis that we are going through now nobody saw it coming. Nobody saw this coming. See what I mean? This is Angelo Mozilo the former CEO of the failed mortgage lender Countrywide on Australia Broadcasting. SP and Moody's did not see it coming. Bear Stearns certainly did not see it coming. Merrill Lynch did not see it coming. Nobody saw this coming. Brian Moynihan head of Bank of America told a congressional hearing he did not either. No one involved in the housing system lenders rating agencies investors insurers consumers regulators and policy makers foresaw a dramatic and rapid depreciation in home prices. Even Robert Rubin former treasury secretary former chairman of the executive committee of Citigroup's Board of Directors said just this week-- Almost all of us including me who were involved in the financial system that is to say financial firms regulators rating agencies analysts and commentators missed the powerful combination of factors that led to this crisis and the serious possibility of a massive crisis. The recent collapse of the financial system has been described as a 100-year flood a perfect storm a force of nature. And it is so frustrating to hear it described that way as something that happened to Wall Street instead of something that Wall Street brought on itself. At the height of the boom Wall Street was doing such strange dangerous things bankers and brokers all over the country were giving huge mortgages to people who could not afford to pay them back. Investors were then buying and selling these terrible mortgages to each other as if they were worth something. Banks convinced analysts to rate this stuff as completely safe. And then they believed their own lousy ratings. They believed their own hype. And really nobody suspected this could all come crashing down? Here on our radio show we have never believed that this was true. We have never believed this idea that nobody knew. That really we are all to blame because all of us from homeowners to investment bankers all got caught in this irrational exuberance in the housing bubble. We did not believe it. After two years of reporting on this crisis we felt pretty sure that not only must there be some people on Wall Street who figured out what would happen there must have been people who helped bring on the crisis who fed the fire and who figured out ways to profit from that. And so we wanted to find some of those people. To do that we and our regular team of crack economics reporters at Planet Money asked the investigative reporting outfit ProPublica to join up with us. ProPublica spent seven months conducting dozens of interviews pouring over thousands of pages of financial documents. And they uncovered some things no one has ever heard before in all the reporting that is been done on the crisis. And today with their help we bring you this story of people at one company and their associates who took home hundreds of millions of dollars in personal income while at the same time helping to worsen the crisis that taxpayers that you and I will be paying off for years to come. Here's Alex Blumberg with the reporting team from ProPublica Jake Bernstein and Jesse Eisinger to bring you the story of this inside job. This inside job takes place deep in the heart of Wall Street financial engineering. It is full of intrigue and genius and questionable behavior. And it resembles in ways that will eventually be revealed the plot of a Mel Brooks musical. But it begins far from Wall Street on the shores of Lake Michigan in Chicago where a man named Alec Litowitz was starting a new hedge fund. We will get to what exactly a hedge fund is in a minute. First though here's Jake Bernstein from ProPublica with the hedge fund's name. Magnetar. And that is because Litowitz the guy who started Magnetar is a big astronomy buff. A magnetar is kind of like a black hole. It is a star that is burned out. And it is the most magnetic force in the universe. And they have a marketing spiel. You may not have noticed but that was the other half of the ProPublica duo entering the conversation Jesse Eisinger. And they have a marketing spiel. They say that this firm is going to attract the best employees the best investors. We are going to have the highest returns. And they give t-shirts to people that say Very bright. Very magnetic. And sometimes employees would joke that they are named after a black hole. But for the most part they start out with these high ambitions and excitement and they are really enthusiastic about it. So what do hedge funds do anyway? Well basically they gather a bunch of money from investors and they try to get that money to grow using whatever strategy they think will make them and their investors rich. Magnetar decided that one of the ways it was going to make money was by investing in a corner of the financial markets we have heard a lot about lately securities made of subprime mortgages and was going to go for one of the more esoteric of these securities collateralized debt obligations or CDOs. Such are the times that we live in that CDOs have appeared on more than one episode of This American Life lately. CDOs have the distinction of being the single most toxic financial instruments of the financial crisis. The instruments that did more damage to the world's financial system than any other single instrument out there. And what you need to know about a CDO to understand this story is pretty simple. A CDO at least the kind Magnetar was interested in is a financial security that is made up of dozens of bonds. And each bond is itself made up of hundreds of individual mortgages and not safe mortgages. These were pretty risky ones to borrowers with poor credit. Now Alec Litowitz who was only 38 when he started Magnetar had already amassed a personal fortune in finance. This allowed him and his wife to take a couple of years kicking around Europe collecting antiques for a big house they were building on the shores of Lake Michigan. And during the time they were away CDOs were becoming the hot new thing on Wall Street. A record number were on their way to being sold in 2005 which would shatter the previous record set in 2004. But by the time Alec Litowitz was back and had his new hedge fund up and running at the end of 2005 things were starting to change in the CDO world. We talked to a guy named Bill Tomljanovic a guy on Wall Street who put together CDOs. He said that at the end of 2005 people on Wall Street were starting to worry about the housing market. Unfortunately since Bill is in finance he does not say it like that. He says it like this-- In 2005 the summer spreads on RMBS collateral started expanding. And that is banker-speak for people started to worry about the housing market? Yes ah yes. Now what Bill is saying here which sounds really boring it is huge. It means that part of our theory the theory that got us into this story in the first place was correct. There was a group of people on Wall Street who are not like most people in America. They were not caught by surprise. In 2005 two full years before the collapse of the major subprime lenders like New Century and Countrywide three full years before the failure of Lehman Brothers and AIG and the big government bailout a lot of people on Wall Street were looking at housing prices around the country and seeing signs that things were not well. Las Vegas had an overheated market. Certain sectors of California were looking very aggressive in terms of real estate valuation. Was it enough-- Was the bubble ready to burst? You could see this uncertainty showing up in bond prices in 2005 long before everything crashed. The anxiety is right there in the interest rate numbers. Some of the people on Wall Street who buy bonds that are made up of hundreds of home mortgages were starting to demand more interest for their investment saying essentially we will buy this bond but you have to pay us more because it is looking riskier to us. Which is just another way of saying we are worried. And because of this people like Bill Tomljanovic were thinking that the good times might be coming to an end in the CDO world. The level of difficulty to replicate the business plan of '05 in '06 was pretty-- I mean everyone was worried how are we going to keep volume up make the same amount of money for the firm? How are we going to recreate this in '06 because it was such a great year in '05. So here's all these people on Wall Street in late 2005 thinking the CDO business might be slowing down housing might be cooling off things might be returning to normal. And then in walks Magnetar. Magnetar spends the first quarter of '06 talking to as many people as possible in the CDO business really understanding it interviewing people getting a good sort of lay of the land. And then they put out the word that they want to buy equity. OK. Equity. A quick word of explanation. Every CDO was divided into layers. A layer at the top that was considered the safest the layers below that which were considered semi-safe and then the bottom layer which was considered the riskiest. Of course after the crash we learned that no part of the CDO was safe. Every part of most subprime CDOs is now worthless. But back in 2005 and 2006 they were still making these distinctions. So the part at the bottom that riskiest part that was called the equity tranche. Tranche is just Wall Street lingo for layer. The equity tranche the equity layer paid a lot more interest than the top layers the idea being if you bought that risky equity you got paid for that risk. But still it was the riskiest part of a CDO that was made up of risky bonds backed by risky mortgages. It was not an easy sell. Here's Bill Tomljanovic. The equity was the toughest part when the business-- early 2000s either analyzing-- Finding somebody to take the riskiest portion. Riskiest portion. That was the hardest part to find? It was very difficult yes. So here we are in early 2006. CDO managers and investment banks are thinking the CDO party is ending. And in comes this hedge fund saying not only do they want to buy CDOs but-- They want to buy that lowest tranche that lowest piece of the CDO. The one that was hardest to place? The one that was hardest to place. And they want to buy lots and lots and lots of it. As one banker said to us it was like a miracle. Suddenly this big equity buyer shows up. In other words it seemed like Wall Street felt it had found its sucker. An article in Business Week later wondered if Magnetar was poised to get shredded. Magnetar's entrance into the CDO market in 2006 had a huge impact though. If they were willing to buy the equity piece it became easier for Wall Street banks to make the CDO. Buyers were easier to find for the parts that were less risky. Magnetar as the equity buyer was often called the sponsor of the CDOs in which it bought the equity since without Magnetar the CDO probably would not have gotten made in the first place. Magnetar's entry into the market helped the CDO business which insiders worried was petering out in 2005 roar back to life. 2006 ended up being even bigger than 2005. In fact it became the best year in CDO history. A lot of CDO deals got done and a lot of that had to do with Magnetar. Their pace of production was extraordinary by any estimation. In a year's time from the middle of '06 to the middle of '07 they do 28 deals worth an estimated 40 billion. Just to put that in perspective that is about a third to a half of this corner of the subprime CDO market that they were operating in. And for one hedge fund to account for that much was very rare. In fact we ran this by Bill Tomljanovic the CDO manager. He was familiar with Magnetar but he did not know how many deals they would been a part of. And when we ran that number by him he was pretty impressed. That is a lot of deals. That is a lot of deals. Is that enough to sort of be an influence in the market? I would say that-- wow-- it sounds big. Now most insiders who knew Magnetar would not have described them as suckers. In fact every single person that Jake and Jesse and I have talked to about Magnetar uses the same word to describe them smart. Sometimes they will say really smart. And yet here they were going on this huge spending spree buying the riskiest parts of these financial products that were all backed by a housing market insiders were starting to view with more and more suspicion. And that caused a lot of people to wonder why? People puzzled it out. And they talked about it. And they tried to figure out well what is the strategy here? Why would they like such risky stuff? And then they figured it out. As one CDO manager said to us At a certain point we were in on the joke. The joke being that Magnetar was also betting against the very CDOs that it was creating. So how do you bet against a CDO? You do not need to go to Vegas. You do not even need to leave Wall Street. There is another type of financial product that Wall Street had created. It is called a credit default swap. You may have heard that term before as well. A credit default swap can be used to bet that some part of a CDO will fail. And the way it works you pick a CDO that you think might fail and then you pay some Wall Street firm a little bit of money a few times a year. If the CDO does fine the Wall Street firm keeps your money. But if it fails the Wall Street firm pays you the entire value of the part of the CDO that you are betting against a massive amount of money. The theory on the street was Magnetar did not care in the long term whether the equity it was buying survived. They made the equity investment mainly as a catalyst for the creation of the rest of the CDO. Magnetar would cause these CDOs to be created by buying this tiny equity portion which was typically just 5 or 6 of the value of the entire CDO. And then they would place a bet take out a credit default swap on one of the larger sections above. They also placed bets against other similar CDOs out there. So the theory among many of the people Jake and Jesse interviewed-- and I should emphasize Magnetar disputes this theory-- but the theory was say the equity portion cost Magnetar 10 million to buy but the entire CDO itself is a hundred times that 1 billion or even 2 billion. If one of the upper sections of the CDO goes bust and Magnetar is betting against it they stood to make a lot more than 10 million potentially hundreds of millions of dollars. It was such a brilliant idea soon others got in on the act. This strategy was being employed by some hedge funds but Magnetar was the biggest. They did it the most. They put the most money toward it. And in fact on Wall Street it became known-- according to the people we have talked to-- as the Magnetar trade. OK. Here's another piece of jargon. The strategy of betting that something will go down in value in the language of Wall Street it is called shorting or taking a short position. And there were a handful of other hedge funds out there shorting housing-related securities like CDOs. A new book by author Michael Lewis The Big Short tells several of their stories. And generally there is nothing wrong with shorting. In fact many people argue that shorting which happens millions and millions of times a day every single day on Wall Street is actually a good thing because it keeps prices more tethered to reality. It is harder for a mania to develop if people who have a dim view of things can bet on that view. But the Magnetar trade was not shorting in the traditional sense betting against something which already exists. The Magnetar trade was betting against something Magnetar itself helped create which is the exact opposite of what you want shorting to do. In traditional shorting by betting essentially that certain things out there are crappy and overvalued you are helping to rid the world of those crappy overvalued things. But a lot of people thought that what Magnetar was doing was bringing crappy overvalued things into the world in order to bet against them. We talked to Jon Pickhardt a lawyer whose firm is suing an investment bank that helped set up some of the deals with Magnetar and with other hedge funds that were doing what Magnetar was doing. Yeah a number of the hedge funds they were simultaneously entering into significant short positions with respect to the CDO or its collateral. In other words were they being basically built to fail? In some cases yes. In trying to come up with an accurate metaphor have you ever seen The Producers? Yes. So in the plot of The Producers there is a scene where he hires an accountant and he says where he is sort of murmuring to himself and he is like hm you could almost make more money if the play fails than if it succeeds. Carry the 3 divided by 4-- amazing! It is absolutely amazing but under the right circumstances a producer could make more money with a flop than he could with a hit. It feels very similar. Is it? Well from the hedge fund standpoint that clearly was the case. Clearly they would benefit more if the CDO ultimately failed. Do not you see Bloom? Darling Bloom glorious Bloom. It is so simple. Step one we find the worst play ever written. Step two we hire the worst director in town. Step three I raise 2 million. Two? Yes one for me one for you. Step four we hire the worst actors in New York and open on Broadway. And before you can say step five we close on Broadway take our 2 million and go to Rio. Oh Rio? Nah that would never work. Oh ye of little faith. Jake and Jesse have had several conversations with Magnetar and they say what they were doing was nothing like what Nathan Lane is singing about here. Magnetar says We did not have an opinion on whether the housing market would crash or soar. We were not hoping the CDOs would fail. We were not betting against them. We were simply hedging ourselves. Now this is something you hear a lot on Wall Street the great hedge versus bet debate. A hedge is like insurance. If you are making an investment in something like a house you expect the house to stay standing you expect to live in it but something could happen. It could catch fire or get swept away by a tornado or fall into a sinkhole. So you buy insurance. In other words you hedge. You pay a little bit a year in case those things happen. But that does not mean you are betting that they will. And in fact hedge funds originally got their name because in the early days of hedge funds they hedged all kinds of bets. And that is exactly what Magnetar said it was doing being a classic hedge fund. By buying credit defaults swaps on the CDOs it was helping create it was simply protecting itself if something unforeseen happened to them. The problem with figuring out whether it is a bet or a hedge is that the action of betting and the action of hedging look exactly the same. The only difference is intent. But there are some clues to look for that help figure out intent. For example is the size of the bet against the investment bigger than the investment itself? Are they taking out a million dollar insurance policy on a hundred thousand dollar house? So in Magnetar's case it would be interesting to see how many bets did they make on which CDOs for how much money. Unfortunately none of this information is public. Still in the case of the Magnetar deals there is some evidence that the play was expected to flop. To understand this evidence you have to know a little bit about how a CDO gets marketed and sold. OK. So first you have the investors. This can be anyone who wanted buy a layer of a CDO could be a hedge fund like Magnetar a pension fund an insurance company. They are the buyer. Then you have the seller. That was the Wall Street bank. They were the ones who went out and found the investors said Hey we are putting together this CDO. Would you like to buy a piece of it? And in the CDO business there was often a third party the CDO manager. The CDO manager is the one person in this transaction who has what is called fiduciary duty. They are there to make sure that investors are not being ripped off that the game is played honestly. The CDO manager was sort of like the referee. He would be the entity that stood between the investors and the bank. The CDO manager had one other very important function. The CDO manager picked the assets that went into the CDO. OK. Assets. Remember CDOs are a bunch of mortgage-backed loans bunched together. These mortgage-backed loans in Wall Street parlance were called the CDO's assets. They were also called the collateral. It is basically the stuff that goes in to making the CDOs. The CDO manager picked that stuff. Again here's Jake and Jesse. So we interviewed a lot a bankers and CDO managers and others in the business and they told us something interesting. They said that Magnetar was frequently pushing for riskier assets to be put into the CDOs. All right. I am going to play that last bit again because that is key. They said that Magnetar was frequently pushing for riskier assets to be put into the CDOs. In other words Magnetar was targeting the referees the CDO managers. Jake and Jesse have compiled seven different cases where Magnetar actively tried to influence the CDO managers to get them to put riskier assets into their CDOs. For example in Magnetar's very first deal to put together a CDO-- We spoke to a person who was involved in the deal. And right away it became clear to the CDO manager according to this person that Magnetar wanted influence. They would ask for specific bonds to buy. They would say would you consider these bonds? And according to this person that we talked to they said let us just say that we did not think their suggestions made a lot of sense. You are understanding this right. The CDO manager was confused because the investor Magnetar was putting pressure on him to put riskier assets into the CDO that that very same investor was buying. And this happened over and over with Magnetar CDOs. There was another banker involved in the creation of another Magnetar CDO who described a back and forth fight between Magnetar and the CDO manager over the quality of the assets again with Magnetar pushing for riskier ones. And there was another deal where the fight took place over email which Jake and Jesse got copies of. In an email that one Magnetar person wrote in September of 2006 said The original portfolio target spreadsheet that I have had a strangely low spread target. That of course would not at all be beneficial to us. I have attached the target portfolio that I would like for this deal with target spreads. So basically in the email they are saying these are the kinds of assets we want and this is how risky we want it to be. Well the CDO manager was not terribly excited about this. And he sent an email back rather forcefully saying We will not assemble a portfolio we are not proud of and feel strongly about in the name of a spread target. And so the two sides drifted apart and the CDO was never consummated in part because of the CDO manager's concern about Magnetar's need for riskier assets. And finally there was a meeting Jesse and Jake had over lunch with a former banker who worked on one of Magnetar's CDOs. He lost his job soon after. At lunch they showed this banker the list of unusually risky assets that were in the CDO that he would helped put together with Magnetar. And he looked at it. And he went down the list. And he said Yeah they asked for this one and they got it. They asked for this one and they got it. They asked for this one and it went in. And then he said After looking at this I deserved to lose my job. There are other clues as well that Magnetar was trying to produce a flop. Magnetar's CDOs in an independent analysis commissioned by ProPublica went bad faster than other similar CDOs. And then of course there is this. For a company that came in at the height of the housing mania invested in the riskiest parts of the dodgiest subprime-related CDOs out there CDOs which got completely wiped out in the crash-- a crash which started just months after it finished making its last purchase-- Magnetar sure did make a lot of money. 2007 was a very profitable year for Magnetar. We know that one of their funds the constellation fund-- which presumably had some of the profits from their CDO business-- was up 76. And we know that the firm Magnetar grew rapidly during this period. When Litowitz its founder Alec Litowitz started Magnetar in 2005 he had 1.7 billion under management. And by the end of 2007 he had 8 billion. Almost 8. Almost 8 billion. So within the span of almost three years he would increased the amount of money under management by 6 billion. Right. And while some of that I am sure was new investors some of that was also profit from the business that they were doing. If Magnetar was making a lot of money on these CDOs there was another group that was not. And that was the group of people who were buying the top-rated portions of these CDOs that Magnetar was sponsoring and then betting against. There was a group of mutual funds in Tennessee that lost a bunch of money on Magnetar CDOs. There was a regional bank in Ohio. A Lutheran fraternal organization in Minnesota. But surprisingly the biggest purchasers of Magnetar CDOs we now know were the very same investment banks that put these CDOs together in the first place. That is right. The banks were making these CDOs and essentially selling them to themselves. For example one CDO deal that Jake and Jesse have managed to learn a lot about a CDO that Magnetar put together with J.P. Morgan. Magnetar bought the equity portion of the deal for around 10 million. J.P. Morgan bought the top portion for almost 100 times that nearly 1 billion which was strange because some of the bankers at J.P. Morgan knew that Magnetar had selected especially risky assets to go into the CDO and that Magnetar had placed a bet against the middle portion of the CDO. But they went ahead and put the deal together and then bought the biggest piece of it without hedging themselves either because they convinced themselves it still was not that risky or because they just did not give a damn about the risk or some combination of the two. What they were certain about was how much money they would make in fees. J.P. Morgan made we understand 20 million in fees for the bank but-- Probably about half of which was distributed in bonuses to the bankers who worked on it. Yeah roughly. Generally. Generally. And yet the bank retained the top-rated safest portion of the deal. That eventually got wiped out and they took about an 880 million loss on the deal according to people we have spoken to. We talked to one banker in this world who did CDO business. And he described what had happened as a success. We were sort of taken aback by this because most of these CDOs failed and the banks ended up saddled with huge losses which the taxpayers will be paying off for a long time to come. And so we asked How could this be a success? And he said Well the bankers did very well. Their bottom lines their bank accounts are still quite full. They might not be at those banks anymore but they are doing all right. So in the eyes of individual actors this was not a complete and total debacle. This is an important thing to understand. Bankers made money even when they were buying things that eventually blew up the bank. We talked to another CDO manager Jim Finkel who said that for every CDO that a bank put together it got a fee usually 1 or 2 of the overall value of the CDO. And remember CDOs were often worth a billion dollars or more. 1 of a billion? That is 10 million. And the bank earned this fee the minute it finished putting the CDO together not 7 or 10 years later when the CDO was supposed to finish paying off. Every deal would get 1 or 2 fee so let us just keep doing billions of dollars of deals and that'ill rack up the tens and twenties millions of dollars in fees. I think Merrill Lynch made 700 million in CDO fees in 2006. I mean that is just an enormous amount of money. How many people is that going to inside Merrill Lynch? That was going to somewhere between 50 and 80 people. That is a lot per person. That is a lot per person. That whole 700 million was not going to their personal pockets right? The firm probably created a bonus pool of say 100 to 150 million out of that. But still you are talking about the head of the group probably walked home with 10-plus million 15 million. This situation where the individual bankers made money whether or not the investments they sold collapsed should be added to the list of causes of the financial crisis that we are still living out. It helps explain why the crisis was as big as it was. And it also helps explain the answer to the question wait why were the CDO managers and investment banks so eager to help Magnetar do this in the first place? I think this is where we have a rousing defense of Magnetar. I mean essentially Magnetar was doing right by its investors. They found a weakness in the Wall Street machine and they exploited it. But there were other actors in this drama. Those other actors were the CDO managers and investment banks that put these deals together. The ones that Jake and Jesse have spoken to they knew what Magnetar was doing. They knew that Magnetar was asking for riskier and riskier assets to go into the deal. And they knew that they were placing bets against other parts of the CDOs that they were helping to spawn. And yet this information was not in any of the documents that were available to the Lutherans in Minnesota or the banks in Ohio or the mutual funds in Tennessee or any of the other investors out there who were buying the other parts of the CDOs that Magnetar was sponsoring. When you look at it this way if the investment banks and CDO managers had been doing their jobs actually explaining to their investors what was behind these CDOs well the Magnetar trade might not have been possible. So if the investment bank came to an investor and said we have got an investment for you. A hedge fund actually asked us to create it and they asked us to put riskier assets into the deal and oh by the way they are betting against it. Would you like to buy it? And the answer is going to be obvious. They are not going to do it. The role of Magnetar both as equity investor and in their bets against the very CDOs they helped create were not disclosed in any way to investors in the written documents about the deals. Not the marketing material not the prospectuses not in the hundreds of pages that an investor could get to see information about the deal was it disclosed that it was in fact Magnetar who had helped create the deal and who bet against it. There is an argument to be made that the fact that investment banks and CDO managers were not disclosing this information might present securities law violations. It might be worth looking into anyway if you were say I do not know the Securities and Exchange Commission. Did the banks represent this thing that they are selling fairly and accurately and disclose or tell the investors all the material information? And the question revolves around this concept in the securities law of materiality which is extrem