I did not see this one happen. But Ben one of the producer here at This American Life he saw it. He was in the news room here at our home station WBEZ Chicago one day when Dan Blumberg arrived for work. And Dan walks in. And he is just swollen like everywhere. Like his eyes-- here I will do the face. It was like-- Oh wow. You are puffing out your cheeks and squinting your eyes. Yeah yeah yeah. I mean his ears were like cauliflower. I was like Dan are you OK? And he says It is OK. Last night I ate some crab. And everybody's reaction is of course oh you are allergic! You need to go to the hospital! And he is like no no no. This happens pretty regularly because I love crab. And I am allergic but it only happens one out of every three times. What? Yeah. It was a calculated risk. One out of every three times he would turn into like the Stay Puft Marshmallow Man. Yeah so I mean I suppose this is the part where you would bring Dan in. I should have called in sick that day. This of course is Dan. I think that morning it was mostly the eyes that would have been kind of freaking people out very heavy eyelids kind of probably a sunken look to them. Dan did confirm everything that Ben said and more. He is been allergic to crab and lobster since he was a kid. The night before this incident he had eaten crab. And he got the worst reaction he would had in years. It was a wake up call. Not that he going to stop eating crab and lobster-- no no. He was going to keep doing that. But now he would do it-- Only if I have Benadryl as a sort of aperitif. And only if I have an inhaler just in case it were to spread to my lungs. And I have an EpiPen. An EpiPen if you have never heard of it is the injection that you stab yourself with in an emergency if you get a life threatening allergic reaction. And this is his system. And he says it is working for him. And no his doctor does not know. He risks this twice a year or so. He says his wife's not so crazy about it partly because the Benadryl makes him really sleepy. But the poisoning myself it is not that bad. Like I said I get sleepy from the Benadryl. That is the worst part I get really tired. But if you find yourself saying the sentence the poisoning myself is not that bad-- Yeah I mean I think there is something probably to that. You know I like it. What can I say? This whole thing made me think of some book that you would read about the decline of the Roman Empire people eating so much that they would have to throw up so they could eat some more. This is like someday people are going to write what was America like back in its heyday? Well what it was like was people with severe allergies would eat the thing that they are allergic to but just have meds at the ready to stab themselves with and cure themselves. But you know reaching out to friends and family and to strangers over the internet this past two weeks I have learned that what Dan did is actually not that uncommon. I do have willpower. But when it comes to the whole pizza thing I do not hesitate. I just go ahead and eat it. Ruthie Zinchuck in Charlotte North Carolina is lactose intolerant. She cannot digest milk or cheese or any dairy product which is a problem because as a transplanted Jersey girl she says she likes her pizza. Well we do have Pizza Hut. Out of nowhere I will get severe stomach cramping. And I will have to go to the bathroom like immediately. It is no joke. And so how often do you have pizza now? I would say at least a couple times a week. Oh a couple times a week? Yeah. It is always our go-to when we do not know what to eat. My fiancee and I are like well I guess pizza will work. And he will always just look at me and say Really? Are you sure? In Cleveland Ohio Elise Hagisfeld and her older sister and her younger sister and her mom and her daughter are all allergic to tomatoes citrus pineapple strawberries in various combinations. Elise herself gets hives. It makes her face blotchy. She gets itchy. But they all continue to eat this stuff. I do not know if I have any great stories about it because we just do it all the time. We apparently are a family that has absolutely no self-control or good sense. I am not sure which but whatever. I like it! Which is of course pretty much what Dan said and what my senior producer's mother-in-law told me too. Her name is Barbara Melman and I reached her on vacation. She said that a couple years ago after some abdominal surgery she had a few episodes where she got incredibly sick throwing up rushing to the emergency room getting an IV an anti-nausea medication until she realized that each time this happened she would eaten popcorn or nuts or trail mix before. And so she cut those from her diet. But over time she has snuck that stuff back in. And being on vacation now I have got a room full of popcorn and trail mix. You do? Right now? I do. I am staring at it as we are speaking mm-hm. Wait do not you think you are playing with fire? Well you know it is not going to kill me. And if it does I guess I will not know. It will not kill me. No I mean it is throwing up. It is not like I have to go through surgery. Just a quick trip to the hospital an IV some medication. A few hours mm-hm. And meet some nice people and leave. The ER is a virtual laboratory of dysfunctional behaviors and bad choices. Do you just feel like as a doctor what is wrong with people? Oh every day every day. This is Michelle DeVito an emergency room doctor at an urban hospital in Washington D.C. And she says that nearly every day she sees somebody with a food allergy who has eaten the food that they are not supposed and ended up in her ER. It is such a thing that it is not up for debate. Dr. DeVito told me story after story there are the people with esophageal problems who are not supposed to eat steak who come in again and again. The same people with steak caught in their throats looking guilty avoiding eye contact with her requiring a gastroenterologist to be called in for an emergency endoscopy. How much of what you see in an ER is people who are their own worst enemies? Oh I think maybe half. I think that the smokers the out-of-control diabetics the people who get in a car accident from text messaging on the phone-- I think so much of the pathology we see in the ER is a result of bad choices. And some of them decades of bad choices. I think there once we have become adults most of us are aware of the different ways in which we can be our own worst enemies not just with what we eat and with our health but in how we deal with people how we handle certain situations. Well in this hour prepare to meet people who make my problems and yours when it comes to this seem like nothing. We have people who create problems for themselves in spectacular life-changing ways that they do not know how to stop. We have one man who finds himself suddenly unable to do his job others who are sabotaging relationships and they cannot themselves when they do it. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. Stay with us. Act One Aces are Wild. Ken Fueson is a baseball fan and a lifelong supporter of the St. Louis Cardinals. And he had the same experience that a lot of Cardinal fans had back on October 3 2000 watching his team play the Atlanta Braves. It was the first game of the National League playoffs. I remember exactly where I was. I was at Johnny's Hall of Fame which is a sports bar in Des Moines. I was sitting at a table. I had a big glass of iced tea and a patty melt sandwich. The Cardinals scored six runs in the first inning. This is going to be fantastic. The starting pitcher for the Cardinals in this game was Rick Ankiel a young phenom who'd had a great rookie season. He pitched two innings no problem. But in the third he lost control. I do not know where the first wild pitch went but it was like-- you thought to yourself you know it is slipped out of his hands. It is like one of those scenes that they show like the pitcher stumbling and the ball goes up in the air. And then it happened again. You are still kind of thinking OK maybe the nervousness of the moment or whatever. But you are not thinking this is going to be a big problem. He is going to settle down. And then it keeps happening. I am thinking there has to be some sort of physical explanation for this. You know there is something wrong with his arm. This is not even little league quality wild pitches. It is beyond that. I mean it is like you would have to try to throw it this badly. And I am at this bar and people are laughing at him. Ankiel gets pulled from the game. Cardinals win. And in the next round of playoffs they are up against the New York Mets. And so they bring Ankiel out to try again for the second game of the series. He lasts 23rds of an inning. He does not even get out the first inning-- throws two wild pitches walks three. It is literally like watching your kid in a peewee game. Wild pitch. He is got guys in the third row ducking. Friendlies ducking back there. Bob you all right down there? You ducking? You feel like you are safe behind that screen? And as a fan you are just this cannot be happening. It is disbelief. I do not believe this. Then you get angry at him. What is he trying to do out there? What is going on? And then you start feeling sorry for him. And this is borderline ridiculous. On a human level-- that is the other horrible part of this-- he is naked in front of the world. He is out there trying to get this back. And it as not coming back. You feel horrible for him yeah. Ankiel's bad streak eventually got him sent down to the minor leagues. He stopped pitching came back to the major leagues as an outfielder. But watching Ankiel that day in the bar made Ken think of a different player from years before Steve Blass. He played for Pittsburgh. His name has become shorthand for any pitcher who suddenly becomes his own worst enemy and loses the ability to throw the ball. They call it Steve Blass Disease. Blass was an all-star on the cover of Sports Illustrated. Older fans remember him winning game seven of the 1971 World Series for the Pirates. After the Series he had a great season in '72 won 19 games. And then in 1973 for no apparent reason no physical injury of any kind he stopped being able to throw strikes. He never recovered and ended his career. He was a player falling apart for purely psychological reasons which can happen to any athlete in any sport of course. But the suddenness of Blass' fall and the visibility of his fall-- he was one of the leading pitchers in baseball and he just lost it-- it got people's attention. And if you want to understand what Steve Blass Disease is about one place you can go is Steve Blass. So I am sitting in my living room with my wife. We are watching the playoffs with the Cardinals. And Rick Ankiel starts throwing the ball all over the place-- behind people to the backstop. Turns out Steve Blass was watching that same Cardinals game that Ken Fueson saw. And I turned to my wife Karen and I said Karen I am predicting within the next five minutes the phone will ring. Well three minutes later it rang. And I picked it up and said Hi Paul. My good friend Paul Meyer beat writer for the Pirates who was covering the playoffs for the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. He said How do you know it is me? I said Well of course it is you. Somebody just went off the planet again. How many interviews have you given about this over the years do you think? I have an 800 number.  I mean whenever anybody-- when Rick Ankiel imploded in the playoffs when Mark Wohlers was doing his thing Steve Sax Chuck Knoblauch And I know why there is interest. I understand. I understand that. People are making a living. It is a curious subject. It is a fascinating subject to go from 19 wins to three to none and then out. So I have had a great deal of patience with it. Steve Blass turns 70 this coming Wednesday. And next month he is publishing an autobiography called A Pirate for Life. The title refers to his 10 years as a player and to the nearly three decades after that that he served as a Pirates color commentator on the air. He says that he wrote the book to tell the story that you can come back from the kind of public collapse that he suffered. In the immediate aftermath he got a job selling school rings. He said he drank too much. He says it was hard to go out to the grocery store and be recognized by people. The book covers but does not dwell on how his pitching career came apart which he calls the abyss. He says he cannot name exactly when his problem began what game it was. He remembers it as just a gradual slide. There was not one specific issue item time at bat game. And to this day I do not know why. I do not know what caused that. There is still frustration in me because I never had a sore arm and I had the perfect body. You know I was not heavy or anything. But I still do not know exactly what caused it. I have been going back and reading. And I saw Roger Angell wrote a piece years ago for The New Yorker. Wonderful piece. Yeah a really beautiful story. And he tries to figure out well what game was it? And he names an April 1973 game with the Cubs that you pitched. And then he says maybe it is that game. And then there is another game on June 11 with the Braves in Atlanta. And I was wondering do you even remember either of those games? Like do those games stand out as significant? Um I do not remember the Cubs game. if he is referring to the game where I came in relief in Atlanta which I think was the case I remember it more than any other game I have pitched in my life because it was just-- it was the absolute bottom of the pit. And I remember after that game we flew to Cincinnati. And I did not even go to my hotel room. I just walked the streets of Cincinnati until dawn. And it was just one of the awfulest games and awfulest nights that I have ever had in my life. And so what do you remember of the experience of being on the mound during that game? Like did it occur to you when you were on the mound OK something different is happening now that I have not experienced before? Yes. That game in Atlanta I said there is something tragically wrong here. And I am lost out here. I do not have a clue of what I am doing. I start to wind up and I just kind of almost freeze. And there is no flow there is no rhythm. I knew I should not be out there. But I did not want to quit. I wanted to keep trying to find it. Roger Angell's account of that game-- I mean I am not even sure if I should read this or not. Oh I know it by heart. Yeah-- oh really? All right. Just for listeners then so you get called in in the fifth inning. And the Pirates are trailing already. So you are coming into a losing game. They are trailing by 8 to 3 and Roger Angell writes Blass walked the first two men he faced. Gave up a stolen base and a wild pitch and run-scoring single before retiring the side. In the sixth Blass walked Darrell Evans. He walked Mike Lum throwing one pitch behind him in the process which allowed Evans to move down to second. Dusty Baker singled driving in a run. Ralph Garr grounded out. Davey Johnson singled scoring another run. Marty Perez walked. Pitcher Ron Reed singled driving in two more runs and was wild pitched to second. Johnny Oates walked. Frank Tepedino singled driving in two runs. And Steve Blass was finally relieved. Yeah yeah. It was awful. It was just-- it was a nightmare. But I have been taught and developed and I firmly believe you do not quit. I just was not wired that way. And I wanted to be convinced. If it was not there I wanted to be totally convinced. And that is why I pitched all of '73 obviously. And then all of '74 which was another nightmare in the minor leagues. And then in '75 I said that is enough. Uncle. I have had enough. I read you said to a Pittsburgh sports writer named Joe Starkey years ago Underneath very privately and very personally is a feeling I got cheated. And did you feel that it is almost like some foreign thing had taken over? Like you were hit by something that you could not control? Well I certainly had no control over it nor did I understand it. I was just confused. I mean I would sit up in my backyard 3 and 4 oclock in the morning thinking my god what has happened to me? What is this? Did somebody put a curse on me or something? And I never believed that. You know I do not believe in that junk. But it was just-- it was devastating in that I did not know what to do about it. In the decades since Steve Blass stopped pitching researchers have been trying to figure out what to do about it and what is going on when a player falls apart like he did. And they believe that basically the problem comes down to thinking. When an elite athlete is at his or her best when they are in the zone their movements are automatic. They are not thinking about how their wrist turns or their knee bends or any of the other details. And when researchers bring athletes into the lab with a simulated batting cage or a putting green when they tell them to think about the mechanics of what they are doing to notice where exactly the bat is moving when they are swinging or how their elbow shifts when they are putting the athletes-- the overwhelming majority of them-- start to choke. Thinking is the problem. And interestingly two researchers named Steven Weiss and Arthur Reber have a paper called Curing the Dreaded Steve Blass Disease which is going to be published in the Journal of Sports Psychology in Action. And they argue that when well-meaning coaches tell an athlete in a slump to focus more on the mechanics-- which they say is common still-- the coach can actually make things worse not better because he is telling a player who is already thinking too much to think even more. We have to somehow figure out a way to get you to stop thinking. You have to find some sort of mental distraction that allows them to go back to just rely upon their instincts. This is Rick Wolff. He was a baseball player himself in the minor leagues and he went on to counsel professional athletes whose minds were working against them. Wolff's job was to redirect them stop them from thinking about the mechanics of what they were doing. So if you are having problems as a pitcher throwing strikes I need for you to stop thinking about or worrying about that. And as you wind up I want to think about something totally different. It might be I want you to really focus on the catcher's left shin guard. I am just trying to get them to stop thinking about where their arm angle is and how they are delivering the ball to the plate. And does that work? Sometimes it does. Sometimes it does not. It just seems like a hard thing because the more you try not to think about something the more you are thinking about it. Yeah. I did not say it was easy. Do most of them get over it? Do most of them not get over it? I would say it is about 50. Some of things the study says that athletes might focus on if they want to avoid thinking they can focus on the catcher's mitt or on wherever it is that the ball is supposed to go. Golfers can focus on one word like a general thought that describes the swing they want like smooth. Steve Blass tried everything to get out of his abyss. He tried pitching from his knees. He tried pitching from second base. He tried pitching every night in the bullpen and he tried to take a week off to see if the rest helped him. He watched himself on video and compared it to video of when he was pitching well. He went to a hypnotist and to a psychologist. He learned meditation and practiced it. When a friend suggested changing to looser underwear he laughed about it with his teammates. And then he tried it. Some of these cures focused him more on his mechanics. Some of them tried to take his mind off of his mechanics. None of them worked. When you see other players go through this like watching Rick Ankiel on television is it hard for you to watch? Oh very difficult. In fact Ankiel was still trying to pitch when I was broadcasting when they would come into Pittsburgh. And I watched one of his last games. And it was just heartbreaking because I knew what he was going through. And so I do not want to say it was difficult for me because what I do I try to do professionally. But it was very very uncomfortable for me to watch very sad for me to watch. You must have said something during the broadcast though when you saw him. I said-- yeah. I said this is very difficult for me to watch. I am not enjoying this. The Pirates are benefiting because of what he is going through. But it is not the most comfortable thing for me to watch because it brings back some memories. Hm. So there is a chapter in your book that is called They Named a Disease After Me. Is it annoying to have your name attached to this? It is not my favorite thing. I am not crazy about it. But I understand it. Every once in a while I get a little frustrated and say you know what? Why do not we talk a little more about the seventh game of the World Series? Mm-hm. Come on! I mean the average major league career is 3.7 years. And I pitched for 10 years and won 100 games. Come on let us talk about some of that stuff. Let us go! I mean you are talking about two years out of a charmed life. I lived my dream. I mean how many people get to do that? So I had a couple of difficult years very difficult years. But I have been blessed. And I am not a religious person but I have been blessed. Blass says a few years ago he met with a sport psychiatrist named Richard Crowley who taught him a technique. He says it is something to do with trading negative thoughts for positive ones. And decades after he left baseball he got back on the mound. He now pitches games where former pros and amateurs play together. It is a long way from the majors. But Blass says he got what he wanted-- the pleasure of throwing the ball again. I had the joy of throwing a baseball since I was eight years old he says. And he really missed that. Act Two The Conversation. There is this new podcast out there that is trying to re-imagine and reinvent one of the old radio formats a format that is barely holding on. You barely hear this format outside of Prairie Home Companion or Bible stations-- radio drama. They are trying to make radio drama that does not sound like an antique thing from the 1940s but feels completely contemporary. What I find interesting about this is it is like they took the sound of programs like Radio Lab or our program and they use all of the production techniques and tools that go with that but with actors in a drama. So what you are about to hear is a work of fiction from producer director Jonathan Mitchell and The Truth. It was our first date. We had never met. Hey can I get you anything? Uh me? Yeah. We would emailed but we had not even spoken. Well I should wait. And I was waiting for her. Waiting and waiting and waiting.  Hello? Hi Ben. It is Erica calling. Hey Erica! How are you? Hi I am-- I am so sorry. I am running just a little bit late. OK that is OK. That is totally OK. I am here. OK Tulip's-- you know Tulip's been sick lately. So I had to-- I finally took her to the vet. Oh. Is she OK? She is she is. Thank you. Good. Do you know how long you are going to be? I-- look I just got out of the subway and I am walking down the street so very soon. All right great. Do you want me order you a drink so it is ready for when you get here? Ah sure. What do you want? Do you not want to do this? Because we do not have to do this. Know what my reception's really bad. I do not think I am hearing right. So I am-- just let me run outside real quick. All right that is better. Can you hear me? Yeah hi. You know Erica I think I see you. Do you see me? I am right outside the bar. I am waving. Yes I see you. I see-- Hey! Hi. Hi! Um are you all right? Yeah I am OK. I am sorry. You did not need to say that. That was really unnecessary. I am sorry. I am not sure what I said. But I am sorry. You know I was-- I was really actually looking forward to this. What do you mean you were looking forward to this? What are you doing? Forget it. You are walking the wrong way. Are you still there? Erica are you joking? What is going on? Erica! I mean I was really confused and-- Hello are you on the phone still? The hell! --I could not tell if she was still on or if she hung up. And I am looking at my phone. And I see that I had recently downloaded this app that records phone calls. And I looked at it and was like I gotta listen to that recording. Hello. Hi Ben. It is Erica calling. Started out the same exact way as I had just recalled it. Then it starts to sound like not me. Do you know how long you are gonna be? Uh-- look I just got out the subway. I am walking down the street so very soon. OK great. Do you want me to order you a drink so it is ready for when you get here? Uh sure. What do you want? Do you not want to do this? Because we do not have to do. You know what? Um my reception's really bad. I do not think I am hearing right. It is the exact same words that I believe I had just said. But when I listen to tape it sounded like not me. That is better. But this jerk. Can you hear me? Yeah hi. You know what Erica? I think I see you. Do you see me? I am right outside the bar. I-- I am waving. Yes I see you. I see-- Hey! Hi. Hi. I do not know who that was. That was not me. I am not that person. You know I was-- I was really actually looking forward to this. What do you mean you are looking forward to this? What are you doing? Forget it. I am glad she hung up because god what would I have said next? I wanted to like run after her and find her and apologize. But I was like I should never say another word as long as I live. You tell me right now. Do I sound rude to you? Did that sound rude when I say Do I sound rude? Honey you sound confused. I am confused! Honey just call her-- call her and try again. No it is just not like I can pick up the phone and call her unless I know what the hell I am doing wrong. Sweetie it is probably just a misunderstanding. Well could you listen to the tape and tell me if I sound-- Oh Ben I do not want to do that. Why not? Because that is not my-- ah ah ah! Stop that! You stop that right-- get down! Get off that! Mom? Shoot. It is just one phone call Mom and it is really short. No honey. I am not listening to your discussion with a girl. Why? Why not? Because that is just creepy. Do I sound creepy? You sound like you sound. Hi! Hi. Well here we are huh? I am so glad to finally meet you. I just was testing out some recordings of myself to hear whether or not it was the device or the way it was recorded or something. Your laugh is contagious. And then I would play it back. Well here we are huh? And it sounded fine. I am so glad to finally meet you. I took the recording of the call between me and Erica and I loaded it in my computer. And I wanted to analyze it. So I divided it up took my side of the conversation and cut that out and separated the two. Hi Ben. It is Erica calling. Hi I am-- I am so sorry. I am running just a little bit late. Categories subcategories-- I just put all the questions in one file and then all of her statements in another file and then-- Do you now want to do this? Because we do not have to do this. I mean yeah she was upset. Yes I see you! I see-- hi. She was also patient and-- Yeah I am OK. --sincere and genuine and authentic. You know I was-- I was really actually looking forward to this. And I thought well what if I put something in there that I know is nice. Well here we are huh? Hi! And I am so glad to finally meet you. I was really actually looking forward to this. Yeah me too definitely. It sounded great. So you know I just for fun kind of expanded on that and-- Oh these are for you. You did not need to-- I know I did not need to. I think you said these were your favorite right? Yeah tulips. Yep they are for you. That was really unnecessary. Well you only get one first date. Do you want to do this--? Again? Yeah. You want to set up a second date this early in our first date? Yeah! Very soon. Why could not it have gone that way? Whoa whoa!  You know I remember being a lot better at ice skating. Do you not want to do this? Because we do not have to do this. You are just saying that because we are both unable to get back up. Yeah-- hi. Hi. What do you call that awesome move you were just attempting? Walking down the street. You really sold it with the whole falling hard on your butt thing.  Are you OK? Yeah I am OK. And the article said that like 90 of the world's oceans are unexplored. You know? And we think we know everything. But most of our knowledge is-- --really unnecessary. Right yeah exactly! Totally unnecessary! I mean do you think that there are things that will always remain a mystery? Uh-- I-- What? Say it-- what? I am so sorry! It is OK. I know what the problem is. We are working with a limited supply of words here. I-- I know. Let me think. OK how is your steak. Good? Sure? Sure? Sure? Sure. I wish you could just say that it was awesome or succulent or terrible! Like an old shoe. Ben I am so sorry-- No Erica you-- you need more words. You do not have to do this. Let me just get you some more words.  Hello? Erica? Hi it is Ben. Ben--? Yeah we used to-- well we almost went out on a date. Oh Ben. Yes hi. Hi. How are you? I am fine. Good me too. I am just calling because I felt like-- I just wanted to say that I felt bad about how things ended up. And I wanted to apologize so. Oh god no. It is-- that is OK. Uh cool. I just-- you know I made you feel really upset. And I feel bad about that so I just-- Do not-- do not worry about it. I was not that upset so. Well then I mean you just walked away like that. So I just-- you definitely seemed-- Right right. Well I-- I walked away-- I was very upset because of earlier that night my dog Tulip died. Oh. In my arms at the vet. I am so sorry. So-- yeah yeah thank you. Thanks. Sorry. But she did not die that day though? What? She did not die that day. That is not-- That is not what happened. Yes she did. She died. Mm-hm right. But well you just were coming from the vet. And you were just sad that she was sick. OK well I think I remember when my dog died. No that is-- well it is wrong because-- I mean I know-- I know what you said. Are you kidding me? No. I could play it back to you if you want but I mean it is-- What do you mean you could play it back to me? Well I recorded the call because-- You recorded our phone call? Yeah I just accidentally-- it was an accident. Oh my god. I recorded it. And I have listened to it a bunch of times. So I know exactly what you said. You have listened to it a bunch of times? Yeah. I know. That is super creepy. Well-- Wait are you recording this phone call right now?  Oh my god! What is your problem? No I am not! You are-- what is your problem? Because-- why would you say that your dog is just sick if she is dead or either that or you are lying now about your dog? God I lied OK? I lied then. Get over it. OK sorry. I am sorry about your dog too. I know that is-- My dog is fine. She is not dead OK? God. I am sorry. I do not understand because-- You want to know what happened Ben? Well yeah. I met someone else. The night before you and I were supposed to go out I met this great guy and we fell in love because he is awesome. And I showed up to tell you. And then you acted so crazy. Yeah you were like 40 minutes late! You know what? It was a-- it was a really weird night. Yeah. And I could not deal. And I wanted to see Derek. Oh. OK? And I left. Wait so you planned to blow me off? That is what I did and that is what I did. How do you fall in love with someone in one night? I do not-- um. I do not really know what to say. I just-- wait oh my phone's gonna die. Let-- I am going to-- can I call you right back? Actually do not do it. I am gonna call you right ba--  Hello? Hey we were talking and I had to um-- Yeah hi. How you doing? I am fine. Good. I just needed to tell you something. Sure. It is-- it is over Erica. Are you kidding me? No.  Hey come on now. No we-- we gave it a shot. You know? But the thing is you are not real. And real you is right. This is super creepy. It is super creepy. Yeah. What the hell have I been doing? I acted like a jerk and I do not know. It is been like I am trying to undo it or figure it out or something. And I mean the reality is I acted like a jerk because at that moment I was a jerk. Do not-- do not worry about it. I was not that upset so. Well that is good. Yeah. Goodbye Erica. Are you still there? No. Yeah me neither. Those actors Ed Herbstman and Tami Sagher with Lib