The people on 118th Street in New York City are doing this thing that almost nobody in New York or around the country is doing. And to figure out why-- what is it about their block-- I asked a longtime resident Ivette Rodriguez to tell me about the place. And she told me that when she and her mom moved to the block back in 1965-- this is the very neatly-kept 400 block of East 118th Street with brick houses and low iron fences where the property line hits the sidewalk. Back when she moved here the south side of the street was mostly Latino. Her side of the street the north side was mostly Italian. And we got this apartment because I told my mother do not say a word. Let me talk. Because if they would have found out that we were Puerto Rican they would not have rented to us. So I just kept really quiet. She kept quiet. So you guys were passing as Italian. Yeah. Yeah. Her mom now owns the building. These days Ivette says most of the old Italians are gone and the block is a mix of Latino white and Black. There are lots of retirees-- people who arrived decades ago like Ivette. And younger people are moving in. So we are talking and I glance at the clock in her apartment and realize the time. Do not worry. My husband has an alarm. Yeah no. We are just at two minutes before 700 now. No this is 10 minutes fast just in case. Oh it is? Yeah. OK. I was worried about the time because I was there to record something that starts at 700. You remember early in the pandemic how people would lean out their windows or go out at 700 PM and cheer for the healthcare workers and other essential workers? OK most blocks around New York City most blocks everywhere stopped doing that long ago. But for some reason not this block. They stayed at it for over 400 days everyday. Yeah we have got to get ready Ira. OK. What do we do to get ready? I have got to put on my jacket-- OK. --because I stay out there a long time. Soon enough at 700 we head outside where some very prompt neighbors have already gathered with pans and noisemakers they use every night.    Want to guess at how many people it takes to make this much noise? OK get a number in mind. Eight. From windows in the apartment across the street some kids wave flashlights. Standing just inside her fence is one of the neighbors who comes out to watch this every night Frances Mastrota 83 years old. I came on this block in 1959 as a bride. I have been a widow since 1975. And I have a granddaughter that is the class of 2019 of Harvard and now is in Chicago. After Frances introduced herself to me in such a deeply grandmotherly way I actually had to ask a bunch of questions to learn that Frances is Dr. Frances Mastrota retired oncology researcher happy to tell me about her work. Then as we got better and better we began to do HLA Human Leukocyte Antigens and then look at the genetic code. I am an old bird. In fact this is one of the reasons that this block is still doing the 700 appreciation of healthcare workers. A bunch of them on the block worked in healthcare including Frances and the neighbor who organized the nightly noise party Vivian and Ivette and Ivette's husband. But there are bigger reasons I think that this has continued here every night with all the retirees on the block. Because we are a very special block and we watch out for each other. If they do not see I come out at 700 they look for me. So is one of the reasons why it is still going on because people are checking on each other? If I do not come out this lady comes that lady comes the people over there come. Someone will knock on your door to see how you are? If I do not come out at 700 if I do not pick up my New York Times paper at 600 they look for me. They know I am alone. Some nights do you just feel tired and you do not want to come out? I have to. I have to. They will come here!  In fact Ivette and Vivian who organized all this do use it to keep an eye out for their neighbors to make sure they are doing OK. And when things quieted down Ivette ran through her little mental checklist of neighbors for me. I saw Mastrota. I saw Severina. Paul came out from next door. That is Sugar. Beverly is here. Arlene is the one that I did not see. One neighbor who Ivette checks on every night is her next-door neighbor Josephine who got COVID and went to the hospital for a while. She is back at home now but still bedridden so she does not come outside. Josephine waved to the window so she is not angry at me today.  And which window was that? This window right here. It is hard to see. I know because I know what I am looking for. But I can see her when she waves. Oh she does not even raise the drape. No no. You are seeing her through the drape. Right. Oh that is very--  You really have to know the neighborhood for that. Yeah yeah yeah. It is just starting to get dark. A pretty night. And people hung out on the sidewalk chatting in front of Monica Lehmann Gonzalez's house. She is a school teacher and the mother of three school kids. I think the beauty of this is that after all the banging is done that there is conversations where we just linger and talk and kind of catch up. And I think that is so nice. And what will be the sign that the pandemic has gone away enough that you can stop? We have no idea. We really have no idea. I kind of do not want it to end though. I do not want it to end. Now I am imagining COVID is going to end and you guys are just going to be coming out after COVID. I think that is a possibility. I think it is a possibility.   It is the dailiness of the 700 get-together the fact that it happens every single day. That is what is made it mean so much to all of them. They made this part of the day a little life raft that they gathered on during this terrible dangerous last year that made it like a daily prayer. I personally have not prayed every day since I was a little boy. But somebody who does it as an adult told me that it is the fact that the words and rituals never change day to day that gives comfort. He has days when the prayers mean less to him and days when they mean a lot more. And feeling that difference from day to day also tells him something. Today we are devoting our program to other things that we do whose dailiness is what is important about them and gives them meaning helps us see things more clearly. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One How Do You Get To Carnegie Hall? So usually if we do something every day like exercise or floss or keep a diary it is because we decide we are going to do it. But other times it is because the world has chosen for us. This first story is a little bit of both of those. Ben Calhoun tells what happened. The way this story started Lindsay was in the middle of changing her whole life around. She would been living and working in Ireland but she decided to take a leap. She was going to start a new chapter-- move to the other side of the world. I had actually just accepted a job and I was meant to move to Australia in April. Oh so you were getting ready to leave Dublin. You were on your way out the door. Totally. I was actually almost all the way packed truly ready to move. And I was dating an Australian guy who had just moved to Australia. And I was meant to follow him a couple weeks later. And then the pandemic hit. Lindsay could not leave and she had to scramble to find a place to stay. Eventually she got an apartment on the south side of Dublin. It was actually this great place-- a one-bedroom in a really pretty row house. It looks like it was pulled out of 101 Dalmatians or something. The place was cozy. It had these pretty bay windows that looked out onto the street and a sunny little breakfast nook in the kitchen-- Not that things were going super great for Lindsay otherwise. She and that Australian guy broke up. And her move her new job new life-- all that got called off in slow motion. And Lindsay she was alone in lockdown. She says this was actually one of the more depressing times she remembers. And it was in the middle of all of that that she started to hear music three or four times a day. I would notice when I was-- I would be doing the dishes or I would be doing something so mundane. And then it would happen. Yeah. The music was coming from nearby. It was a saxophone somebody practicing pretty clearly a beginner. But the most notable part of it was the song. It was the same one everyday again and again and again. It was the Pink Panther theme song.   What you are hearing is actually the sound of a video montage Lindsay put together. And the funny of this was not lost on her. In the video you notice the range of time stamps-- morning afternoon 1030 at night The Pink Panther Theme always in the background. You will hear it as Lindsay eats at her kitchen table or leans against the door frame in her living room holding back a smile as she lays on her yoga mat or walks through her hall. When he picked up the horn and you first heard the notes come out you were like oh I am in for how long? I would say 45 minutes or an hour. 45 minutes to an hour? Wow. Or maybe-- oh god now I feel like is that crazy? Maybe 20 to 30 minutes? No I mean-- Maybe it was 20 to 30 minutes. It felt to me like it was never ending. It felt to me by the end that I was just-- it was all day all night. So it became a staple of your existence. Yeah and it was to the point where I was trying to work during the day. I was trying to get things done. And then I would be in a meeting and all my co-workers could hear. Lindsay was now working remotely from this Dublin apartment. And all the Pink Panther-ing became a running joke for the people that she worked with. It was so audible that Lindsay found herself constantly having to mute during video meetings. Because mics on phones vary so much I could not totally grasp how loud it was in person. How loud was it? Oh it sounded like it was in my house. So when I posted this on Twitter I got all kinds of responses. But people were wondering if I was playing a recording of it in my house. But it was so loud that it did sound like it was coming from inside the house. And I do not know if he knew how loud it was. Yeah. And I do not think he did. Lindsay says this went on for weeks and weeks several times every day. Just to point out most days this was actually her only real-life human contact-- the saxophone coming through the walls. The video montage that Lindsay made of all this she eventually tweeted it and it accumulated 5.4 million views. Just for scale Miles Davis' Kind of Blue has sold 5 million copies. The internet responded like the internet. Some of the 4.7 thousand comments-- interesting how they got further from nailing it the longer they practiced. Your neighbor's horrible playing should be a crime. My condolences. You would think that the performance would at least improve over time. Someone chimes in Sounds like he is still shite too. The insurance company Geico responded We feel your pain. For a long time Lindsay did not know who the Pink Panther-er was. So when she would see people in the halls of her building it was a little like is that them? Wait is that them? Though eventually her suspicions snagged on this one guy. I would see this guy outside. He would always do this thing where he would walk outside to drink his coffee in his pajamas. And I had a feeling it was him but I was not sure. For some reason I feel like drinking coffee outside in your pajamas is kind of saxophone behavior. Yeah he had a vibe. It was a saxophone vibe. He had a saxophone vibe for sure.   So come with me if you will to the other side of Lindsay's wall to the other end of the saxophone rainbow where there was a young man named Rajat. At the time he was 23. Like Lindsay he was living and working in Ireland. As far as Rajat knew his only audience was inside his apartment at this window where he would practice. I had a large window. And on the windowsill I had three plants a basil plant-- I just randomly had a potato that was going off and I put it into a pot and it started to grow. So that was my potted potato plant. And there was a coriander plant as well. So I would play to them. That is my audience every day. And I still believe that that potted potato plant grew and it took off. So I think I had something to do with it.  No joke. It was super tall. Rajat told me for the record he had no idea people could hear him like this. He said some people in the building had remarked on how he was learning the saxophone. But he just figured this building is old. It is got to have thick walls. Maybe they hear me faintly off in the distance. Lindsay did eventually come over at some point. She introduced herself and she asked him to stop because she had a migraine. Rajat says Lindsay was super nice. Lindsay says Rajat was genuinely surprised and very sweet. For my fellow rom-com fans I will note that they are not engaged. But the point is Rajat actually had no idea how loud his saxophone playing was for her until he saw Lindsay's video later. When I saw the video I was like wow that is really loud in the house. I did not think it was that loud in her house. Because that was almost how loud it was for me when I was playing. And so when I heard it for the first time from her perspective I was like yeah I would have had a problem as well if I was there.  Rajat felt like oh shoot I did not know I was bothering anyone. He asked Lindsay what would be a good time to play and he started practicing during his lunch hour though an hour was barely enough he told me. Because what was unfolding on Rajat's side of the building was a love story a budding romance with the alto saxophone that had started just a few months before this. Turns out before COVID hit in December Rajat was visiting India. He is from Bangalore. And he was visiting old friends. One of these friends lives on a farm. Rajat says his place is just beautiful. So all these friends they are there and they are hanging out. And one of them picked up a saxophone right? And it was alto sax this nice cute little guy. And like we were all just-- we were working. And he has a little wood shop. Then we were working. And from the background I hear someone playing the beginning riff of As not No Sunshine. And I look out and it is my friend. He is wearing slippers-- flip-flops and shorts-- sweating because the sun is out even in December in India. And it is like the Pied Piper. There are a few dogs walking behind him and he is playing the tune. And I was like yo that is amazing. What? Rajat's friend was like hey you should try it. He was like OK. Almost immediately he was able to get a sound out of the horn. So his friend taught him the first line from As not No Sunshine and Rajat was off and running. And I was just off by myself playing out into the fields. Literally I would stay for a good-- if not 45 at least 30 minutes or so I was just constantly drilling and drilling and drilling and drilling and drilling it. And that was the moment. I was getting into a flow. And I think also with the saxophone because you keep blowing so much there is some degree of-- and then you are like--  --and then you blow again. So there is a high degree of when you rapid breathe when you meditate. There is some degree of you getting kind of like whoa what is happening? And so I was getting into this flow state with that. And I was like wow this is so good.  Getting that sound to come out of the saxophone right away did you feel a little bit like oh I am kind of a natural? For sure yeah. Yeah yeah for sure. When he got back to Ireland he researched carefully. And he bought a saxophone an alto. And then he set about learning to play it. He made this little notebook for himself. On the first page-- all caps-- he wrote CONSISTENCY IS KEY meaning practice everyday a little bit or a lot. On the second page he made a list of songs that he wanted to learn including of course The Pink Panther. Rajat told me this was the song he maybe most identified with the saxophone. And so he found a video tutorial of it online where a guy walks through the song phrase by phrase. And so I would have drilled that video 80-plus times just hard just again and again and again and again. And just keep going keep going keep going. You are like I am going to get this into my muscle memory. Yeah exactly. And because it was something I really wanted to get good because it sounded so cool the final product at the end of that video that I was like I need to get this. And I was not going to move on to anything else until I got this done.  So at one point in time it was not in heavy rotation. It was the rotation you know?  Yeah but I was not getting tired of it. It was entertaining. And it was so nice to see. Because at the end of it as well there is this beautiful riff.   And oh that is so cool! It is so funky when you get it right. So it would give me glimpses. I would do the first three phases horribly but I would say OK play to the end. And just the one time-- one time-- if I get the nice little riff properly I would get like oh this is going so well. The thing I love about the situation is just how different the same song played day in and day out for months could feel in these two neighboring apartments by two people in their own little bubbles like some kind of musical Rorschach test. For Lindsay whether it was irritating or funny it was an artifact of her confinement. But for Rajat it was the exact opposite. It was an escape. Yeah because there is only so much Netflix you can do until you start feeling sick of doing that. And yeah so this was genuinely-- I got up. I was like oh I am going to get to practice saxophone today. That got me through you know? Looking back on this little chapter for Lindsay's part she told me the main consequence of all this has been that months after leaving that apartment moving back to the United States she is still hearing The Pink Panther Theme all the time. It is just coming through the walls of her memory now like a phantom limb a pink phantom limb. All of this has also stuck with Rajat. So believe it or not but this 5 million view thing has scarred me to a certain extent. Because honestly I have now moved to Italy right? I am staying here. And I live in these apartments where you share a courtyard. So I have a balcony right here and it opens out into this beautiful courtyard. You can see the sky birds on top. Lovely. But there is just everybody around here and it echoes. So I cannot play the saxophone here because at least in Dublin if someone had an issue I could speak to them and try to diffuse the situation. I cannot do that in Italian.  I cannot. So I actually found a spot in. You know the storage rooms that are super dank in the cellar? Everything is musty where they keep the suitcases. I managed to go there once and clear out some space. And I was like this will be my saxophone room. Rajat says though it is just so out of the way he has not done it. For Rajat lockdowning in Dublin he had really been in this bubble where true or not he was so convinced no one could hear him. It was like he got to spend swaths of his day singing in the shower dancing like no one was watching loving The Pink Panther Theme like he would never been hurt if you know what I mean. That became his everyday. And since then well he is been a little unsure how to get back to that spot where he can play and feel quite so free. He is been chasing that feeling. Are not we all?   Ben Calhoun is one of the producers of our show. Act Two So Nice to Hear Your Voice. We now turn to somebody who had one daily routine that changed to a different daily routine. And I do not want to get ahead of the story too much but just to say what a vast effect it had on her and how quickly those effects kicked in. The person with the daily routine in the story is Dee Brown. She moved into long-term care five years ago. And for four years somebody would visit her everyday. Family or her best friend would come nearly everyday. They would go out to eat go on long drives into the mountains. Then COVID hit. And the facilities she was in following national guidelines did not allow anybody to have any visitors. Communal dining and group activities were also cancelled. So Dee's family invented a new routine-- daily phone calls. Basically they had made a schedule for everybody in the family to phone. And that way Dee would get calls every single day. They would chat. They would socialize. They would try to keep her spirits up try to keep her from getting bored. Dee's granddaughter Cecilia Brown was one of the callers phoning once a week or so. And she put together this story. When my family started this we figured naively we would do this for a few weeks maybe a month until things got back to normal. And the calls were fun. Hello? Dee? Can you hear me?  My first call March 27 we were still getting used to the phone. Dee I think you put me on hold. But Dee was pretty happy. She would start most calls by telling me about how nice her apartment was. She took her calls from her favorite lounge chair. Hello? Oh that was weird. Cecilia yeah hello. How are you doing? I am good. I am good. Yeah what is up? Dee loved to say the unexpected thing make fun of herself if it meant making other people laugh. Oh I have a real problem right now. I got some underwear the kind that stretches only it is too tight. And I sit down and they go ugh my stomach.  Those are big problems right? Yeah I have that problem too. Yeah well you just think of me as you are trying to pull your underwear down so it makes you feel very graceful.  Growing up Dee was not what I thought of as a typical grandma. For one thing we call her Dee not grandma. She also dressed like an old Colorado hippie-- tons of turquoise jewelry and tie dye. She always smelled like coffee which she drank all day even at midnight. She never did the normal grandma stuff with my sister and me like take us out for ice cream or whatever. Dee was a talker so that is what we would do-- sit in the backyard and talk for hours. It did not matter how old you were. And she was funny. Though my dad said she would sometimes disguise something as a joke just to get what she wanted. In her 40's after raising three kids and getting a divorce she ended up in AA. It became a huge part of her life so much so she ended up sponsoring over 100 people. She would still go to meetings a few times a week. Now of course all that was gone. Yeah it is been kind of a boring day because I have not been able to go to the store and call my friend who has my car. Yeah. Can you walk in the hallways? Yeah. Yeah I walk through the hallways and everybody else is walking in the hallway too you know? Because they are just trying to get a little exercise. But this will pass. And we will be OK. It is not going to kill me sitting in here instead of going out and walking around. I taped these calls with her permission. Dee was going on 88. I would done the same thing with my other grandmother when she hit her late 80's. It was just something to capture a little bit of their lives on tape while I still had them. Dee had dementia but it was pretty mild. She would forget small things like where I lived tell me stories she told me before. But she was still pretty with it. This was another reason for the frequent calls. Isolation is really bad for anyone with dementia. You have probably heard people say the brain is like a muscle. You need to use it to maintain it. With dementia this is especially true. The more you use your mind use words the more those things stick with you. But when you are isolated you stop practicing. Your mind starts to slip away. And once it goes it usually does not come back. In those first calls I did not worry too much about that with Dee. She had worked as a therapist for decades and would still kind of do informal therapy on everyone including me. Without my asking she would just start working out my options with me on the phone. OK what you do is you get a big piece of paper and you write down every one of them that you would like to do. What do I want? What do I not want? I would just finished grad school and was not really sure what to do with my life. See if you can find where you want to be and what you want to do when you grow up. I hate that one.  It is fun. That make sense? Just like that. Yeah. Yeah I just have to just figure out what I want. Yeah what do you want? You find out what you want to and then you keep in touch. Because I love talking to you. I love talking to you too. When I called her the next week April 5 she was still joking about things. But 11 days after that my third call with her she seemed much worse. She would always liked her apartment before but now I got the feeling it was starting to feel oppressive. I mean we have got some sunshine today. Uh I guess we-- we did not get sunshine. Well maybe a little. Oh it is that little dribble through that little crack in the window. It is just a little tiny crack of light not much to pay attention to. And my mouth is so dry. And the air is so dry. And my whole body is going ugh. I am just antsy awful. I am really just stuck here it seems like. Two weeks after that call Dee started needing round-the-clock care. And by May it was clear to me parts of Dee were drifting away. Things she would explained to me weeks ago no longer made any sense to her like they were swirling together in her head and I had to explain them back to her. I am trying to find out where my mind went sideways or something. I know where I am. It is just nothing anybody's saying is making any sense. And I can see some people walking along. And they are going up and down. And I do not know who is what or why. Yeah. Yeah I mean I think one of the things that is happening is that because people are stuck in their apartments they are walking up and down the hallway because it is the only place they can go to get exercise. Yeah. I think that is probably what is happening. That is why it seems so weird. It does. Everything feels weird. And I do not know. I am just going to try and get some orientation or something. Hm. And I have a television thing up in front of me but it does not make any sense. Hm. What do you mean? Like the things that people are saying does not make sense? Yeah the people in there. And I do not know. It just seems like I am in a strange world. But I will work on it. Yeah. Yeah. I will work on it-- that is so Dee always sure there is a way to fix things if you just organized your thoughts correctly even if the things she is trying to organize is her own dementia. I hated that she had to work this out alone so I tried to work on it too. But I was kind of grasping at how to help. OK well let us talk about something that might feel grounding. Why do not we talk about when you were living in Kansas City? Oh boy that goes way back. Yeah will you tell me about your house in Kansas City? Oh I do not know if I can remember much about it. Oh god I just really feel like I do not know what they are expecting of me here. I do not know. I am just off-center. That is all there is to it. It was so hard to comfort her. And it was not just her confusion. It was also that the worse she got the more physically uncomfortable she got too. There were basic things she needed that would have been so easy to do in person but not over the phone. My mouth is so dry that if I try and move my lips it is just hurtful. It hurts? Yeah. Yeah. What about water? Do you have some water you could have a sip of? I have some water right here. I have gotten a sip of water but-- oh. Now I cannot get any water through the straw. Huh. I cannot get any water to come through this straw. Oh boy. Are you sucking? Yeah trying to. Mm mm!  Finally got a little water. Around this time my family started talking about Dee's progression. Even though it should have been obvious to me what was happening I did not want to believe it. When I talked to my sister we would make excuses for Dee say she was just having a bad day or that it was her medication which was always changing. We wanted to believe the old Dee would come back. My dad did not think she would. By a few months into the pandemic the toll of isolation on people with dementia was clear. Medical examiners started listing social isolation related to COVID-19 restrictions as a cause of death for people in long-term care centers. Someone from the Alzheimer's Association told me people with dementia have been wandering more that maybe they are looking for the people who no longer visit. Dee started doing this too opening people's doors in the middle of the night. Hello? Hello? June 2020 just three months into lockdown. Hello? Can you hear me? And who am I talking to? It is Cecilia. What? Cecilia. I am sorry who? It is Cecilia. Oh OK. Yeah your granddaughter. Uh-huh. Oh and she is-- she is off somewhere right? I thought a lot about whether it is OK to play these recordings on the radio. Talked about it with my family. Back when she was with it Dee knew I might make a story out of these calls and knew she had dementia and was game to record. And I am sure she would want me to tell the true version of her story. That is Dee. By June COVID death rates were starting to dip and people were starting to meet up outside emerge in small ways. Dee though felt almost completely out of reach. What would you like to know that I might know? Oh nothing. I just wanted to talk to you. I do not have any idea what is going on. Yeah. Oh. Oh. Ugh! What happened? What? What happened? Oh I tried to swallow things and look at things and I do not know what I am doing. Because everything's in the dark. Oh. And it is all kind of pitch dark. Are you having trouble seeing? I am sorry. I am having awful hard trouble talking. Oh it is OK. It is OK. Why do not I call back later OK? Well I am trying. Oh I do not know what I am doing here. I absolutely do not know what I am doing. OK. So am I sounding silly? No you do not sound silly. You do not sound silly. It sounds like you are having a tough day. Ah. So you can just put the phone down and then it will be over. And I will say goodbye OK? OK. OK I love you Dee. I mean I taste OK. OK I will put it down. OK I love you. Oh it is on. It is sitting on the table. Ow. Ow. Ow. I hung up-- I was standing alone on the street-- and cried. I decided to stop recording all my calls with Dee after this. She was changing so quickly. I just was not sure it felt right anymore. And I also around this time began to wonder if my calls were doing her any good at all or if I was just calling to try to convince myself I was helping. I could tell from talking to her that my calls were making her more disoriented more agitated. Everyone in my family felt that. To be honest the calls were also pretty painful. So I started calling less and then stopped altogether. The Alzheimer's Association found that 46000 more people died from dementia this past year than on average in each of the last five years. They call these excess deaths people who might not have died if it had been a normal year. We could have predicted this. We have known for years that isolation can lead people living with dementia to rapid deterioration and death. And we isolated them anyway. Another term that is been used is collateral deaths-- people who did not die directly from COVID but as a byproduct of it. I hate those terms-- excess death collateral death like these deaths somehow fall outside the bounds of the deaths we care about. Eventually in September the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services reversed their guidelines to allow in visitors in cases where people really needed them for people who were having trouble eating or drinking and people in emotional distress people like Dee. I think it would have helped her. I think her dementia would not have progressed so fast that she would not have gone from where she was in the spring to where she got to by summer in just three months if she were not so isolated. My whole family thinks so. These nurses think so too. But that change in guidelines came too late for her. Dee died just a few weeks before it on August 18. She died alone. I ended up deciding to record one last call with Dee in late July a couple of weeks before she died. It was the last time we ever spoke. Yeah OK. Yeah and so what is it that you are trying to do? Oh it is Cecilia your granddaughter. I am calling to say hi. Oh oh OK. Okey-doke. It is good to hear you. Well it is good to be here. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That is good. Mm-hmm. Yeah I have to-- Hm? I have to sort of walk outside here and see what the temperature is. OK 