OK here's something that happens all summer long on Highway 101 in Northern California in the middle of the redwood forest. Little kids hold conversations with a statue that is five stories high. What do you eat? What do I eat? Mostly pancakes.  What do you eat? The statue is Paul Bunyan. Big red shirt blue pants hairy chest black beard. He stands next to Babe his 36-foot tall blue ox. Adults talk to him too. Hey do you know Bigfoot? Yeah I play poker with him on Friday nights. Who else plays in that game? Uh. What is your shoe size? Should not you be in Minnesota? Where are the bathrooms? Tell me a joke. Paul and Babe are part of a roadside attraction called Trees of Mystery. Paul can turn his head in a slow swivel. He can wave. He can wink. All with the stiff hydraulic-powered gestures you would expect from a statute built in 1962 which he is. Can I sing you a song? Can you sing me a song? Yeah. You are very much welcome to sing me a song. OK.  Do not be fooled by how great these two seem to be getting along. This is a good one. Eight year-old Morgan Gossage like lots of kids also has skeptical questions for Paul Bunyan. So many kids try to trap him into admitting he is not really Paul Bunyan he is just a statue. Why cannot you open your mouth when you talk? Oh I can. I do not need to though. Hmm. How come you never move? Because I am not allowed to. There is all the OSHA regulations like I cannot swing my ax. Huh. I cannot dance. I cannot jump up and down. Management by the way holds the line on this. When one of our producers first spoke with a woman in the gift shop and asked who does the voice for Paul Bunyan the woman replied Paul Bunyan. Or this is John Thompson. His family owns Trees of Mystery and he runs the place. I asked him what Paul's made of. He says The same stuff as you or I only more of it. I ask if Paul Bunyan's an employee. Well you know there is that fuzzy area there because he is so big we cannot really get him to do what we want him to do all the time. It is only been a few years we got him to stop walking around in the daytime. He stepped on a couple cars and made a mess. But that is Paul. John's daughter Hannah and his son-in-law Kylan both listened to him tell me this. They both seemed a little pained to have to keep up the pretense with me that Paul was real. And it is Kylan who pipes in with a very reasonable point that if Paul Bunyan is just some guy pretending to be Paul Bunyan-- You know it really is not as fun. I do not think the truth is really as interesting as people want to believe it is. It really is not you know? The bottom line Ira is that would you pull the mask off Mickey Mouse? Me? No. Well there you go. Yeah yeah. OK? OK. And I will be frank I thought this is where the story would end. We have an episode for you today about secret identities. And at this point I would say something about how it is better not to find out who is behind the mask and I would start the show WBEZ Chicago Public Radio International all that blah blah blah. And we would move on to Act One. But around closing time at Trees of Mystery that plan fell completely apart. I was standing near Paul Bunyan and this heavyset guy in a t-shirt and jeans and wire-rimmed glasses walked up to me. Hi. Ira. How you doing? Dave Johnson. Dave Johnson? Yeah. Hey. Get a little closer. Oh OK. So do you work here? Yes I do. What do you do here? I work Sky Trail and do Paul Bunyan occasionally.  You are blowing their cover here.  Yeah. So was that you today? Yeah that was me. It was hot up there.  Your face is totally flushed. Yeah yeah. It is about 95 up there. His face really was bright red though it took me a minute to realize what he meant when he said up there. I had assumed that whoever was the voice of Paul Bunyan was looking out a window from the gift shop which is right across the way. Or maybe they were watching a video monitor somewhere and talking into a mic but no. John and Kylan in a stunning reversal in their media strategy I have to say walked me around to see the back of Paul Bunyan's right shoe. And there is a little door there and they opened it up. We now see a ladder and a bunch of pipes and wires heading up. I stick my head in and look up. It is dark and narrow. Kylan and Hannah offer to take me up and I climb in first and it was stuffy and hot and claustrophobic. It felt very easy to fall. So we just keep going up? Yep. We climb this one ladder for what seems like a really long time and then switch to another ladder and then hoist ourselves through an opening. Holy !  It is like a little space capsule in here. Yes. It is about an eight to 10 foot oval. We are inside Paul's torso. It is lit by a single bare light bulb on a wire that looks like if you touched the wire you would die. You see outside through Paul's chest hair. The walls are covered in decaying soundproofing tiles and torn installation. There is a dingy old sink that the guys pee into on their shifts and old pressure gauges from 1962 measuring the hydraulics four levers to make Paul's eye wink or head turn. This is amazing! This is really like a magical place I have to say. The coolest things I think are these old old hydraulics that control everything. See you can feel this whole place shake.  That is the hand? Yeah. So do you think it is better now that you know? Or is it worse? Or is it the same? I have to say this is better than not knowing. This is so cool in here this room with these steel beams cutting through it and the crappy sink where people pee. This really is like going inside the Wizard of Oz's head. Of course right? Anybody with a secret identity probably feels this. They are supposed to keep it secret but it must be so tempting to tell people the truth. It must be so hard to keep your mouth shut for spies and for superheroes 'ecause the truth is so insanely cool. How did Bruce Wayne not bring every woman he ever took on a date to see the Batcave? Is this the microphone? I think so. Is it live? You would probably have a better shot. Oh I would totally know how to work this. Yeah this is totally technology that I know. One two three. That sounds live. Oh it is on! Oops. From WBEZ Chicago and Public Radio International it is This American Life. I am Paul Bunyan. Stay with us. Act One You Cannot Handle the Truth. So I am just guessing here but I would think that people usually take on a secret identity only after careful consideration only after thinking through all the angles taking some time. Jon Ronson has this story of a guy who takes on a secret identity in haste without a lot of strategizing without much long term thinking. Sometimes the government stages crimes like in the 1950s when the CIA was experimenting with LSD as a truth serum and they set up a fake brothel in New York City. The prostitutes would spike the unsuspecting johns' drinks with acid while CIA agents sat behind a one-way mirror to see if they would blurt out secrets. This really happened. Just a few years ago the Bureau of Alcohol Tobacco Firearms and Explosives was telling gun shops to sell weapons to drug smugglers. The idea was to track the guns into the Mexican cartels. But the operation fell apart when they lost track of them and two turned up at the murder scene of a US Border Patrol agent. These kinds of covert operations happen quite a lot. Keep that in mind as you hear this story which starts with a spate of attempted bank robberies in northern Virginia in June 2012. The man who carried them out was a terrible bank robber. And I do not mean he was terribly evil. I mean he was terrible at it. He would stand there demand money suddenly look panicky then run out the door. The entire spree lasted four days five attempted robberies in all. He did not make a penny. The police quickly caught up with him. He was a 21-year-old guy named Herson Torres. But things took a strange turn when they sat him down for questioning. Tom Schoenberg is a legal affairs reporter and he covered the story for Bloomberg Businessweek. Initially he did not want to tell them anything. And he did not tell them anything for a little bit. And they started showing him pictures of his relatives that they had assembled and saying he could go to prison for 25 years. By that point he was crying. And he said I want to tell you something but you are not going to believe what I am going to tell you. What Herson told them was unbelievable. But within hours of questioning Herson the police began to think that his story might be true and that Herson was innocent. It all started he said a few days earlier. Herson had got home from a shift unloading trucks at Target when he saw that he had a text message from an old high school friend Carolina. Here's Tom Schoenberg again. And the message says hey I have got a job for you. We are going to get paid 25000. And he taps back doing what? She responds robbing banks. And at first he thought it was a joke. She explains that it is all legitimate that it is for the federal government. And he agreed to meet with her. Three hours later when Herson was meeting Carolina in a nearby Dick's Sporting Goods parking lot she was already on the phone to her government contact a man named Theo who worked with the Defense Intelligence Agency a part of the Department of Defense. She passed the phone over to Herson. Theo started telling Herson that this was an operation using civilians to test the security of area banks. He would vetted Herson Theo said so he knew all about a misdemeanor theft charge from when Herson was a teenager the sort of charge that was sealed in juvenile records. And then Theo explained the job that Herson was being recruited into. He calmly said the banks knew that this operation was happening and he was going to tell them which bank to target. He explained how the whole operation would work out that there would be no weapons involved and that it was really a simple thing to go into these banks and see would they turn over money when someone comes in there and presents them with a note asking them to do so. OK so when he said that the banks knew that the bank head office knew but the bank tellers did not know and the local managers did not know. Exactly. Right. Exactly. Right. And so what would happen if Herson got into trouble in the bank like if somebody tried to attack him or something in the bank or called the police? Right. He was told-- and this is where his timing of going into these banks and out was very quick-- was that he was told do not stay in a bank for longer than five minutes. If anyone says they are going to call police leave immediately. If you see any armed security officers there immediately leave. And if you get arrested stay silent. We will have you out within 24 hours. So how long after this phone call did the spate of robberies take place? Immediately. Well like the next day? The same day. The same day? The same day. Wow. Herson had plenty of reasons to go along with it. The government guy Theo was credible. He seemed to know all about Herson's past. He said he may be able to get Herson a full time government job. Plus Herson was going to be well paid-- 25000 if he managed to get money out of the banks 2500 if not. At the first bank Herson handed them a note which read I need your help. I need money. My family is being held hostage and a bomb will go off at 430 if you do not help. Do not call the police or the FBI. The teller asked Herson to wait for a few moments. Herson immediately ran out of the bank. Within minutes the area was filled with police cars and a police helicopter. Theo was on Carolina's cell phone throughout it all telling Herson which bank to go to next and to not worry. Herson made four more attempts over the next two days co-opting his cousin his brother-in-law and a friend. They were all as hopeless as Herson running out of the banks before anyone could give them any money. Plus they would forgotten to bring a bag. So even if they had waited for the money they would have had to run out with it in their arms. At the last bank the cousin just stood there while the others ran away. So the police questioned him. He gave them Herson's name and address which is how the spree ended. So there was Herson at the police station facing 25 years in prison and crying. So when he finally tells police look this is the story he says take a look at my phone. Look at my Facebook account. Look at my email. It is all there. He also told them go to my car and in there you will find an immunity letter that Theo gave me. Theo had emailed Herson a letter on Defense Intelligence Agency letterhead describing the bank operation titled Operation Down Strike an operation involving civilian volunteers who would be immune from civil and criminal action. It asks police that upon receipt of the letter to assist in the operation. The officer in charge a veteran detective named John Vickery was skeptical. But the letter was perplexing. And then six hours after Herson was arrested Detective Vickery got a call from a number he did not recognize. It was Theo. He demanded to know what the police had done with Herson. He sounded authoritative and exasperated and explained that he was with the CIA. Detective Vickery was truly confused. After all this was Virginia CIA country. Vickery did deal with CIA people from time to time. But it seemed such a strange covert operation. Theo demanded a face-to-face meeting with the detective's superiors. Theo also called Washington area criminal defense lawyers saying he was with the CIA and he needed to hire civilian counsel to defend Herson. The meeting place with the cops was set. It would be at the courthouse during Herson's arraignment hearing. Theo would be wearing an American flag pin on his black suit. The day came but Theo never showed. Eventually the encryption on Theo's phone number was broken and police traced the phone to a man called Josh Brady who lived in a ranch house 100 miles south of Washington D.C. The police drove down there and in an instant three things became clear. The first was that Theo and Josh were the same person. The second was that Josh was not working for the CIA. He was 26 and living with his mother and grandmother. And the third was that Josh was totally convinced that he was working for them. Here's Tom. I interviewed Josh in a jail in Virginia. And when I met with him he told me pretty quickly that he was working with the CIA. And I would say he was firmly convinced at that time that they took a computer from his house that contained all the information to prove that this was legitimate. Josh was initially charged with impersonating a government official and three counts of attempted bank robbery. But doctors found that Josh suffered from a variety of mental illnesses and disorders so prosecutors dropped those charges and Josh was released into his mother's care and ordered to get mental health treatment. They declined to prosecute Herson and Carolina was never charged. In the end no one was prosecuted for the attempted bank robberies. But here's something I found especially interesting about this story. During the court proceedings a court appointed forensic psychologist had offered a second opinion about Josh Brady. He had diagnosed Josh with something really rare. It is a disorder that most people have never heard of. I would never heard of it. It is called delusional disorder. Herson Torres did not want to talk to me for this story. Maybe he felt embarrassed about being taken in by Josh. But he should not feel embarrassed because the whole scheme it was plausible. That is the amazing thing about delusional disorder the delusions are plausible. I mean we all know that there are indeed folks who seem perfectly normal but turn out to be undercover agents. It does not violate the boundaries of reality. This is Dr. Evan Nelson the court psychologist who diagnosed Josh Brady with delusional disorder. Dr. Nelson could not talk to me about Josh Brady's case but he explained to me that delusional disorder is like a cousin to better known psychotic disorders like schizophrenia. The big difference is that people with schizophrenia have crazy delusions that nobody believes like believing that the CIA is using telepathy to read your thoughts or believing that you are Jesus Christ. Whereas the delusions that come with delusional disorder they could be true. It is the difference between believing people are following you which is entirely possible and believing they are following you because they have inserted some sort of an x-ray machine in your body and they can covertly track you through a satellite that is orbiting Mars. That sort of violation of logic would not be part of a delusional disorder. Delusional disorder is defined as a rare disorder but a lot of clinicians like Dr. Nelson believe that it has to be under-diagnosed. There have to be people out there who do not realize that they are living inside someone else's delusion-- like for instance my friend Emily which is not her real name. And this is not her real voice either. Well my husband had it so I lived with someone with delusional disorder. When you say your husband had it does that mean he does not have it any more? No. I mean he probably still has it. Emily asked to be disguised because she loves her husband and wants to protect his privacy. And so in a show about secret identities this weird robot voice is her one. Emily is the reason why I ever got to hear about Herson and Theo. She sent me a link to Tom's article. In the message she wrote Imagine being married to that. LOL. By that Emily meant a marriage filled with the chaos of a plausible delusion. I said I could not imagine it. So Emily agreed to talk about it. When Emily first met her husband and when they first got married everything was fine. He told her he would been in a long term relationship before but unfortunately it did not work out. He told me that his previous partner had been extremely unfaithful unfaithful in the extreme. At the time I just thought oh that is dreadful. You poor soul. I cannot imagine what you have been through. Emily says that for the first five years of their marriage everything was normal. But then her husband had a bad turn professionally. It stressed him out. He worried about his job prospects and his finances but mainly he worried about losing Emily. He started accusing her of having crushes and flirting with friends and coworkers.  I mean it got to the point where I would be accused of sleeping with friends coworkers just random people. Like if I caught someone's eye and smiled at them on the street it would be how do you know that person? You had an affair with that guy did not you? That is why he was smiling at you. When would you have been having the affair? Because I presume that every night you were sleeping in the same bed as him. Yeah. I mean he would literally accuse me of getting up in the middle of night to go have secret assignations. While he slept? While he was asleep yeah. So at this point did you think this is beyond regular jealousy? Oh absolutely. There are five main subtypes identified with delusional disorder. There is the persecutory type believing a person or group of people are out to get you. There is the erotomanic type believing a person-- usually a famous person-- is secretly in love with you and trying to be with you. There is somatic thinking you have got a medical or health condition you do not have. Grandiosity thinking you are special or have a high status like say believing you work undercover for the CIA. And the last as Emily discovered when she began desperately googling for some kind of explanation delusional disorder jealousy subtype. The diagnosis made on the internet was later confirmed by a psychiatrist. Emily's husband's delusions were not real but his anger was. Inside his delusion she was cheating on him all the time. It was a living hell for them both. When someone's screaming at you for nine hours a day your first response is maybe to get angry and scream back. But I would just watch him and it would almost be like the sound was turned down on a movie. It was just so sad to watch him be in such distress and be so separated from reality. It was just the saddest thing to watch and know that there is no way that you can help him. You know I used to invite people over for Sunday dinner. And I remember just him announcing to the table of diners that my wife has a lot of affairs. She is a right slut. And you know I did not know whether to laugh it off or what. What did the people around the table do? I mean this happens a lot. People maybe just thought he was joking. I mean people just politely ignored it and moved on. And people did not know whether it was just a bad joke or what. Maybe some people believed him. I had one chap that was convinced that I was the nymphomaniac that my husband had been boasting to everyone that I was. And so he came into the bedroom once when I was staying at a friend's house. And I just had to roll over and pretend to be asleep. What? Somebody came in and said I hear you enjoy having affairs with people. Would you care-- I mean he did not say anything but he made a pass. So I just pretended to be asleep because this is a person that I knew and I did not want to be embarrassed about seeing the next day. Wow! He must have been so crushed because you know you are sleeping with everyone. I know. And this is a crazy question but when a delusion is as powerful as these delusions were was there ever a moment even though you knew you were not having any affairs with anyone was there ever a moment when you thought my god maybe I am having an affair? I was honestly-- I mean because my husband is a very rational human being. I mean he was highly scientific. So when someone's that rational and that grounded in that level of reality there was a point where I just thought well maybe I am sleepwalking or maybe I have got a multiple personality disorder or something. Wow. Maybe I am the one that is mad. It is really difficult to treat delusional disorder. Dr. Nelson the forensic psychologist says logic does not work. They cannot be talked out of it. Anti-psychotic medications can work wonders for people with schizophrenia because they are good at tackling hallucinations. But for some reason they are not so great on delusions. Dr. Nelson says medication can sort of lessen the delusions a bit but they cannot make them disappear. There is a best option but it is a really frustrating one. Gradually over time you reach a sort of a detente which is they are not willing to admit that their idea is a delusion but they are willing to admit that acting on it is not in their best interest. So I still suspect that my wife is cheating on me but I know she says that it is not true. And I want to trust her. And our marriage is good and every time I bring this up I make it worse. So maybe I will just have to tolerate a little bit of infidelity in exchange for keeping this marriage. Huh. So convince them that open marriages are the way forward.  Well I do not know that that is necessarily an open marriage. I do not think they are consenting. But you are definitely talking about compromises. Same thing with the persecutory type and the grandiose type. You may not get to the point where they agree that they were not really acting as a special agent for the FBI or where they agree that there is not really a plot against them. But you might get them to the point where they agree that from a practical level you have never been paid for your work from the FBI so why bother to keep working for them? The only way to move forward is for everyone to be submissive to the delusion. So someone like Emily never gets justice never gets an apology for being taken all wrong. The delusion always wins. A few years ago Emily and her husband split up. You know people and places are triggers. So I actually became a trigger in my husband's life. So the only way for him to be healthy is to remove the triggers. So that is him moving to another new town and leaving me. And I am sure that he will find another woman in a new town tell her the same story about the wife that was extremely unfaithful and the cycle will begin again. Incidentally Josh Brady the fake CIA agent who orchestrated the robberies has been arrested again. A little under two months after he was released and remanded to psychiatric counseling he was picked up again this time charged with impersonating a Department of Homeland Security agent. Jon Ronson. His latest book of nonfiction stories Lost at Sea comes out in paperback this week. Coming up a woman avenger takes to the streets with a gun and a mission of justice. Men fear her nobody knows her name. That is one of the stories after the break in a minute for Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program Secret Identities. We have arrived at Act Two of our show. Act Two Tiger Tiger Burning Bright. Elna Baker who is on our program now and then has this cousin named Navey. And Navey has a secret identity that actually is not so secret. She is the school mascot a tiger at Gilbert High in Gilbert Arizona. And she is one of those kids who is just completely transformative. Her second identity gives her power. Here's Elna to explain. I used to babysit Navey. And she is always been able to completely lose herself in characters to a degree honestly you do not see in most kids. Like when Navey was four or five she was obsessed with dogs. So she would tape a tube sock to her butt for a tail and crawl on all fours. She drank from a bowl. She would do that thing where she would drag her butt along the carpet to scratch it. She would sniff people's crotches. She was method. We had old collars dog collars around the house. I would put those on. And I would tie a leash to the little stroller and I would run around the house pretending I was a sled dog. I mean I was fine with her being a dog until she started crapping in our yard. I did not think that was very funny.  It is funny though. That is Navey's dad Karl. And at first I thought he was joking. But it turns out one day he is looking out the window-- And I am watching her and she is acting like a dog walking around the backyard. And the next thing you know she takes her pants and goes crap in the backyard. And then I kicked my feet back to cover up the poop.  And now I do not know how many times she did it before that. This whole time I was picking up my dog's poop I may have been picking up my kid's poop. And as she got older Navey discovered a more socially acceptable way to do the same thing when in second grade the elementary school mascot-- a husky dog-- stopped by her class for the first time. Navey's mind was blown because here's this person who got to act like an animal all the time. She became obsessed with mascots. I know this because I babysat her for a whole week when she was 10. And while her siblings were outside in the yard playing Navey was inside practicing mascot routines she would found on YouTube. She would be dressed up in this old tiger Halloween costume a tiger because that is the mascot for the local high school. All of this started to worry Navey's dad Karl. He was really hoping it would be a passing phase. I do not know if many parents wake up one morning and go oh my gosh I cannot wait for my daughter to be a mascot. And did you make fun of mascots when you were in high school or middle school? Now that is kind of an awkward question. Does not everybody?  I remember being in junior high and really just trying to fit in. And I just did not know if being this would be something that she would be accepted in. I mean is this something that she gets branded as the odd girl who likes to dress up like a tiger? For years her parents kept trying to get her interested in other things. More quote unquote normal things like ballet Girl Scouts. But Navey had tiger tunnel vision. It all came to a head one Friday night at her brother's football game. Our older son was playing football in high school and Navey's still in junior high. And I came home from work and I am like hey Navey we gotta hurry up. We gotta get to Justin's game. And I was like I want to wear my mascot costume. Please let me wear it. I thought in my head I says I do not know if I feel comfortable with me taking my daughter to a football game dressed up like a mascot at a high school because A you do not go to high school there and it is just kind of bizarre me walking into a football game with a tiger. And I was like I do not want to go to the game if I cannot wear my suit. And I says you know what? Then stay home. So we are at the football game and she is texting my wife and just saying hey you do not love me. You do not support me as the mascot. You love the football player son but you do not love the mascot daughter. And finally she texts me and she goes listen I still want to. Can I please come to the game? So we say your grandma and grandpa have not got here yet. We will call them they will pick you up. And I took that as hey I can wear the costume. So I get in the car I am wearing my costume. And my grandpa just said did they say that you could wear it? I was like yeah. And so I showed up got out of the car. And everyone was like oh my gosh. Hey it is the tiger. And then I go and I look up and I was like oh there is my parents. And I could tell they were not happy. And she looks at us we look at her and those big giant mascot eyes. And she beelined it onto the field. And I thought oh my gosh what is going to happen? The sophomore cheerleaders did not realize that she was not supposed to be there. And she is unbelievable. The crowd loves her. She is doing the wave she is doing the cheer she is leading the cheerleaders football players are taking pictures with her. And no one has idea that it is a girl that is in eighth grade. They said everyone loved me. The crowd was cheering for me. Oh! I fricking love-- I cannot even tell you! I feel like this is my calling. And that is when I finally said listen you have a gift. You should go and do it 100. This ended up being her big break. The high school athletic director was there and he came up to her after and said look if you want to do this again just let us know. You are great. And then he told her that she should try out to be the mascot when she got to high school. So since freshman year she is been the Gilbert High tiger. And all family pride aside she is the best mascot I have ever seen. When she puts her costume on which looks like a buff Tigger Navey transforms.  She goes from being this awkward husky Mormon tomboy-- right she is Mormon-- but she puts the costume on and then starts grinding like a male stripper. And it is hard not to think are we allowed to do that? The kid has serious swagger. There is times where I sometimes forget it is my daughter. I do not picture her dancing because she does not walk around the house dancing. Immediately when she puts that outfit on she knows all these moves. She can pretty much do any of the new fad dance moves. Beyonce's Single Ladies she can do that. She can do Psy. She can do Michael Jackson. The two do not really match up. It is bizarre. She is been on the news she is in the paper. In town her parents are known as the Tiger's parents. Some people come to games just to see her. The football team sucks. Sorry Navey. And she is gotten so much attention that recently the Suns Gorilla-- that is the mascot for the Phoenix Suns-- tweeted at her You are inspiring. That is no hashtag monkey business. Here she is at a dance-off against her rival the Chandler Wolf. They are staring each other down across the 50 yard line. There is the tiger! There is the tiger! We love the tiger! The wolf does the lawn mower. Navey as the tiger throws her head back and laughs as if to say that all you got? And then she busts out Gangnam Style.  She dances around him in a circle shuffling and shimmying on the turns. And then she stops face-to-face and flicks her paws at him like what are you going to do about it? And then slowly she backs away. And he shrugs like I have nothing and then bows to her shakes her hand and walks off the field. OK so that insanely confident person? Cut to the next day at school and she is just this super awkward teenager who does not want any attention drawn to her. Navey Baker is shy. During classes I just will not talk to kids around me. I just sit there and do my work be quiet. I am nervous to go to Taco Bell and order me a fricking burrito. And is it weird to be two people? Yeah it is l