Hi it is Ira Glass. Leave a message. Hey Ira. It is Nancy. I am calling you from the studio and I am going to hang up and try you back. Bye.  Hello Nancy Updike. Hello. You called just like you said. I did. So how may I serve you? Well let me first explain to listeners what is going on which is that you Ira have found this great story. You need to spend a couple of weeks reporting it. And you asked me to guest host the show. It is only the second time since we started the show in 1995 that we have had a guest host. But we thought it would be a lot nicer than having two weeks of reruns. So-- Here we are. Right. So any last dos and do nots? No. Let me say first of all I just want to acknowledge you are in kind of a tough position. I think in any show on radio or television since the media began when the host goes away we all want what we are used to. Nobody wants change. Nobody wants the guest host. That is a terrible pep talk Ira. Was that even supposed to be a pep talk? I acknowledge it is kind of the anti-pep talk. But you are going to be great. You will be great. Do not think about that part. The only thing that you actually have to know Nance is that there are certain things that must be said at certain moments in the show under our contracts with WBEZ Chicago and with PRI. Three times in the show you have to say their names. And going into the break in the middle of the show you also have to say when our program continues. Because the phrase when our program continues is the one that local stations are listening for. And when they hear that phrase then they play their local promos. And just out of curiosity if I did not do any of those things any one of those things what would happen? Just curious. You know truthfully I do not own know Nancy. But I honestly do not want to find out. I am giving you the keys to the car and I want you to just obey a few simple rules and everybody's going to get home safely. But wait how fast does it go? OK. So do you have the contractual language in front of you that I left for you to read now and kick off the show? Do you have it there? Yeah I got it. All right so let us kick it off. From WBEZ Chicago it is still This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Nancy Updike. That is great. See you in two weeks. OK have fun. I want to tell you that there was not some long behind the scenes build up to this guest hosting gig. I found out about it not that long before you did. And I am excited to be doing it. The stories this week are great. But really what I feel is mixed. It is a little nerve wracking. I feel like I got handed one of those gifts that when you tear off the wrapping paper and see what is inside you say oh you should not have. And part of you means it. But what are you going to do? A lot of gifts are complicated if not flat out bad. I am picturing-- and you can picture your own pile-- misguided sweaters noise makers for children lingerie for coworkers et cetera anything creepy. Some gifts good gifts say I thought of you. But plenty of others say I thought I was thinking of you but really I was thinking of me. Today on This American Life we will be rummaging deep into the oh you should not have gift pile to see just how fraught it all is. The giving the receiving. Four stories. I am going to call them stories not acts today-- see how that feels. Four stories four gifts. First a story about a gift that was given out every week in front of 40 million people. Next a cautionary tale about how anything you give may be used against you sometimes in a court of law. And what to do if a certain women in Minnesota offers you an orange. Stay with us. OK our first story is from Allison Silverman. You probably know her work. She is written for The Colbert Report The Daily Show Late Night with Conan O'Brien and other famous funny TV shows. She also knows a lot about TV not just shows that are on now but also older shows-- That Was the Week That Was Saturday Color Carnival The Jack Paar Show. One of the older shows she is been watching lately was built around the idea of giving people what was supposed to be the gift of a lifetime. Allison had heard of the show but once she started watching it she was very very surprised by what she saw. Here's Allison. What if someone without your knowledge was researching your life organizing it throwing out the boring bits playing up the dramatic bits fitting it all into a classic narrative? And one day he surprised you by putting you on live television and sharing your personal streamlined story with say 40 million Americans. It happened to hundreds of people in the 1950s on a show that ran on NBC. This Is Your Life America's most talk about program. There is not much talk about This Is Your Life today. If you do not know the show here's how it worked. Every week an unsuspecting guest often a big name celebrity would be lured to LA's El Capitan Theater under false pretenses. I have all you other panel members but until this moment I have not had the pleasure of meeting you and saying to you Dick Clark-- Hi Dick. Musical star-maker America's number one disk jockey. Tonight Dick This Is Your Life. Ralph Edwards was the host of This Is Your Life. At the beginning of every episode he shows the stunned guest a leather-bound book with their name and the words This Is Your Life on it. Then he treats them to a half-hour retrospective and then reunites them with influential figures from their past. Edwards was a radio announcer who made it big when he came up with the game show Truth or Consequences. He also taught Sunday school. The combination made him the perfect host for a show designed to be inspirational entertainment. After giving Dick Clark his first glimpse of the book Edwards holds it up and reads from it. Every now and then interrupted by an off-stage voice like this one. Dick do you remember the Green Hornet? The voice of your pal since childhood today an attorney for the Securities and Exchange Commission of New York City. Here from his home in Mount Vernon New York is Andy Grass. Hello Andy. There is an archway stage right with a curtain. And through it come old friends and family. Each one talks about Dick Clark shares a memory and a hug. What was this Green Hornet Andy? Well that was a 15 year old sedan Ralph that Dick and I used to have drive around town and pick up records for his record collection. It turns out Dick's childhood in Mount Vernon New York was bright and full of mischief. But there was adversity ahead. Dick had to drive from Syracuse University to State Teachers College in Salisbury Maryland in the middle of winter in a convertible with no heater. Still he persevered and eventually beat the odds marrying his high school sweetheart landing a gig hosting American Bandstand and blossoming into the person we know today. Promise struggle triumph. That is pretty much how all the episodes go. But watch enough of This is Your Life and you start to wonder. Putting people's past on display without warning is it such a good idea? Because clearly some struggles are more struggly than others. This Is Your Life Hanna Bloch Kohner. Oh no. Oh disturbingly yes. In May 1953 Ralph Edwards surprise Hanna Bloch Kohner whose apparent dismay at having her life story told could have something to do with the fact that a lot of her life was a staggering nightmare. May I say Mrs. Kohner that looking at you it is hard to believe that during seven short years of a still-short life you lived a lifetime of fear terror and tragedy. You look like a young American girl just out of college not at all like a survivor of Hitler's cruel purge of German Jews. Hanna Bloch Kohner is a Holocaust survivor although the word Holocaust would not be used to commonly describe it for another eight years. And Ralph Edwards is right Hanna is gorgeous and poised. For her episode the This Is Your Life format is the same as ever. Like Dick Clark she is supposed to remember something. Only it is not the Green Hornet. You and your husband are seized and shipped off to the concentration camp at Westerbork near the German border. That is where I first met Hanna. We spent about eight months in that camp and though it was very tough it did not compare with the camps that followed. Do you recognize that voice Hanna? It belongs to a girl who was your friend and companion in four concentration camps. Eva Herzberg now Mrs. Warner Florsheim.  Were you and Hanna moved from that first camp together Eva? Yes together with a lot of others. We were packed into cattle cars and shipped off to Theresienstadt in Czechoslovakia. Then we were sent off to the extermination camp at Auschwitz in Poland. You were each given a cake of soap and a towel were not you Hanna? I do not remember the soap. Well you were sent to the so-called showers. And even this was a doubtful procedure because some showers had regular water others have liquid gas. And you never knew which one you were being sent to. You and Eva were fortunate others were not so fortunate including your father and mother and your husband Carl Benjamin. They all lost their lives at Auschwitz. Now if I was surprising someone and sharing the murder of her parents and husband on national television I would do it differently. I would not do it. But somehow in some way Hanna's half-hour goes by without a hitch. She is reunited with her brother who she has not seen in 10 years. This is my happiest day in all of my life. As the show is winding down it takes a left turn. After all the excruciating details of Hanna's life in Czechoslovakia the Netherlands Germany and Poland Edwards sums up her story this way. This is your life Hanna Bloch Kohner. To you in your darkest hour America held out a friendly hand. Your gratitude is reflected in your unwavering devotion and loyalty to the land of your adoption. It seems out of nowhere at first. But this is May 1953. It is less than a month before the execution of the Rosenbergs. Calling anyone a patriot in front of 40 million Americans is nice. Calling a Jewish immigrant from Czechoslovakia a communist country a patriot is more than nice. It is one of the best presents she can get. And Edwards gives Hanna other presents too the kind you can bring home. Oh yes so that you and Walter can relive this memorable night again and again Hazel Bishop is presenting you with a 16 millimeter sound film of this program you see together with a 16 millimeter sound projector. Now as a lasting memento of your appearance here Marshall Jewelers 5th Avenue at 56th Street New York City have designed for you this lovely 14 karat gold charm bracelet. Now each charm represents an important event in your life. Cannot be easy to design a Holocaust charm bracelet. To their credit Marshall Jewelers played it safe with a 14 karat map of Czechoslovakia a mountain house a Jeep a sergeant's hat a suitcase a star of David the Statue of Liberty the flags of Luxembourg where Hanna was married and the United States. It was actually nice. It is the kind of Holocaust charm bracelet you pass down to your kids. There is something undeniably strange about all of this. The overworked language the wholesome all-American spirit forced into a foreigner's tragedy the game show tactics a Holocaust survivor asked to guess who is next to come through the curtain. But Ralph Edwards was trying to do good. His model for the show was love thy neighbor. And though Hanna Kohner's episode was well blunt it was the first national television show to have a Holocaust survivor tell her story. There were just no rules for how you do it. The show was huge. One in four Americans watched This Is Your Life every week. And Edwards used the attention to help people. When Hanna's episode aired This Is Your Life donated to United Jewish Appeal and set up a fund for viewers to donate to. Of course the show did not tackle epic tragedy just once. They went even bigger two years later. In 1955 This Is Your Life surprised Kiyoshi Tanimoto a Methodist minister from Japan who was in the States on a humanitarian mission. He had been flown from New York to LA and brought to the El Capitan Theater for what he thought would be a straightforward interview about his work. You though of course you were going to be interviewed as a part of the work you are now doing did not you? What is that work sir that you are doing right now at the present moment? Well I brought a group of girls who have terrible disfigurement on event of atomic explosion in Hiroshima. And you have accompanied these girls over? Yes. And we are hoping to have plastic surgery for them. Tanimoto was a survivor of the atomic bombing of Hiroshima and he had brought 25 young women disfigured by the bombing to the US. They were called the Hiroshima Maidens and they were scheduled to have reconstructive surgery at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York City. Tanimoto had come up with the idea. He had two of the Maidens with him at the theater. He was trying to raise money. Now Reverend Tanimoto are you ready to turn the pages in this book and share with us your experiences? All right then August 6 1945 Hiroshima Japan. This is the first time I have heard the words Hiroshima Japan and expected them to be followed with Come on down. Edwards wastes no time. He starts with the day a nuclear bomb on Tanimoto's city. As for Tanimoto he sits on the couch next to Edwards confused by what the leather-bound book has to do with any of this. As Edwards opens it Tanimoto looks down at the book then up at Edwards. Then back to the book and back to Edward again. But in fact in this episode the book plays second fiddle to a lot of actual fiddles and horns and various sound effects. The morning is quite and very peaceful.  The time has come that split second of eternity which comes in one way or another to every man in his lifetime. What did you do when you heard that bomb? Well I did not hear any sounds but I saw strange flash running through the air. And took a couple of steps into the garden and lie down on the ground. And I felt strong blast of wind. And then I wake up I mean I got up and saw many houses behind me destroyed. You were between two rocks? I saw the whole city on fire and many people running away from the city in silence. Their skin peeling off and hanging from face from arm. But strange to say in silence it looked like procession of ghosts. Edwards cues the jingling Buddhist temple bells and the show jarringly flashes back to Reverend Tanimoto's youth. First through the curtain is an old woman the Methodist missionary who introduced him to Christianity. Then it is an old buddy from seminary school who tells a story about Tanimoto chasing girls. After him a man appears in silhouette behind a screen. Tanimoto hears this voice. Looking down from thousands of feet over Hiroshima all I could think of was My God what have we done? The voice of a man whose second of eternity was woven up with yours Reverend Tanimoto. Now you have never met him have never seen him but he is here tonight to clasp your hand in friendship. Captain Robert Lewis United States Air Force who along with Paul Tibbets piloted the plane from which the first atomic power was dropped over Hiroshima.  Captain Lewis come in here close. And would you tell us sir of your experience on August 6 1945? Well Mr. Edwards-- Captain Lewis co-pilot of the Enola Gay shares a handshake with Tanimoto who then backs up putting him at an awkward distance between Lewis and Ralph Edwards who is still consulting his book. Captain Lewis explains haltingly how they got the order to target Hiroshima how the bombardier aimed how they dropped the bomb and then turned fast to avoid the blast. And then the two concussion waves hit the ship. Shortly after we turned back to see what had happened. And there in front of our eyes the city of Hiroshima disappeared. Now you entered something in your log at that time. As I said before Mr. Edwards I wrote down later My God what have we done? And so Reverend Tanimoto you on the ground and you on your military mission Captain Lewis in the air both appealed to a power greater than your own. Lewis is the one you are most worried about watching this bizarre blind date. Ralph Edwards is pleased. Tanimoto is respectful but Captain Lewis looks like he is breaking down. People say he went to a bar before the show and came back drunk. Thank you Captain Robert Lewis now personnel manager of Henry Heide Incorporated in New York City. In 1971 Lewis sold his famous log from the flight and used the money in part to buy Italian marble for his new hobby sculpture. The piece he is known for is a mushroom cloud with streams of blood flowing down the side. Edwards then introduces the two Hiroshima Maidens who are only seen in silhouette brings on Tanimoto's wife and four kids. Koko . And gives viewers at home an address to send their donations. The address again Maidens Box 200 New York One New York. And if you will accept a change of mood now I would like to tell you a bit about wonderful extra rich liquid Prell shampoo. That is the thrilling new companion to Prell in the tube. Even in its heyday This Is Your Life raised hackles. Time magazine called Ralph Edwards a spiritual prosecutor to his guests. And Jack Gould at the New York Times accused the show and others like it of exploiting the raw and private emotions of the unfortunate. But the unfortunate they liked it. This Is Your Life might have exploited your story but it also told you your story gave it to you. And once you had it you could do whatever you wanted with it. Hanna's daughter Julie Kohner told me that her mother spent the year after the show traveling around the country with a copy of her episode raising money for United Jewish Appeal. On Passover the Kohner family would play it on the gift projector they got on This Is Your Life. Years later Hanna and her husband Walter even published a joint autobiography Hanna and Walter A Love Story. And as brutal as his episode seems today Reverend Kiyoshi Tanimoto had fond memories of his appearance. His daughter Koko Kondo who was on the telecast as a 10-year-old told me when English-speaking guests would visit Tanimoto would play them the episode on his gift projector. He was not horrified by meeting Captain Lewis the co-pilot of the Enola Gay. In fact the two of them started writing each other after the show. And Koko Kondo says Captain Lewis changed her whole attitude about the old enemy. Seeing him tear up on stage at the El Capitan she stopped hating American soldiers. And sometimes the show did even more. Once in a while getting your life story from This Is Your Life actually changed the story of your life. And if you will accept a change in mood now our last example from the show is Lillian Roth a vaudeville singing star who made it big on Broadway and then in movies like Animal Crackers with the Marx brothers. She was America's top jazz baby. But in 1953 when she came on This Is Your Life she was pretty much forgotten. The leather-bound book starts in a sad place. This is the Bloomingdale Hospital for Nervous and Mental Diseases now known as the New York Hospital Westchester Division. The year is 1946. You are a patient of this mental hospital. Why Lillian? Well I had a problem. Alcoholism which led to a mental breakdown. For nearly 16 years right? Up to 1945 there would hardly been a day or a night that you drew a sober breath. That is right. Edwards later calls this time a stupor that was to last for 16 years. And as he recounts Roth's past we cut to a shot of a placard with the date plus an empty whiskey bottle. The next time we cut it is two empty whiskey bottles. Then two empty whiskey bottles plus another lying on its side. And finally the two empty whiskey bottles the one lying on its side and a huge whiskey bottle made for a giant. But you still may not have gotten the idea about Lillian. 1932 your first marriage consummated while under the influence of drink is dissolved in drink. You are married again to a distinguished young New York judge. On your honeymoon to Miami Florida he opens your trunk and finds it filled with liquor.  I think that tune is called Trunk Full of Liquor. Lillian Roth was the first and one of the only This Is Your Life guests who knew she would be on the show ahead of time. She was asked by Ralph Edwards if she would let him share her story. And she did because she thought it could help someone. The episode was a smash and among the people it helped happily was Lillian Roth. Following her reintroduction to America on the show Roth wrote an autobiography that spent 44 weeks on the New York Times Bestseller List. It is called I will Cry Tomorrow. And in it she calls her appearance on This Is Your Life a miracle. I will Cry Tomorrow was made into a movie starring Susan Hayward who was Oscar nominated for her nuanced understated and minutely observed performance. I do not want a drink but I need a drink. I need a drink! Now! The action builds to its final triumphant scenes a dramatic dramatization of the moment Roth decided to allow her life to be dramatized. They want me on a national television show. How wonderful. But they do not want me to sing. Well what do they want you to do? They want me to come out to California and get up before 40 million people and tell the shameful disgusting story of my life. The story of your life? I could not tell the story of my life I would be too ashamed. These days confessional culture is everywhere. It is easy look down on it as nothing but a bid for publicity. But it is not really just about the person confessing. It is about why we are paying attention to their story. When we hear someone lay it all out there there is a reason beyond voyeurism that we like to listen. In 1958 Lillian Roth was interviewed by Mike Wallace. She said it best. Have you ever wondered though why the American public seems to be so fascinated with this kind of story? Is it possibly just the desire to look across the courtyard into somebody else's open window? Well I think where my story is concerned it goes back to an old philosophy that I read that said In each man's heart there is a secret sorrow that the world knows nothing about. And I think that humanity feel that their sorrow is for you and their compassion is for you. But it has touched a part of their heart that they will not open the door themselves. They will not even peek in. And in the subconscious the tie is there. What she is saying is when you watch me discuss my sad life on This Is Your Life it is not me who is revealed it is you. Allison Silverman.  OK turning to our next story of gifts and their aftermath here's a headline that caught my eye a while back. I have got the newspaper here. Big screaming headline above the fold Medical Marijuana Outlet Nabbed for Overselling in Sting Operation. This is not a US newspaper by the way. I have been living in the Middle East for a lot of the past year and one of the newspapers I read is called Haaretz. It is an Israeli paper. You can look it up online. It has an English edition. And I will be honest my interest in this story was entirely escapist. I needed a break from reading about the politics in the region and Medical Marijuana Outlet Nabbed for Overselling in Sting Operation. I was looking forward to drug deals and scandal and people getting nabbed. So here I am I am reading this story. And it turns out the sting consists of an undercover policewoman going to a government licensed medical marijuana center and pretending to have cancer. It says here she had a prescription for medical marijuana and she went to this place several times to get her allowed dosage. But she kept saying she was still suffering her dose was not enough. She needed more. According to one unnamed source in the story she quote begged repeatedly for more cannabis saying she could not stand the pain. Finally someone at the place caved and gave her more. About a third of an ounce according to the paper. Picture around half a baggy a couple of handfuls. That was the drug deal caught by the sting. Someone giving a supposedly sick person who had a prescription a bit more marijuana than she was prescribed after being begged by the person who was pretending to have cancer. When I finished the story all I could think was wait really?  This is Gal Cohen. She is the one who gave the undercover police women the extra medical marijuana. Through an interpreter Gal described meeting the policewoman.  I met her for the first time three months ago. She described suffering from cancer and that her condition was so severe that she does not leave the house much. And I remember telling her that it would be good for her to leave the house. And I even remember her coming back at some point and saying Thank you for telling me to come to the shop to leave the house. It has been good for me to see people. Quick background here. Medical marijuana is pretty new in Israel. Like the US the country has a serious illegal drug trade to worry about. And with marijuana they are in that awkward stage of trying to figure out exactly how they want to make this still illegal drug available as medicine in some harsh cases-- cancer AIDS MS chronic pain. About 6000 people in Israel have prescriptions now. The police would not answer questions for this story just said it was an ongoing investigation. So I went to the medical marijuana center called Tikun Olam to hear their version of what happened. Gal the woman who gave extra to the policewoman is 20-years-old maybe five two long dark hair reserved. In the raid she was taken into police custody along with her brother who started the medical marijuana company and another employee Shmuel  As Gal was describing the undercover policewoman Shmuel came over and jumped in.  She looked like a lot of other people who come in who are having a hard time or in pain and maybe financially having a hard time finishing the month on whatever salaries they have.  You are showing Gal her sweater is what? It is askew and she is got-- she is wearing a big sweater. Big sweater clumsy sweater. Hairs everywhere. And weird glasses or something. The glasses was OK. The glasses was OK? Shmuel is 27. He is Ethiopian. His family emigrated to Israel when he was a baby. Natural storyteller. He says lots of people ask for more. And some of them push hard like the policewoman did.  I cannot even tell you the kinds of episodes that we have seen here. And I will give you one example. There are times where people will fake a heart attack. We had a guy who said he is going into cardiac arrest. You know he was shaking and he was faking this heart attack. And I was on the phone with the ambulance. And we were so far along that the woman on the other side of the phone was saying Well should I send one or not? But as soon as he saw that I was calling the ambulance he said Actually I am fine. Do not call the ambulance. So people go to great lengths to try to get us to give them more than they are allowed to get. Were you there the day of the fake heart attack?  He even took his false teeth out. Why? To add to the drama why? The drama. Why this man thought a fake heart attack would get him more medical marijuana is not clear. The undercover policewoman's drama succeeded where the heart attack man's failed maybe because it was more subtle and had a good supporting cast. Once during the two and a half months she was going to the dispensary she brought in a distraught husband.  He talked the husband about the fact that she was-- when the pain was strong she would just lie on the coach and she would not want to move and she would not want to leave the house. And here she got a little bit better and this was good but now she is having a regression. And once again she does not want to leave the house. She does not want to get up off the coach. That was the way he was pressing us to give her more. Shmuel did not give her more. He says he told her the same thing he tells everyone. If your dose is not enough talk to the health ministry and get them to increase your prescription. He says he explains to people exactly how to do it so they do not get tangled up in the bureaucracy. And he knows the procedure because he is done it. He lost the lower half of his leg serving in the army and he is got a prescription for medical marijuana himself. It took six months of surgery and a year and a half of rehab for him to be able to walk with a prosthetic limb. But he still has pain. Marijuana dials it down without turning him into a zombie like morphine did. So Shmuel told the policewoman Go back to the health ministry. But Gal gave in. She came back after she had run out of her supply she said. And she said that she is desperate. She really needs it. She cannot function. She said I am sitting at home crying. I am not functioning with my children and I need more. And that is when I picked up additional grams and give it to her. Gal says this was not a financial transaction by the way. No money changed hands. People with medical marijuana prescriptions in Israel pay a fixed amount per month around 100 whether they are dose is 30 grams or 100 grams. Gal just not gave it to the woman. It was an impulsive illegal gift. Two weeks later police showed up. They took me to the police station in a big van a big Savana van with two policeman one at each side two in the front and three behind me. It felt like I was some big time drug dealer. It was not until the police officer who interrogated Gal pulled out a picture of the undercover policewoman that she understood what was going on and why she would been brought in. He asked her why she gave the woman more. I told him that I felt sorry for her. And that I had mixed up my emotions with my job. I told him it was very hard for me as a 20-year-old young woman to say no to this woman who was like my mother or my grandmother. My intention was to help her. She was an older woman. The day I went to the one-room dispensary where Gal and Shmuel work almost all the patients who came in were women who fit the description of the undercover officer. All past 50 bundled up moving slowly. Shmuel asked one of them How is it going? And she said not good. I have always thought the expression you cannot cheat an honest man was off base. Of course you can. The way you do it is to appeal not to their greed but to their pity. Convince them they are doing something for your gain not theirs. Government prosecutors are deciding whether to indict anyone in the case. Coming up gold fish and a battle over dried fruit. That is in one minute. From WBEZ Chicago and Public Radio International when-- say it with me-- when our program continues. Welcome back. I am Nancy Updike sitting in for Ira Glass who is out reporting a story for two weeks. It is This American Life and we have a theme this week like we do every week. And today it is Oh You Should not Have. We are looking at some of the hazards and joys of giving and receiving gifts from huge ones like a TV special about your life to ones as small as a lowly orange. Let us talk for a minute about etiquette. I think there is something almost un-American about etiquette. I know there are people who will disagree with me on this but I think for a lot of Americans the idea that there are rules out there about the proper way to behave rules more elaborate than just common sense seems pretentious European like one more thing we fought the British to be free of. Not that we are rude we just do not like to be fancy. The meantime we are full of immigrants from much older fancier countries. Nazanin Rafsanjani was born in Iran grew up in Minnesota and she is steeped in both worlds. She still has family in Iran she goes to see. She is got her family here. But then American friends. She went to school here. Her husband is American. And she says there is one key Iranian concept that is way beyond even the most party manners American notion of please thank you and oh you should not have gone to all this trouble. OK so it is called tarof. And it is basically this social custom of never saying what you want and offering things to people that you may or may not really want to give them. What happens like millions of times a day in Iran probably is that you-- you know you go to someone's house and they say Are you hungry? What can I get you? Do you want some tea? Do you want some fruit? Cookies? And you say No no no. I am just here I just want to see you. I am not here for any of that stuff. I am not hungry. I do not want any tea. And they are like No you have to have some tea. You have to have some fruit. Just one orange. Just have an orange. Ha