Hey everybody Ira Glass here. So we have been working on today's episode of the radio show for a while and the theme of the episode is Tarred and Feathered. And initially we just assumed we would be using the phrase tarred and feathered as a metaphor for when somebody is shamed publicly.  But then we read a news report about a guy named Jock Nelson who actually was tarred and feathered. Somebody poured tar on him and then stuck feathers to the tar and not in the year 1850 or something. This was in 2007 seven years ago in Belfast in Northern Ireland. Where did it happen? Was it just around that corner? Just-- well-- 100 yards from here. OK so I am looking over to where you are pointing. And there is a day nursery the Scribbles Day Nursery. Jon Ronson who appears on our show from time to time happened to be going to Belfast this week and happens to be writing a book about public shaming. So we asked him to go check out where this happened which yes was right in front of a daycare center. He was tied to a post. Was it that post right there that he was tied to that lamp post? Yup. The woman actually wanted to beat him. And people were saying well you cannot very well beat him. He is tied to a lamp post and he is tarred and feathered. We cannot really add insult to injury. Or injury to the insult maybe I should say. Jon is talking here to Jackie McDonald who is one of the leaders of the UDA the Ulster Defense Association which is a paramilitary group. During all the years of troubles in Northern Ireland the paramilitary groups were the ones who would beat people up. They would shoot people on both sides of the conflict. And even though most of the violence ended with a ceasefire in the 1990s those groups are still around. They still exist. Jon says that Jackie McDonald looks and dresses a lot like Pauly from The Sopranos. Yeah he had a big gold chain. He had thick kind of Pauly hair. He had his shirt open so you could see his chest hair. He had one of those leather jackets that tough guys wear. Did his organization do the tarring and feathering? Well he kept on saying the community did it. But then when I pressed him he said well we are the community leaders the UDA so yeah. Was he there? Yeah. By the way were you here the day that they-- I just happened to be walking past. Now when he said that the woman who was standing with him-- A local. A local lady-- burst into silent laughter which I found quite telling. Now people do all kinds of things in this world that might tick off a paramilitary group. So what does it take to get tarred and feathered? Like what exactly did this guy do? OK well according to the Daily Mail article that came out at the time he would been a bouncer in a city center bar. And he lost his job and he was having marital difficulties. And so he started dealing drugs to children according to the Daily Mail. And he was repeatedly told to stop but he did not stop. And then one day word got around a local pub that he was dealing drugs to children in a park. And then he was caught literally with bags of coke in his pocket. Well why not just go to the police if they caught the guy with the cocaine? Right well Jackie told me why. The police need evidence and the police need-- there is technicalities out there. And too many times in the past when drug dealers have been reported they go to court and they are back doing the same thing the same night. So the community just thought it was more serious than that. It had to be dealt with in a different way. Right. We actually talked about having somewhere in the park where we could put-- what do you call it? Like the stocks? Exactly. The stocks. We were going to have them there as a deterrent. Wait wait wait. I am just going to stop the tape. He is saying stocks like in colonial America like where people would have their hands sticking through wood things and they would just bring in stocks? Yep. They were seriously considering bringing in stocks. I am going to talk this over with the police. When they say but if somebody was put in the stocks and there was people throwing eggs or tomatoes at them the police would have to intervene. And I says well if the police intervene then the eggs and the tomatoes would be thrown at the police. So we did not want to create that sort of situation. And in the end they decided OK well we will tar and feather him. So what exactly happens when you are tarred and feathered? Like how does it go? OK. So he was told to turn up at a certain hour. I think something like 11 oclock in the morning on a Sunday morning. Wait wait. They told him we are going to tar and feather you. Like you got to show up on time? They did not mention the words tarring and feathering. They just said you have to show up. You have to show up on Sunday morning at 11 oclock. And so he did. Yeah I know. He would have been pretty certain that something bad was going to happen to him. Nonetheless he turned up on the dot of 11 because if you turn up late something worse would happen to you. Back during the troubles this would happen all the time. People would be asked to show up like this and then they would get beaten with iron bars or baseball bats. Or they would get shot through the knees or ankles or hands. The paramilitary groups administered all kinds of punishments. So the guy shows up as requested. And then what happened? He was tied up and a placard put on him. And he was tarred and feathered. I asked them where they got the tar from. And they said B and Q which is the local DIY superstore. What is the American version of-- That is like Home Depot. Yeah Home Depot. Yeah our Home Depot. Were the feathers brought over in like a big bag? Or was it pillows? I think it was a pillow. And would the pillow just have come from these houses just around here? Well if they had asked for pillows they would get 100. I do not know if you can tell what he just said. He said if they asked for pillows they would have gotten 100. You know the local people were very annoyed at what this fellow had done. There are pictures of what this guy looked like once he was tarred and feathered. And they are shocking. We put one on our website if you are curious. He barely looks like a person like he is just this blob of black tar and white feathers. You cannot see his face at all. It is like his whole head is covered. He looks like the Abominable Snowman or something with a placard hanging around his neck that says I am a drug-dealing scumbag. So in the Daily Mail article that came out that said that Jock Nelson screamed for mercy as he was being tarred and feathered that it was boiling tar and that his shirt was pulled down over his shoulders so that it would burn. But Jackie says it did not happen quite that way and that Jock Nelson was fully clothed. Was he making any kind of noise as the tar went over him? No. No. Not that I could hear from a distance. Right. OK. So he was not screaming or anything. No no. I think he was happy enough that that is all that was happening to him. But he must have some kind of-- it must have been terrible. Well certainly and it was meant to be. You have to remember 10 years ago this fellow would have been found shot dead . But because of the peace process and people moving on things have been dealt with differently. And at the end of the day tarring and feathering was not the worst thing could have happened. It could have been a lot worse. Although the original story that we saw about this in the Daily Mail said that the guy who was tarred and feathered had been selling drugs to children Jon came out of his visit to Belfast not sure that is true at all or anyway if it is the whole truth. A former BBC reporter named Brian Rowan who is reported on Northern Ireland for over 20 years pointed out to Jon that a guy like this one who was allegedly selling drugs might have been seen by the paramilitary groups as competition for their own drug operations. And while it is presented in this kind of Robin Hood fashion of defender of the community and helper of the community these are paramilitary organizations who themselves are involved in drugs are involved in crime. This is their way of presenting themselves in the light that they would like to present themselves in that they are defenders of the community. Keep in mind also that the allegation that Jock Nelson sold drugs is coming only from the paramilitary groups that he never got due process. He got no day in court. We did reach out to him to Jock Nelson the guy who got tarred and feathered to get his side of the story. We tried. We contacted him on Twitter. And he just sent us a message saying he did not want to talk to us. But good luck with our story. How is he doing? He is left Belfast for a while went to Scotland. And now he is back working as a traffic warden. A traffic warden gives out parking tickets. And I said to Jackie McDonald is he back selling drugs? And Jackie McDonald said look if he was back selling drugs he would not be a traffic warden right now. He would be dead. You have been in prison yourself. So you know from both sides. What is the best deterrent? Is it going to prison or is it being tarred and feathered? Oh tarred and feathering without a doubt. I think with ordinary decent criminals  drug dealers thieves hoods whatever there is something like 47 48 49 re-offend. With tarring and feathering it is only had to happen once. There is been no re-offending since. Well today on our radio show Tarred and Feathered. Apparently humiliating somebody in public is something lots of people enjoy. And it is also really effective. It gets results. People leave town. People change. We have stories today of people who very much do not want public shaming. And they take action dramatic action. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One. The Hounds of Blairsville. There are all kinds of ways that you could be tarred and feathered but the effects are pretty much the same I think. People stop talking to you. You are a pariah. Stephanie Foo has this story from a small town in Georgia called Blairsville. Gene Cooley was planning his wedding. A second marriage for him and his fiancee Paulette. And one day he was at work cutting hair-- he is a hairstylist-- when he got a call from the police. And starts asking me about a shooting of course I knew nothing about. And all of a sudden then they mention about Paulette. And I just totally freaked out at that time. So give me a minute? Yeah yeah of course. Paulette's ex-husband had murdered Paulette and then killed himself. He would been unhappy about her remarrying. She would filed a restraining order against him. He would been violent before. Police called it an open-and-shut case. Gene of course was completely wrecked. He flew to her parents' house for the funeral. Her family welcomed him into their home cooked for him comforted him. Until Gene's second day there when Paulette's dad started acting strangely. I would kind of slept in a little bit or I stayed in the room a little bit. I think it was probably about 900. He made a comment about oh you always sleep this late? And I said no sir. He was a little on the cold side. And we started to have a little bit of breakfast. And he started asking me about rehab. And I said whose rehab? And he said your rehab. And I told him I have never been in a rehab. What are you talking about? And he said well what about drug addictions? And I said I do not have a drug addiction. I do not know what you are talking about. Of course that is exactly what you would say if you were a drug addict. So Paulette's dad did not find that very persuasive. And that is when they informed me that they wanted me out. Gene had no idea where this was coming from and did not know how to prove that he would never been an addict. Finally out of desperation he offered to go to the police ask them to run a background check print it out and bring it back to prove he had never been in trouble with the law for drugs. Paulette's father said great. Here are directions. Go do it now. On the way he called his sister in Blairsville to tell her Paulette's parents were acting really weird. And she said something crazy is happening over here. Things are being said about you bad things all over the internet on something called Topix. Topix is a website. If you live in a big city chances are you have never even heard of it. But if you live in a small town you probably know exactly what I am talking about. Topix was originally supposed to be a local news site. But in practice it is just a big message board where anybody can create an account and post a news item. And so more often than not in places like Blairsville it is mostly gossip. Blairsville's roughly a mile square. It is got a population of about 650. And that day dozens of people were commenting on Gene's fiancee's murder. At first the comments were sympathetic people saying they felt sorry for Paulette and her children. And then the comments got ugly. There was like five or seven I believe user names being real hateful real derogative real just nasty on there. Calling me a pervert making me out like I was a child molester making me out like I was some kind of big drug user. You know just total filth. Someone with the user name Calvin asked does anyone know the last name of Gene the boyfriend hairstylist? I am worried because Gene is making his way down to Florida to meet with Paulette's side of the family. I am truly fearful that this is not the end of this tragedy. Someone named Mouth then said keep that creep away from the children. He is trouble. What would you do if the perv was chasing your grandchildren? Calvin thanked Mouth for the warning. And then someone who called himself Bugs added Gene is not a nice guy. He cheated on his first wife. I know Paulette and Gene well and they were both sickening out in public kissing all over one another. It continued on like this. People accused him of every kind of character flaw you could imagine of getting fired from every job he had of being a liar a drunk. And I mean to make accusations like that? I was wondering who the hell it was. Did you have any guesses? I had no idea who it could be. I have never been on a website like that. I do not really use a computer that much. That is a huge understatement. Gene did not know what YouTube was until I explained it to him. It might not seem like a big deal that a couple of idiots are gossiping about you on the internet. But in a small town it is different. You almost definitely know the people who wrote these things about you. And you know the moment you walk outside your house everyone you see has read it and is talking about it. Because in Blairsville news travels fast. As a matter of fact you being here for just a couple of hours before we met I could almost tell you where you have been and what you even had for lunch. What do you mean? Like just by asking other people? You remember when you called me and said that you were about to have lunch? I would already had two people call and say hey did you know that there is a reporter over here in town? I did not talk to anybody. Maybe somebody who was eating at the restaurant? That is a big possibility. When I walked into the restaurant Gene was talking about I had noticed that everyone turned and gave me the side eye. The big guys in hunting gear in the back the tiny neat woman in the front. I sat there awkwardly wondering whether it was because I was the only Chinese person in town. When the waitress came up and asked me for my order the restaurant went silent to hear what it was. And this sort of talk it is mostly harmless. But when Topix came onto the scene it took gossip between friends gossip that people would ordinarily recognize as just gossip and made it into something more serious. This is Mark Cox. He is a friend of Gene's. He owns the hole-in-the-wall diner in town. You could tell somebody something and they will kind of believe you. But if they see it in writing they are going to believe it. Once you write it down it is not gossip anymore. You know that becomes truth for what people are concerned with. Other people told me the same thing. Like this woman I met in town. She would heard a friend gossiping about Gene saying that he was a pervert a child molester. She thought yeah right. I remember. I mean I can remember back things being said and I just brush it off and go on. But when it is written there and for anybody I mean and if it is on the web then you kind of like oh my gosh is this true? Could this happen you know? It puts that seed of doubt in your head. Of course. Gene did manage to calm his fiancee's parents down. But he was happy to go back home to Blairsville. He would lived there for 16 years at that point knew everybody. So when he got back he was floored by the way people were suddenly treating him. Like as if everything online was true. OK there was a gentleman that he and I used to pal around a little bit. Our children used to play together. I walked into a local convenience store and acknowledged him told him hi. And he looked down at that point in time and just walked on out of the convenience store got in his car and left. Or there was a guy he would known for a while who he ran into at a park. I just tried to have a little conversation with him. And he just told me pretty much get the F-word out of here. Get your perverted ass away from the kids. So I did not know what to do at that point in time. I just left the-- I just had to go. I mean the feeling was atrocious. I felt like I was a ghost. When your friends are not talking to you when people are not even looking at you I mean it is at your bottom's end right there. I mean you feel worse than the manure laying on the damn ground. Because people at least step in manure but they want to walk around you like crazy. Gene tried to get back to work at his hair salon but all his clients canceled their appointments. Here's Gene's boss Tony Smelt. There were rumors going around that Gene may have done some drugs in his past and that we were supplying him and that my wife and I were drug-dealing pagans. I do not know where the information came from. I mean we just certainly do not do drugs and we are not pagans. We eat organic food so-- Tony is obviously not a local. He is from England. And he was new to town at that point. His business had only been around a year and he could not afford trouble. Tony said people had even called the salon asking if Gene was there and saying they would not come in anymore if he was. One woman said she was afraid that Gene might shoot her. So Tony asked Gene not to come into work anymore. Topix is like a virus. People are scared of that website. I am that is for sure. Gene could not find another job in town. 2 and 12 months after his fiancee's death he decided he would had enough. Gene packed up to move to Augusta 3 and 12 hours away. But he made one last stop on the way out of town the office of Russell Stookey. Hi Mr. Stookey. Hi are you Jennifer? Stephanie. Stephanie I am sorry. Close enough. Come on. You are the first China lady I have ever met. China lady? China lady. OK. Russell's a sweet guy. But he does say exactly what is on his mind which actually made him the perfect man to take Gene's case because when Russell heard Gene's story he despised the whole idea of anonymous posters. And all he wanted to do is give them hell. They have no character. That means they have no guts. They have no guts no character. They lack courage no balls at all. WHISPERED Should I say balls? Anyway I am old school. If I have got something to say I will say it to your damn face.  That is just the way it is. You see these scars on my face? A lot of times people do not like that. And they will punch you. But that is their opportunity. And that is the way you do business in this life. You say it to their face. The case was tricky. Topix is not liable for what its users post. And they would not tell Russell the true identities of the posters. It took a year and a half but eventually a case in Texas went through. A federal judge ruled that Topix had to give up the true identities of any slanderous posters. So Russell used that ruling to find out who the anonymous posters really were. And what he found shocked him. The nastiest posters were actually just one person. Calvin Mouth Bugs who were all going back and forth on Topix talking about Gene and thanking each other for their warnings about him-- they were all the same woman a woman who had gone to the trouble of making multiple accounts and then having fake conversations between those accounts. Her name was Sybil Denise Ballew. And when Gene heard her name-- I had no idea who it was. Gene was totally baffled. It was not until much later that he learned that over 10 years ago he and Sybil Ballew had both worked at a department store in town called Alexander's. Most people in town call it the Hillbilly Walmart though it is more like a general store. Gene says he only worked there for three months mostly in the warehouse. He barely remembers it. But Sybil says she remembers him perfectly. I do not like the way he looked at the younger girls in staff where we worked together. Looking them up and down lusty look. You know what I am saying? There is a difference in looking and there is a difference in ELONGATING looooking. Sybil talked to me on the phone. She refused to see me when I was in Blairsville. And to this day she believes Gene had it coming. He is the reason the woman's dead. He is the very reason that woman is dead. He knew how her EMPHASIS husband was. But yet he kept doing what he was doing. He would come in there with her on numerous times. Sit in the corner and that woman could not even eat for him pawing at her being gross. You know what I am saying? You do not do stuff like that out in public for God's sake. People went back and told the ex-husband to get the ex-husband riled up and disturbed enough about it to kill the woman. What business is it of yours though? I mean it seems like you are making a lot of assumptions. Did you not understand or listen to what I said? He brought it upon himself in my opinion. Are you proud of what you did?  Am I proud of what I did? I am proud of standing up for what I believe in for what I know. I am proud of telling the truth. Gene sued Sybil Ballew for libel and defamation of character. Again here's Gene's lawyer Russell Stookey. So I had Mrs. Ballew on the stand. And to show what kind of legal scholar she is I said-- she kept telling us about the First Amendment protected her. And I said Ms. Ballew you mentioned the First Amendment. Do you know what the First Amendment says? What is the first word in the First Amendment of the Constitution of the United States of America? She did not know that. Here's a flash for you morons. The First Amendment does not cover all speech. Defamation is not ever protected speech. Russell's right. Libel is against the law. And if the lies hurt the victim financially that person is entitled to receive payback. The jury ruled that Sybil Denise Ballew owed Gene 404000 with 250000 in punitive damages. It was the first successful lawsuit lodged against an anonymous Topix poster.  God almighty. He went home that night feeling like a man. It was not a complete triumph. The case was expensive and Gene will probably never see any sort of reimbursement for that. To this day Sybil has not paid any of the 404000 to Gene. Russell says she just does not have that kind of money. But Gene got what was most important to him. He moved back to Blairsville after the case back to his family his friends his kids. And of course everyone had heard about the verdict by the time he got back. And people started talking to him again like nothing had happened like that guy in the convenience store the guy who walked out when Gene tried to talk to him? I saw him the other day at a convenience store. And he greeted me. Hi Gene how are you doing? It is good seeing you. We shook hands and I will talk to you later. I will see you around. You must have some sort of feeling like oh now you want to talk to me? Yes.  Yeah that is kind of how I did feel to be honest with you. I see everybody a lot differently now that I have been through all this. I just look at different people more cautious instead of letting them into my life letting them into my heart. I never thought that people could be so cruel. I asked around town to see if stories like Gene's were common. And almost everyone knew someone who'd been hurt by posts on Topix. One woman told me that someone wrote a post saying her coworker was having an affair. She said her co-worker's marriage fell apart because of it. And her kids were teased at school. Another said her husband was slandered which hurt the family business. But after Gene's case after people found out they could sue for slander lots of people started to call up lawyers. Russell Stookey says he probably gets a call every month. Normally you are talking about bored housewives who are just gossip-mongers basically. But it is an epidemic. I have caught lawyers. I caught a judge. I have caught doctors a dentist a state representative. I found out in a heartbeat who these people were. I sued them. And you ought to hear them scream and cry. Let me go. Let me out of this. You did it. If you go on to Blairsville's Topix page today there are only a dozen or so regular posters left. It is considered an embarrassment now. And nobody really reads the gossip anymore. Or anyway if they do nobody wants to admit it. Stephanie Foo is one of the producers of our program. Coming up we move from a story where the internet is causing huge problems in somebody's life to a story where the internet is actually helping somebody solve a huge problem. That is in a minute. From Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues.  We have arrived at Act Two of our program. Act Two Help Wanted. So this story is about a group that is pretty universally reviled. I think if there ever was a group that people would want to tar and feather this would be the group. And that is pedophiles. Though I have to say before we start this is not the story you usually hear about pedophiles. Reporter Luke Malone met somebody who has those feelings for young children and definitely does not want to act on them and has to cobble together his own way to deal with the problem which raises the question is there a way to treat pedophiles. Could there be a way to treat pedophiles? A warning before we start this story is definitely not for kids. Most of the names have been changed and two of the people in this story have asked to have their voices altered. Also though there is nothing graphic in this story at all victims of child sexual abuse should consider this a trigger warning. Everybody else I will say I have never heard anybody talk about these issues the way that the people in this story talk about them. I feel like I came out of hearing this story understanding something I really did not know before. So here's Luke Malone. My interest in pedophiles began in the wake of the Jerry Sandusky trial. He had just been sentenced on 45 counts related to child sex abuse. It got me thinking about how all this starts and if there is a way to prevent it. I mean Sandusky was not born a 68-year-old child molester. How old are pedophiles when they start thinking about kids this way? Do they ever want to do something to stop themselves? And if they do who can they turn to? I spoke to experts and dug around online. I came across a site a group of people who acknowledged their attraction but want help dealing with it. Most of the men I spoke with first noticed an interest in children when they were about 13 or 14. I had no idea. I asked how they reacted when they first knew something was up. For most of them this was going back 40 or 50 years. And I realized that I needed to speak with younger guys ones who were going through this right now. I asked the men if they knew anyone like that. And a week or so later I got an email. My name is Adam it read. I am 18 and I am the leader of a support group for pedophiles around my age. I will be very happy to talk with you. Adam is now 19. Just to remind you Adam is not his real name. And his voice has been altered to protect his identity. But even knowing he would be anonymous he was uncomfortable. You know nervous. Why? Just do not think I am a very vulgar person. It is even weird for me to say it out loud. You know it is something I type probably 50 times a day just chatting with some people online but actually saying it out loud is not very easy for me. Do you see yourself as a pedophile? Uh yes. And have you ever acted on your attraction? No. Here's the first of many distinctions I was not clear on when I first met Adam. And it is an important one to make. Technically you do not have to act on your desires to be a pedophile. Pedophilia marks the attraction not the behavior. Adam does not want to act on his attractions. Adam is self-diagnosed as is everyone in his online support group. They go by the medical definition of pedophilia found in the DSM the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders basically the Bible of the American Psychiatric Association which says that in order to be a pedophile you have to harbor sexual fantasies about or engage sexually with a prepubescent child for six months or more and you have to be 16 or above and more than five years older than the child. You also need to have either acted on these urges or the fantasies must cause distress or difficulty. Guys like Adam hit puberty and discover they are attracted to little kids. And what is remarkable is that they have to navigate that all on their own with no frame of reference. Everything they are going through they have to figure out for themselves at like 11. I was surprised when Adam first told me the specifics of his attraction. It was hard to relate to and so you are prepared difficult to hear. He is most attracted to kids between the ages of eight and three. He was 14 when he started watching porn porn involving children. For privacy he found a way to connect an old computer that he had in his room. Before long he was downloading it on a daily basis. He could not believe how easy it was. It was exhilarating. That is the most accurate thing I could say about it. I think for people who are listening to this show when they hear that it is going to be kind of hard for them to understand what you are feeling. And I really want them to. So can you tell me did you have any concerns for the kid in the videos at this time? Did it occur that someone else was abusing them by making these videos? No. First off the first child pornography I came across I do not think it even involved adults. What I thought as I would like to do these types of things. So it is great that I can watch other people who are closer to my age range do these types of things. I just see two kids doing something that I fantasized about doing. So you know I am one of the kids. Remember he was 14. And it was a little while later as I started watching this stuff more and more when I kind of realized that I was getting older and it was not some phase I was going through but the children I was interested in were not getting older you know to follow along with me but they were actually getting younger. Did it strike you as wrong? At that age no. I knew it was illegal. I knew it was considered wrong. But I did not know why it was considered wrong. I figured it was something that was not allowed. I would been using it for two years before I started to think these children are real people. And they could potentially be hurt with this. The way Adam figured it out was particularly brutal. He was 16 and he came across a video he wanted to unsee. There is no easy way to say this. It involved a very small child. An 18-month-old. I remember thinking that I wanted to reach through the computer screen and kill the person. I was just so horrified at what I saw. At that point I knew something was really wrong. He began reading up on child abuse and was upset at what he learned. He decided he wanted to stop watching child porn and he needed help if he was going to do that. For that help Adam turned back to the internet. He posted on a mental health forum explaining his situation and asking for advice. Two women who were child abuse survivors befriended him. With their help Adam says he stopped watching porn. But in its place grew a deep depression. It was not 