There is this guy who did this thing that is extraordinary. He tried to live like a badger. And I say that in this was not a stunt and he is not a crazy person. This was a sincere thoughtful attempt to figure something out. The guy's name is Charles Foster. And his interest in this kind of thing really all began when he was a kid. He says a blackbird used to come into his family's suburban backyard. And he would look at it through the window of his house and stare in its eye and it would look back at him. And he would think to himself I know this backyard so well but the bird knows stuff about it I do not. The bird knows all kinds of things I do not. And I wanted to know what that was. And you write that you went to the library reading everything you could on it. You mapped all the nests in your area. And you would visit them every day. And you took notes. You had a notebook where you were basically gathering your field notes. Yeah. I was a fanatical note-taker a fanatical mapper. I did things which no doubt would sound really strange or macabre now. Like for instance he taxidermied a dead blackbird he found. As a kid he did this. Mounted with its wings outspread and it dangled over my bed. I used to watch it circling as I went to sleep at night. Hm. So yeah. And also I pickled in formalin a blackbird's brain and put it in a jar and I would sometimes go to bed holding it in my hand. He would peer into it the way that you do when you are a kid imagining hoping something of the bird would seep into him. He would fall asleep wishing he would be a blackbird in his dreams. And as an adult his fascination with animals continued. He became a veterinarian. Can I ask when you became a vet was part of it because you wanted to get closer to animals? You wanted to understand them better? It was exactly that. Yeah. I felt that by putting my hands physically on animals by knowing how they worked as machines I would understand better those really mystical questions which I posed myself as a child. Did not work. If anything he says understanding animals as machines took him even further from the thing he was interested in. How do they perceive the world? What do they know? And so as an adult he began to venture out into the woods to try to live as different animals. He documented this in a book called Being a Beast. The most interesting section in this book is his attempt to live like a badger. Usually he would do this alone though for a few days he went with his eight-year-old son Tom. On a friend's farm they made a human-sized badger home. This was a tunnel 15-feet long that they would sleep in. Charles says he is probably spent six weeks living underground like this over the years sleeping during the day awake at night like real badgers. And the main part of living like a badger was being low to the ground crawling around on their hands and knees which he knows how weird that sounds. And they did something that is so simple but changes everything. Instead of using their eyes to get around-- badgers' eyesight is terrible-- they would blindfold themselves and use their noses. When you move your nose over a small area of the forest floor just move it an inch and you get a completely different set of smells. The ground is much much more interesting when you smell it than when you look at it. And then everything changes when rain comes. Just describe how different the entire place is when rain finally hits. Rain unlocks scent. So there is a massive explosion for olfactory animals of the intensity of the place. It was like the volume suddenly being turned on. And not just volume. It was a better sort of music. It was like switching to Mozart after you would been having the piped music in the mall. It was incredibly exciting. He says it only took a few days for him and his son to be able to navigate the landscape in the woods blindfolded using only their noses. Oak trees were good landmarks he says because surprisingly they all smell different from each other. I asked him to read this passage from the book describing what the oak smelled like on those outings. Out of the tunnel turn right. 15 yards raw tobacco mostly Turkish straight on. After half a minute wall of limes and sick in front. If I had to pick one word for the badger's experience it would be 'intimate.' Grass and bracken stems brush your face. When you are forcing a new path the stems graze. Water shudders off grass into your eyes. Things slide away. We bustled and grunted and elbowed and pushed and pressed our noses into the ground. And even we smelled something-- the citrusy piss of the voles the distantly maritime tang of a slug trail like a winter rock pool the sharp musk of a weasel the blunter musk of an otter. It got to the point where his eight-year-old son one day declared I can smell mice and then he headed off into the distance and found-- OK not mice but another kind of rodent-- bank voles. I cannot talk about this book without having Charles Foster read one more excerpt. Badgers eat earthworms so he felt compelled to at least try them. And he tried a bunch from all over. He would put them into his mouth alive and feel them try to escape by wriggling through the gaps in his teeth and then he would bite. Earthworms taste of slime and the land. Worms from Chablis have a long mineral finish. Worms from Picardy are musty they taste of decay and splintered wood. Worms from the high Kent Weald are fresh and uncomplicated they would appear in the list recommended with a grilled sole. About 85 of an average badger's diet is earthworms. This fact both drains badgers of some of their charisma and makes them excitingly inaccessible. Are those real flavors that you are describing or are you just riffing on different potential tastes of the worms of Chablis? No no. Those are real flavors. And then sometimes you would eat them raw and sometimes cooked? Yeah. And I recommend if anyone wants to do this that they cook them and they have them with garlic. Charles Foster is not just a veterinarian. He is also a practicing lawyer and he teaches at Oxford University in England. And when he writes about the question that is at the heart of his interest with animals-- the question what can we really understand about an animal's experience-- he parses what we can and cannot know with a lawyer's precision. He is meticulous. And he has thought about this a lot. He says of course we cannot know what animals think how they conceive of themselves how they conceive of the world. We cannot really know what they feel. But with many animals he says we can know their physical experience because we share so much physiology with so many animals-- our limbs and eyes and noses and mouths and the way our nerves work. And that is why he tried to live like animals live. Putting his own body his own physiology into a badger's landscape seemed like his best chance of getting a tiny glimpse of what it might feel like to be a badger. What are the moments that you feel like you got closest to the thing you were seeking? There was the moment of-- there was the moment when I said to myself there is a tree there because there is the smell of a tree rather than there is a tree there because I looked at it last Thursday and I know that it should be. Mostly this did not work. He is the first to point that out. As soon as he would stand up and see the world again with his head 6 feet in the air it all went away. The visual world reasserted itself. His head filled with thoughts that a badger would never think. But I could understand why he gave so many years to this project even though he knew all along it was such a long shot. It is too exciting to leave yourself and try to be something so different. Well from WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today on our program Becoming a Badger. We have two stories for you about trying to become something you are not. One of these stories is about a guy from France. One is about a dog. In each of the stories they set out to become different from what they are and they do it by just jumping into the new identity into the new thing they want to be pretending to be that thing and hoping it sticks. Stay with us.   Act One Je Suis Ici Toute La Semaine. So I heard about this guy. His name is Gad Elmaleh and he is basically the most famous stand-up comedian in France. He plays arenas in France. He gets mobbed everywhere by fans and paparazzi yadda yadda. Yadda yadda's actually appropriate. Gad is known as the Jerry Seinfeld of France. Just to give you a sense this is the beginning of one of his most popular concert videos. It is from 2010.   Yes that is a Michael Jackson song they got the rights to. Gad does this rock star thing where his silhouette hits the stage before he does and then his silhouette dances around to the music tantalizing the crowd until the spotlight hits him. Bonsoir! Here's how famous he is. His initial jokes are about being famous-- how freaked out his fans get meeting somebody as famous as he is. But about a year ago Gad embarked on this quest. He decided he was going to try to make it as a successful comic here in America in English. This is an incredibly difficult and totally unnecessary thing for anybody to try to do. In France everybody knows Gad Elmaleh. It is going great for him. And he is giving all that up to start again at the bottom doing small clubs and venues. He has to reinvent how he does his whole job. And he is struggling. It is simultaneously audacious and very humble. I have to say I am kind of a sucker for somebody who decides to do something really hard that nobody wants but them just because they cannot help themselves. And that is what this is. And what is funny in France to French people you will not be surprised to hear is not the same as what is funny in English to American people. So to succeed at this Gad has to understand the exact contours of what is different between the sense of humor of these two entirely different countries while he is on stage. He has to do this live while trying to entertain paying customers. Reporter Zack McDermott is the one who first told us about Gad. Zack is a comedy nerd and a former stand-up himself. He takes the story from here. The only reason I know who Gad Elmaleh is is because of my wife. She is Belgian. I will call her Aurelie because although we have been married for three years I still cannot pronounce her name right. Aurelie. Once again. Aurelie. Anyway. For her Gad Elmaleh was a household name growing up. And you know it is funny because there are a few of his jokes that are so famous that if you say one sentence everybody knows that you are referring to him. I thought about that. There is something about learning English and the sentence Brian is in the kitchen-- It is a routine he does about learning English as a kid and the random phrases he had to repeat over and over again like where is Brian? Where is Brian?  Brian is in the kitchen.  I mean I remember my friends when I was maybe like 15 16 or maybe a little older-- everybody was saying that. It is like what is it in English? Like that is what she said. It is like that. Everybody says that. That is what she said. Yeah. That is my producer Sean Cole by the way. You will be hearing his voice a bit too as we go. So Aurelie was really excited when Gad moved to New York and started doing shows here. She drug me to a couple of them including a very early gig last September at a performance space called Joe's Pub. It is not a bar. It is kind of a highbrow New York Cabaret space and it is cozy. Seats less than 200. Even just seeing him in such a small venue it is such a treat. And it is like wow how lucky French people are. You are like that is great. I know. It is like seeing like-- Sort of like VIP when you do that. You feel like VIP. You really do yeah. It is like seeing Neil Young play at a bar or something. I do not know who that is but sure.   Joe's Pub is now proud to present Gad Elmaleh.  This was hands down the best-looking and best-dressed crowd for a comedy show I have ever seen. So many scarves. Such tight jeans. The women looked great too. The room was mostly French with some Moroccan fans spackled in as well. Gad's ethnically Moroccan and he grew up there so most of the room knew his French act. Is he really gonna do this in English? Yeah! Oh wow. I do not know why I am doing this. I do not know. I do not know. I do not know. The first thing you notice about Gad is that he is got incredible stage presence. And he is a very physical comedian. One minute he is all elegance and grace the next he chimps up his face and flops around. His English act is basically observational comedy including a lot of outsiders' impressions of America and specifically New York. For instance he says he likes to ask directions of Americans because they always include Starbucks. You want to go straight then there is a Starbucks on your left. You make a right. The next block there is two Starbucks. You make another right. There is another block with another one Starbucks. Make a left at the other block. There is no Starbucks so do not panic.  Asking directions in France is different. And this bleeds into another staple of his show which I will call Americans be like this French people be like that. Here's a joke about shopping in New York and this one over-the-top earnest sales guy. And he told me something you will never hear in France. Let me double check.   In France we do not even have single-check! You can tell from response in the room that this is not exactly an away game for Gad. The French and Moroccan folks in the audience love him unconditionally but even here in front of the friendliest possible crowd it is a rough show. There are jokes that just do not go anywhere. A friend of mine he said I am a fundamentalist atheist-- A fundamentalist atheist. I said what the  is that? It is like if you are ordering a triple-shot espresso but decaf. I like this one but I will have to work on it. He said this a few times. OK. I have to work on that joke. He had a notepad on his stool and he would occasionally jot down which jokes worked and which did not. OK. Good joke bad delivery.  It is OK. Let us be humble tonight. It is a work in progress. More work than progress but it is OK. He is done other gigs in front of audiences that do not know him where he bombed. It is something that just does not happen to him in France these days. Imagine doing something 5000 times and on the 5001st time you suck. It is not a good feeling. That feeling like if you wear a sweater and you are all wet on your body right after the shower. And you put the-- agh eugh algh. You just want to hide. Yeah I bombed some nights. To be honest I had so many moments where I was oh my god how am I gonna do this? I had so many moments writing crafting last-minute jokes in front of a club alone and like what am I doing? Good question. Why is he doing this? Onstage he jokes that he is doing it because he needed to challenge himself which is only partly a joke. In France he is reached this weird level of fame where his fans laugh at everything. He told me it does not matter what he says anymore. With the people who know me it is like oh heh. They always some heh. And I do not like that. They kind of give you a pass. Yeah. It is not satisfying he says. It is too easy. But working here-- it is hard again and that is what he likes about it. I am excited. I wake up in the morning. I cannot wait for the night to perform exactly like it was 20 years ago when I began doing stand-up in France because it was new. Like everything you know? Like relationship. Like a gum you know? Gum-- you just put it in your mouth. It is full of sugar. This is now. Is that what happened in France? There was no more sugar in your gum? No more sugar in my gum. So we need to bring back the sugar in our gum. But Gad's friend Dan Naturman believes there is another reason Gad wants to make it in English. Dan's one of the few comics who is gone the other direction. He is an American who sometimes performs in French-- in Paris and Montreal. For any French comic-- and I have spent enough time talking to them-- they do not feel like they have conquered comedy until they have conquered America because this is perceived as the home of stand-up comedy. You ask a French comic who are your idols you are more likely to hear Louis CK Chris Rock. So in that sense he feels like OK. I did well in France but am I really a great comedian if I have not conquered America? I think he is somewhat insecure in that regard. I think deep in his heart he is saying but I am not Louis CK. I am not Seinfeld. I want to be those guys or as close as I can get. And the only way to do that is to come here. Can he get there? It is gonna be a rough one is not it? We played a recording of that quote for Gad. It is not easy to hear but it does not hurt. Is it true? Yeah it is true. Because if you are a great soccer player in America you want to be with the Real de Madrid. You want to be with Barcelona. You want to be with Bayern de Munich. You want to be with Arsenal. Yet someone who wants to connect with an American audience might choose a different analogy but you get the point. Early on in this whole adventure Gad made a documentary for French TV about moving to the States. In one scene the French Jerry Seinfeld is sitting at a restaurant with one of the few people who understands exactly how difficult it will be to make it in America-- the American Jerry Seinfeld. They are friends. Let me tell you. Let me explain this to you. The comedian-- the stand-up comedian-- was invented in America. Yeah. It was invented in America. So you are surprised that I came to America to do this? I get what you are doing. It is like I want to go build a car but I want to build it in Germany. OK. And people say really? In Germany? Then I am going to go to Italy and I am gonna open up a pasta factory. And then I am going to go to France. I want to make wine. OK. All right? And then I am going to England and I am going to write some plays. OK. Right? And then I am going to go to America and I am going to do stand-up comedy. Yeah so-- Those people are used to the best. OK. You with me? I am with you. So if it was me-- honestly if it was me and I had what you had in France I would just-- You would stay. I am good. But I admire your ambition. I admire it. This is-- yeah. I like to hear that. I admire that. Yes. Yes. You have to be comfortable that it is going to hurt.  This is not the first unlikely quest Gad's embarked on. He is one of the people who brought stand-up comedy to France. Amazingly it did not exist there at all until about 15 years ago. Gad says they had no comedy clubs. Before then he was a kind of entertainer that does not really exist here. He did these theatrical one-man shows playing all sorts of characters singing songs. But at some point he became obsessed with the American style of comedy and started addressing his audience directly telling them jokes just like we do here in the States-- in other words stand-up. It was so new. People were like oh wow. What is this? He is talking to us. They were not used to it. No pigeon no rope no hats no wigs. You are not being metaphorical. There were actual pigeons and ropes and wigs in your act before? No. You are being metaphorical? Yeah. It is just because this is how American comedians make fun of me sometimes. Like oh how is your show in France? Do you do mime and have like a pigeon and magic tricks? Because this is the stereotype. And if I want to talk about the stereotype we have on American comedians I would say a guy standing up who does not move at all with a mic a little depressed and say jokes jokes jokes jokes jokes. But his French act is still very different from an American stand-up act. In his hour-plus long French specials he plays piano and guitar and beats on his guitar like a bongo. And there are special guests. It is a boogaloo of a production-- everything but the pigeons. He tells a couple stories about his kid. He is got two-- one with Grace Kelly's granddaughter. He does a lot of observational humor. But he is 10 times more physical in his French act. He is practically performing the scene.  He is saying on an airplane when they hand out little towelettes that smell good you are like yeah! I am going to live the moment. Then he sits in a chair and acts out the part of an ecstatic passenger.      So how do you translate that into American? Gad says you cannot. I immediately very quickly realized that translating my French jokes into English was not the thing to do-- the good thing to do. Did you try that? I tried. And failed-- kind of spectacularly in some cases. A lot of the stuff in his French act just does not travel well. Only a couple bits survived. He had to drop all the jokes about people freaking out when they meet him because he is so famous. Then there is the stuff he had to drop because of the obvious cultural barriers or because of the vagaries of either language. For instance he had this joke. He is mortified talking about it now but it was about a common expression in French. French people when someone breaks into their house they say je me sens violee. I feel like I have been violated. Except the word violee in French also means rape. But in French it is not as shocking as rape. So I did not know that. So what I said-- I said you know what guys? We have an expression. When people get burglarized they say I felt I was raped.  And it was like terrible like ice like silence. And I was like oh my god. What did I say? I should not say that.  Gad's next challenge he had to recalibrate the pacing of his entire act. Turns out comedy in France is like everything in France-- laid back laissez-faire. They kind of ease into jokes the way they take a long time to eat dinner. He actually has a joke about that. Whereas in America-- The structure of the phrases are shorter and sharper-- sharper? So what I have been doing every day is cutting the fat. I remember when I first started to do the clubs I was-- oh my god. I had long setups. OK. So I-- yeah. I was walking and I said I am going to go to that store so I went to that store. And the guy came up to me and said-- oh my god. And I was with some friends-- like good friends-- and they said Gad stop that. Just go right away. This guy in a store told me this. I thought he was-- boom boom bam bheem. Punchline. That is it. Stop with the whole pigeon thing. The hardest part of this whole endeavor is maybe what you would guess-- the language. Gad's made a lot of progress since learning how to say Brian is in the kitchen as a kid. But after a few hours of speaking English even just to us Gad's exhausted. He says his brain turns to mush and he just wants to speak French. And a huge part of Gad's quest to become an American comedian is hard core language training. So much of comedy is about timing. If you are off by a beat or a syllable you murder the joke. The joke is dead. So Gad's working with a language coach several times a week dissecting his jokes phrase by phrase and syllable by syllable. Last night I did the American dream thing. Yep. And it was very hard. They did not get it. We sat in on Gad's session with his tutor Julia Lenardon in Gad's crash pad i.e. a massive luxury apartment in Tribeca. Why? Because it is worked before. What happened? Because it is the I have wondered and I was wondering and I have always wondered. And my father used to take us to the ocean or took us to the ocean. It is always-- I am always confused. This joke is about how his father used to take him to the beach point at the ocean and tell Gad that if you sail for days and nights you will reach America. Gad wondered if any American father was standing on the shore pointing towards Morocco saying the same thing. So he did it several times or he did it once? That is what I need. Every time we would go to the beach he would stand in front of the ocean and say this crazy thing. Then my father would take me. Yeah. My father would take me. As opposed to-- Maybe that is why I do not know they do not get it. I like it. It is not a crazy joke but it is a poetic image. I always wondered if on the other side of the ocean there was an American father-- Yeah. You see that is the thing. An American father. That is the thing is you have got your keyword that you have to lift with pitch. And then you have to drop the next word because that is how we hear the contrast. The American father. An American father. I am not sure that on the other side of the ocean there was an American father .  For a while Gad had this other joke that just was not working till Julia told Gad to say vay-KAY-shun instead of VAY-kay-shun. If that does not work she said you can fire me. It worked. When you know how hard it is for him watching him do an hour set in English looks like an Olympic feat. But of course that is not how these things are scored.  Gad's about a year into his new American life. And to be clear because of his fame elsewhere and his connections Gad's had about every conceivable unfair advantage a quote fledgling comedian in America could ask for. That show you heard at Joe's Pub was actually opening night of a six-month residency three shows a week. No rookie comedian in New York gets that. They knew he could pack the room with French ex-pats. Gad's been on The Daily Show The Nightly Show Late Night with Seth Meyers. He did a set on Conan. And he is getting better. His set got tighter during his residency at Joe's Pub. And he might still have the occasional language misstep but it is happening later in the show. His English is improving. And he just knows his way around the act now. When it works Gad says it means more to him than performing for his French fans who have seen his DVDs and know every joke and laugh at everything. When American audience laugh at my joke I mean I feel I am just oh I am funny. I am a funny man. I am not that guy. And even in my everyday life if I go to a store and I make someone laugh like at the grocery store I am so happy because I am like oh she does not know that I am famous in France and she just laughed so hard at my joke. I made a joke about I do not know cheese or whatever and I asked her a question and I made this little face and she was laughing-- really laughing-- and I am like oh I am a funny man. I am a funny man. I love to be anonymous. I love-- I love it. And I hope it is not going to stay like this forever.   But does he really have a shot at becoming a name here in the US? To answer that I turned to people who'd know-- some American comedy headliners. I talked to Colin Quinn Ali Wong Ron Funches and Jeff Garlin. All of them watched the same video of a 15-minute set Gad did at the Comedy Cellar back in June. And they all agreed he is a pro. He could totally have a career here. But can he be great? They all said he is not there yet and they were unanimous on what he needed to do next. There is one specific hole in his act all four pointed to. Here's Colin Quinn. Talking about his perceptions of America. All that stuff is great. Love it love it love it-- for 20 minutes. Then I want to hear about his life and I want to hear about France or Morocco. He is had this fascinating life. Let us  hear about it. The whole point of going to see a comedian is you want to see something that other comedians do not do. What about your country? I am interested. It is all relatable. It is emotions you know what I mean? My favorite expression-- now I get to use my favorite expression which I am always looking for an excuse. In the specific is the universal. What would he have to do to go from this level that he is at right now to being great? He would have to listen to what I just said. Being personal-- that is where American comedy's at right now. Ali Wong said something similar after she watched the video. It was so interesting because you can tell that he is a really seasoned performer and he is very comfortable on stage. But she said that like a lot of rookie comedians in New York the topics he gravitates toward are a little too generic. You know how hard it is to get an apartment why women always want to commit Indian cab drivers talk a lot on their phone. For me when you are a headliner those are people who kind of give a lot of their essence on stage. Like I would love to know why the Jerry Seinfeld of France would want to do stand-up in America all of a sudden? Ron Funches agreed with Ali that the most obvious thing for Gad to talk about is one of the topics he thought he had to avoid on stage-- his fame. This-- what is going on now his fear of being like oh I am a big deal in France and now I am in America and I am not that big of a deal. Tell me what that is about. Tell me how that feels. That is probably terrifying and also very brave of you to step out of your comfort zone. Tell me about that. Tell me what you think is funny about that. That would be very interesting to me. I think it is a good point. Again here's Gad. We played him all the feedback and he was a good sport about it and he thought it was good advice. He really liked Ron's idea for how to talk about his fame. His point of view is interesting. So maybe I should explain-- just tell them guys it is a new life being famous somewhere and maybe sometimes I am walking down the street in New York City and I do not get bothered. But it is also bizarre you know? I want to go to some people and say do you want a photo or something?  Yeah. Bother me. Do you want a photo of us? No. That would be good no? That is good. Do you want a picture with me? No. Because I am famous in France. Yeah but that is in France. That is funny. I should do that. But the most pointed criticism was from Jeff Garlin. You might recognize Jeff as Larry David's sidekickmanager on Curb Your Enthusiasm but he is got 30 years in stand-up. He worked with Jon Stewart and Denis Leary on their stand-up specials and he is a comic's comic. We were not talking for very long before he just cut to the chase. He does not make me laugh. Huh. Yes. But I find him unbelievably charming. I think he is charismatic. He is charming. I could see him becoming very successful here. The audience was under his spell. He has a spell. There is a craft to stand-up comedy as well as an art and he is a master at the craft. I do not look at him as much of an artist. Jeff said to be an artist he would have to be more passionate about the stuff he is talking about. It does not matter what it is. Just tell me what you care about. He does not care about Starbucks on every corner. That is a bunch of crap. And let me tell you if he is not bored doing that every night there is something wrong with him because I would want to kill myself. What do you care about Gad? That is what I am saying. What do you care about? Interesting. Wow. Yeah yeah. Wow. Now that I-- the English is OK I should maybe be more fragile even though it is in English and maybe trust what I think trust what I feel. Wow. Now it is getting really interesting. Gad could not stop thinking about this. 20 minutes later he just interrupted Sean mid-sentence to come back to it. So I am just wondering how you see yourself having-- Now let me tell you something. Yes. We had those five minutes of their critiques and the thinking and now my brain is already working on the new material. Wow. It is a little revolution today for me. So it is really interesting. It is a shock but it is in a good way. What are you thinking about? I am thinking that when I will go to clubs I really want to go there. I really want to try to talk more about my roots Morocco friends and not only comparing-- not only saying oh you guys do this? We do that. You guys do this? We do that. Man that is really really a good shock that you gave me today. There will be a before and after today. Really. What do you care about? I remember what do you care about? What does he care about? I care about people who say what does he care about. Merci. I saw Gad at the Comedy Cellar one more time after that interview two weeks ago. He had not changed up his set much. He was not getting into the personal stuff yet. I asked him why and he said revolutions do not happen overnight. The comedians I talked to were adamant. For Gad to come up with the kind of material he is going to need to be great in America-- the personal stuff the stuff he really cares about-- the only way to develop that is to do painful sets on stage where he tries out all kinds of stuff and lets himself bomb. In France he does not do that. And Gad told me it goes against all his instin