Watching officials from international soccer this week on the news it was hard not to think wow you guys have really learned how to have a game face. You know what I am talking about? 14 people indicted many arrested allegations of bribery and corruption going back years-- the head of FIFA Sepp Blatter was not indicted but people were wondering about his involvement. And law enforcement officials have made clear their investigation is not finished. But Blatter was cool. He was composed at the opening ceremony at the FIFA Congress on Thursday. Many people hold me ultimately responsible for the actions and the reputation of the global football community. We or I cannot monitor everyone all of the time. If people want to do wrong they will also tried to hide it. By the next day though cracks started to appear if you were watching closely which I was. It was little things. Like for example on Thursday Blatter had said-- These are unprecedented and difficult times for FIFA. One day later though he told the Congress quote I will not call this unprecedented. Apparently somebody reminded him of accusations of bribery and financial mismanagement under his leadership in 2002 2006 2010 and 2011. That day Friday Blatter addressed the FIFA Congress in French. And even the question of his responsibility as FIFA's president seemed to shift like soft ground yielding under a heavyweight.  I am willing to accept that the president of FIFA is responsible for everything but I would like to share that responsibility with you or at the very least with the executive committee here to my left. Sometimes during this address Blatter's words seemed totally disconnected from his tone. He issued a rallying cry at one point let us try to lift our spirits with the grimness of a doctor delivering awful medical news and an actual grimace at the end which is to say even somebody with as much game face as a veteran political operator like Blatter-- he is been part of FIFA's leadership for decades. Even he has his limits. One of our producers Jonathan has this picture in his middle school yearbook his team picture for sixth grade basketball at Hillview Middle School in Whittier California. Out of 20 kids most of them are stony-faced. A few smile or smirk a little bit. He is the only one beaming. He says he did not get the memo to look tough. It reminded me we have to be taught to have a game face. We have to be taught. It does not just happen. Somebody was telling me last week about his daughter's softball league that they actively coach them on this on not to cry not to get upset when there is a bad call or the game does not go their way. Do not look like you are losing it the coach tells the kids. Keep your face neutral. Look like you are in control. That is the key. Look like you are in control. Well  today our program we have stories of people in situations that are fraught and difficult where anybody would have trouble staying composed. But above all for various reasons in each story these people have to stay composed. They have to maintain gain phase which is when you are truly being tested. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act 1 200 Dog Night. For a couple summers when she was 19 and 20 Blair Braverman worked as a dog sled guide on an Alaskan glacier. The glacier was part of an ice field the size of Rhode Island made of many glaciers. Blair and 12 other staff members lived with 200 huskies on the ice for a week at a time. Sometimes actually it was a lot more than a week. They would be there for three or four weeks. The guides slept in tents. The dogs slept in little plastic igloos. And eight times a day helicopters would drop off groups of 20 to 30 cruise ship tourists. Of course like any job dealing with the public especially a job dealing with tourists this all required a pretty committed game face not just stoic but actively cheerful and enthusiastic and-- F-U-N-- fun-- you know on a glacier-- 'til one day that game face became very very hard to pull off. Quick note-- we have changed some of the names in this story. Here's Blair. The tour was expensive. Tourists paid 500 each for a half hour helicopter flight and a dog sled ride on the glacier-- total time on the ice one hour. A lot of my earnings came from tips-- 20s 50s or the occasional hundred folded tight and slipped into my jacket cuff as I shook hands at the end of the tour. My job was to provide a luxury experience a taste of real Alaska. This is from a promo video for the tour. The sled dogs we have at camp are the real McCoy. These are the dogs that we travel with in the winter and race with. Most of these dogs that will be pulling you today have actually done the Iditarod many of them several times. We were supposed to provide this taste of Alaska with absolutely no discomfort either physical or mental even though physical and mental discomfort is kind of the premise of living on a glacier. It could be brutal. UV rays reflected off the ice and blistered the insides of our nostrils so that it hurt to breathe. It rained a lot and my skin got so waterlogged that it fell off in white strips. I wrapped my fingers in duct tape to keep the skin in one piece when I shook hands with tourists. The snow we stood on was just a few feet deep covering solid ice. But the ice would shift and crack. And so under any given patch of snow there might be ice or there might be nothing a gaping hole hundreds of feet deep. During my job interview I would been told that no staff members had died yet. But they could not make any promises. Once in a while we would spend a day probing for cracks in the ice crevasses. We pushed long thin aluminum poles into the snow every 12 inches or so through the whole camp praying that the metal would meet resistance. One morning I climbed from my tent to find that a turquoise lake a half mile wide had appeared overnight right next to camp. It was gone by the next day. On a bad day we called the glacier the goddamn ice cube-- on a good day summer camp on the moon. To the tourists we called it dog world as in welcome to dog world. I am Blair and I will be your dog sled guide. I cannot believe how lucky we got with this weather. Eight times a day I told the tourists that they had lucked into the best weather in weeks. Even when it was pouring rain I explained that until they arrived it had been raining harder. We tried to spare them the sight of a single piece of dog poop. We cleaned the kennel constantly scraping up dog hair that collected on the snow and piling it in an enormous mound hidden behind the tents which we called the woolly mammoth. The tourists did not mention crevasses so I did not either. It was not that the reality of glacier life was a secret. We just did not want to distract from the tourist fantasy that they had been dropped into a pristine wonderland. By my second summer on the ice I was having a hard time. Most of the other guides were men and older than me so I was pretty lonely. To make it worse I would made the mistake of dating one of the men the summer before and then breaking up which did not exactly make it easy to live together at glacier camp. My ex had taken to badmouthing me to the other staff and even to the tourists. It is too bad you did not get an experienced guide I once overheard him tell a couple as he led them to my sled. My tentmate Rebecca was my closest friend on the ice although I thought of her more like a kid sister. She was a homeschooled 18-year-old from Indiana who had never before been away from her family for more than a week. She would fallen in love with the idea of dogsledding the idea of Alaska. And back home she saved up money working at McDonald's to buy a malamute and a husky which she trained to pull her on roller blades. Rebecca lived her life in her words guided by Jesus Christ and his teachings. Together she and I made easy targets. Other guides blamed us for problems around camp. And we were always the butt of their jokes. I was pretty resigned to it all but sweet Rebecca was determined to make friends going out of her way to be helpful working twice as hard as any of the rest of us. And she dreamed of getting a chance to drive a dogsled. She would set aside time for it. And somehow just when she was getting hopeful someone would yell that they needed her to scoop poop or fetch some booties. And the trip would be delayed again. At night Rebecca and I would sit up in our sleeping bags eating trail mix and trading young adult novels about the end of the world. We would been on the glacier for two months more than half the summer and Rebecca still had not driven a dogsled. And she was really really homesick. Finally she gave in and bought a plane ticket to see her family. When the morning came for her to leave I begged for an hour off so I could take her sledding before she left. It was the best ride I would had all summer. The dogs were happy. It was not raining and Rebecca laughed out loud as she drove the sled. Tourist voices drifted from the neighboring trails where other people were responsible for them. Then we heard the high whine of a snowmobile and saw a tiny figure in the distance our manager Malcolm zooming toward us in an orange vest. We had been warned about orange vests. They were worn only to signal an emergency to communicate urgency to the staff without scaring the tourists. Now as he barreled up the trail Malcolm waved to the tourists. Gorgeous day is not it? He slowed next to me and Rebecca. We are in trouble he said. The pilots cannot get back. A sudden storm had descended between the heliport and the glacier. Nobody's hurt but the tourists are trapped here now Malcolm said. His voice was higher than I have ever heard it. They are trapped here. I need you to let the staff know what happened without alarming any of the tourists. Just tell them-- I do not know-- that they will be here longer than they expected maybe an extra hour or two. More for their money right? He paused. And girls try to make it sound like a good thing. Rebecca and I split up to spread the word. Great news I announced to each group. You get a longer tour than usual. Then while the tourists pet the dogs I sidled up to each musher and quietly told him what was actually going on. Back at camp Malcolm was standing by the satellite phone thinking. He had called the cruise ship to say that the passengers would be late. The captain agreed to wait three hours but no longer. So our cook heated a massive pot on the propane stove preparing cocoa. Our goal now was to keep things fun for as long as possible let the tourists hang out in the kennel then bring them in for hot drinks. Malcolm had plans for snowmobile rides and a snowman building contest. As long as the backup helicopters arrived within an hour or so which they would there was no reason for the tourists to know that things were not going just as intended. But the weather only got worse. We brought the tourists to the community tent and fed them cookies. Malcolm delivered the solemn news. The helicopters were grounded. The storm had blocked their flight path and immediate rescue was doubtful. No a man said. That cannot be. My ship leaves at 800. Others nodded in agreement. The snow the ice being trapped-- it was not a possibility. Then the tourists got angry at the guides for bringing them there at the pilots for misjudging the weather at the cruise ships for not waiting. Did not we understand that this was a serious inconvenience? One woman had left her infant with a baby sitter. A couple was worried about standing up a dinner date. A few people raised concerns about medication they had left back on the ship. We have a cook Malcolm said to the tourists. We have plenty of food and water and we are going to make this as fun for you as we can. Right now the mushers will go back out to their dogs. And anyone who wants can go on as many dog sled rides as they would like. The tourists looked dismayed. Malcolm gave them a pleasant nod and stepped outside gesturing for the staff to follow. I do not care what you need to do he whispered once we had gathered around him. Just keep them happy. Do whatever it takes. Act like this is the best thing that is ever happened to you. And for heaven's sake do not do anything that could get us sued. That afternoon passed in a haze of card games the tourists constantly checking their watches and their useless cell phones. Someone set up a badminton net in the snow and a few of the younger tourists played a tournament. Then dusk fell and it became clear that the tourists would be staying the night. Malcolm and the cook delivered the news alongside platters of meatloaf mashed potatoes and chocolate cake. Meanwhile we guides squatted on our heels behind the storage tent and ate sandwiches too grim to talk. The tourists were not happy. Here they were dressed in their cruise ship clothes wearing these weird black overshoes they would been given to wear on the ice far away from their toothbrushes and their pajamas and their beds and the breakfast buffets they had already paid for. They did not understand why they had not been rescued. They did not understand why the helicopters could not fly at night. The storage tent held 30 emergency sleeping bags for just such a situation although in 10 years of tours they would never been opened. Malcolm told the staff that we would be ceding our tents and cots to the guests as he insisted we call them. He went tent by tent to make sure the quarters were ready. Put all your stuff in trash bags he told us. And we will pile it outside. We want to make sure the guests are comfortable. Where are we going to sleep Rebecca asked. Malcolm stepped out into the snow. I really do not care he said. Rebecca and I ended up sleeping on the floor of the veterinary tent. It reeked of piss and menthol. Neither of us could sleep. I whispered how are you doing? My flight she said voice muffled by her pillow. And it took me a moment to follow. I had forgotten. It leaves the day after tomorrow she said. I cannot get a refund. I tried to think of something to say some comfort that would make her feel better but I was just so tired. The second day passed like the first although the Parcheesi players had graduated to poker. Every so often I would peek into the storage tent to get medical updates. One of the other tourists was an insulin-dependent diabetic. If he were stuck on the ice for just one more day there was a chance he could slip into a coma. The word was that back in civilization a mountain rescue team was mobilizing ready to cross the frozen wilderness with ropes and ice picks carrying insulin and other medications in their packs. But nobody should know any of that I was reminded. We had to give the impression that even though we were trapped everything was going to be just fine. The tourists were busy pining for their ships for the vacations that had been only temporarily interrupted. And I was to keep it that way. So I returned to the tourists beaming. When my face got sore from all the smiling I retreated from the crowd back to the diabetic man in one of the sleeping tents. He was middle aged. I think he was a banker. He sat on a cot breathing slowly. At one point I drew a picture of him a little sketch that he folded and tucked into his breast pocket. Then he took my hand. I am honored to be spending this time with such a lovely young woman he said. I squeezed his hand and felt like a liar. Late in the afternoon we gathered the tourists in the community tent planning to break the news about a possible second night. The tourists had been remarkably positive all day. They were troopers. Some of the younger tourists even helped feed the dogs hauling buckets of soupy kibble from plastic igloo to plastic igloo. A few even sounded like they wanted to stay. I cannot believe you get paid for this they said sipping their cocoa. If they could take three months off they said they would love to come work here. This Malcolm noted was a resounding success. Still I dreaded the possibility that they would stay for a second night. I thought that would be the breaking point not just for the diabetic man but for us too. How long could we keep this up? Not long after we heard a thin rumble in the distance. Everyone froze. At first I thought it was in my own head. No one had told us the helicopters were coming. But as they rounded a mountain on the other side of the ice field the tourists began to cheer. They rushed towards them stumbling in the snow as the birds landed. In the sudden excitement I stepped back and watched from the kennel sitting on a plastic igloo as the guides helped the diabetic man into the first helicopter and the rest of the tourists into the others. Rebecca was able to slip onto the last helicopter waving at me as she climbed aboard. We watched the helicopters disappear behind the mountains. In the silence that followed even the dogs were quiet. We would learn later that the hole in the storm that the helicopters flew through closed up just as fast as it opened and the last helicopter the one Rebecca was on had to make an emergency landing at a lodge near the base of the glacier. The rest of us trudged back to the tents without speaking to each other. There were sleeping bags to pack up dogs to feed and trails to groom and poop to shovel. In the morning the helicopters would return carrying a new group of tourists to experience real Alaska. Though we would never match the tour we had just given the tourists who got stuck they would paid 500 like all the rest to experience real Alaska. And they were the only ones who really got what they came for. Blair Braverman-- a version of this story is in a book that she is writing that is called tentatively Welcome to the Goddamn Ice Cube. Next week The Atavist will publish a longer version of the story. That is at TheAtavist.com. By the way we spoke to the dog sled company in this story. They said that they would never do anything to hide information from the tourists though a former employee of the company did confirm Blair's account.   Act 2 Funny Face. OK most jobs require you to suck it up and keep a game face on right? Keep game face on even while things are going horribly-- that is true for anybody in sales. It is true for waiters and waitresses. It is true for every kind of performer. And among performers I think it might be most intense for stand-up comedians because they are on stage alone. And when comedy goes badly you know it gets very very bleak. It gets very lonely. And they have to stay up there doing their job for a group of people that is not into them at all. And they have to just keep going. They have to keep telling punchlines that just are getting nothing back just crickets one after another after another. Not long ago Tig Notaro had some shows like that. I performed in Vegas. When you perform in Vegas you do a week of shows. There is two shows a night-- early late show. You do 14 shows basically. And I bombed all 14 shows. And in between the shows I did not know what to do because I am not a huge drinker. I do not really gamble. And so the first night I decided to go back to my hotel room that was so far away from the venue that I only had enough time to just stand still like this for two minutes and then walk back to the venue. So after that first night I decided that I would spend the evening-- in between the early and late show I would sit in the back corner of the venue just have a glass of water while they are cleaning the table tops and vacuuming getting ready for the late show. I did that every night for the rest of the week. And the last night of the week my phone rang. And it was my agent calling to tell me that the venue had called him to say that they thought it was weird that I was just sitting in the back corner and could I please go find something else to do. Do you know how humiliating that was? So humiliating-- because you know that call did not come from some far away headquarters somewhere. It came from someone in that venue looking through some little window just like yeah tell her to get out of here. I am sick of looking at her face. So again I did not know where to go or what to do. So I took the escalator down to the first floor and there was an ice cream parlor-- or I do not know are they called ice cream parlors? You know take me to the ice cream parlor. I mean I am eight years from 50. I do not just sit and have ice cream by myself just like-- and let me be sure to not use my microphone which is the exact shape of an ice cream cone. So I have my ice cream. And I finish my ice cream. I go back up the escalator to the venue. And I do my final show of the week. And I bomb. I get offstage. I shake hands with the audience members. They are just looking at me like we hate you. I am just like feeling is mutual. I shook hands with the other comedians on the show. And they were just like we cannot stand you. I was like OK top hat comedian you are right. I am horrible. But I went got paid in the office. And I went back to my hotel room. I put on my pajamas little pants that had little pigs flying all over them. I looked adorable. It was my one small victory of the week. Then I went in to brush my tooth. And that is when I caught my reflection in the mirror and saw that I had a full-blown chocolate mustache on . No! My brain completely replaying everything that evening-- I am on stage bombing for one hour with a full-blown chocolate mustache on my face. And then I am very face to face intimately shaking hands with the audience members. Nobody was like oh you have-- no-- just hating me-- shaking hands with the other comedians. Then I go get paid by the guy that I am certain was who made the original phone call telling me to get out of there and find something else to do. Guess who found something else to do? Yeah me. I went and had a little bit of ice cream for myself. What was he thinking when I was sitting there in that office with him a full-grown woman with a full-blown chocolate mustache on my face? You know could I not just glance in the mirror before I get on stage? What is my checklist before a show? Belly full of ice cream check-- head on stage What did he-- did he think I had put on a fake mustache to sneak back into the venue he had kicked me out of? Just hopped on stage-- not so funny anymore is it Vegas? They are just like we never thought you were. Tig Notaro-- that story is part of the material she is working up for her first HBO comedy special. It is called Tig Notaro Boyish Girl Interrupted. It airs in August on Saturday August 22nd 1000 Eastern exclusively on HBO. Her tour schedule is at TigNation.com. Coming up people who never ever can actually have a game face like their bodies prevent that from happening biologically. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show-- game face. My entire adult life I have never used the expression game face. I have no  idea what it means or what you are supposed to-- That is legendary Indiana basketball coach Bobby Knight back in a 1992 press conference. And after he says that he does not know what a game face is supposed to be he makes a series of fake intense faces-- scowls and grimaces-- ridiculing the idea of a game face. The biggest regret of my life is not asking a question that Bobby Knight ever got mad at in a press conference. That is Mike Pesca one of the hosts of the sports podcast Hang Up and Listen also the host of the daily podcast The Gist with Mike Pesca. He is the person who told me about the apparently very famous Bobby Knight quote about game face. He meant it to say it is a ridiculous notion that real athletes do not have. And what I feel-- Because his attitude was just like we are out there doing our jobs. we are intense people doing a job. We are not putting on a mask. That is right. And as I think about it Bobby Knight was like that all the time. And so a lot of these guys-- not everyone but a lot of these guys-- they do not have game face. That is what they live. If you are an intense competitive person that is how you live. The fact is though not all athletes feel the way that Bobby Knight did about this. Some of them consciously cultivate their game faces Pesca says. They talk about wanting to intimidate. So Dennis Eckersley a great relief pitcher-- he had a long flowing black mustache. And he would talk about his own self-image as Black Bart as a bad cowboy who came to town. And he was going to mow down the opposition. Randy Johnson who is an extremely tall major league pitcher would lean out over the mound. And he had a scowl on his face. And I also think there is a classic predator and prey situation. You know in nature predators have their eyes closer to their nose. Prey have their eyes on either side. And I think when Randy Johnson is scowling at you you feel fear. Other players with great game faces that Mike pointed to-- Bob Gibson from the Cardinals Roger Clemens John Starks and Charles Oakley of the Knicks Dan Marino of the Miami Dolphins Mike Singletary of the Chicago Bears. When it comes to the player with the greatest game face in sports the game faciest game face we went on a search. And we believe that it is none of those guys. We nominate a hockey player an old school guy. So in this week's show we are going to make the case for Terry Sawchuk. Good case-- sad case. Why sad? Terry Sawchuk played-- he was one of the best goalies in NHL history. And he played in an era-- a benighted era-- where it was all about toughness. And we cannot believe this but goalies did not wear masks. The game was not any different. The puck was not any softer just goalies did not wear masks. So there were no protective masks. And Sawchuk was this relentless guy who won four Stanley cups and was injured so many times that at some point Life Magazine did this photo of his face where a makeup artist and a doctor basically just recreated all the scars and all the places that he had been stitched up. And when you see it he looks like Frankenstein. It is hard to see it and not think Frankenstein. And his face took so many of these injuries because of something that Sawchuk is famous for inventing a way of being a goalie that actually took his unmasked face and put it directly into the line of fire. Before Terry came along in 1950 in the NHL goalies tended to stand and bend a little wee bit at the knee. That is David Dupuis who wrote a biography of Terry Sawchuk. He says that stance meant the goalie's head was higher than the top of the goal. But Sawchuk bent over. He bent over at the middle. If you have watched a professional hockey game in the last like half a century pretty much any goalie you see is imitating Sawchuk. His back is almost flat. I mean-- It is almost like parallel to thee ice. Almost parallel to the ice. His wife Pat used to tell him that she thought she could put a cup of coffee on his back and it would not get spilled. And his face would be low creating a great sense of gravity helped him to move laterally. But it put his face directly-- almost the first thing in line with the puck. It was a great show of courage but it tended to help his getting 600 facial stitches. Yeah how often was he hit by the puck? How often was his face hit? Well 600 facial stitches-- I would guess probably maybe 20 times a season sometimes excessive enough that-- remember the Red Wing doctor Dr. John Finley telling me that one time Terry had been hit in the nose so severely that the front cartilage was tore almost hanging by a thread. That is half his nose almost came off his face. And he stitched it back on. And I remember him saying that you or I in our profession or any profession would be sidelined for weeks. He sutured Terry up and Terry went right back out and played the rest of the game. All set to go now Stankowski with  Here's a not unusual day at work for Sawchuk a playoff game from 1967 against the Chicago Blackhawks.  to Bobby Howe. There is the shot. Oh and Sawchuk was hit and knocked flat. Terry Sawchuk took that tremendous blast off the stick of Bobby Hull-- boom down goes Sawchuk. What a tremendous shot from short range. The way he went down Bill it-- well we watch him get up now. Get a good look at Terry Sawchuk. He is got bruises all over his body from other shots taken in this series. Watching him in the dressing room the other night one shoulder was yellow and blue and orange-- every color in the rainbow it appeared. And it was that same left shoulder. Off the ice Sawchuk's life was pretty tragic. Dupuis talked to people close to him and he says that Sawchuk was an alcoholic for his whole career mentally abusive to his kids and wife a vicious drunk who would rant and rave and throw things. He died at 40 from medical complications that he got after a fight with a teammate. The fight was over nothing-- some bills Dupuis says. I mean that is what it started as anyway. It began at the bar and continued at their rented house. They are swinging at each other and Terry falls on a part of a barbecue. And then he realizes he is badly hurt. He is got an injury to his abdomen. It just seems so-- I do not know so-- Senseless? Yeah. Yeah it is senseless. You know the whole idea of a game face implies that somebody's putting it on like they are putting on like-- you know like they are acting. But with him do you feel like he was ever acting on the ice? No. No never. What you saw is what you got. He was intense. There is no doubt about it. He was intense. And it is funny. Sometimes before a game he would look to a teammate and said hey boys I only need two tonight. And they would end up winning the game 2-1. All right in other words you just need to score two points and we will win. Yep two goals-- just get me two goals and we are going to win this thing. In 1962 Sawchuk decided to start wearing a goalie's mask. Barely any goalies were doing it back then. But he was so tough Dupuis says everybody else felt like it was now OK for them to start as well. And they did. Since then hockey goalies do not put their faces in direct danger the same way Sawchuk did. So none of them can come close to the game faciest game face in the sport.   Act 4 Frankly Miss Scarlett. so a few weeks ago at a story meeting everybody here at the radio show-- we were sitting around talking about this week's episode and what game face is all about. And one of people who works here Elna Baker raised the whole idea of blushing how blushing is the opposite of game face. The world sees exactly what you are thinking and what you are feeling especially for people who blush a lot. In fact there is a whole kind of blushing that is known as chronic or pathological blushing. And there are medical papers about this. There are online forums. People who blush many times each day-- basically they have an overactive nervous system. Their blushing mechanism is on a hair trigger. So anyway sitting there talking about all this. And finally Elna said she has it. And a bunch of use are like wait you have it? At which point Elna-- she did not say anything. She unwraps this black scarf that she would been wearing on her neck. And you know the skin right below her neck-- they were just covered with red blotches. Now I have known Elna for like five or six years and until this moment it never occurred to me that like a person who is been bitten by a vampire in a bad movie Elna is always wearing a scarf or a turtleneck. And Elna told all of us she would been thinking about getting surgery. Yes there is surgery which can make you stop blushing. And she would been talking about it with friends. And she would even made an appointment to consult with a doctor about it at which point another producer on staff Sean Cole said he would researched the surgery for a story that he never ended up doing years ago. And he remembered that it had these possible serious side effects. And he wondered was Elna really seriously considering this? And he said if she was he could help her research whether this was a good idea or not and decided she should do it. And so with that in mind Sean has this report. So the first thing you need to understand about Elna's blushing is that it is not really what you think of when you think of blushing. She does not go red in the face all of a sudden when something embarrassing happens. Instead the redness comes on slowly starting on her chest and working its way up her neck to her face and ears. And it can catch her