Harper High School South Side of Chicago first day of school this year first thing in the morning everybody gathers in the gym for a beginning of the year assembly.  The School's principal Leonetta Sanders is at the mic. I need us to begin to quiet down. Sitting all together in a group are the freshmen looking the way that freshmen do on the first day of school like they barely know who they are-- The Class of 2016 where you at? The Class of 2016 where you at?  Down in front sitting together are the seniors looking the way seniors do on the first day of school-- And then my babies are here my Class of 2013 YELLING where you at?  The program is 13 pep rally 23 business introductions and rules. Exactly the kind of first day stuff you would expect at any school till it is not. Last year was a difficult year for most of us for all of us in the Harper community. You know and the freshman may not know but we lost three students last year. This is actually underplaying the bad news. Last year 21 kids current and recent Harper students were wounded by gunshots. Five recent students died. And that is all on top of the three current students that Miss Sanders mentioned. Total 29 shot eight of them dead. But we know that their spirits are with us. So right now I just want to ask for a moment of silence and prayer as we think about and remember the students that have fallen. So at this time I am just going to ask that we take about 20 30 seconds just for a moment of silence for Marcus Nunn Cedric Bell and Shakaki Asphy right now. Watching this it is hard not to think that if you grafted these facts onto another high school in a wealthier place maybe a suburb dozens of students shot three of them killed-- in other places that would be national news right? We would all know the name of that school. It is worth noting that this is a gym filled with hundreds of teenagers who this very same morning have been asked over and over to be quiet. And who like most teenagers have not exactly jumped to. When this moment comes nothing moves.  Praise God. And then high school resumes. At this time again for the freshmen and some new students that are here my name is Leonetta Sanders. I am-- On Friday of this week President Obama went to a Chicago high school and spoke about all the shootings happening in our cities. We have all heard so much lately about kids getting shot. Last weekend there was a funeral 15-year-old Hadiya Pendleton an honor student who was shot in a park in mid-afternoon in Chicago just a week after performing at an inaugural event in Washington. Last year the number of murders in Chicago rose while in many other big cities like New York and Los Angeles it held steady or fell. It was 506 dead in Chicago last year. But of course these deaths are not evenly distributed all over the city. The majority are in a handful of neighborhoods like this one. This is Englewood. Police statistics show that it is one of the most dangerous areas of the city. Though if you are picturing some kind of chaotic depressing ghetto high school in the middle of all of that Harper is anything but. Amidst boarded up houses and vacant lots it is a four story yellow brick building. The grounds are neat and beautiful. The halls walls classrooms cafeteria-- everything is well taken care of. There is order. Between passing periods the halls are kept clear. It is clean. You can tell the staff likes the kids. Even the security guards-- there are 16 for a student body of just 550 or so. They joke around. Let us go freshmen! Let us go! I have fresh meat. LAUGHS You cannot be sleepy already. It just started. Principal Sanders sets the tone for the building. And just listen here to how she informs a girl who showed up on the first day of school out of uniform that the girl can never do that again. Oh my God! You look so cute! Too bad you cannot wear that white shirt. But you all look so cute! That is classic Harper. You are reprimanded but with love. One consequence of all the violence last year Ms. Sanders and other administrators had to spend a certain amount of this first day back to school trying to convince worried parents that it is safe to send their kids back to school here this year. None of last year's shootings actually happened at the school. Can I talk to him on the phone? Nuh uh. He do not want to come back. This is assistant principal Chad Adams and a mom who wants to transfer her son out. He does not want to come back? But he is been with us for two years. I know. And we have put so much time and work and love into him. We want him to stay. I know. And what was the reason? You told me that grandmother said something. What was she saying again. She said she do not want him up here because the fighting and the stuff going on. Is she worried about the killings? Yep. That what she worried about. And the people shooting at everyone? Yeah. Yeah. So even if we have got someone to come to his house every morning and pick him up like if I drove over to his house every morning and picked him up you still would not want him to come? This is not by the way a theoretical question. Administrators do pick up some kids and drive them to school. Here at our radio show we first heard about Harper this summer when our colleague Linda Lutton who covers education at our home station WBEZ in Chicago did a story about the death of a 16-year-old sophomore named Shakaki Asphy who played on the school's basketball team. Shakaki was shot while standing on a porch talking to a friend near the end of the school year. Her murder was such a blow to the staff and the students that even Principal Sanders-- who is been at the school for years and is definitely not easy to rattle-- even Principal Sanders said that it made her wonder if she could continue doing this work. She showed Linda this list that she would been keeping for a year at that point of all the kids who had been shot from Harper. Shakaki was number 27. All of us here knew of course about the murders in Chicago. But when we heard Linda's story about this one school with 27 shootings at that point in a year we thought this is a school that knows this problem in a way that most of us around the country never see do not know. And we wondered what if we spent a long period of time there to witness what they are witnessing? Harper agreed to let us send three reporters in starting at the beginning of this school year. And they gave us unusual access for more than five months for a full semester. When violence struck they let us record the administrators as the administrators jumped into action. They let us into private difficult meetings with parents and students. And we watched the staff try to recover from the terrible year that they had last year and try to make this year different. As you will hear they devote incredible energy to trying to keep their students alive. So much happened that we could not fit this all into one program. So what we are going to do is we are going to start our story at Harper this week. And we are going to continue it next week. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. I hope you will stay with us.   So our reporters today and next week are Linda Lutton who covers Chicago schools for our home station WBEZ like I said Ben Calhoun from our staff who used to be a Chicago reporter and Alex Kotlowitz who is written many times over the years about violence in Chicago and its effect on kids growing up there. And let us just start. Let us start by jumping ahead a little ways into the school year for Act One Rules to Live By from Linda. Two weeks after that first day assembly Assistant Principal Chad Adams the same guy you heard trying to convince a mom to re-enroll her kid in Harper this year is in the hallways. He spots a sophomore a new kid a transfer student named Jordan. So you were at Millburn? Did you know-- Mr. Adams tells Jordan he needs to talk to him in his office. There have been changes in his schedule he says though this is just a ploy. They go to his office. And Mr. Adams gets to the real purpose. He asks Jordan where he lives. 69th and Loomis. 69th and Loomis? Yeah. So that way? Who is on that block? Like what you mean? You know. Who on that block? Who runs that block? What Mr. Adams is trying to figure out is what gang Jordan is affiliated with and what gangs he might potentially have conflicts with here at Harper. Without hesitating Jordan tells Mr. Adams he is affiliated with a gang called Face World. And they are friendly with a half dozen other gangs. They are cliqued up kids say. Well we cliqued up with J-Town right there on 69th. Who else are you all cliqued up with? Hoodville Low Block Hit Squad COB. We got a lot. A lot of people want to get into it with us though I as not gonna lie. I know. Your name was hot last spring. What was going on last spring? It is a war zone around there. I cannot lie. It is just a war zone. People like us-- we so close to each other it do not make no sense. 'ecause we right-- our opposition is right down the street. Literally it is on the next block. So like we on 70th and Rockwell and they on 71st and Rockwell. That is how close we is. So-- They talk about this for 15 minutes. And what is remarkable is how matter of fact it is. They might as well be talking about what bus Jordan needs to take home or where the cafeteria is. There is no shame to admitting your gang affiliation. It is nothing you have to keep a secret. Mr. Adams has one more goal for this meeting. All right. So I have not met you yet because you were not here last year. But I am Mr. Adams. I am the assistant principal. This is my office. All right so can we make an agreement today that if something happens in the block or something happens in the school that you will-- that you will come to me to help you fix the problem? And we will use this? Adams points to his head. Look at me Mr. Rogers. We will use this instead of this. He points to his fists. Can we make an agreement? See I make an agreement like if something happened in school. Like if something happened in school I would probably come to you and tell you like what was going down. But outside is a whole different story. And I am not saying that I am going to be able to help you with your problems outside the school. I am just saying if something happens on the block that might lead back into the building that you will come to me so we can fix it here so you do not have to worry about it here. Um I will try to keep my worrying on the outside and might keep that agreement. But it is probably going to be hard though. OK. You know and that is OK. I know it is going to be hard. It is not an easy agreement. If it is-- if it is-- if I get into a problem with that  if I get into a problem with one of  people in this school I as not going to lie. I am probably not even going to come here. I will probably just go and do it right there 'ecause the problem escalated. 'ecause as not no talking with them.   Maybe you think you have an idea of how street gangs operate. Crips and Bloods people and folks controlling huge swaths of the city shooting it out over drug territory a single gang leader controlling thousands of members a strictly enforced hierarchy branching out underneath him with gang colors and hats tilted to the right or left. For this hour forget all that. The gangs in the Englewood neighborhood today are not those gangs. There is no central leader no hierarchy no colors. The fights are not over drug territory. In fact lots of these gangs are not even selling drugs. They are different gangs with different rules. These rules apply absolutely to boys. Girls get slightly more leeway. Rule number one look at a map. When I ask kids what their parents do not understand about gangs these days they say it is this. Their parents tell them not to join a gang as if there is some initiation to go through some way to sign up. Today whether or not you want to be in a gang you are in one. If you live on pretty much any block near Harper High School you have been assigned a gang. Your mother bought a house on 72nd and Hermitage? You are S Dub. You live across the street from the school? That is D-Ville. When you ask kids or cops or school staff how it got like this they will tell you that at one point this whole area was controlled pretty much by a single gang the Gangster Disciples. But and this is how most people tell this part of the story Chicago police have been so effective at locking up the big gang leaders that the hierarchy of those gangs has crumbled. And that is left a lot of room for newcomers. Your gang might control nothing more than the block you live on. In Harper's attendance area alone which is a couple square miles there are more than 15 gangs also known as cliques sets factions or crews. Some do not have anyone in charge. But they do have guns. That is what every kid has told me. Otherwise why would you call yourself a gang they say. Aaron Washington is a police officer assigned to Harper. He is there seven hours a day seems to know every kid in the school. He says that for protection for survival kids walk to school with the kids in their clique often through enemy territory. So I ask him what if I am a kid and I really do not want any part of this gang stuff. How can I avoid it? You cannot. It is not going to happen. He says it used to be possible to be neutral what they called a neutron. There is no neutrons anymore. It used to be if you played sports or you were academically better than the average kid they did not bother you. Now it is different. It does not matter. If you live here you are part of them. You know you live on that block or you live in that area you one of them. The way they get to school they have to come to school with one of these factions one of these gangs. They going to come to school with them. They do not have a choice. I can hardly believe that a Chicago police officer is telling me this admitting that kids do not have a choice about being gang affiliated. I have never heard police talk like this. Later I ask Officer Washington if he will get in trouble for saying this. I mean are not cops supposed to just tell kids hey do not join a gang? I will put it like this. I am not saying it is OK to be in a gang. And I am not saying I approve of it I agree with it. If I could take them all and say hey look here as not no gangs you know? I would do that. But this as not a fairy tale.   And this is the point. Gangs are not the bad kids in the corner here. They are the defining social structure in the school. It is who you sit with at lunch the kids you say hi to in the hallway. It is the water everybody swims in. Assistant Principal Adams guesses that fewer than 10 of Harper students are actually gangbanging that is active on the block involved in crime. He thinks all the rest of the kids in the school are just caught up by where they live. OK. So rule number one is know your geography. Rule number two never walk by yourself.  One day at dismissal I thought I saw a freshman walking home alone. I stopped you because you were walking by yourself. But I was wrong. We are walking with them. Larnell now pointed over his shoulder at a couple of girls about 15 feet back. So you are actually walking with the girls back there? Yeah I always walk with people home. What is the advantage? It is not trying to get jumped on and shot. 'ecause they be fighting and shooting up there almost every day. Because will not nobody mess with somebody in a group walking in a group. And that is true. But it is complicated because of rule number three. Rule number three never walk with someone else. See walking in a group can send its own message. If you are with a group of boys in Englewood-- on your porch walking home from school-- you are highlighting your affiliation which makes you more of a target. It is a huge catch-22 for kids in this neighborhood. If you walk alone you risk being jumped. If you walk with someone else you risk being labeled as a gang member and being shot. Rule number four do not use the sidewalk. Every day at dismissal kids drift out of Harper High School and walk along Wood Street actually right down the middle of Wood Street. It is a strange scene. Cars drive slowly waiting for students to move out of the way. One teacher told me that when she first arrived at Harper she thought this was just plain hooliganism the teenagers taking over. One afternoon a girl named Alex explained that is not it at all. We feel safer like this. For some reason we just feel safe like that. We never like to walk past trees and stuff. There is too much stuff going on. Too much stuff going on is shorthand here for the shootings the fights the craziness. It is better to walk down the middle of the street where you can keep a broad view of things and where you have a few more seconds to run if you need to. Rule number five if they shoot do not run. 12th grader Antoryio was on the Harper High School football team. In fact he is one of the best running backs in the entire city of Chicago. On the field he zips around linemen like they are not even there cutting and weaving and then racing for the end zone. Those are skills he purposefully ignores when shot at. I fall to the ground. That is your strategy? Yeah 'ecause you run you will probably get shot in the back or something like that. So I just fall to the ground. Most people like shoot from like-- say we like in front of my house they would shoot from the corner. Or do a drive-by in their cars so I just fall to the ground. OK. By now you may be wondering if these gangs are not fighting over drug territory what are the shootings about? That brings us to rule number six. Rule number six you can be shot for reasons big and small. If you ask the police or school officials or kids what the shootings are about they will mention girls money owed. There was a paintball incident that led to real guns going off. Petty stuff like losing a fist fight he-said she-said arguments often they will tell you a shooting is over nothing. Retaliation for earlier shootings is a big reason for getting shot. Shootings can ping pong back and forth between rival gangs for years. Of course you can also be shot for walking off your block. And finally rule number seven never go outside. When I ask kids for advice about staying alive in this neighborhood they told me the best advice was to stay away from your block as long as possible every day. Get involved in something at school so you can stay as late as they let you. When you do go home do not leave the house. Do not even go on the porch. If you want to see the lengths you have to go to not be part of the gang you should meet a senior named Deonte. Being anti-gang is Deonte's entire identity. He is an outspoken Christian. He holds Bible study in his living room. Other kids come to him for advice a role he wholly embraces. He is poised to be the valedictorian. When you talk to Deonte you get a sense of what it takes to stay away from the gangs. Do you ever go out like just around the neighborhood? Oh no. Not at all and in a way that can be bad as well. Because that is when depression is easy to set in. That took a hold on me 'ecause I have been in the house for about three years. I have been staying in the house a lot. Do you feel lonely? At times. At times I feel lonely. At times I would want to have some friends. 'ecause I am not really friends with anybody. If you think about high school how important friends are during that time imagine going through that with your whole goal being to avoid your school's social structure completely for four years. It is an incredibly high price to steer clear of the violence. It is a price most teenagers anywhere would find almost impossible to pay.   Linda Lutton. Act Two a Tiny Office on the Second Floor. So the place in the school where staff deals most directly with the effects of the violence on students is the social work office as you would kind of expect. Alex Kotlowitz has this story about one of the students that the social workers took under their wings. I first met Devonte a junior back on the first day of school when he and his mom came in for a meeting with Principal Sanders. Devonte was a Harper student who had been temporarily transferred and was now just returning. Sanders was happy to see him but everyone seemed a little tense a little careful. I could not tell exactly what was going on. And we are not going to push you to get into any activities. Just you know you take your time right now. Just get back into the swing of school. 'ecause we starting a whole fresh slate here. It was only later that I learned the full story. That last February Devonte accidentally shot and killed his 14-year-old brother. After the shooting the Harper staff had been concerned that kids might taunt Devonte so he was transferred to a different school. Now that he was back a few weeks into school he is been stopping by the school social worker's office two or three times a day to meet with one of the social workers there Crystal Smith. Close that door for me . Because you know I do not what people you know walking by all up in our conversation and stuff you know? Mhm. Is that OK? The shooting happened last winter after school. Devonte says his brother had somehow gotten his hands on an old handgun which neither of them thought worked. In their third floor apartment they both handled the weapon. While Devonte was holding it it somehow went off. A judge later ruled it an accident-- reckless discharge of a firearm. Devonte's brother Damion died an hour later in the hospital. Devonte has not had any intensive counseling since the shooting. So for Crystal establishing a relationship with him is tricky. What you eat for lunch? How you going to not let me share it with you? I ate um chicken patties. To make him feel safe enough with her to talk about his feelings and most importantly about his guilt she often bounces around in their meetings from totally superficial things like lunch to more substantive subjects like Devonte smoking marijuana. He tells Crystal he has not smoked in a while. And she does an impression of him when he is high. When you are smoking you be like SLURRING what is up Miss Smith? I would be like dude you know you high right? SLURRING Naw I am straight.  That would be you. You do not even be remembering that we done had a conversation do you? No. It is OK though. I know-- I do I do remember this one though. What? To my moms who might throw my little brother's bed away and I do not want her to throw it away and stuff. He is worried his mom might throw away his little brother's bed. So we talked about-- can I say this? It helps him to sleep at night if he sleeps in his brother's bed. But his mother was contemplating throwing the bed away. And so I had told him that if I needed to I would call her and let her know why it is important for him to be able to you know keep the bed. Right? Mhm. You still with me? Yeah I am with you. If it is too much you just say I am done. Nah it as not too much. OK. The day after his brother's funeral Devonte showed up at Harper wearing a t-shirt with a picture of his brother on it. There were food stains on the shirt leading Crystal to believe he would probably slept in it. Crystal says before the shooting Devonte barely came to school. He was aggressive and surly with the staff. But here he was the day after burying his brother. And Crystal realized that Devonte needed to be at Harper that he needed her. She is still just at the beginning of figuring out what she can do for Devonte. He is cracked the door she told me but it is the size of a mouse hole.   I spent most of my time at Harper in the social work office. Crystal has a caseload of 55 kids each of whom struggles with a learning disability or some kind of emotional issue. Another part-time social worker and a school psychologist also have a caseload of kids. But they make strong personal connections with lots of Harper students not just those they are assigned to. And more often than not because of some violent incident. Harper of course has just come off this horribly violent year. And I guess the question I had and honestly the question that the social workers ask themselves is can they make a difference?   Hello! How are you? . Hi Shari! Crystal is in the halls for every passing period with a constant patter of positivity. I am so proud of you. I see you trying hard. Keep it up OK? I am so proud of you! Go go go! So you will not be late. Go go go! You all moving around right? Yeah. Thank you so much. Let me appreciate you in advance. I appreciate you in advance a phrase I have never heard anyone use before is one of Crystal's trademarks. Do you have your headphones in while you are talking to me? I am not-- it is low. Is it off? Could you take them out so I will not feel like I am being disrespected? I am not. Thank you so much. It as not nothing playing. I appreciate you in advance. Terrell how was your summer? It was OK safe. Safe? Yeah. That is great. You are the only person that said that to me. That means something to me. I am glad it was safe. Good morning gentlemen. Good morning. Even when a kid characterizes his summer not as fun or relaxing but as safe Crystal sees the bright side. I have seen her practically tackle students to tell them you are a valuable person. You matter. When she is doling out advice some of the kids laughingly call it Mom Patrol. Sometimes though I wonder if the kids see past her perkiness. Because she is really a force. I thank you for being to class on time. Thank you! I love you!  I am up out of here. I am fixing to go to class. It is six weeks later late September and the social work office is packed. All times of day kids pile into the social work office a crowded windowless room stuffed with three desks a filing cabinet and a paper shredder. So many kids that at times you have to jostle for a place to stand. Some of the kids come because their educational plans mandate social work visits. And others come just because they like talking with Crystal and Anita Stewart the school's other social worker. Devonte is often in the office. Before the incident last February where Devonte accidentally shot his 14-year-old brother he did not have much of a relationship with Crystal or Anita. But now they are really getting close. Earlier in the year Devonte had told them he was not sleeping well. And today Anita and Crystal want to talk about it. So what about sleeping and all of that Devonte? Are you sleeping OK? Yeah. What you do at night to help you though? To go to sleep? I take some Nyquil. Oh you still taking Nyquil? Man I take it on a regular base. 'ecause I need to go to sleep man. So we need to talk about-- I need to sleep tight. What happens if you do not take the Nyquil?  I do not go to sleep. Can I ask you a question? What are the thoughts that you have when you get ready to go to sleep? None. You having some kind thoughts that you are trying to escape. So that that way-- I just be up thinking about stuff. What? One thought that you be thinking about? One my brother. I be thinking about a lot of stuff. He is thinking about his brother. Devonte tells Crystal and Anita that he looks at pictures of Damion his brother every night before going to bed. He shows them the pictures on his phone. One is a school portrait. Another is of Damion in his casket dressed in a blue suit and a crisp white shirt. He look like me in this casket like I am asleep. Mama's got it in her phone too. You saw it in her phone? 'ecause she showed it to me. Remember we had the meeting? Devonte do you feel like your family is supporting you with this? With what? What happened to your brother? Nah do not nobody talk about it. Do not nobody talk or nothing. Do not nobody say nothing. Just everybody just go around like it just did not happen? Mhm. Because you know it happened because you look at the picture every night. Yeah. Devonte also has a video of his brother. He huddles with Crystal and Anita watching it on his phone. It is of three boys clearly high hanging out in a kitchen cracking jokes and laughing. Damion's off to one side sitting on the floor. This is your brother here right? Yeah.  . I am talking about you. . He was a little strong little boy. Yeah he look you could tell. . Dumb bitches.   Crystal and Anita are hoping to start a trauma group with Devonte and three other boys at Harper who are also struggling because of the violence. Devonte's noncommittal. Crystal seems almost desperate to get Devonte to see the importance of talking about his experience. Can I just tell you-- can I say that again? At some point though because you are a junior and we only got one more year we going to have to start being able to talk about that so that that way we can start helping you get through the process of that. It is something . You going to have to feel safe somewhere to talk about it. I feel safe wherever I am at. I feel safe wherever I am at he says. I am talking about the stuff with your brother. I am talking about the stuff that make you take the Nyquil at night that you not talking to nobody about. If you feel closer . That is the weight that you have to-- do you know what it is like to carry weight?  No no for real. Do not nobody know every day you feel like this. And it is just like cannot nobody see it. But then I cannot-- you know what I am saying? I see it and I know it. But then I do not know if you ready-- you see what I am saying-- Mhm. --to help get some of it off. I understand-- I am saying I am with you on what the weight feels like. Ms. Grant first I just want to check with you and just see how you doing. I am fine. I am all right. Doing all right? Yeah taking it one day at a time. That is all you can do. Yep. One day after school in the last week of September it is report card day at Harper. And Devonte's mom Ms. Grant is the first parent in the building. Crystal makes a point of seeking her out and asks if they can sit and talk at a table in the cafeteria. Anita joins them. Devonte is actually doing reasonably well. He is getting B's and C's in all of his classes except for music which he is failing. These are his best grades since he began high school. I want to tell you just how first impressed I am with Devonte's academic and social emotional growth like since the accident happened. He came a long way. He has a really really Mother come a long way. Like he is so much more open with me now. And I just want you to know what we are going to continue to work on which is the guilt that he feels about the accident. Mhm. On the night of the shooting Ms. Grant was sitting in her car outside of her building. Devonte was with Damion in the third floor apartment their sister in another room. After the gun went off Devonte sprinted downstairs to his mom yelling Mama call an ambulance. I accidentally shot Damion. Ms. Grant says she ran upstairs and saw Damion on the floor no blood just not moving. Ms. Grant says the police held her in the apartment while the ambulance took Damion to the hospital. He died before she arrived. Ms. Grant was only able to spend a little bit of time with Damion's body before she was told she was needed at the police station. Since Devonte was a minor his mom had to be present for his questioning. I had met privately with Ms. Grant a week or so before the report card meeting with Crystal. She told me that an autopsy report concluded that Damion had been shot in the chest. In our interview then as in the meeting with Crystal Ms. Grant seemed to vacillate between being certain the shooting was a complete accident and then being not so certain. I cannot turn my back on Devonte because Devonte my child too. Being angry at him is not going to bring Damion back. Right. You know I feel-- I know that they would not hurt each other like that. That is one thing I do know. Even though you know even-- you still do not know what happened. Even though I really really truly do not know what happened. You know the autopsy report say it is one thing and my heart say I do not know. Ms. Grant tells Crystal she knows she is hurt Devonte's feelings since Damion's death and she feels bad about it. She says the night of the funeral the adults went to a bar. When she got back to the apartment Devonte overheard her saying I believe Devonte shot my baby. She did not know he was listening. He got up and he slammed the door. He text me I am going to be with my brother. Forget all of you all. I as not do nothing to my brother to hurt my brother. And I felt so ba