When Lucian Truscott tries to explain how he is related to Thomas Jefferson he says OK he is 73. He used to visit a great grandmother who used to visit her great grandfather Thomas Jefferson's grandson. So there was only-- when I was growing up when I visited my great grandmother there was only one dead person between me and Jefferson. When Lucian was a boy in the early 1950s just six or seven years old when he would visit family in Charlottesville sometimes they would drop him off with his brother at Monticello Jefferson's home. Lucian says it was before the place had been remade for tourists like it is today. Basically visitors who pay maybe 1 and walk through the house. You know my great aunts they treated the place like it was still the family home. And we had the run of the place. We used to fill our pockets full of pebbles from the walkways up there and go up on the second floor and third floor of the place and crawl out windows onto these parapets that are up around the top of Monticello and drop pebbles on the tourists that were walking around the house. And-- Very asocial behavior. Yeah. And you are talking to one of-- probably the only person you will ever talk to in your life that is actually jumped on Thomas Jefferson's bed. I mean we would play on the bed. We would go through that little doorway and up the stairs into the closet which is above the bed there and sit up there in the closet. And when tourists came through the room we would stick our faces out of the window up there and say boo and scare them. We would hide out there. And so-- There was no adult supervision at all. No no adult supervision at all. We went through all the bedrooms and stuff up there. And then of course we would play down in the basement rooms. And then of course what they call the dependencies which were the slave rooms that run under the two wings that run out from Monticello itself. It would be decades before the slave quarters were part of the Monticello tour Lucian says. These were just empty rooms under the house. No furniture or anything else in them. He and his brother would explore and run around. And play hide and seek or whatever little boys did. It is amazing to me the degree to which it felt like a family home. Did it feel that way to you as a kid? You know I have to tell you that all of this stuff in my family was just taken for granted. These days of course nothing about the legacies of the Founding Fathers is taken for granted. Just this week a special committee appointed by the mayor of Washington DC called for removing relocating or contextualizing a bunch of monuments to slave-owning Founding Fathers including the Jefferson Memorial and the Washington Monument which by the way the mayor does not actually have jurisdiction over. Meanwhile the president of course has put his arms around this issue. Right after he began his reelection campaign he gave a speech at Mount Rushmore to make clear that he does not want to remove any monuments or rename any buildings or military bases. But this great great great-- whatever it is-- direct descendant of Thomas Jefferson Lucian Truscott he is got a special perspective on this. He led the charge to convince all the other white descendants of Thomas Jefferson to allow the Black descendants of Thomas Jefferson into their official family association. The Black family members of course trace back to Jefferson and Sally Hemings one of the people he enslaved. Lucian thinks that everybody needs to get real about the slave-owning past of some of the Founding Fathers. Like how do you feel about people taking down monuments of Thomas Jefferson? I think they ought to be taken down. I think that the great monument to Thomas Jefferson is Monticello. And I think it is an appropriate monument because it actually puts Jefferson's life in context. It puts his slave-owning as part of his life and in context. If you visit Monticello today you get to see where the slaves lived. You will be shown where Sally Hemings's brother John did woodwork in Jefferson's bedroom and study and so forth. Slaves built that place. I never heard that slaves built that place when I was growing up. But it is talked about today. The history of Monticello at this point is about half Jefferson history half slave history. I think that is appropriate. As a memorial it tells the story of the whole man not just this sort of god-like Thomas Jefferson we have all been raised to venerate. What are we supposed to do with the shameful parts of America's past? This is being talked about so much today. And back in the early days of our radio show in the late '90s one of our contributors Sarah Vowell did a story that took that on in this very vivid and complicated way. She set out on the road with her sister Amy to visit the site of a historic tragedy one that involved part of their own family 160 years before that. And we wanted to replay it this holiday weekend because the questions that it addresses the things that it is obsessed with are all so much more talked about today than 22 years ago when she did that story. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. We take a road trip into history today. Stay with us. So Sarah Vowell and her sister Amy were born in eastern Oklahoma in what was called Indian Territory before statehood. That is where our story ends and that is also where it begins. They are enrolled citizens of the Cherokee Nation like their parents which as you will hear is important to this story. Here's the opening line of Sarah's story from 1998. Being at least a little Cherokee in northeastern Oklahoma is about as rare and remarkable as being a Michael Jordan fan in Chicago. I mean who is not? I am guessing I do not need to explain that antique 1998 sports reference to many of you but I do have one note before we play the rest of the story. And it is about the word Injun. Sarah asked me to point out to anyone hearing this today that her grandfather was born in Indian Territory before statehood. And he used the word Injun as a term of affection. It was never derogatory. OK so picking up Sarah's part Cherokee. It goes without saying that my twin sister Amy is too except that I have dark eyes and dark hair and she is a blue-eyed blonde. And so our grandfather nicknamed me Injun and her Swede. Here's Amy's take on all this. I must point out that while my sister and I do not really look alike we sound almost exactly alike. A hint for listening to this story I am usually the grouchy one. Here's Amy. I mean those roles were assigned to us you know Indian and Swede because of the way we looked. But it was also more like the things we were told about ourselves and she was the one who was given the Cherokee language book. And I was the one who was always told how much alike I was to our Swedish grandmother. And I think I was probably 6 or 7 or something before I realized that I was Cherokee too. We are a little French and Scottish and English and Seminole too. Typical American mutts. But the Cherokee and Swedish sides of the family were the only genealogies anyone knew anything about. Here's what we knew about ourselves. Ellis Island Trail of Tears. And I think to a kid Trail of Tears the Cherokees' forced march from the East to Oklahoma where we were born seemed enormously more interesting just as a name. Even the smallest children know what tears mean. And I think in my earliest understanding of where I came from I pictured myself descended from a long line of weepers with bloodshot eyes. The Trail of Tears. Between 1838 and '39 the US army wrenched 16000 people from their homes rounded them up in stockades and marched them across the country. 4000 died. Every summer when we were children our parents would drive us to a place about half an hour from where we lived called Tsa-La-Gi which is the Cherokee word for Cherokee. Tsa-La-Gi is the tribe's cultural center. There is a recreated village a museum. And this was our favorite part an amphitheater which staged a dramatic recreation of the Trail of Tears. Every summer we watched Chief John Ross try like mad to save the Cherokee land back East. We saw his hothead rival Stand Watie rage off to the Civil War. We especially loved the Death of the Phoenix a noisy magenta-lit interpretive dance in which the mythic bird would die only to rise again. We would get these programs or brochures and Sarah was kind of in charge of them. And sometimes she would let me look at them. She had a whole little file and we would look through them. And it was-- I mean I did take it to heart. It was a story that was really tragic. I have a reverent feeling towards it. And I think it is because of this play because this play was so serious and told such a detailed story that it took this place of significance like it was really important and it really mattered. Here's the measure of how important the amphitheater show was to Amy and me. Our father and our grandfather used to show us photographs of Cherokee leaders in books but even now when I imagine Stand Watie I picture the actor at Tsa-La-Gi. So all my life I knew I would not exist but for the Trail of Tears and it struck me as a little silly that most of the things I knew about it were based on an amphitheater drama I have not seen for nearly 20 years. At first I thought I would read some books about it which I did. But then I wanted to see it feel it know how long a trek it was. I wanted it to be real. I enlisted Amy. Perhaps she would like to do all the driving? A historical tragedy in five 14 hour days behind the wheel? Who could pass that up? And so I fly from Chicago she from Montana and one spring morning we find ourselves in a rental car on our way to northwestern Georgia the homeland of the Cherokee before they were shoved out to Oklahoma the place the Trail of Tears begins. The Cherokee Territory once encompassed most of present day Tennessee and Kentucky as well as parts of Alabama Georgia Virginia and the Carolinas. Even before contact with the Europeans in 1540 they were a proto-democratic society. They built these enormous council houses big enough to fit the entire tribe inside so everyone could participate in tribal decisions. We are barely on the road an hour when we spot them. Injuns ceramic ones three feet tall at a shack on the side of the road. Amy drives past them we do a double take and we do not even discuss whether or not to stop. She just backs up immediately and parks. Are you of Native American descent? I am a Mexican from Texas. From Texas? And what brought you to Calhoun Georgia? The work. The eight little Indians he is selling are of the kitschy teepee-toting Plains Indians variety which are probably a lot easier to sell than the stereotypical image of a Cherokee a tired out old woman tromping through the Trail of Tears in rags. Who wants that as a lawn ornament? Who buys these statues these Indian statues? People here from Calhoun around Georgia. People here around Georgia love Indians. Really? Uh-huh. Well after they got rid of them? Oh that is right. That is true. You are telling the truth there. Thank you very much. The Cherokee especially the mixed bloods were always your nerdy overachiever bookish sort of tribe. And in the early 19th century they launched a series of initiatives directly imitating the new American republic. In one decade they created a written language started a free press ratified a constitution and founded a capital city. New Echota was that capital. Now it stands in the middle of nowhere a Georgia State Park with a handful of buildings across from a golf course. Can we follow you in this car? Drive on in. New Echota was founded in 1825. To call it the Cherokee version of Washington DC is entirely applicable given the form of government the tribe established there. They ratified a constitution based on that of the United States dividing into legislative judicial and executive branches. Its preamble begins we the representatives of the people of the Cherokee Nation in convention assembled in order to establish justice ensure tranquility promote our common welfare and secure to ourselves and our posterity the blessings of liberty. Unlike Washington New Echota is cool and quiet and green. Site manager David Gomez showed us around the grounds and Amy and I were unprepared for the loveliness of the place for its calm lushness its fragrance. Everywhere honeysuckle was in bloom. I like it here. It is nice. It is peaceful and it is right for the-- the atmosphere is right for what was going on in the story that we tell here. It is a story that is sad in a lot of ways but there was a lot of great things happening with the Cherokee Nation. The Cherokee along with the other southeastern tribes who suffered removal to Oklahoma-- the Chickasaw the Creek the Choctaw the Seminole-- are one of the so-called five civilized tribes. It was in 1822 that the Cherokee hero Sequoyah developed an alphabet inventing the sole written language of any North American tribe. Only six years later Cherokee editor Elias Boudinot founded The Cherokee Phoenix a bilingual English-Cherokee newspaper published at New Echota. Many Cherokee especially the mixed bloods practiced Christianity. And because many of these lived as civilized Southern gentlemen of the early 19th century they owned prospering plantations which meant they owned Black slaves. More than any other Native American tribe the Cherokees adopted the religious cultural and political ideals of the United States partly as a means to self-preservation. By becoming more like the Americans they hoped to coexist with this new nation that was growing up around them. They were not allowed to. Georgia settlers wanted their land and their gold which was discovered near New Echota in 1829. They were really progressing so fast at this time period. The printing operation was going with their newspaper here. Things were moving so fast for them for a short while here that it looked very promising. But because of gold and the big demand for the land their fate had already been really sealed for them in earlier years. The tribe allowed Christian missionaries to live and work among them and to teach their children English. The most beloved of these was the Presbyterian Samuel Worcester who built a two-story house at New Echota which functioned as a post office school and rooming house. It is still there and David Gomez walks us through. We have got some steep steps here. You all hold on as you go down. I do not want you all to have a broken leg on the rest of your trip. The state of Georgia which of all the Southern states treated the Cherokee with the most hostility passed a number of alarming laws in the 1820s and '30s undermining the sovereignty of the nation. One of these laws required white settlers within the boundaries of the nation to obtain a permit from the state of Georgia. Samuel Worcester refused to apply for such a permit arguing that he had the permission of the Cherokee to live on their lands and that should suffice. Georgia arrested Worcester and imprisoned him for four years. Worcester appealed to the Supreme Court and the case Worcester v. Georgia became a great victory for the tribe. The court under Chief Justice John Marshall ruled that the Cherokee Nation was just that-- a sovereign nation within the borders of the US and therefore beholden only to the federal government i.e. not under the jurisdiction of Georgia State laws. And the Cherokee Nation was elated. They thought all right the highest court in the land of the United States this government that we are trying to copy they have ruled in our favor. This is gonna be good. And of course Andrew Jackson who was pro-removal from the early years-- he had campaigned on that issue-- decided he was not gonna back the Supreme Court ruling. Think about that what that means. Jackson is violating his own oath of office to uphold the Constitution. Anyway the state of Georgia was thrilled when Jackson thumbed his nose at the court and immediately dispatched teams to survey the Cherokee lands for a land lottery. Soon white settlers arrived here. They show up two years later in 1834 with a land lottery deed and with Georgia soldiers saying I have got this land from the lottery. Get off of it. One small constitutional violation that was part of the land grab Georgia seized the Cherokee printing press so they could not publicize their cause and win political support in states up North. The tribe was divided about what to do. Stay and fight or demand cash for the land and head West? No one exploited this split more than Andrew Jackson. And no one annoyed Jackson like principal Chief John Ross. Ross was a Jeffersonian figure in almost every sense. A Founding Father of the Cherokee nation in its modern legal form he preached to liberty while owning slaves. An educated gentleman planter he was their chief from 1827 to 1866. In his later years he corresponded with Abraham Lincoln. In his early years he was such a believer in the inherent justice of the American system that he lobbied relentlessly in Washington DC believing that once the Congress and the president understood that the Cherokee were a virtuous sibling republic that they would treat the tribe fairly as equals. Once the state of Georgia began evicting the Cherokee and John Ross among them Ross wrote treated like dogs we find ourselves fugitives vagrants and strangers in our own country. The vast majority of the tribe wanted to stay put and supported Ross but around 100 men including Phoenix editor Elias Boudinot and his brother Stand Watie 100 in a tribe of 16000 met at Boudinot's house in New Echota and signed a treaty with the US government. They had no authority to do this. Called the Treaty of New Echota it relinquished all Cherokee lands east of the Mississippi in exchange for land in the West. They figured Georgia was already seizing Cherokee land. This might be the only way the Cherokee could get something for it. John Ross whom the Georgia militia arrested so that he could not protest was stunned. He accused the treaty party of treason. The rest of the 16000 Cherokee signed a petition calling the treaty invalid and illegal. Congress ratified the treaty by only one vote despite impassioned pleas on behalf of the Cherokee by senators Henry Clay and Davy Crockett. The tribe was given three years to remove themselves to the West. Now we are standing at the side of Elias Boudinot's house where the infamous New Echota treaty was signed. When the spring of '38 rolled around about like right now nobody was going anywhere. Georgia and the federal government thought they were gonna have some problems and you had about 7000 troops come in to forcibly remove the Cherokees from their farms from their houses and initially rounded up in what were known as forts or stockades and then moved up into eastern Tennessee and northeastern Alabama to three immigration depots where they were then transferred and then moved out on the Trail of Tears as everybody knows it. So technically this is the starting point for the Trail of Tears. For the individual Cherokees it really started at their front door or wherever they were rounded up from though. Amy and I want to step on it this patch of grass where the treaty was signed but we hesitate. It is not a grave Gomez tells us but that is what it feels like. We tiptoe onto it this profane ground. And then we tiptoe away. Perhaps we should be embarrassed by certain discrepancies between our Trail of Tears and theirs. We are weak we are decadent we are Americans which means road trip history buffs one minute amnesiacs the next. We want to remember except when we want to forget.  We register at the Chattanooga Choo Choo the Chattanooga Choo Choo. It is a hotel now a gloriously hokey beautifully restored Holiday Inn in which the lobby is the ornate dome of the old train station and the rooms are turn-of-the-century rail cars parked out on the tracks. We are in giggles the entire night for the simple reason that the phrase choo choo is completely addictive. We try to work it into every sentence. What should we do for dinner? Stay here at the Choo Choo? We end up going out for barbecue saying this is good but I cannot wait to get back to the Choo Choo. We watched The X-Files in our train car commenting is it just me or is this show even better in the Choo Choo? I sent email from my laptop just so that I can write Greetings from the Chattanooga Choo Choo exclamation point. Number of times I just said Choo Choo? Seven. Number of Choos? 14. Chattanooga Choo Choo! Day two. Sadly we check out of the Choo Choo and drive across town to Ross's Landing. It used to be where John Ross's ferry service carried people across the Tennessee River. But in 1838 it was one of the starting points for the water route of the Trail of Tears. I stand on the sand and read a weathered historical marker. Established about 1816 by John Ross some 370 yards east of this point. It consisted of a ferry warehouse and landing. Cherokee parties left from the landing for the West in 1838 the same year the growing community took the name Chattanooga. And I am sure there is no connection at all between those two points. That sounds so nice. They left for the West. Bye-bye. Bon voyage. I have not mentioned that Ross's Landing also functions as Chattanooga's tourist center. Up the hill from the river is the gigantic Tennessee Aquarium and an IMAX theater. The place is crawling with tourists a crowd so generic and distinguishable from one another they swirled around us as a single t-shirt. 160 years ago thousands of Cherokees came through this site. In the summer they were forced onto boats and faced heat exhaustion and a drought that stranded them without water to drink. In the fall they headed west by foot eventually trudging barefoot through blizzards. Either way they died of starvation dysentery diarrhea and fatigue. A quarter of the tribe was gone. And here in the shadow of the aquarium the Trail of Tears is remembered by a series of quotations from disgruntled Native Americans carved into a concrete plaza. One of the citations from a Cherokee named Dragging Canoe is from 1776. The white men have almost surrounded us leaving us only a little spot of ground to stand upon. And it seems to be their intention to destroy us as a nation. Good call. We are moving diagonally across the sidewalk. And Andrew Jackson in 1820 It is high time to do away with the farce of treating with Indian tribes as separate nations. We will step on that one. These cracks in the sidewalks they are symbolic of broken promises. Are you making that up? No it says right here some of the pavers are cracked to symbolize the broken promises made to the Indians. Hmm. Most Americans have had this experience. Most of us can name things our country has done that we find shameful from the travesties everybody agrees were wrong the Japanese internment camps or the late date of slavery's abolition to murkier partisan arguments about legalized abortion or the Enola Gay. World history has been a bloody business from the get-go but the nausea we are suffering standing on the broken promises at Ross's Landing is peculiar to a democracy. Because in a democracy we are all responsible for everything our government does. This is the letter from Ralph Waldo Emerson to President Martin van Buren in 1838. A crime is projected that confounds our understandings by its magnitude a crime that really deprives us as well as the Cherokee of a country. For how could we call the conspiracy that should crush these poor Indians our government or the land that was coerced by their parting and dying imprecations our country anymore? You sir will bring down the renowned chair in which you sit into infamy if your seal is set to this instrument of perfidy and the name of this nation hitherto the sweet omen of religion and liberty will stink to the world. And the path ends with a quotation from an unknown survivor of the Trail of Tears who said long time we travel on way to new land. People feel bad when they leave old nation. Womens cry and make sad wails. Children and many men and all look sad like when friends die but they say nothing and just put heads down and keep on go towards West. Many days pass and people die very much. We bury close by trail. That last passage especially the part about when friends die bring us to tears. And we just stand there looking off towards the Tennessee brokenhearted. Meanwhile there are little kids literally walking over these words playing on them making noise having fun. We sort of hate them for a second. We ask a teacher who is with a group of fourth graders why she is not talking to them about Cherokee history. And she says normally she would but it is the end of the school year and this trip is their reward for being good. It sounds reasonable. I ask Amy if she thinks these kids should share our sadness. Well I think it is a sad story. I mean it is sort of like the Holocaust. You do not have to be Jewish to think that that is definitely a sad part of history. And I think the Trail of Tears is America's version of genocide. And I mean really it started right over there. You look like you are about to hit something. Still I cannot take my eyes off those children. I envied them. I want to join them. I am an IMAX person. I had been to an IMAX theater just weeks before. I wanted to come on this trip to get a feel for this trail that made us but standing here at Ross's Landing it hits me how crazy that is. Suddenly the only thing I get out of it is rage. Why should we keep going? I do not know. I do not know why. I do not know why we are here. I seriously do not. Like I know it is an interesting story and yes we are always interested in our past but I do not-- sometimes I wonder what good comes of that. I do not think it makes me a more contented person at all. In fact I think I feel really haunted by all of this and I feel very weighed down by the pain. Part of me thinks this whole thing is a mistake. And maybe I feel more knowing about it but I mean it is not like this is a story where the more you know the better you will feel. It is just the opposite. The more I learn the worse I feel and the more hatred I feel towards this country that I still love and therefore the more conflicted. And it is just the most-- I just feel all this anger at everything and we are standing next to this stupid aquarium building and talking to Coast Guard guys. And there are ducks around and now there is a calliope? And I mean I do not know. Now I just feel-- I feel worse. I feel worse. There are only so many hours a human being can stomach unfocused dread. I was tired and confused and depressed and I needed the kind of respite that can only come from focused resentment. In the Trail of Tears saga if there is one person you are allowed to hate it is Andrew Jackson the architect of the Indian removal policy. And since the Trail of Tears passed through Nashville anyway we stop at his plantation the Hermitage. Sarah Vowell and her sister enter the enemy's bedroom. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today a program about the past and what to make of the past. We continue with the story of Sarah Vowell and her sister Amy who are retracing the path of the Trail of Tears. They have just arrived if you remember from before the break at the home of the president responsible for the trail somebody they hate and intend to keep hating Andrew Jackson who incidentally is one of President Trump's favorite presidents. President Trump placed Jackson's portrait in the Oval Office. He spoke at Jackson's home to commemorate the 250th anniversary of Jackson's birth. In that speech he called out Jackson as a people's president like himself out for the common man somebody who defied the political class of his day. It was during the Revolution that Jackson first confronted and defied an arrogant elite. Does that sound familiar to you?  I wonder why they keep talking about Trump and Jackson Jackson and Trump. I know the feeling Andrew.  So I pointed out earlier that today's program was first broadcast in 1998. In the years since Sarah and Amy visited Jackson's home they have updated the exhibits. The museum there includes exhibits on slaves and on Native American removals that Jackson enacted. There is an audio tour that focuses entirely on the enslaved people who lived there. Again from our original story here's Sarah Vowell. The house and museum are closed to the public when we arrive because of astonishing tornado damage. Part of me wanted to destroy Andrew Jackson and everything he represented. Seeing all those hacked up trees made me feel like someone had beaten me to the punch. God look at it. All the trees are down. Yeah. The wrath of God. Inside there is no display mentioning Indian removal because remarkably there is no display about Jackson's presidency. Carolyn Brackett showed us around the house a columned antebellum mansion that looks like a cross between Graceland and Tara. Unfortunately for my spite spree I liked Carolyn Brackett. I felt bad for her. Like she would point into the library and say Jackson subscribed to a lot of newspapers before his death. And I would say was one of them The Cherokee Phoenix? She was not sure. She wanted to show off the mansion's painstaking restoration. All of the rooms that have original wallpaper all of the paper was conserved and had to be cleaned with an eraser the size of a pencil eraser. So that was quite an undertaking. The portrait of Jackson was finished nine days before his death. I think he shows the wear and tear of his life in that portrait. The one over the-- He looks like he is sticking his head out of a car window.  I guess he was not worrying about his hair much by then. Carolyn guides us past the flower garden planted by Jackson's wife Rachel and into the family graveyard. There are a few piddly headstones and one Greco-Roman monstrosity with an obelisk rising from the center. Let me guess which one of these graves is Jackson's. Here he is. He actually had this designed for Rachel and left room for himself. And these are other family members. I pull a book out of my backpack a book with the subtitle Andrew Jackson and the Subjugation of the American Indian. Carolyn and Amy exchange a worried look. Well so I am standing here on-- I am standing here on Andrew Jackson's grave and there is part of me as a person of partly Cherokee descent that would not mind dancing on it you know? I would like-- there is a letter that Jackson wrote about the removal of the Southeastern tribes. And can you hold that? This is his opinion on the Southeastern tribes leaving their land. Mm-hmm. Doubtless it will be painful to leave the graves of their fathers but what do they more than our ancestors did nor than our children are doing? To better their condition in an unknown land our forefathers left all that was dear in earthly objects. Our children by thousands yearly leave the land of their birth to seek new homes in distant regions. And then it ends Can it be cruel in the government when by events which it cannot control the Indian is made discontent in his ancient home to purchase his lands give him a new and extensive territory to pay the expense of his removal and support him a year in his new abode? How many thousands of our own people would gladly embrace the opportunity of removing to the West on such conditions? I mean there is something-- there is something nutty about Old Hickory in this passage just the fact that he just thinks well to compare the removal of Indians from their land with the opportunity of his generation to just go out West. Do you think-- I mean what do you make of that? Can you help me understand that mindset? Probably not. I mean the interesting thing about that era was that they really felt that they were preserving. This is how they justified it in their own minds was that they were actually helping preserve it that this was inevitable. It was the early thought of Manifest Destiny that it was inevitable that this would happen. Interestingly to me is they never seemed to think that we were gonna settle the country all the way to the West all the way to California. So if they just kept moving everybody further away they would suddenly get to a point where there was not gonna be any settlement which of course did not happen. We drive on into Kentucky towards Hopkinsville. When the Trail of Tears passed through southern Kentucky in December of 1838 a traveler from Maine happened upon a group of Cherok