OK Sarah. So it is ten to 100 on a Friday night in November and we are sitting on your porch. And it seems pretty quiet. It is not that bad. One of the producers of our radio show Sarah Koenig moved to a college town because her husband got a job teaching there. And by day her neighborhood is like a college town that you would see in an old Hollywood film. Beautiful professors' homes built in the '20s and '30s. Tree-lined streets. Gardens. But by night we would been on her porch for five minutes when-- They seem drunk. These kids seem drunk. This couple here they are sort of staggering a bit. I think he is like holding her up or something. It is nine students walking down the middle of the street. Happens all the time. It is noisy right? It is like it does not occur to them at all I think that there are people just in these houses trying to sleep. And I kind of remember being that way in college too actually. Yeah I do too. Six minutes later there is another group of drunk students. One tosses something onto a lawn. Can you guys pick up your trash please? Can you pick up your plate your pizza plate please? People live here. They pay no attention. Five minutes after that we hear this clattering from the alley that runs next to Sarah's house. Whoa what was that? Actually I would kind of like to know what that was. What is going on? We run down the alley. Two college boys run away as they see us coming. Do not go back there you could get raped they yell to Sarah. See OK. They get threw somebody's trashcan or like drop kicked it up in the air. 12 minutes after that from the other direction we hear a scraping and a loud rumbling I guess. That is somebody's property. That might have been a sign actually. I do not know how many street signs you need to hear dragged through your neighborhood before you can recognize the sound it makes from all the way around the corner but apparently my colleague Sarah has seen whatever that number is. We go to investigate and find two guys. So just describe what you have got here. A stop sign. Nice big pole on it. A stop sign. That is kind of a big thing when you see it up close is not it? Sorry. Where did you find that? Like where does it belong? I do not know. That is a good question. We just found it on a lawn. We found it on a lawn. Oh you found it on someone's lawn. It was already ripped off. Yeah it was already . We just decided hey why not make use of it and take it? Of course this story makes no sense at all. I inform the two guys that I do not need to know their names. Well in that case we took it from the corner right there. Which one? Where that car just turned. Pretty sure. Pulled it out of the ground? Yeah it was cemented in pretty well. Just get a little rocking back and forth between two people comes right up. Did you guys come from like a house party somewhere? No. We were just hanging out with a bunch of friends just drinking. Taking some shots. Seems like kind of an academic distinction to me but. With that the other guy starts running with the street sign toward Garner Street which is hard because it is attached to a seven foot metal pole and it is heavy. Sarah and I go back around the corner to her front yard. The evening is not over at all. Just in time to spot another student this one coming out of a garden. Sarah assumes from the bushes back there. I did not pee. Really? Really? I was just sitting down. He goes. And it is not a minute later that Sara points toward the alley where there are three girls in miniskirts under a streetlight fully visible. Peeing peeing peeing peeing peeing.  One girl hikes up her skirt. Get back get back get back. But they are peeing in my yard. They are peeing in my yard. That is my car OK and three feet back is a girl's white ass peeing. She saw we saw her. She stopped. She stopped. You know that might be why the plants grow really really well in that spot I am just realizing. Sarah's caught other groups of girls peeing in that same spot. Once she heard a girl say This is a good place. I go here all the time. They are so embarrassed. There is like muffled giggling happening across the street. The college town that Sarah lives in is State College Pennsylvania home of Penn State University which this year was named the number one party school in the country by the people who name the number one party school the Princeton Review. And this is apparently what it means to be the number one party school. From the moment that Sarah and I turned on the tape recorder to the moment that she sent those girls looking for somebody else's yard to pee in it is only been 34 minutes. It is 130 in the morning. The fact that we saw that much mayhem sort of going on at one corner-- so that means it is multiply that by you know this entire neighborhood and other neighborhoods around-- people are peeing everywhere garbage cans are getting kicked stop signs are getting pulled out of the road people are littering. You know. The Princeton Review chooses the number one party school from online student surveys. 120000 students at 371 schools around the country answered these questions. How widely used are beer alcohol marijuana and other drugs at your school? How big is frat life at your school? And finally How many hours do you study each day? Students are not randomly selected so it is not strictly speaking a scientific survey. But the last two years Penn State has done very well. It was the number three party school last year number six the year before that and nobody argues it is not a very big school for partying. Well look. We have never said we do not want our students to have fun. The University's president Graham Spanier discussed the number one ranking in a faculty senate meeting this fall. The only recording that exist is from a webcast Penn State did at the meeting so you hear the audio is little sketchy. But still fine. I mean when people talk about oh Penn State's a party school I am not-- it does not bother me at all actually. I wish we were not ranked number one. You know why we are ranked number one? Have we talked about this? You know why we are ranked number one? The students vote! It is not like somebody came in here and did an assessment of the place. It is an online web-based thing. And whenever there is an online web-based thing Penn State always wins. We have the best mascot in the country. We probably do. But I guarantee that any online voting for the best mascot in the country we are going to win that. You know? We are the number one university on Facebook. We are the number one university with Twitter. So when these party school things some of our students get online and vote? Of course they want to be voted number one. Yeah Penn State. Then I have to clean up the mess after the votes are in. Because I got all the donors and alumni and the media I am calling for comment. The amount of drinking at the school does concern Spanier. He told the faculty that when people ask him what is the biggest problem at Penn State they always expect him to say money but the answer for a long time has been alcohol. And he said it is a problem that is bigger than Penn State. Nearly a third of high school seniors across the country binge drink. So it is a bit of a problem that we inherit. But we also have a cultural environment here an atmosphere that fosters it. Well today we devote our entire show to the nation's number one party school. Not because it is number one and what happens here is unusual but because it is not unusual at all. Lots of schools especially a lot of big state schools do this much partying. Five of us from our staff went down to State College where Sarah lives to record one football weekend in November. What we bring you today is a travelogue from this place where the rules and norms are probably very different from where you live right now. Its own rituals its own jargon its own native dress. We wanted to see what it was all about. Our show today in four acts. Only three of them actually pre-soaked in vodka. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us.  This song by the way was playing everywhere we went in State College. Thanks Miley. Act One. I am Not As Think As You Drunk I Am. Let us start with the drinking which is epic. The Harvard School of Public Health did a study of what schools tend to have the heaviest drinking and Penn State actually hits all the criteria that they found. It is located in the northeast and it has a large undergraduate population-- that would be in this case 44000 students-- a large fraternity system a nationally-known football team. Now the fact is that it probably does not hurt it is isolated. State College is in a valley nestled between two mountain ridges in a state forest. People here call it Happy Valley. It is surrounded by farms. You are in the middle of nowhere a few people said without much to do but drink. And to talk about this drinking I am joined now in the studio by Sarah Koenig. Because Sarah you recorded these first couple clips of tape. Right. A couple of weeks before you guys came to State College there was this huge freak snowstorm and they had to cancel tailgating for the first time anyone could remember because the conditions were so dangerous by the field. But it did not stop anyone. I saw people tailgating in their yards on their front lawns. Even in my neighborhood I saw people under like these building underpasses. I went into a parking garage and found all these people on the fourth floor. There is dirty cars everywhere. Concrete floor. It is cold it is dark. At the end of one row of cars there were these two tables pushed together in an L-shape tablecloths and all kinds of food and a couple of birthday cakes. Whose birthday is this? It is my birthday! It is my birthday! My 21st birthday. Happy birthday! Thank you! And what are you doing on the fourth floor of a parking garage? I am getting drunk and tailgating. Describe your headgear there. It is a crown with a 21 that is on fire and it says Where is the bar? So who brought all this food? My mom and dad because they love me and they are the best. About a half dozen older people were there too. Her parents and some of their friends. And there were a bunch of other tailgates happening around us and one couple was having their 40th wedding anniversary. Wow. In the garage? In the garage yeah. At one point a women probably in her 50s walked up and handed the birthday girl a red plastic cup. Aw thank you! What is this?  Lemonade. Is there alcohol in it? Most definitely. Oh my God! This is the strongest drink I have ever had in my life. They just brought me a really strong alcoholic lemonade. Is that your daughter are you the mom? No no. Oh. What is your--? We are parked over there. You just saw that this is happening. Yes. We have got to keep ourselves entertained somehow right? Watch the 21 year old get plastered that is the entertainment? Exactly exactly. Thank you so much for the drink! At tailgate parties you see just how deeply embedded drinking is in life at Penn State. It is entire families. It is several generations together. It is outdoor public drinking which gives you the feeling when you are there that the whole world is drinking. Probably because there is so much of it. Penn State now has the largest stadium in North America. It holds over 100000 people. The tailgates are these huge masses of humanity spread out as far as you can see all around the stadium. Starting at eight in the morning starting really early which is when these alums got here. They talked to one of our producers Aaron Scott. So you went to bed three or four you got up and you are drinking again? Hells yeah. Is it ever too early to drink? Never. Eight in the morning means by the way that if it is a night game they will tailgate for 12 hours in the cold in the freezing cold sometimes before kickoff. I talked to a bunch of alums at a tailgate about what would happen if they were not allowed to drink at all.  I think there would be a revolt. I think there would be a huge huge pushback from the alumni that donate a lot of money to this school to say that you cannot have alcohol at a tailgate. That is Mark Johnson class of 1977.  It is just part of the culture. I mean that is why this school sells 110000 tickets for every-- you know just it is a part of it. It is just part of that tradition. Usually pounding down drinks at eight in the morning can be kind of I do not know bad. But the main thing about this kind of drinking where it is tied in with tradition and football and family and overwhelming sense of school spirit is that it feels incredibly wholesome. The whole campus feels like a Chevy commercial. Welcoming people friendly.  The sense that drinking together is what we do spills over from the football games into the whole weekend. Into the week too actually. It is Friday night it is the night before the football game outside East Hall the big freshman dorms. Dozens of kids are lined up for free shuttle buses that are going to take them across campus to the frats and parties on the other side. Two of our producers Jane Feltes and Lisa Pollak noticed that all the girls wore these ratty-looking hoodies and jackets over their dressup clothes. Somebody else told them support for this is fracket and wanted some girls to confirm that. Have you guys heard of something called frackets? Oh yeah that is what we are wearing. A fracket by definition is a jacket made for frats. It is basically a crappy jacket that is cheap and you do not care about.  Yeah. Because like they get lost. They get like puked on. You do not want that back. You do not want it back. Just lose it. Yeah. Jane rode on the bus with the freshmen. She joins me now. So the reason that they needed the fracket in the first place is it was really cold that night and they are wearing next to nothing. All the girls had on pretty much the same thing. Like some version of a mini mini mini tube dress bare legs and super high platform heels. They all look like cocktail waitresses at a strip club. Did you guys dress like this in high school. Uh no. We just got slutty after we got into college.  My dress-- yeah it is pretty short. It like barely covers my like tuckus so. That girl her name's Chuy She is from Saudi Arabia. Guess that is the word they use for that over there. Yeah right. When I met her and her friend Megna they were already on their second loop around campus. They were kind of drunk and they would missed their stop the first time. And on this bus everyone keeps breaking into song.  What is happening? This is the drunk bus. Good timing.  Oh my God. Is this the same stop where we found out that we were late? Penn State's administration does a pretty thorough job surveying students to track how much they are drinking. The surveys show that every Friday and every Saturday night 75 of the school drinks. That is over 30000 people an average of four and a half drinks per person. And the students drink those drinks in about three hours average. To put those numbers in perspective binge drinking or as it is being re-branded lately high risk or dangerous drinking defined as four drinks for a woman or five drinks for a man consumed in just two hours.  When you get down into the details of Penn State's numbers it works out to over half the students regularly binge drinking which is just a little bit above the national average for college students.  The routine at Penn State on weekend nights is that you pregame or preload. That is what they call it when you drink at your apartment or your dorm room before going out. It is way cheaper than buying drinks at a bar. Also in winter keeps you warm. We heard lots of people use the phrase beer jacket. And if you went to college long ago you definitely noticed mostly hard liquor here not beer. Various sugary vodka drinks of various kinds. Red bull and vodka one of them. So everybody gets a lot more drunk. To living single to seeing double. Oh. And what is the triple? Early on one night I went to an apartment with a bunch of seniors. And they were getting ready and pregaming. They said they usually do five shots in five minutes before they leave the house. There were empties everywhere. That is not bad. Oh yum. What is in your fridge? Um water lemonade tequila Malibu vodka margarita mix and cheese. But college students are underage so a lot maybe most of drinking at Penn State is underage drinking. The bars in State College are actually very strict about under 21 drinking. You have to show a student ID. In lots of places they scan the ID. But there are other ways to get drunk. Everybody told us if you are too young for a bar you go to a frat party. Whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa. Back up three steps. Why should we let you in this party? Thursday night. This is the front door of a fraternity that asked that I not use their name. Under Penn State rules nobody is supposed to get into a frat party except members of other fraternities and sororities and guys on an official university list of potential pledges. There is supposed to be a guest list with names at the door. But in practice it seems like pretty much any cute girl can get onto that guest list on the spot. Which is one reason they all wear the miniskirts one girl told us. To help with that. So he has to come with me because I am wearing his jacket. This particular girl though had a guy with her that the brothers did not want to let in. He is important. No no no. Are you serious? You are going to leave him all alone? Look at him. He is so innocent. Look at his face. Is he in a frat? Yeah! What frat though? He is one of my best friends! Come on. What frat is he in? He is my best friend. He is not in a frat so under school rules he should not be let in. But the guys at the door are no match for this girl. Yo dude sorry. You can go in. Go in just go in dude. And another young drinker finds haven. Inside the windows are taped over with plastic trash bags which gives the whole place the feeling of a seedy underground club. One big room is dark with a DJ and a big sound system dancing. Another room has booze. The floor of this room is slippery with a layer of muck that is part beer part dirt part you know. There is a lot of flirting. Much of it ineffective. I walked up to one couple who told me they would been talking for half an hour. Did you know this guy before you came? No. It is not weird. And I am not trying to get away from him. Why all the people I meet here are weird. Really? Like him. He is really awkward. I do not know. This is kind of awkward. I am just trying to get her drunk so I can take advantage of her later. That is awkward! I know. I am working on it. The whole time we were at Penn State I found myself looking back and forth between two opposite feelings about all the drinking I saw going on. Sometimes it seemed really extreme. Other times it seemed like so what. Kids drink at college. Most of them get through it. Lots of students said something that was hard argue with. When else are they going to get a chance to do this? Like I was talking to a senior by the back door of the fraternity about this and that. So what is the wildest thing you have seen at a party at this school? Wildest thing? At a party? Somebody stripping completely naked and pretending to throw monkey feces as they were doing it. And--that was me.  That was you? That was me. When was that? Last week. Last week? Somebody I was like yeah I dare you to get naked. I am just like I will get naked. It was really fun.    I mean you can only do that stuff now when you are in college. You know? I would not be able to do it six months from now.  it. You know it is college. It is also not hard to find students who talk about the darker side of all this partying. A senior named Dan was out late one of these weekend nights not drinking but watching drunk people and taking notes for a paper that he is writing. He decided to quit his fraternity after his sophomore year because he was falling so far behind in the school work. His frat threw parties not two not three but four nights a week which is typical here. Every Thursday Friday Saturday huge parties. Something every Wednesday. And then all the other days something going on. You know come in from a day of class and you know my three or four best friends are all playing beer pong for instance. It got to the point where I was like this is not a good place for me to be to achieve. You know there are nights that I would have to wear my headphones to try to study because it would be so loud and just live in the library most of the time. You know I have had to cut the circuit breaker on people's rooms before because it is four AM and they will not turn off their music. And you see fights. You know I have seen people sent to the hospital for things as petty as you knocked my drink out of my hand. I saw a kid stop breathing from alcohol poisoning. It is all-- it is amazing the things that go on there. That it operates legally I find is incredible. In the surveys of students done by the school a fourth of Penn State students say that drinking has caused them to miss class get behind with their school work. 15 say they have been pushed hit or assaulted. 7 said drinking lead to an unwanted sexual experience. 6 said they would gotten into what you would call a real physical fight. And there are crimes that you never hear of unless you live in a place like State College. Our daughter came into the kitchen while we were in the midst of hurriedly getting everything done and said something to the effect of Mommy I want to play in my room. Can you please get that man out of my bed? And I remember having said something to the effect of there is no man in your bed. And she actually went away and came back a few minutes later. So I guess she went up to check and she comes down. There is a man in my bed and I want to play in my room. Would you please get him out of there? This is a long time State College resident named Nina White. And the man on the bed of course was a college student who committed a surprisingly common crime in this town. He came to her house drunk found a comfortable place and fell asleep. Because of incidents like this the population at Penn State who seem the most exercised about student drinking right now is local residents who live near the students. They have been organizing and trying to pass new laws. Some of them admit that dealing with so many drunk kids so many months in a row has turned them into something that they are not proud to be. One neighbor Laird Jones told me he knows it is driving him a little batty. I do not know if you heard when you came in but I have motion sensors out there. So I can hear an alarm and I know which point in the yard they came in so I can just see what is going on. Glaird lives right in the middle of the fraternities right on the same block. And he puts up with so much noise and so many kids kicking in his fence and drenching his yard with pee and so many incidents with bloody kids injured kids kids who are high parties next door with hundreds of kids that would not end then he delivered these all like a series of the macabre one-liners in the most disturbing stand-up act ever. Sample? One of the things you learn here in your yard is if you see a tampon you have to get a stick and find the condom. That is so gross. I think I am a lot more callous about human suffering and I have sort of taken this attitude that the only way they are going to learn is to get hurt. I mean I was walking home with my son on Sunday past the frat house up the street. And for fun they were throwing furniture off the roof. Which is actually kind of fun. It is just when it all hit the ground they got out lighter fluid and soaked it and lit it on fire. In a yard full of dry leaves ten feet away from a parked car. And I thought to myself you know should I call? Or should I just get my son out of the way let them learn? That buzzing of course was the motion-activated sensors pointed at his yard. For now anyway most of the students seem to go to classes get an education and drink pretty happily. And the people who are learning something and changing and making resolutions because of the drinking so far mostly seem to be the neighbors. Coming up-- why delivery guys do not like to deliver Buffalo wings in State College Pennsylvania. Also--  Thank you mountain lion. Have we mentioned that the name of the football team is the Nittany Lions? I know a lot of you knew that anyway. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our show of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show 1 Party School. We spent a football weekend at Penn State University to see life at one of the big partying state schools. We have now arrived at Act Two. Act Two. If God Is not a Penn State Fan Then Why is The Sky Blue and White. All of our names today by the way are things seen on bumper stickers T-shirts and shot glasses in the State College area. One of the ways that the town of State College is actually an unusual special place its own little kind of cultural ecosystem like a little microclimate in the middle of Pennsylvania is that because of the University it is in only county in the state whose GDP grew in 2008. It also has the lowest unemployment rate of any county in the state. Part of this prosperity is because the University is growing. Enrollment is up even during the recession. But one member of our staff Nancy Updike spent a few days going around to area businesses and she found that they have adapted to the very specialized needs of the nation's number one party school. Here's what you learned. Here are six tips for running a business in State College PA. Six tips all kinds of businesses with supporting illustrations. Tip one. Keep up. This is McLanahan's a sprawling Hearst Castle of a store. It is your basic drugstore- deli- produce market- hardware- underwear- beer pong- stationary- grocery- Penn State merchandise emporium which over the years has acquired and absorbed the stores that used to be next to it to the point where it is bought up everything it can and the only way left to expand is to cram more stuff everywhere. And there is always something clamoring for more space. McLanahan's owner Ray Agostinelli says that over and over again he is had to stock way up on some usually sleepy object that has suddenly become a crazy hot seller. Well it happened one time with marshmallows. And all of a sudden all the marshmallows were gone. And here what it was is that they would take them to the football games and they were throwing marshmallows. You said people were throwing marshmallows onto the field? Oh yeah they were getting pretty dangerous with them. This was not too good. And they got outlawed. But the kids would come in and buy all the marshmallows and we said wait a minute. We never sold them any marshmallows. What? But just whatever the crazes are you have to keep up with and be there. And then there are the crazes that never go away. Sex. One of the McLanahan's many frank and non-judgmental offerings is its display right out front that is condoms on top lubricant in the middle pregnancy tests on the bottom. Ray takes me into one of the two Penn State merchandise sections of the store. It is a full sensory experience. That is a CD of the school's band in the background. There seven different kinds of car air fresheners with the Penn State logo pacifiers a steering wheel cover. Ray are you ever amazed at something you never knew that the Penn State logo could be put on it? I just saw a remote control a TV remote. You put it on here and it will sell. You put it on your microphone it will sell. In the almost 50 years Ray has been working at McLanahan's-- he bought it from Bob McLanahan 40 years ago-- Ray has seen the Penn State merchandise in his store go from almost an afterthought maybe one rack of sweatshirts to being a third of his business. The only downside is-- If Penn State would have a losing season sales drop dramatically. Oh is that true? Oh my gosh. You cannot imagine. You cannot imagine. Ray says if Penn State loses one football game sales of Penn State merch at McLanahan's go down 20. Not for a day for a week. And sometimes even longer until the next winning game. Which brings us to Marrara's the dry cleaner up the street. Just about every business owner and employee I talked to said business was significantly down because of Penn State's loss to Ohio State the week before. But at the dry cleaner no mention of this. Parties happen every weekend win or lose and that means some people will end up talking to Roberta at Marrara's who after 18 years at the store is functionally psychic. You know if they have thrown up or something like that they are not going to admit that that is what has happened. Do you have a way of telling if it is-- you are nodding. Yes I have ways. What is-- Well if they put it in a plastic bag the garment's in a plastic bag and they do not want to open it I do not want to open it either. Is that what you tell them literally? If you do not want to take it out I do not want to take it out? Right. We will not clean anything that has vomit or animal urine or anything like that on it. In case anyone's wondering women students usually bring the vomit male students the urine animal or otherwise. So second tip. Apply the smell test. Third tip. When it is late simplify. Every Friday and Saturday night after midnight when the drink specials at the bars are over Canyon Pizza starts getting a loud amped-up line of students down the block. The business model at Canyon Pizza is straight-up no-frills genius. Slices are a dollar a piece. After 11 PM it is cheese only. And every time the pretty women behind the counter get a tip they hit a giant tip gong. Canyon Pizza also delivers until four in the morning on weekends and the deliveries are a whole separate world deserving their own business tip. So tip four-- be aware of fists and wings. One of the delivery guys is Alex Moore. He is going on a run in his black Saturn Ion which was new when he started doing deliveries almost three years ago but it is taking some abuse after being parked in front of Canyon Pizza and its nighttime crowds weekend after weekend. I am actually working on a Canyon Pizza video game. Yeah I am serious. It is called 30 Minutes or Less. The point to deliver a pizza through all sorts of obstacles? Yep. The point is deliver pizza. You know you have to avoid all the drunk people and when they do stuff to your car and stuff you have got to pay for it. All kinds of-- very realistic delivery driving game. People throw ranch all over my car. I have footprints on the back of my car right now because some kid was jumping up and down on it. You say ranch like ranch dressing? Yeah. It rots the paint off your car. And people spit all over my car pretty much every night. And yeah. Someone kicked in this window so it does not roll down correctly anymore. Recently some kid broke my jaw. Oh my God Alex! Yeah. His friend was punching dents in one of the other delivery' driver's cars and I went to chase him down. Some random kid broke my jaw on the way. So I had to have my jaw wired shut for two months. Oh my God. Yeah. So I got stories. One second. Alex stops to deliver a pizza. Actually two extra larges and pepperoni rolls. He says he is never had a drink in his life. Just not interested. Alex is 22. He is studying game simulation and computer programming at DeVry online. Look closely at his hoodie. It is Pac-Man. Pizza delivery has been a good job while he is finishing up his degree. The only food Alex says he does not like to deliver is wings. Canyon Pizza has a sister store Canyon Wings and Alex says that mysteriously people do not tip for wings. He says most of the time he gets a dollar or nothing at all. Just stiffed. Which is a bummer. On wings. Yeah. And the only reason I say that is because I had a friend who worked at Damons who delivered wings too and he got the same thing. A dollar or stiffed. I do not know. It must just be a thing with wings. I really do not know. Tip five. Keep it cheap. In Pennsylvania beer is only sold in certain stores. It is not sold in grocery stores and it is not sold in the places that sell liquor and wine. This is just how Pennsylvania does things. It is been this way since the end of Prohibition. So Paul Pletcher owns Pletcher's one of the beer stores in State Coll