Andrew Thomas Norway lives in St. Paul but he is one of those doctors and nurses who flew to New York to help with flood of COVID patients who filled New York hospitals. He is actually at the hospital at Columbia University where he went to medical school a quarter century ago. At night after his 12-hour shifts he sleeps in his old dormitory literally in the dorm room he had when he was 23. The hospital has scratched out all kinds of extra space for COVID patients converting 24 operating rooms into intensive care units. But the strangest thing to him? Normally there would be family all over the place. But the families are not able to come close to the hospital. They cannot even come in the lobby let alone get to see the people they love. And the other thing is just the reality that most of these people are going to die in these places alone. Most of them are unconscious in medically-induced comas because it is easier to survive on a ventilator that way. But because they are unconscious it means that the gap between these COVID patients and their families is even more profound because they do not talk on the phone or FaceTime or anything. So Andrew suggested to the nurses that maybe they should take notes each day little things they notice about each patient to share with the families if the patient dies. I asked him to read a few. Sure. This one's from a nurse named Sandy. And she wrote Mrs-- I will not say the name. The patient is mostly sleeping. She looks peaceful. Also I really like her dark green fingernail polish. I would love to know the name of the color. Here's another one. I have been parting the patient's hair to the side. I do not know if that is how he wears it but I think it looks good that way. Also yesterday he got a shave and now he looks so young. Here's one more. The patient looks so peaceful. He is sleeping and calm. Everyone is jealous of his salt and pepper hair. He looks like George Clooney right now. I talked to a few of the nurses who are writing these notes and they said that because the patients are unconscious their interactions are pretty basic so figuring out what to write can be tricky. Dr. Thomas sees that for sure. Yeah so people end up focusing on what you can see which is embellishments like earrings and hairstyles and fingernail polish and also just trying to emphasize that the people are comfortable that they are sleeping. They are not in pain. That is something we really want to-- almost all the nurses comment on that it seems on almost every one. And what is your hope about how the families will take this? My hope is that the families will know that their loved ones were being seen as people and treated as people and that they were not alone as this happened. So they gather details about the people laying in front of them knowing that there is something like an 80 chance that if they are on a ventilator with COVID they will not live. Those are the numbers in New York. Those two things are so different in size writing down a few tiny observations measured against the enormity of death and what that means. But sometimes I think that is all you can do. And today on our program we have two stories where ordinary people rise to this exact task. They look at death standing there-- gigantic horrifying-- and they say something. And in these stories truly amazing things happen. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One Really Long Distance. So remember that tsunami that hit Japan? March 2011 giant black waves more than 30 feet tall hit Japan. A guy in a little town called Otsuchi shot this video. You can hear him yelling. All the houses are washing away.  Otsuchi had been there for 100 years and in 30 minutes it was gone almost totally flattened. The tsunami and the earthquake that went with it killed six times more people than died in 911 over 19000 people. Another 2500 are still missing. In the aftermath of course families struggled to figure out how they were going to move forward without the people they loved. And in that town of Otsuchi it led to this new-- I do not know ritual is not exactly the right word for this but it is something close to that-- this thing that people invented to stay connected to the dead. One of our producers Miki Meek has family in Japan and she grew up going back and forth between there and here. And she watched this documentary about this thing people were doing in Otsuchi on the Japanese News Channel NHK and got permission for us to play you some excerpts. Here's Miki. Of all the areas in Japan affected by the tsunami Otsuchi has one of the highest numbers of missing people 421. Today it is still partly in ruins and partly a construction site as they try to rebuild the town on higher ground. But a year before the tsunami happened this guy named Itaru Sasaki he was already dealing with a loss. His cousin had just died and Itaru was having a hard time figuring out how to talk about it. So he did something pretty ingenious. He went out and bought an old-fashioned phone booth and stuck it in his garden. It looks like an old English-style one. It is square and painted white and has these glass window panes. Inside is a black rotary phone rusting on a wood shelf. This phone connected to nowhere. It did not work at all. But that did not matter to Itaru. He just needed a place where he felt like he could talk to his cousin a place where he could air out his grief. And so putting an old phone booth in his garden which sits on this little windy hill overlooking the Pacific Ocean it felt like a perfect solution.   He is saying because my thoughts could not be relayed over a regular phone line I wanted them to be carried on the wind.  So I named it the Wind Telephone . The idea of keeping up a relationship with the dead is not such a strange one in Japan. The line between our world and their world is thin. Lots of families keep a Buddhist altar for their dead relatives in the living room. My uncle has one for our family. There are photos on a little platform and every day he leaves fresh fruit and rice for them lights incense and rings a bell. It is a way to stay in touch to let them know that there is still a big part of our family. So after the tsunami and earthquake happened word got out about Itaru's special Wind Telephone that he was using it as another way to stay connected to the dead. Soon people started showing up randomly on his property and walking right into the phone booth. This has been going on for five years now. Itaru estimates that thousands of people from all over Japan have come to use his phone. A TV station asked Itaru and the people who come to use his phone if they could videotape their calls from a distance and put an audio recorder in the phone booth. They wanted to get a sense of how people are still grieving. I watched their documentary after the fifth anniversary of the tsunami back in March. That whole week all the news programs in Japan were airing memorial programs. But I found the calls in this particular program remarkable and moving for just how simple they were. One woman from Otsuchi named Sachiko Okawa showed up one afternoon. She is 71 years old and lost her husband in the tsunami. She regularly brings her two young grandsons to the phone booth and you can tell by how casually they talked to him on the phone. They squish into the phone booth with their grandma wearing matching blue and black striped shirts. Sachiko starts the call by picking up the receiver and saying hello.  Her oldest grandson quickly jumps in.  Hi Grandpa.  How are you?  I will be in fourth grade next semester. Was not that fast?  Daina my younger brother he will be in second grade next year. Then Sachiko corrects him. She says no Daina will be in second grade this year not next.  Yeah yeah this year. A lot of calls were just like this straightforward updates about life the kind of quick highlights reel you might give to any family member you were catching up with on the phone. The boy he then tells his grandpa--  Grandma is fine too.  I am giving the phone to Daina now. Daina his little brother grabs the phone.  Grandpa I finished all my homework. Sachiko urges him to keep talking.   He says everyone is doing fine. Then he hangs up. They all say goodbye.  Bye bye. As they are walking out of the booth Daina says--  Maybe Grandpa will say he heard us. In another call a woman in a puffy winter jacket with a fur-lined hood shows up at the booth by herself. Her name is Kikue Hirano and she is 66. She used to live in Otsuchi but she moved away after she lost her house and her husband in the tsunami. Her husband was a deep sea fisherman. His name was Miyoji and they used to talk and drink sake together at night. Now Kikue lives alone about 50 miles away. But sometimes Kikue finds herself driving back to Otsuchi and to this booth. I watched her do this thing that a lot of callers seemed to do. You hear Kikue actually dialing the rotary phone saying some numbers to herself.  4 2 5 7 4 4. She is dialing the phone number for her old house in Otsuchi the last place she knew to reach her husband. Then Kikue just stands in the booth in silence holding the phone to her ear. Sometimes she fidgets around and tilts her head up and concentrates on the ceiling the same way I do when I want to cry but I am trying hard not to. It does not work. Kikue brushes some tears off her face. Eventually she hangs up. She lingers in the booth a little longer hands clasped together in front of her staring at the phone booth floor. She walks out. One pattern that the owner of the phone booth Itaru has noticed over the years is that more men than women come to use it. Not surprisingly this is not a demographic that is known for sharing their feelings especially the older farmers. They already have a reputation for not talking much. In one of the phone calls recorded in winter a man with gray hair and a little towel hanging around his neck walks into the garden. This kind of towel is part of the uniform of Japanese farmers. They use them to wipe away sweat and clean their hands. This man opens the telephone booth door and under his breath you hear him say--  Huh so this is the Wind Telephone. This appears to be his very first visit to the phone booth. He lost his oldest son in the tsunami. His son's name was Nobuyuki. He also lost his house and had to move into temporary housing with his wife. And recently she got sick and also passed away. He calls her okaasan. It means mom in Japanese. It is what everyone in the family calls a female head of the house even the husband. It is a very intimate loving term.    Hello? Nobuyuki. Nobuyuki.  Is Mom with you?  Sorry to ask this but take care of her and your grandma and grandpa too.  Mom?  I will come again OK?  Mom--  --I will be back.  Bye. He uses the towel around his neck to wipe his eyes. One of the things that makes these calls so poignant to me is all the understated ways that people are actually saying I love you and I miss you. I would never say something so direct like that in Japanese. It is just not done. I have only seen people say it in the soap operas. . Even saying that right now feels weird. I have never said that to my mom or my grandparents.  Take this call. It is winter. The phone booth is surrounded by snow.   Hello?  Mom?  Where are you? He is an older man wearing a baseball cap. He also calls his wife Mom. His wife daughter and mother they all went missing in the tsunami.  It is so cold but you are not getting cold are you?  Are grandma and our daughter Miyuki with you too?  Come back soon.  Be found soon. Everyone is waiting for you.  OK?  Be found soon. Hurry home OK?  I will build a house in the same place.  Eat something anything.  Just be alive. Somewhere anywhere.  I am so lonely. He never says I love you directly. Real feelings are communicated through small gestures especially ones of concern like when he asks his wife are you staying warm? Are you eating? And then promising I will build a house for us. These are total heartfelt declarations of love. For other men the phone booth is a place where they can finally say their complicated feelings out loud. They can voice their regrets. Anyone who is had someone close to them die knows this feeling. Like I have kept having the same one-way conversation with my dad in my head ever since he passed away last year. I just keep telling him all the situations where I wish I had been kinder more patient. One call I watched was from a young father with rectangle glasses and a long black jacket. He lost his family both parents his wife-- her name was Mine-- and a one-year-old son named Issei.    Dad?  Mom?  Mine.  Issei.  It is already been five years since the disaster.  If this voice reaches you please listen.  Sometimes I do not know what I am living for.  Issei please let me hear you call me Papa.  Even though I built a new house--  --Dad Mom--  --Mine and Issei--  --without all of you it is meaningless.  I want to hear your reply but I cannot hear anything. He hangs up the phone takes off his glasses and covers his eyes with his hands.  I am sorry.  I am so sorry I could not save you.     There is a couple of phrases I heard callers tell the dead again and again--  do not worry about us and  which basically means I am doing my very best. I am enduring. In Japan  is a catch-all slogan for slogging through life's many challenges no matter how tiny or big. From trying to pass a test at school to grieving you hear it all the time for everything. In the phone booth  and  these are key phrases to reassure the dead that the living the people left behind they are doing OK even if they are not. People do not want to worry or burden their loved ones even dead loved ones because most Japanese are Buddhist and generally believe that when someone dies they are not suddenly relieved of all their earthly concerns. They are not automatically in heaven happy and carefree. Many people believe that if the dead see a family member suffering they cannot let go of their earthly life. They hesitate to cross to the other side and end up stuck in a no man's land. I heard these reassurances in a call from a 15-year-old kid named Ren Kozaki to his dad. He arrived at the phone booth after spending four hours on public transportation by himself. Ren lives in a city much farther north that was not affected as much by the tsunami but his dad was a truck driver who drove all over Japan and in a last-minute schedule change he got sent on a route that took him along the coast when the tsunami hit. He is been missing ever since. Ren went into the phone booth wearing a red backpack. And what he does in his call you hear him signaling to his dad that it is OK he should keep moving on into the afterworld.  Dad?  The four of us are doing fine.  We are .  You do not need to worry about us. .  Dad are you doing OK?  I do have one question I want to ask you.  Why did you die?  Why did it have to be you Dad?  Why just me?  I have always wondered--  --why am I the only one who is--  --different from everyone else. Anyways--  --please be found quickly.  Where are you now?  They never found anything of you.  I wanted to talk with you again.  Ren left the booth. In late February he came back with his entire family-- his mom younger brother and sister. They all drove down to Otsuchi together. And when they got to the phone booth at first they kind of awkwardly hung out in front of it. So to break the ice Ren walks in and places the first call to their dad. He tells him--  --I brought everyone with me today.  Bye. When Ren walks out his family laughs. They say--  That was so fast. Ren shoots back--  --it was just a quick report to dad that I brought everyone with me today. Next up are Ren's little brother and sister who are 12 and 14 years old. They go into the booth together and the sister is talking and laughing nervously.   What am I supposed to say? What should I tell them?  Wait wait wait. Do not leave me alone in here. The sister picks up the phone. And let me just say the mom told the film crew that this is a girl who has not said a single word about her dad to anyone since he went missing five years ago. So she picks up the phone and starts to cry.   She asks her brother again what should I talk to him about? Her little brother's name is Riku and he tells her--  Say what you wanted to tell him.  She says are you trying to make me laugh Riku? Riku says--  --no I am not. Then she finally starts talking to her dad. The conversation is all over the place. And she is crying so hard she can barely talk.  Dad I am so sorry I always used to say you were stinky. What happened to your promise to buy me a violin? Now I will have to buy one myself. Her little brother who sticks close to her he encourages her to keep going. He says what else? So she tells her dad--   I started tennis in junior high school. I am not in the top eight. I want to be in the top eight in our last tournament. Please cheer for me. I got hooked on this boy band The Johnnys when I was in my first year of junior high. I am still hooked. They both say--  --goodbye. They come out of the booth together. Now it is their mom's turn. Her kids tell her itterasshai. Itterasshai. Have a good trip. Good luck. Ren the oldest he bows and waves to her. She walks in picks up the phone and lets out a big sigh.     Where should I start?     I feel like you are still alive somewhere. We had so many things we wanted to do together.    Over the phone we always said to each other are you alive? Yes I am alive. It was our password between the two of us was not it? I cannot ask you that anymore.  Come back. We all four of us together we will be waiting. Bye.  After she comes out the family lingers outside the phone booth for a while.  This was literally the first time they would all talked about their dad together since the tsunami happened five years ago. The youngest Riku he sat quietly on a bench with his head in his hands. The night before his dad disappeared they went to a public bath together. His mom and older siblings tell him--   --Riku you do not need to keep your feelings in. Go ahead and cry when you want to. Ren the oldest gently teases him. He says--  --see he cannot stop crying. Mom says yeah but he held back until now. It is OK because you held back. You endured until now. The sister then hands Riku her handkerchief. The mom says to her kids we were all about to fall apart. We were so broken. We did not think we could make it through. And maybe that is why we never talked about Dad until now. But talking to him on the phone today it changed something. Miki Meek is one of the producers of our program. Thanks to Tomohiko Yokoyama and NHK Sendai who recorded all this and shared it with us. Today's show is mostly a rerun. We checked this week and the wind phone is still in operation though not many visitors right now because of COVID. The Japanese government is asking people to stay home. Coming up two brothers in their 80s have a last chance to talk to each other before they die and neither wants to take it. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues.  It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program One Last Thing Before I Go stories that are about-- well they are about what power do words have in the face of death? We have arrived at Act Two of our program-- Act Two Uncle's Keeper. So in the first act of our program people kind of defy death by making small talk and some talk that was not so small with their dead relatives. In this act somebody wants to do something very similar make a connection that seemed impossible between people. Except in this story all the relatives are alive which you would think would make it super easy. The story comes from Jonathan Goldstein. Hello? Hey Dad? Hi Johnny. Hey. How you doing? Good you? Good good. Good Yuntif. Shana Tova.  .  What is that mean? I am not sure. Oh oh. This is my father Buzz. I am calling him at his home in Montreal. And the reason we are talking crazy talk is because it is Yom Kippur the Jewish day of atonement which seems as good a day as any to talk with him about forgiveness. So I wanted to-- I wanted to ask you something and I just wanted to gauge your interest. Yeah. How would you feel about paying your brother Sheldon a visit? I have no feelings about it. I am not really interested. You are not? No. My father Buzz is 80 and his brother Sheldon his only sibling is 85. And for the past 40 years they have pretty much been on the outs. My father lives in Montreal and Sheldon lives in Florida. And the last time they saw each other over 20 years ago was at their mother's funeral when they had a fight over the details of the arrangement. Since then they have hardly spoken. It worries me because there is not a lot of time left and I do not want my father to have regrets. And my father has a profound capacity for regret. My mother gave up trying to reunite them years ago after many attempts. So I know that if I do not push him no one else will. I am not surprised that you are not jumping at the idea but I am a little surprised-- No. --that you are as against the idea. Yeah. Time's passed. He has not shown much interest. So I am respecting that and I leave him alone. What he did do was he called you on your 80th birthday not so long ago and you felt good about that. Yeah because I called him on his 80th birthday. This kind of tit for tat accounting is what always gets in the way. You know what it is at this point with him? I will tell you what it is. I do not think it is even anger. He is past anger. And he is past any feelings of animosity. He is pissed. He just does not care. Yeah. That is apathy. I mean sometimes at least hate or love they are emotions. Apathy is nothing. Yeah. You know what Johnny? As a child even when I was 10 when I was nine and eight I was crazy about him. We had a great-- I loved him. He was the older brother. He would-- hello? Yeah yeah yeah. I am listening. I just looked up to him. And he had all the friends. Sometimes he would take me along with him. And he was . Somebody tried to call here dinging me here. The most complicated question the one I keep coming back to is how did the bad blood begin? And there are many versions-- an ill-fated trip to Montreal where Sheldon felt slighted about having to stay in my father's basement an ill-fated trip to New York where my father felt slighted about having to stay in Sheldon's attic rude words spoken to each other's wives. In one version of the story Sheldon's refusal to bring a table to my bris almost resulted in my being circumcised on an ironing board. But in the version being told today my father was asked by Sheldon to pay more than his fair share for their mother's funeral. And I said you are always working some kind of an angle. So then he got furious. He got furious. He started screaming at the phone go to hell drop dead blah blah blah. That was how that ended. But I feel he is the kind of guy-- he has angles like that. He has angles. I always felt I was on the up and up with him and he was not with me. If you got a stronger sense that he was interested in seeing you then would you-- Yes yes. --you would be more inclined to see him? I would not stay at his house though. That is out of the question. OK quick sidebar-- anytime I have ever raised the prospect of visiting Sheldon no matter how hypothetical the scenario my father always makes a point of insisting how no matter what he would not stay in Sheldon's house even if he was invited to which I should point out he never is. I would not stay at his house. How come you--  I would not stay there. I mean that is not my thing. How come you always bring that up? I mean normally-- Of course. I do not feel comfortable. --when someone goes to visit someone that they have not seen in decades they will stay at a hotel. I would stay at a motel or somewhere near his place. A motel. Yeah. No we would get a place with an ice machine and you know. Why? You are interested in making a trip?  I mean I am interested-- do you think that there is anything to be gained in seeing him? Hm. I guess there is something. You know you share your common experience and you talk about the old days and there are things that only he and I can remember. Yeah. What you could do is you could call him and see what his attitude is. It depends on how you feel what kind of reception you get. Yeah. I mean I would. I would be happy to do that. My concern is that-- I like your initial suggestion that you call and feel him out see what he is like. OK I did not suggest that but-- you suggested that. Yeah I like that. But you will give me an honest reaction. I am happy to do it but-- I mean what are you looking for from-- what do you want to hear from him? I miss my brother. I would like to see him. OK. That is all. OK. You understand? And you come back on me with an honest evaluation.   Hello? Sheldon? Yes speaking. Hi. That was quite a shock getting your phone call. You said Jon and I-- Yeah. My hearing is not that great. OK. And when I heard the first message I am saying who the heck is that? I do not know anybody by that name. Sheldon now lives outside of Fort Lauderdale but my few memories of him are from when he lived in upstate New York. I remember he lived in a trailer. I remember that he worked at a local prison that he smoked cigars that he looked a little like my father but was hunched like the world was weighing down on him. And he always wore this expression on his face that seemed to say you got to be kidding me. You are keeping OK? You are keeping occupied? Yeah. I read a lot. I go to the gym. I go shopping you know here and there little things here and there. And so you still go-- how often do you go to the gym? Three times a week. My father also goes to the gym. That is a part of his routine also. He was happy to hear from you on his 80th birthday. Yeah. Well he did not call me on my 85th though. Tit meet tat. To be honest with you I have been-- in the last few years I have been a loner. Uh-huh. You would basically almost call me a recluse. I do not socialize with many people. And I really do not give a damn what anybody thinks. Yeah. And contrary to popular belief I like being alone by myself. I get along with myself very well. Yeah. Look I do not want to be rude-- Yeah yeah. --or anything but I want to go have my lunch. Oh yeah yeah yeah. That is fine. Yeah. It is fine. Sheldon I appreciate your talking to me. And you would be amenable to spending some time? Why not? We are brothers. I mean we are not close or anything but we are not going to have a chance to see each other much in the future. Yeah. Is that anything that you think about? Not much no. Press where to-- and then type-- you have an address? Yeah I do. OK. My dad and I meet up at the Fort Lauderdale Airport. I flew from New York and my dad from Montreal. My father's all dressed up wearing a faux suede sports jacket that I have never seen him in. We grab our airport rental and prepare for the two-hour drive to Sheldon. In the 90-degree heat it is immediately made clear that faux suede might not have been the best fashion choice. It is like we are on a safari.  On the road to Sheldon's my father will experience a spectrum of feelings. As we first set out there is excitement. My brother was funny in a lot of ways. I could laugh. We are going to have laughs with him. You know what I mean? He is a very funny man. A half an hour in and there is bitterness. We invited him to your bar mitzvah. And he returned a very cold card. Sorry we will not be attending. It was so mean you know what I mean even the writing. An hour in and how is Buzz feeling? I am relaxed. Oh good. Kind of old to get anxious you know what I mean? Yeah. A half an hour to Sheldon's. Little bit apprehensive now.  Yeah. 10 minutes to Sheldon's and Buzz is feeling-- All right. Yeah? You feeling a little-- It is going to be strange. Yeah. It is going to be very strange. I mean the man is a stranger to me now and yet he is my brother. You understand? It is a very strange feeling. Yeah. I wonder if he is getting nervous. Maybe. Course he is waiting for us right? Yeah. Sheldon lives in the corner house on a quiet suburban street. Ring the bell. I guess. Is this his door? I will double check. Oh here he is. Ah. Hey. Hello. Hi. Good to see you. And this is Jonathan? Good to see you yeah. Nice to meet you. Come in. Come here. Thank you. Lately I have become a monk me and my pussycat. Oh you got a cat. Oh come here. What?   After all the years and the worry and the dread things seem to be going swimmingly. We sit down at Sheldon's kitchen table and my father gets right into it. Now there is things I want to know. You said that Rainey died. Yeah. She did die? The dead are a good place to begin. As a subject they are easily agreed upon and not likely to spark a fight. Yankel died. Yankel died? He was the youngest brother. Oh he died long ago. He died eh? Well you know who died? Who? Hoffman. Hoffman a real . Yeah. I did not know him that well. I did not . Yeah. Kanish. We used to . Oh that is shocking. Yeah. He was fat. He was fat-- redhead. Redhead right. Yeah Kanish. Yeah. Remember Johnny? Johnny was a sex maniac. Johnny oh he would  a dog on the street. If he saw the dog he would try to .   Can I get you guys a cold beer? I would like a beer. Yeah sure. I will have a beer. Even though they are in their 80s Sheldon and Buzz still possess voices and temperaments suited to shouting out Brooklyn tenement windows while my voice-- Yeah sure. I will have a beer. --is best suited to asking a waitress if there will be a sharing charge. I defy--   Forgot about that. Sorry. Case in point this is Sheldon accidentally swiping a portable microphone receiver off the kitchen table and me trying to smooth things over. Take this off will you? It is annoying. Here just put it in your pocket there. Just take it off would you please? Thank you. Thank you. Over the next two days my testes will flee like frightened cockroaches upward ascending to heights not seen since the bar mitzvah that Sheldon was not attending. While it is fun watching them reminisce I would say that about 80 of my Uncle Sheldon's stories about the good old days are filthy enough to make them virtually unbroadcastable. But here's one specially selected and beeped for your delicate ears. Wally Rosen wonder whatever became of him. He was a bum. Me and Wally Rosen were joining the weightlifting club. So you had to be tested for a rupture. I remember he put his hand . I started laughing so hard I  right in his .  Ay yi yi yi. Over the years I have seen my father in the role of husband uncle and grandfather but I have never really seen him in the role of younger brother. How odd to see it now at 80. He sits beside Sheldon with this expression I have never seen on his face. It is wide-eyed sweet and deferential. But as the day wears on Sheldon and Buzz begin to squabble over their memories fighting over every little detail. Remember the hullabaloo we had with the hair dyer that heavyset girl? A manicurist. She was a hair dyer. Manicurist. No she was a hair dyer. Here's what happened. She went over to Irving's-- They even argue over the death of their grandmother. I found her body. I did. I opened the door-- no. I did. My mother was across the street at Greenberg's. I remember walking in-- I looked in on her. --and I knew she was dead as soon as I saw her. I never saw a dead body in my life but I knew she was dead. Sure. So wait. So you found her or you found her? I remember looking in on her room.  It was awfully quiet. I found her but let him take the credit. No I am not--  Some credit. The whole afternoon is like this. Every subject even their dead grandmother somehow becomes fodder for another pissing match. They are burning up all this time with small talk when what they need is some big talk. In particular they need to address a story that I know holds a great deal of meaning for my father. It took place in 1939 on the day their mother left them. I have only ever heard the story from my father never from Sheldon. I wanted to ask what you remember your perspective. Well I remember that time was when Pop was smacking her around and she ran out in the hall in her slip. Fighting in the hall. No. He was smacking her around. Smacking her around yeah. She ran out. Yeah. So what happened the next morning? The next morning? Yeah. Look in the closet. Her clothes were gone. She left. Oh. What happened after this in my father's telling is that his mother returned soon after she left with a policeman 