When I first heard about the new Chinese national security law that went into effect this month in Hong Kong the person I wanted to talk to about it is this Hong Kong protester that I will call Jennifer. Jennifer is somebody who I and a couple of other producers from our show spent time with and went to protest with last fall. So many things that she said to us back then would now be illegal under the new Chinese law. In fact any criticism of China or the Hong Kong government anybody calling for democracy in Hong Kong anywhere in the world could be prosecuted under this law. Calling for the United States to support the protesters which Jennifer did that is illegal. If the Chinese decide that talking to reporters like us is collusion with foreigners that would be illegal. Chanting at protests about Hong Kong independence has been declared illegal. Damaging subway stations is categorized as terrorism with severe penalties. Books by activists have been removed from public libraries. People have been arrested for carrying pro-independence flags. China is setting up its own separate national security apparatus in Hong Kong to handle these cases. Maximum penalty-- life in prison. What we are going to do today on our program is play you the episode that we made last fall about the Hong Kong protesters where we tried to explain the feelings and the ideals behind the protests. And then at the end of the hour we will play you the interview that I just did with Jennifer this month on the second full day that the new law went into effect about the law. If you are listening to the podcast version of our show and you heard this episode when we first put it out in the fall and you just want to jump to the new part with Jennifer the new interview it starts around 14 minutes from the end. OK here's the episode. It is nearly 200 in the afternoon when we reach Jennifer's family's apartment. She is just gotten up. She is still eating a very late breakfast. I will finish my noodles then I will start packing. I am with my co-worker Emanuele Berry and we are in a quiet working class neighborhood in the part of Hong Kong that is called New Territories. It is a Sunday so Jennifer is getting ready to do what she does every weekend-- what she did yesterday in fact. That is why she slept late. She is going to a protest-- with a little backpack. So this is the bag that I usually bring. So this is a maroon bag. It is a very small one. We have to keep everything light. So I always have a bottle of water and many tissues. I have to bring a lot of tissues because we need to wipe our eyes when there is tear gas. And because I know how to do first aid I always bring my first aid kit. The first aid kit is a little zip-up bag with roller bandages and gauze and gloves and stuff to sterilize a wound. Jennifer started at the volunteer ambulance corps in seventh grade and has used all this stuff at demonstrations. She packs her wallet and her AirPods. Because I have to listen to songs. Two batteries for her phone because she is on it constantly during protests checking the continuously-updated online maps that show where the police are and show escape routes. She packs a black T-shirt. The uniform of the Hong Kong protesters is black shirt black pants surgical masks to disguise their identities-- though she is wearing a striped maroon shirt for the bus ride to the protest. Yeah I wear a normal T-shirt when I go out so that no one can identify I am going to a protest. And sometimes I bring makeup so that I can transform myself after the protest. I do not understand. How do you transform yourself? Like what is the-- I bring foundation-- very small but can do everything. How different are you going to look with that foundation? No it looks like you are not going to protest. Because girls who are going to protest they barely do makeup. But if girl is doing makeup they are probably meeting someone. And so I bring this one. And then of course I bring my brow pencil. Because it really can make you look like another person. Eyebrows are very important I agree. Yeah.  And I bring lipstick. I am sorry it is a very small room. So we are in your room. Your room has pink walls. And there is a bunk bed with the bed on the top and a desk underneath it. Yeah it is very typical Hong Kong girl's room. For a Hong Kong protester to live at home with her mom and dad that is not unusual in any way. If you know anything about the demonstrations that have overtaken Hong Kong since June you know it is mostly young people in the city where rents are high. Jennifer is 22 and just graduated college. She is working her first entry-level job at a public relations firm. I came to Hong Kong because there were things about the protests that I really did not understand. And we will get to that. One of things that fascinated me once I arrived was learning what a routine the protests have become and what that was like for the people in them. This was mid-September the 13th week of protests for Jennifer. I am not really worried because it is just like another day. I think I will meet up with two friends of mine. But I am not sure if I am going to because they are couple so I do not want to be--  they are couple so I do not want to be-- they always kiss next to me. So mm yeah.   Speak of the devil it is her friend the one who kisses her boyfriend at demonstrations. And she is calling with bad news. She was going to bring gas masks to the rally today. They would order them from Amazon Jennifer thinks. But now she is learned that bringing gas masks would be a bad idea because at the subway station-- Police are searching everybody including men little ones and young people like us. They are searching their bags. And if they have any equipment with them like the gas mask eye mask whatever they just arrest them. Yeah. So my friend just asked me if it is a must for me to get the gas mask. So I told her that no it is not a must. I do not want to risk my friend getting searched. So she told the other friend not to come out with equipment. Not ideal but she is gone without gas masks before. Jennifer grabs her knapsack says bye to her mom who tells her to come home early a request that will be totally ignored. And we head outside. But then she turns and runs back. What did you forget? Uh umbrella. It is very important to have umbrella. Even if it is not going to rain? Yeah. It is not for the rain. It is for tear gas and bullets. Rubber bullets that is. It works on bullets? Yes. Frankly yes. No no I do not understand why but always those bullets they slip off along the umbrella. edge. So they just-- they do not get through the umbrella. Also protesters hide behind a wall of umbrellas when they are painting graffiti or dismantling a closed circuit TV camera on the street doing anything else they do not want the police to see. As she and I and Emanuele head to the bus stop we notice other young people carrying full-sized umbrellas on this totally sunny day. Walking over here to the bus are you looking around to see if-- other people you think are going to protest? Yeah you always want to know how many people are around you right? Yeah. OK and so there is some young people on our left two people standing next to you. I think the girl probably is not because she brings a very small bag. But the tall guy the tall guy in white shirt-- Mm-hmm. Yeah and then the couple behind you probably. It is like are you on my side? Are you one of us? Once you are at the protest everybody's in a mask so you do not really know who is on your team. Here in the neighborhood it is kind of exciting to wonder who your allies might be. The protests in Hong Kong have been international news for months kicked off by people's fears that mainland China is threatening some very basic things about their city and their lives. But for all the coverage here at our show we felt like we were not seeing many stories where we got to know anybody very well-- who they were what exactly they expected was going to come out of the protests given China's intransigence. Three of us arrived in Hong Kong in mid-September me and Emanuele and a co-worker Diane Wu. I have to say one of the things that was fascinating given the ugly state of democracy here in the United States lately was to be among so many young people who believe so intensely in democratic ideals and yearn so deeply for the basics like normal elections and free speech and free assembly. Though just in the last few weeks since we got to Hong Kong we have watched the situation changed dramatically. It is gotten much more violent harsh new measures by the government. This hour we have the story of the change that we witnessed and what we think it might mean. If you have not been following the story at all-- maybe you have been sitting this one out-- we are going to catch you up on what you need to know. We have all sorts of people from all sides of this that we want you to meet. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. This week overseas with a lot of people who have some very American values. Stay with us. Act One The Cursed Generation. OK so what politicized thousands and thousands of people this much that they have dropped their normal lives and they are coming out every single weekend to protest? It is now been 18 straight weeks. Take Jennifer for instance. She is somebody who worked at Abercrombie and Fitch during college. She told me on the bus to the protests that is why her English is so good. She is somebody who wanted to be a singer. Actually got a chance to go pro when she was 16 but her mom quashed that saying it was too much of a long shot and she should get an education and get a normal job. Jennifer was actually very surprised when I informed her that an American parent might have said the same exact thing. Oh I thought American dreams can be true something like that because I watched Glee. So how did this Glee watching internet savvy college grad in her first office job how did she end up protesting in the street every weekend with tens or-- I do not know-- maybe it is hundreds of thousands of her peers? Well for starters Jennifer's 22 which means she is part of a special generation in Hong Kong. I am born in Hong Kong in 1997 right before the handover. And here's a protester we are calling Alice. And I am born in 1997. Here's her friend we are calling Tiffany. I am also born in 1997. You can call me Yuen and I am born in 1997. So 1997 is the year when Hong Kong was handed over back to China from the British. OK let us just pause on these 22-year-olds for a minute for some quick history. As you may or may not know Hong Kong sits on the edge of mainland China right? It was a British colony for a really long time starting in the 19th century. And then finally in 1997 the British got out. They handed it over to China. And the idea was there was going to be a 50-year transition period. After 50 years China would fully be in charge. But during that 50 years Hong Kong would be a democracy. Now Hong Kong people are to run Hong Kong. That is the last British governor of Hong Kong during the handover ceremony in 1997. That is the promise. And that is the unshakeable destiny. But to be clear Hong Kong had not been a democracy under Britain. But they were going to transition towards it over a bunch of years. And the hope was after 50 years in 2047 the Chinese government would let them stay a democracy-- which at the time did not seem like a crazy idea. China was opening up in all kinds of ways though it was not clear how this was going to play out. And at the end of the day after 50 years in the year 2047 China was going to be able to do whatever it wanted in Hong Kong. These are the children born the year that clock started ticking. And have you heard of the phrase cursed generation? Yes it was a joke among the 1997 people. It was pretty much a joke or pretty much a funny thing to us because-- I think when we first joked about it it is really primary schools but-- The cursed generation is just what we have been joking around for all those years. Originally the joke had to do with a coincidence. They were cursed because of some weird bad luck during some big childhood milestones they all went through together like the year of their kindergarten graduation the SARS virus hit Hong Kong. And the city shut down graduations were canceled. Six years later when they should have had their elementary school graduation same thing happened again but with swine flu. And Jennifer remembers that her friends joked that when they graduated high school it was going to be Ebola. And that is when they started using the word cursed. I think that was around the time that J.K. Rowling wrote Harry Potter and the Cursed Child. Yeah so many of us-- oh we are the cursed child. Or we say that we are the chosen one because Harry Potter was the chosen one. All of us love Harry Potter. So we always think that oh we are the chosen one. We have to face something special in our life. Or we are the cursed one. We have to face something bad or face something significant. Jennifer says the chosen one side of things did not really kick in until their senior year of high school. It was 2014. They were 17 the 17th year since the handover. And that year people in Hong Kong were still expecting that mainland China was going to let them start holding full-on elections where they could choose their own leaders as promised back in 1997. And that year China announced it was not going to happen. This led to a movement called the Umbrella Movement headed by young people teenagers who'd learned their politics in these public school classes that all these 22-year-olds talk about as being instrumental in their thinking classes that began as part of the handover called Liberal Studies classes that explained among other things the promises of 1997 and the rights of Hong Kong citizens. They took to the streets most of them for the first time demanding to vote carrying umbrellas thousands of people in a vast procession down the streets in a protest movement that was almost entirely peaceful. And they lost. They did not get the vote. After three months the protests ended. Alice works for a multinational company in an entry level job out of college. She is a management trainee. She says she went to some protests back then out of solidarity with her peers. I was just amazed by the other students. But she did not really get all the politics. That changed in June 2019 when Hong Kong introduced the bill that would allow mainland China to extradite people from Hong Kong to be tried and punished in China under Chinese law. This was seen as a new and very menacing encroachment on the rights of Hong Kong citizens. Since 1997 they would been ruled by Hong Kong laws and Hong Kong courts. Everybody is presumed innocent with the rights we know in most democratic countries. Now anybody could get thrown into the prisons and courts of communist China. I would say that was the time when I first feel awakened when I am truly understanding what is happening when I first go to the march of the no extradition bill. And I was very very emotional at that time because there is only around 7 million people in Hong Kong but 1 million walk on the street with the same demand with the same wish of having Hong Kong to remain its current state. Wanting Hong Kong to stay like it is with its own laws separate from China. A week later 2 million people came out. At the time I was feeling very oh my God this is so touching. Why is people so united? And then the next second the government just declares that oh we heard your voice but we will be continuing on the bill on Tuesday. So that was a really big contrast. And in the morning you see how peaceful things were. But at night you see the police coming out and start brutally hitting people. It was really unforgettable to me because that was the first time when I witnessed with my real eyes that the police is chasing people. They are chasing students who did not do anything and start to beat them and arrest them. Other 22-year-olds also told us how radicalizing it is been to see police tear gassing and beating peaceful protesters. And at this point-- I did not understand this before we got to Hong Kong-- a lot of the emotion driving the protests is just about the police. Because the government is supporting them to do such things. And there is no penalty for them even if they are doing things that are completely unacceptable to everyone. Of course nobody knows where this is going to lead by 2047 when China fully takes over Hong Kong. But for Jennifer and lots of other people her age things are starting to feel pretty ominous. Was Hong Kong going to become just like any other Chinese city run by the communists? When you are 50 what do you picture life here will be like? I can picture that I will be super depressed because I super comment on political things. I really cannot imagine that day that I cannot speak freely on internet that we do not have that freedom of speech anymore. And I cannot imagine that there will come a day me and my friends commenting on the government would become a crime. And you think that would happen. Yes I do when all the things that is happening in mainland China now especially I would say in-- where is it-- Xinjiang. Xinjiang mm-hmm. Yeah what is happening in Xinjiang will happen in Hong Kong. She is talking about internment camps where the Chinese are holding perhaps a million Uighurs and others. They say it is reeducation but it is basically a concentration camp. They put people who do not agree with the government into the concentration camp and educate them. And they got monitored wherever and whenever they go. Everywhere is police. Police monitors everybody's move. And I do think that if we do not fight for our future there will come a day Hong Kong would become like Xinjiang. Because she is politically active this does not feel like an abstract threat. When these 22-year-olds picture who China's going to crack down on it is them. Tiffany's also in her first job out of college. She works at a bank. She asked us to replace her voice with an actor's. Who knows whatever they would do to us? And the extradition bill who knows where we will go what time we will disappear? That is what we fear of. Tiffany's heard of the social credit system that China has started to monitor and rate its citizens. She fears that if China decides that you are anti-government it will make it impossible for you to get the job you want or rise in society. And the devices that China uses to monitor its population an estimated 200 million surveillance cameras around the country with facial recognition software they have been going up around Hong Kong tens of thousands of them. Many like me are scared of being monitored and rated so that we will never ever be free to do anything that we want under the monitoring of the Chinese government. This is something else I did not understand before I came to Hong Kong. The protesters like Tiffany and Jennifer do not just fear what is going to happen to them in the future with extradition laws or losing the internet or losing free speech. In their daily lives right now they believe they are watching China already transforming Hong Kong making it less like the Hong Kong they know and more like the mainland. Jennifer points to changes in the public school curricula like she says her seven-year-old nephew is speaking Mandarin in school five days a week. It did not happen when she was a kid. Mandarin is what they speak in mainland China. In Hong Kong people mostly speak in Cantonese and in English. So all the Chinese classes are conducted in Mandarin. So he speaks Mandarin everyday basically. He speaks Mandarin better than English. Can you explain a little bit why Cantonese is so important? Cantonese is more like an identity to us. It is part of what makes Hong Kong Hong Kong. These days when Jennifer pictures what her life is going to be like between now and 2047 she imagines her own kids going to public schools not studying Cantonese coming home and parroting the pro-government line that'ill be the curriculum by then. So I do love kids. I really want to have kids. I want to have a football team of kids really. But I just cannot imagine the life they will be having in Hong Kong later on. I cannot promise my kid a happy life if I am not certain about what will Hong Kong become. You do not think there are children who are raised to be happy in mainland China? Not the kind of happy that I think. Mainland China people they think that they are happy because they can still live. But then we want things more than just surviving in this society. We look for rights and freedoms and human rights. But the mainland Chinese they ignore all those things. They just think having a stable life having kids having food a good place to live in is already happy enough. Yeah. Another change she says she is seeing right now in Hong Kong she is upset at other mainlanders moving there in her neighborhood and university students that she and her friends encountered at college. So many mainlanders she says. I just feel really weird because I am born and raised in Hong Kong. I go to a local school but then I have to be surrounded by all the mainlanders. Does it bother you to be surrounded by mainlanders? Yes actually quite. But then we have 150 new immigrants from China to Hong Kong every day. OK I am just going to pause the tape right there for a second. The total by the way is over a million mainlanders since 1997 roughly 45000 a year. But I am stopping the tape because I do not know how you are feeling about Jennifer but this was a point we came to in a few interviews with these 22-year-olds. When you got them under the subject of mainlanders get ready for a wave of totally bigoted opinions. So especially I live in New Territories. So all the people surrounding you you hear Mandarin. And then you start to see those less-educated people. They are squatting next to the streets. I did witness a mainland lady having her children pee at the road. And I always hear mainland people yelling shouting out for nothing in the mall. And always they jump into the line. Everything-- it bothers me a lot. Squatting? What do you mean squatting? I do not know. They just squat on the roadside waiting people. They just sit and squat and wait. Yeah for nothing. They can squat for an hour. People in Hong Kong do not do that. Yeah we do not because who would squat at the road? Why you cannot just stand? Or why you cannot just sit? They are more comfortable. It just does not look good. It does not look good. It does not look civilized. So for all the alarm that Jennifer and the cursed generation feel about the future their parents are often not as alarmed about China taking more control of Hong Kong and about what the island's going to be like in 2047. Like Tiffany's parents they hate her going out to protests every weekend. I mean for my parents they-- we really have some very serious fights. And they think we will just let China take over Hong Kong it will be fine? I think with our parents some of the older generation just do not believe or they are not brave enough to open up their eyes and see what is actually going to happen. They just feel like they did not do anything wrong. As long as you did not do anything wrong then you will be fine. What is galling about this for Tiffany is that she feels like she is being the responsible one fighting for everybody's future. And they are telling her not to protest. She was like maybe if her parents had done this themselves years ago things would not be so bad today. I am 22 years old. And in the past when I was younger they have never stood up like us or fight like us to ask for what they are promised in 1997. It is funny. When you talk about it you are mad at your parents about it. I just feel like-- I mean I do not understand why they would not want these rights or why they do not think that something bad is going to happen in the next 50 years. So Tiffany and Jennifer and so many others they have kind of given over their lives to protesting. They work during the week protest on the weekends. They say they do not have much time in their lives for much else. But what is interesting is they do not think it is going to work. Most of our interviewees told us that. They do not think China is going to give in. Again here's Jennifer. I am pretty much pessimistic actually. I do wish that one day we all succeed. We want a democratic Hong Kong. But now I just do not see a way out. It is been three months. We have been trying each and every step. We have broke into the legislative council. We have more than 1000 people got arrested. But the government is still trying to ignore all of this. If you feel so pessimistic about the results why still go? Why are you still going out every weekend? At least the government sees that we are not that-- how do we say-- we are not that obedient. So we have to continuously tell the government that we are not satisfied with what they are giving us. So we have to do it. Again here's Alice. I think even if we have to lose we need to leave our true thoughts in history. We need to let the people behind us know that we have tried. 2047 is coming and this is a very grand thing to say but so many of these cursed generation kids feel like they have a special destiny. Alex preferred to speak to us through an interpreter. She is a frontline protester builds barricades has been arrested.   I think we are actually lucky because we grew up with people who thought the same way. And we realized that when we turn 50 it is the end of our freedoms. I am 22 now and I imagine that when I am 25 that is really halfway until the bomb explodes. And so if we do not do anything by the time we are 50 years old it would be awful. I do not want our children to have the same battle. And then when we are 50 we will look back and think that we did not do enough. Our birthday is like a countdown to the end. And so more so than other people I feel like my generation we have a duty to do more. Again here's Jennifer. If we were born earlier probably I would become my dad and mom. And if I were born later I would probably become those little kids speaking Mandarin better than Cantonese. So I am happy that I am born in 1997. We are in the middle. We have the chance to know what is freedom. And we are experiencing that our freedom is being taken away. And that is why we are the group who step up first to fight for it. I think we are getting off here. I think we are getting off. After an hour bus ride we get to the protest. This is Act Two The Fight. Once we are off the bus Jennifer ducks into a public restroom and comes out in black shirt black pants black mask over her face hair pulled back in a ponytail. And we head on to a street where we are surrounded by hundreds of people dressed exactly like her. A big shopping district the stores closed and no cars. All the side streets have been blocked off with barricades by the protesters-- scaffolding and fencing trashcans and orange construction cones piled in the street. They do an efficient job. We meet up with Jennifer's friends by a big Victoria's Secret store. My friend Hugo. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. Ira. Nice to meet you mate. Yes. Very nice to meet you. The couple who always kiss in front of me. What? I am not. No we did not. We did not. For the record I am with them all afternoon. No kissing at all. The city is giving permission for fewer protests these days. And this is an unsanctioned demonstration we are at which means that everybody here is breaking the law. Anyone is subject to arrest which affects crowd size. The maximum penalty is 5 years-- 10 years if you are convicted of rioting-- which is why all the protesters are so scared of getting arrested all the time. But despite that the beginning of the protest has the feeling of a block party. People strolling chatting-- you see a few parents and kids. Some non-protesters cut through the crowd running errands. But an hour into all this I look around and realize-- no families no kids. It is not feeling like a block party at all. People are standing on top of fences trying to see what is ahead of us. They are starting to put on gas masks. Describe what you are seeing. The protesters in the Thomas Street are moving backwards. So we assume that there are riot police on the other end of the road. There is tear gas fired over there. It is like two or three blocks away. We walk towards the police and the tear gas past teams of protesters who are knocking bricks out of the sidewalk with long steel tools. And the idea is what? To put on the road so later on the riot police cannot run that fast. Also people throw bricks at police. We march straight to the front lines where hundreds of protesters are massed on a side street. The police are just half a block away but we cannot really see them through the crowd. And then a whole wave of tear gas canisters arcs towards us hits us. And lots of people us included run back a ways half a block away. Jennifer calmly administers saline solution into strangers' eyes. The controls on my recorder got knocked around running through the smoke so I do not have a decent recording of that. This is the role that she is assigned herself in the protests-- first aid helping anybody who requires it. She even brought energy candy specifically to give out to people whose energy is flagging. After being driven back Jennifer and her two friends and I wait for the smoke to clear. So this happens at every protest. Yes. Basically. Basically. So what do we do now? We tidy up ourselves and go again. And when you get to the police what are you going to do? We are going to stand in front of them. If we have a chance we are going to fight them back. Our goal is to make them to reach their front line. After a couple minutes we head back toward the front line. OK we are walking forward to its corner where it is this blue--  Take this out. And then we wait around. Do not take it off. A water cannon goes off blasting water that is dyed blue laced with stuff that stings your skin. More tear gas and we pull back a little. Then we move forward wait again. This is both suspenseful and boring.  Sometimes there is not always a purpose. Sometimes we sitting at the back is just a support. We just add our support to those at the front. Support like if something happens you will do first aid? Something like this but also they know that there are many people behind them. It is important to give them some mental support as well. Yeah. So many protesters are like Jennifer. They think it is their job to support the people at the front who are the hardcore ones who push back against police and throw Molotov cocktails and chase police with sticks and metal rods and tear stuff down to build barriers to slow the police wearing full gear helmets goggles and gas masks and gloves. Finally the front liners yell that they want room to retreat. And so we need to retreat. And so we fall way back a couple blocks. So now we are just standing here. Yeah because we always support. Our assistance is like a support to those in the front line. But I do not understand. So the police want us out of there. They push they fire tear gas. They spray blue water on everybody. We move back. And then we stand here. And what is our goal? This has been a very frequently asked question. Nowadays we are just trying to stand on our own ground not to be dispersed that easily. That is it. Just the goal is to just stay out as long as you can. Yeah. And then eventually the police will push you off the street? So in other words it is exactly like the entire protest movement leading to 2047. Just try to slow them down as much as you can. Yes. In the end China will win. But for as long as you can you will just stand here in the street. It is pretty sad to say so but I guess that is pretty much accurate. Yeah that is-- What are they yelling? They ask people to start moving. And there we headed to a massive retreat as the police advanced towards us. And for the first time there seems to be actual real fear. We are running down streets and side roads. We get separated from Jennifer's friends and from Emanuele dodging the police and finally taking refuge in a church. There are safe houses like this around Hong Kong that protesters duck into. It takes over an hour and finally the coast is clear. And Jennifer calls a friend to pick her up. They are volunteer drivers for the protesters part of the infrastructure they have created. Jennifer changes out of h