OK. Here was the idea. They were private investigators detectives for hire. But they were not grizzled ex-cops in trench coats or old Humphrey Bogart characters in fedoras dragging on their unfiltered cigarettes. They were moms. Soccer moms. Telegenic sexy soccer moms. Like some kind of MILF Charlie's Angels. And you could see why that would be a hit. Why people loved that. And why it was really only a matter of time before they would show up as guests on some daytime TV talk show. On the next Dr. Phil. They look like your average moms but they are also-- Gun-packing hard-hitting private investigators. You would never expect a mom in a minivan to be somebody that is on your tail. The brains behind this whole PI Mom thing was a guy named Chris Butler. The way Chris Butler tells it he would been running a regular PI firm when at some point he hired a mom. According to Chris this was the Eureka moment. He realized that moms have what it takes to crack cases. Patience organization hunches. Plus they blend in. Anyway that was the shtick. Chris called it his secret formula and he built a business around it. --5 PM. Charmagne to run on point. That photograph in front of you is when we did recon. That is what the layout of the rooms look like. Inside this bag we have the recording units. Chris Butler did not want to talk to us. This is a tape of him running a sting operation on the hour-long episode of Dr. Phil that featured the PI Moms. And that was just one of several big media appearances for Chris and the Moms last year. There was also the Today show and Fox and a People magazine article complete with a two page photo spread of three PI Moms in dresses and heels posed like Charlie's Angels. I was first approached by his PR agent in Beverly Hills. And his PR agent told me that they had just been on the Today show and in People and they were just about to be on Dr. Phil so I should write about them. This is Pete Crooks a writer and an editor for Diablo magazine. Diablo is one of those glossy monthly magazines that lots of places have like Chicago magazine or Columbus Monthly or Memphis magazine. This particular one serves the East Bay area outside of San Francisco including the Diablo Valley. The magazine has restaurant reviews and local events listings and enthusiastic profiles of celebrities from the area. Pete covers entertainment so he is the one who got the pitch from the PI Moms public relations person who told him that Chris Butler and the Moms had just landed a deal for a reality TV show on Lifetime. I said you know we have to do something about this if this is going to be the Real Housewives meets Magnum PI and it is all filmed in our backyard with East Bay moms and an East Bay boss. And the PR specialist promised me that I could do more than interview. I could actually ride along on a case and be embedded with the PI Moms. Which was perfect. He would be ahead of the curve on this story that was going to be on national TV and had this strong local angle and it was a fun story. An easy story. One day reporting where you ride around with the Moms photos on a stakeout or whatever which could be great a quick writeup. And that is the way it started. But Pete ended up spending months on this simple feature story. It unfolded and unfolded and by the end he found himself caught up in a very strange world where he was getting mysterious messages from an anonymous informant. For a while it was unclear who he should believe about anything. And things that were not what they seemed were even less what they seemed than he thought they were when he first discovered they were not what they seemed. Today we take you on that same trip that he went on. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Today The Incredible Case of the PI Moms. Stay with us. Josh Bearman has been talking to all the available witnesses in this case and he tells the story. So one Thursday Pete Crooks goes down to the PI Moms HQ. He introduces himself gets some background interviews and meets the Moms and their boss Chris Butler the man at the wheel of this minivan full of suburban spy gals. Chris met me at the office. He was Mr. Cool like right out of a TV show. In fact I walked in and I saw there were framed 8 by 10 photos of like Colombo and Cagney and Lacey and Magnum PI Charlie's Angels all the '70s and '80s private eyes from television. Chris actually was an ex-cop but he parted ways with official law enforcement because as he described it on his website his bosses quote had trouble understanding his tactics and drive which were well above the standards of routine performance. And then was Chris who is this kind of puffed-up sort of burly guy with a blond goatee and like a very tight black sort of motorcycle T-shirt tight jeans and very expensive leather boots. He kind of looked like a biker cowboy cop. His voice just did not ever change octaves. He definitely had this coolest guy in the room attitude. Chris sat behind his desk flanked by his posters and two PI Moms Charmagne Peters and Denise Antoon. Pete had seen them all on the TV segments. And then to everyone's surprise a client showed up. Chris sees a a luxury car pull into the parking lot right outside his office. And this woman comes in who has retained Chris to follow her fiance around to see if he is fooling around. She comes in. Attractive woman in her early 50s. And she explains the situation and tells me how long she is been engaged to this man and where she met him. And over the past six to eight months she is just really noticed that he is becoming more distant and that he goes to the gym on Saturdays. And he used to go for an hour and a half to work out and come home. Now he is gone for seven eight hours at a time. And on one of these recent trips to the gym when he came back she peeked inside his gym bag and all his workout clothes were clean and neatly folded. She was composed and then she starts crying and saying that she just needs to know. If there is some funny business going on she needs to know now. Because this is a big point in their relationship It is like the opening scene of practically every detective film ever made. Nice-looking lady walks into the PI's office with tears in her eyes. Except this one has a PI Moms twist. When the client starts to cry one of the PI Moms jumped up with a box of tissues and the other one said Do you need a hug? And they had this sort of bonding moment the two PI Moms and the crying client. The client suggested the following Saturday for the stakeout. Charmagne and Denise were ready with their surveillance minivan  recording devices and the subject's photo and address. Pete sat in the back taking notes. Sure enough the fiance quickly appeared. They followed him to a 24 Hour Fitness where Denise and Charmagne videotaped him going in. Within ten minutes he came out of that same front door of the gym dressed up in this sort of Tommy Bahamas leisure wear. Like khaki slacks and dress shoes and a short-sleeved sort of dressy shirt. And Charmagne said oh do not we look pretty? And that was just the start of it. They tailed the fiance to a gated community where a young attractive brunette appeared. She was half the client's age buffed glossed and tattooed up her entire right arm. The couple got in the car and the Moms followed. Pete realized they were headed for Napa. The cheaters would spend the day wine-tasting. Classy Pete thought. But Pete started noticing a few things. He was no pro at clandestine reconnaissance but he did wonder at times about the PI Moms' strange technique. We would been following him from his house to the gym from the gym to the gated community and from the gated community to the freeway exactly one car length in the same minivan behind this guy. When the fiance turned they turned. When he made a mistake and had to pull a sudden illegal U-turn the Moms pulled the exact same maneuver. At one point the couple stopped at Starbucks. And if you will just visualize this for a moment the mommy minivan was right behind them subject car and tail car crawling towards iced mochas alone in a half-empty parking lot. And I started to ask you know do not you have to hang back a little bit? And Charmagne and Denise said no no. You know he is in his own little world there on his date. He does not even realize we are here. Did you just think that they were incompetent at doing this kind of thing? Or did you think that they in fact knew exactly what they were doing? When they reassured you did you say oh well they have done this before? I have to admit I went along with it and thought they have been doing this five days a week and I have never gone on a ride along with an investigator before. And I just continued to record notes and go along with it. Pete and the Moms followed the fiance and the mistress for hours. They watched them shop for discount jewelry and then move onto a Napa restaurant called the Rutherford Grill. The subject and the mystery date parked their car. We parked right behind them. They walk right in front of our van. Denise is running a video camera through the front window of the van and they stop right in front of the van to kiss. I mean five feet in front of us. So Denise has a camera trained at them. Point blank yeah. A big bulky camera too. Not some sort of hidden camera. It was a lovely day-- the kind of day that brings people out to Napa-- and the restaurant was packed. Turned out the only place for the PI Moms to sit was a communal table where as it happened the fiance was already seated hoping to feed his mistress French fries. And so the investigators and Pete wound up essentially having lunch with their targets. Again Pete wondered if their cover could be blown by being that close. So close that Pete had to say hello to the mistress as they sat down and then listen to their lunchtime chatter. Their conversation was lurid. The fellow kept saying boy you look hot today. She says yeah I am hot. I am sweating. And he says I would like to lick that sweat off of you. And she goes oh yeah I would like that. But like just without any passion whatsoever. And then she says I was thinking about going horseback riding tomorrow. And he goes yeah where do you go horseback riding? And she says oh I have got some friend who has a stables out in Bullinger Canyon. And he says is that near where we got that hotel room that night? That was a wild night. So he always kind of turns the conversation back to sex talk and she kind of goes off talking about horseback riding or whatever. It was very bizarre and it just sounded like if this is what infidelity is-- there is just no passion or substance to it whatsoever. And the client back in the East Bay is better off without this guy. Meanwhile Denise and Charmagne were ordering burgers and ribs and not really paying attention to the conversation. And we all sort of scarfed down burgers and ribs and it was just like a very casual lunch. And nobody seemed to be concerned at the awkward situation except myself. I know. This sounds fake. And that is because it is fake-- fakety fake totally fake. And the only person who does not know it is fake at this point is Pete. Everything else-- the mistress the crying client the hot hot horse-ridey sex talk the affair itself has been meticulously choreographed by Chris Butler. You know one thing I will say-- Chris was very very good at reading people. He knew how to read people and he knew how to push the right buttons. He was very good at it. This is Sharon Roof. She is the client-- the woman with a cheating fiance. While most of the people playing roles in the fake case were actors or friends of Chris Butler Sharon is interesting because she had actually hired Chris Butler and the PI Moms months earlier to follow her real cheating fiancee and they caught him. She would been impressed by Chris and thought he was a nice guy. He would gotten the truth for her after all. And then he convinced her to come and work for him. Sharon agreed doing mostly office management until one day Chris took Sharon to lunch and told her about this big upcoming feature in Diablo magazine. And he asks me he goes are you comfortable? I would like to use your story. By use her story Chris meant he wanted to reenact her case. Sharon was skeptical at first but eventually she agreed. So then we sat down you know all of us in the conference room going over OK so this is what is going to happen. And then he starts changing the story. And I pulled him aside. I said Chris why are you changing the story? And he said well it is not exciting enough. Your story is not exciting enough and I want to just make it more exciting. So then everything started changing. So it is like OK. Now we are play acting. And I really did not feel comfortable with it. But then he said you know Sharon think about all the women that you would be helping. All these women that their husbands their boyfriends cheat on them and you know blah blah blah. So I did. I went along with it. But for the drama to work Chris wanted Sharon to nail the emotional heart of the performance. Chris told me-- he said Sharon he goes just go back in time to when you came to me those couple months ago when Michael was cheating on you. And that is where your head's at when you come in and talk to Peter. So that is exactly where my head was at. So those tears were real. Everything was real. It was like I was reliving the same conversation I had with Chris when I came to first meet him. And so there was Pete. An audience of one for Chris Butler's production which only got more intricate as the day wore on with an expanding cast of characters and plot-enhancing cameos. Such as this moment when Pete and the Moms were approached by a car. This souped-up black late model Mustang zips in and parks next to us and this married couple gets out. A second team of investigators. Here is one of those investigators Carl Marino an actor and model from San Francisco. We drove over pulled up with a flourish in front of them with a nice shiny black Mustang. Of course we got out all Hollywood style with the sunglasses on and dressed to the T. Carl and his wife that day were playing backup investigators. A good-looking rapid strike force. They went in sat next to the couple shared some wine and texted reports back to Pete and the Moms about how friendly everyone was getting. The first text said Made contact with subject. The second text said We are talking to them and taking pics together. The third text said They are drunk and the fourth text said They just invited us back to their hotel. So within half an hour 45 minutes of wine tasting with strangers they have invited them to come swing at a hotel. So that escalated pretty fast sounds like. Yeah. Again here's Carl. And that was something that was not planned out. That was something Chris kind of threw in there. And he was telling me what to text them. Oh that a snap decision right there? Chris is like let us just change this up a little bit? Yeah take up to another level. The next level turned out to be a Holiday Inn Express parking lot. Once everyone was there-- the cheating couple the other couple the minivan with the PI Moms-- Pete found out that Chris was en route with the last person you would want there. The client Sharon. Here's Pete again. She now wants to see this with her own eyes and so he is driving up to Napa with the client. And at this point I said Charmagne that is a terrible idea. At one point there was concern that Peter did not believe it. Again this is the client Sharon Roof. So there was talk in the car that OK we have got to make this good because Peter is very suspicious. Some of this stuff just does not sound right to him. So we have to be very convincing. Sharon was to have a big final scene where she would look in the trunk of the car see the fake presents her fake fiance had bought for his fake mistress and then right there in the parking lot Sharon would have a real meltdown. And then I just closed my eyes and I just thought about Michael. And it made it that much easier for me to get all upset. You just went into the zone. I did. I did. And then you know-- The client jumps out of the Chrysler. I got out of the car. The car barely was in park and I ran out. Runs over to her car opens the trunk looks in the gift bag to see what kind of jewelry her fiance had bought his mistress and then she just collapses into a heap of tears in the trunk of her car. She actually falls into the trunk of the car? Just crying. Just her upper body and her head just sort of disappear into the trunk of the car in this exhausted heap of humiliation. It was very awkward. Actually somebody told me later that Peter was so upset about me that he could not watch. And I guess he went to go get a coffee at a Starbucks or something. So I do not even know if he saw any of my performance. You were just doing it for yourself. Like the audience was not even there. Yeah I mean I did not notice who was around to be honest. But then somebody told me that Peter was here and then I felt bad that Peter was upset. Because you think a reporter is immune to this because you do this all day long. You see all this stuff that you are you know kind of like a doctor when you operate. You are used to it. But Peter had a heart. Here's Pete again. My story was to watch the PI Moms investigate and not to dwell on this client's sadness or humiliation. And I had been craving a Starbucks for the past five six hours since I had seen the cheating couple go in. So I went over to the Starbucks and got myself a coffee. So while she is kind of regaining her composure you just went and got like a Frappuccino or something? Yeah I got a latte. By the time it was done the stakeout had lasted eight hours. And despite all the red flags Pete still believed it all. Remember these people had appeared in all kinds of news stories already. They would been on the Today show. Pete presumed they would been vetted and fact-checked. And there was going to be a whole reality show about the Moms. It was just about to start filming. So Pete went home that day thinking this is awesome. The desperate client. The tender-yet-tough PI Moms. The sweat-licking. And he started writing up his story. Until-- So this first email was sent on Monday January 3 2011 at 1221 PM with the subject line Peter Crooks Important PI Moms. Hi. I am writing this as a courtesy to you. It would be a mistake to publish the article on the PI Moms and Chris Butler that you came and did a story on a few months ago. Chris totally played you. The case that you sat in on was totally scripted. So this is an anonymous message. Well it was a message from somebody named Rutherford with an email account that you could easily make-- you know it seemed to me that this person's name was not Rutherford. It was somebody who had made up a new Yahoo or Gmail account to contact me anonymously. Pete's editors assumed the email was phony written by someone with an axe to grind against Chris Butler. It seemed farfetched that the entire case was an intricate conspiracy and all those people were actors. And yet this Rutherford person knew so much detail that Pete had to take it seriously. He called one of the PI Moms and she swore it was real. Pete was still unsure so he called Chris and confronted him directly. And he just-- he screamed What! That is BULLCRAP! And honestly I could-- I think in text sometimes and I could see the all caps when he said bullcrap. Chris promised Pete proof. He could show him it was real. But he never did. Instead he started dodging Pete's calls. Meanwhile Pete and Rutherford kept emailing with Rutherford feeding Pete information on Chris Butler and Pete staying up late trying to track people down on Facebook and piece it all together. About 3 oclock in the morning Rutherford sends me one that we have always called in Diablo ever since then the smoking gun email. And it was the itinerary of our Napa adventure. Suddenly Pete was looking at a timeline of his entire day with the PI Moms-- a detailed schedule sent to everyone who was there. It had the street addresses of the gym of the Napa outlet store the Rutherford Grill of the winery and of the Holiday Inn Express. In addition to that it had a Google Earth photo showing an overhead view of the Holiday Inn Express with notes on it saying here's where the luxury car should park. Here's where the mystery date and the fiance will walk into the Holiday Inn Express. They will walk-- Now Pete was certain. He would been a mark. As it happens Pete's a big fan of film noir. He knows all the classics backwards and forwards. And he noted that this one did not just start like all the good noirs with the dame crying in the PI's office. Pete had arrived at the inevitable turn where the protagonist falls down the rabbit hole of hidden forces and mysterious motivations where you do not know who is in on the con and who is not. Why would anyone go to such lengths to fool Diablo magazine? What was Chris up to? And who was this anonymous source tipping him off? I tried to think of everything that could happen would go wrong or could go wrong. And at one point I was just like I have to take a chance. This is Rutherford. If his voice is familiar it is because you have heard him before. The guy sending Pete those emails was Carl Marino the backup investigator. You know handsome guy. Black Mustang sunglasses dressed to the T supposedly entertaining a foursome with the cheating couple? That guy. Carl had met Chris Butler a couple years earlier not long after he moved to San Francisco. Carl had answered an ad on Craigslist looking for someone with law enforcement and acting experience. Perfect Carl thought. He was a former sheriff's deputy and had started doing local acting work. The two of them both former cops hit it off right away. Eventually Carl became a central part of Butler's team. He was given the title Director of Operations. And he realized that this was not the usual PI firm. There were real cases like cheating spouses. There were performances staged for the media like the thing with Pete. And then there were all kinds of weird things somewhere in between. Because that is how Chris operated. Even when people came in with actual problems he would spin some fabrication around them layering real over fake over real. He made stuff up when there was no reason to make anything up And that is how simple situations often escalated. One of the best examples of this is the case of the Candyman. Again here's Carl. The mother came in with basically a blue ecstasy pill and said I think my son's selling drugs. I found this. This began as a real case when a woman came to Chris Butler with suspicions that her 19 year old son was selling drugs at college. Exhibit A was a pill that his mom found in his room. Exhibit B might have been that his friends called him the Candyman. Anyhow it could have been a simple job. Follow the kid videotape him selling X to college students and the mom will have her proof. But that was not enough for Chris. And Chris basically said well we can not only do that but how about not only do we find out if he is selling drugs but we set him up in a way where he will never want to do it again? Chris's plan was to have the kid arrested-- or rather fake arrested-- by Chris and his pals who would then threaten him with jail time. You know scare him straight. Incredibly his mom the client thought this was a great idea. So Chris planned an elaborate operation over several weeks starting with phase one-- initial contact. He sent these two female decoys to the supermarket. Called the mother. Told the mother send your son to the supermarket to buy chicken or whatever. By decoys Carl means young attractive women Chris would hire through Craigslist to play temptresses. The story cooked up by Chris was that these two girls would meet the kid in the grocery store near the chicken where they would flirt with him by asking for his expertise about the chicken and then propose a date with both of them. Together. Yeah. Both of them would go out on a date with him together and I believe they went bowling or something like that. And during the course of this date they would tell him that there is a party coming up soon that they want him to come to. They would insinuate that they like to hook up together and how much they like this guy. And they would make out with the guy and stuff too. These decoys Chris would find decoys that had no problem doing that. Wow. And was it Chris's idea to like you know let us make this a threeway that'ill be more exciting? Always. He would throw that in all the time. Chris Butler was never the type to worry about gilding the lily. He had his decoys invite this kid to a party hosted by a third girl a friend of theirs who of course was a lingerie model. They intimated that this party would be so fun they would all wind up in bed together. It was a natural progression-- chicken bowling group sex at a party with lingerie models. Phase two a Butler-style twist on the classic honey trap was nearly complete. And with the hook baited the girls yanked the line. The party is off they told the kid. It was going to be an ecstasy party and their dealer flew the coop. Such a bummer right? No ecstasy so no party I guess. He is like whoa whoa whoa whoa hang on hang on. Do not worry about it. I can get this stuff. Really? Can you? Great. Thank you. I mean they were talking to the Candyman after all. And so just as planned the kid walked right into Chris's trap arriving at phase three. We set it up in the parking lot of the Narcotics Task Force office. This is a key detail. Carl is referring to the Contra Costa County Narcotics Enforcement Task Force also called CNET. CNET was the top drug enforcement agency in the county and the guy who ran it was Norm Wielsch. Chris Butler was friends with a lot of cops but Norm was the biggest. They would actually been in the same department years earlier. And now Norm and Chris started collaborating on Chris's operations. It was a strange extracurricular activity for Norm since Chris's operational whimsies were often illegal like the elaborate fake bust that was about to happen in the parking lot of Norm's police agency. Chris actually had one of the other investigators on the radio with a script. So when he called dispatch she was going to be dispatch. Because he was going to be running the license plate numbers running the kid's name. And she would be calling back like it was a police dispatch over the radio. So it looked very authentic. Chris also had the hummer with the strobe lights on it the flashing strobe lights. And Norm was going to come driving up in that with the strobe lights going so it looked like a police vehicle pulling up. So Norm A real police officer is going to be driving in a fake police vehicle but in the real parking lot of the police headquarters. Yes. OK. Just to keep it all straight. Remember this kid was supposed to be a drug dealer. They did not need to do any of this. They could have just followed him and filmed him. Instead they now have a real kid selling real drugs to amateur actresses hired off Craigslist for real cash. Then they all get busted by Chris and his buddies pretending to be cops alongside Norm a real cop who is driving Chris's fake police car. Again here's Carl. And my job was to run around the front of the car hold this kid at gunpoint. The other guy was going to go to the other side of the car. Chris was going to come running out of the bushes with the guns drawn. And now the guns are not loaded presumably. No. The guns were not loaded. Except for Norm Norm had his real gun but he did not draw it. It was just in case something bad happened obviously in case this kid did have a gun or something. But that is what Norm was there for.  your hands up! Oh yeah. And just to make this more interesting Chris filmed the whole thing. Carl showed me the footage. Is that Norm? That is Norm right there yes. Look at this poor kid. He looks like such a goof on top of it. Yeah. He was. And he is a kid. And his eyes were giant when he had those guns in his face and he was terrified. Rightfully so. I mean I would have been terrified if that was me. Why is his police jersey see-through? It is kind of like a mesh pullover thing that you can throw over the side. And we actually made a joke too about that. That maybe he would be in his rollerblades on the pier a little bit later. Yeah. It looks like the kind of thing where he would come to the door and be like madam you are under arrest and then put down the stereo and start stripping. Yes. Exactly. Chris had two cameras running for better coverage. He wanted to document the day and use the video for his sizzle reel. That is the trailer used to sell shows to TV networks. And it worked. When Chris showed this to Lifetime part of hooked the network on the PI Moms was the takedown of the Candyman. In truth Chris was perfect for reality TV. He was a flamboyant character and a master manipulator. Someone who had already been living his life as though he was the star of a show always running in his mind. So it made sense that cable celebrity was the pot of gold at the end of his counterfeit rainbow. It was all geared toward getting this TV show and him becoming this Dog the Bounty Hunter-type reality star. I just think he thought somehow that he deserved to be famous. Like any good reality producer Chris understood the magic of story editing-- how blending some truth with fiction goes a long way. Oh yeah. He was always able to legitimize it somehow. And I fell into that in a few things too. Because there were a lot of times where things we would do while not quite illegal kind of had that dirty immoral kind of feel to them. And even when I would bring that up to Chris like should we really be doing this? He would always find a way. Well you know because the commander of the Narcotics Task Force is involved it is kind of like a police operation. So we are allowed to do this because he is allowing us to do this and so it is OK. And he always tried to interweave the whole business within the police organizations. Several different police officers were his friends in different jurisdictions. I mean obviously the commander of the Narcotics Task Force being the highest level. It was always one of those things where we can always do this because we always have Uncle Norm who can cover for us. Is that what he called him Uncle Norm? He did. In addition to Uncle Norm there were other law enforcement types Chris drew into his schemes. Like the real cops he had stinging unwitting people with DUIs or the retired FBI guys who gave the PI Moms weapons training at a nearby police range. Chris even convinced Glock Firearms to endorse Butler and Associates getting a bunch of free pistols and boxes of accessories. Another endorsement was Oakley which somehow became the firm's official sunglasses and UFC the official gym. This was Chris's MO. Creating a seemingly valid world with a veneer of legitimate symbols in a kind of lifestyle forgery. And it was all in the interest of self-promotion. Coming up. We unpeel one more layer of the onion to reveal underneath all the fakery and pretense and self-promotion real life crimes. Josh Bearman returns with more in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today we are devoting our entire program to one story The Incredible Case of the PI Moms. If you are just tuning in this is a detective agency made of good-looking soccer moms created by a guy named Chris Butler who would not confirm or deny any of this story for us. His attorney did not return repeated phone calls. The PI Moms themselves declined to speak. Josh Bearman picks up the story where we left off before the break. Chris was thinking big. He had visions of a nationwide network of PI Moms franchise offices and detective schools all with Carl at his side. And Carl was good with that until he learned that Chris was expanding his operations into full-on crime. It was around the time the PI Moms started shooting their reality show with Lifetime. Well at one point during the early filming of the show Chris Butler brought me into the warehouse and brought me over to a case and basically said to me you live in San Francisco. You probably know people that smoke marijuana. I am like I think everybody I know smokes marijuana in San Francisco. It is kind of-- I started laughing. He goes well would you know people who would be in