It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. One of our producers Nancy Updike remembers the first time that she met Kirk Johnson. It was 2007. And he told me about a crazy plan that he was considering. What was the plan? The plan involved Iraqi refugees. At the time it was a brand new very raw issue. These were Iraqis who had worked for the US during the Iraq War interpreting or doing other jobs. And as the war got worse they were being targeted for having worked with the US. People were being killed. They were being tortured kidnapped. A lot went into hiding or went on the run. And so what was he thinking about doing to deal with this? So the plan he was mulling was OK he was going to gather a small group of these Iraqis who'd worked with the US-- around 50-- and somehow get them to Jamaica somewhere in the Caribbean at which point he would charter a high-speed boat and race them over to the United States hoping to outrun the Coast Guard so that he could get them onto American soil where they could claim asylum. Wow. That is what I said. That is exactly what I said. Wow. So who is Kirk Johnson? Well he had worked in Iraq with USAID the agency that gives out America's foreign aid. He spoke Arabic. And by 2007 when Nancy met him he was still just this guy in his mid-20s but he had kind of become the public face of this issue-- of Iraqis who had worked with the US forces and were now in danger because of it and had to get out of the country. He was writing about this. He was appearing on TV. He was talking to people in Congress. He set up a nonprofit organization to help these Iraqis. And Nancy says that when he ran this proposal by her in 2007 she thought to herself OK well here is just somebody who is up against a problem that is so big and intractable I guess he is mulling over some crazy schemes. But that is not even what was going on. I talked to him a few weeks ago and found out that that was not even his idea. He did not come up with that. He told me that this boat chartering outrunning the Coast Guard scheme had actually been suggested to him by someone pretty high up in the government's refugee resettlement bureaucracy. Wow. Right. Another wow. Kirk had met with him to ask for help-- regular above board inside the bounds of the law help. And the man had told him in all seriousness I cannot help you from my lofty position. But I have done some research into maritime law. And here's what I think you should do. And in the years since then it is been so hard to get these Iraqis who worked with the US to safety that Kirk has thought back on that conversation many many times he says. This is Kirk talking about this. And as depressing as it was that this was his recommended strategy I actually still think he is right. And I sometimes wonder if I had done the boat thing maybe this issue would have been solved a long time ago. Wait. Nancy did not we solve this problem? Am I remembering wrong? Did not they pass a law or something that was going to allow exactly these people into the country people who had worked with US forces in Iraq and their lives were in danger? Yeah more than one law. And I think a lot of people when they hear about this have the same reaction. Did not we fix this? And this issue-- what to do with these Iraqis-- is this zombie problem. It has seemingly been dealt with over and over only to rise again and keep staggering forward. We have passed laws starting in 2008. It is not a partisan issue. Republicans and Democrats came together to create a special track for these Iraqis in the visa process to speed them through. But the problem is still not fixed. There are still thousands of Iraqis who worked with the US and have applied to come here out of fear for their lives and their families' lives and they are still just waiting often for years. Well today on our radio program yes for once a national problem where we all agree that we should fix it and how to fix it. And yet somehow we have not gotten the job done. Kirk Johnson gives us the incredible behind the scenes stories of what has happened to fix this problem what has not happened and why. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Kirk himself I should say had no special interest originally in refugees or anything like that. He sometimes says that he stumbled into this issue. Nancy Updike tells what happened. Kirk's story starts in kind of a weird place-- on a family vacation in the Dominican Republic his first vacation after his first year in Iraq. And on his first night there he sleepwalked up to the open window in his hotel room woke up and thought he was still in Fallujah. He shouted and ducked. He says there had been a sniper or snipers in Fallujah around that time who killed more than a dozen Marines. And he thought for a second that he was standing in front of an open window in Fallujah with no body armor. This was early in the war. And it did not occur to him that he might have PTSD. He thought it was just some bad weird dream. The next night he sleepwalked again right out the second floor window of the hotel about a 17-foot fall to concrete. He broke both his wrists his upper jaw his nose cracked his skull needed about 70 stitches in his face. The good part is that I-- most of doctors that I have had when they take in the extent of the injuries have told me that there is no reason I should be walking. Is the explanation for you not being more injured that you were asleep and your body was just limp? Or is it just dumb luck-- Dumb luck. --and youth? Yeah. I just think maybe-- I started taking Centrum multivitamins about a year before the accident. And maybe my bones were sufficiently strong. But I just know I lucked out. You were spared to be in a Centrum commercial later in life? LAUGHING Yeah right. Kirk's plan was eight weeks' recovery and then right back to Iraq. Instead he spent the next several months in his hometown in Illinois getting a series of painful surgeries fighting with his health insurance company struggling to do basic things like eat or hold a pen and running out of money. Kirk's an ambitious guy. His work in Iraq was something he would been building toward this whole life. He started learning Arabic at 16 years old got a Fulbright to Cairo at 21 and at 24 was hired by USAID to go to Iraq. All he wanted was to go back and he could not. He had to restart his adult life from scratch. I started studying for the law school admissions test. And I really did feel at that point that I was moving on. I was having the nightmares less. I was thinking about Iraq less. I stopped reading the news from Iraq. But one day one of my good Iraqi friends sent an email-- he was one of the highest ranked Iraqis that worked for USAID. I think it was a 130 million program that he was working on. And he opened up his front door and found the severed head of a dog and a death threat note that said that we are going to cut off your heads. I mean a very clear death threat lobbed into their front yard. When Kirk got this email it was the fall of 2006 and he was practically broke and living in his aunt's basement on a futon. So with the email he felt like that is terrible but there is nothing I can do. It took him a few weeks to realize that maybe there was something he could do. He started writing an op ed saying I think our government should help my friend and people like him. I felt that of course there is some office to give out visas to these people. Of course the government has some program. It is just that my friends have not heard about yet. And so-- And neither have I but I will do this op ed and then I am going to connect the people. Yeah somebody will step forward and just fix it. And I think in my mind it was kind of as simple as if I could maybe help him get out-- I did not know anything about how refugee admissions worked. But I thought that maybe if we could get him out into safety that I would have one positive thing to look at from my year in Iraq rather than a bunch of failed projects and the accident. Kirk's op ed ran in the Los Angeles Times in mid-December 2006. And I remember thinking OK. Good job buddy. What a good thing you have done by raising awareness of this situation. And I was getting back to work on the law school stuff except that I started getting all of these emails from other former colleagues at USAID former Iraqi colleagues. It was within an hour or so that it was put online. And then by the afternoon I was getting hundreds of emails from Iraqis that had read the article but who had worked at the State Department or as interpreters for the military. So in other words people you had not worked with directly but they knew people who knew you or who had read it and it just got forwarded around. Exactly. And they were all telling me their stories and sending me pictures of family members who had been killed pictures of their bodies where they had been tortured or shot pictures of the stumps of limbs that had been blown off while they were interpreting for the Marines. And all of a sudden I was staring into the guts of the refugee crisis. They were grown men and women and heads of families that were telling me that I was their only hope and that they were putting all of their faith in me to help them with their cases. And I was just this unemployed scar-faced scrub at that point. I was not like all right-- You have come to right place. --everybody rally behind me kind of thing. There was none of that. It was just like holy cow I have just bumbled into something way bigger than I know what to do with. I need to find the real people who I will just give this stuff to and they will just solve it. Kirk did not know it yet but there was not some special process at the time for dealing with most of these Iraqis. All there was was one small program to let in 50 Iraqi or Afghan interpreters a year. That was it even though there were tens of thousands of Iraqis doing all sorts of jobs for the United States jobs that were increasingly risky to be seen doing-- office jobs operating machinery working as cooks drivers and interpreters. Kirk started putting together a list of names. And his plan was to meet with representatives from the Refugee Bureau in the State Department and give them the list. Just go to the top and solve the problem directly. But he wanted to keep his request simple. He knew from working in a government bureaucracy himself USAID that simple works best. So his first list was just Iraqis he knew from working at USAID. He would just be the USAID guy with a list of USAID names. He spent weeks tracking them all down not just the ones who had already written to him and putting information about each one-- who they were where they were what job they would done what had happened to them-- into an Excel spreadsheet. Next Kirk gave the list to the State Department Refugee Bureau. But the meeting was short and inconclusive. He was not sure when he left what to expect from them in terms of help for the Iraqis on the list. And then from that meeting he headed to a second meeting in Washington. And that is where he got a much clearer sense of how at least some people in the government saw what he was doing. He went to the USAID office. I decided to pay a visit to USAID kind of as a courtesy call to just explain what I thought I was doing with the list and also to just have a talk because one of my former bosses had called me up after the op ed. He was a Bush appointee. And he had angrily said to me that I was dragging the nation back onto the rooftop of Saigon with the op ed. Meaning Kirk's op ed which had not mentioned Vietnam had reminded his former boss and maybe others that the United States had left Vietnamese allies behind at the end of the Vietnam War. No one in the Bush administration wanted the Iraq War to remind anyone of Vietnam especially at this point in early 2007 when the war was going so badly. And I walk into this room and the Bush appointee that I had last seen in Baghdad the Saigon rooftop dude he is got a binder in front of him. It is a green binder and I notice my name is written on the binding of it. And he says Kirk I do not know if you are aware about this but you are not actually allowed to be writing about anything as a former-- you cannot write about what you saw in Iraq. You cannot write about-- as a former US government official you have a gag order in your contract. And I knew my contract very well. There was no gag order or anything. And so I got annoyed because I felt like it was an obnoxious way to start off the meeting. But the tone was very-- Do not make us hurt you. Yeah. He said are you going to write anything else about Iraq? And I said yes. And he goes about what? And I said well I have not made up my mind yet. And he goes well here's what we would prefer is that you submit all future publications to us for clearance first because we would hate to see your objectives tanked or torpedoed-- one of those phrases like bad things might happen. And I just remember telling him that if you guys want to come after me on this go for it. But just imagine what that is going to look like that USAID is going after a former USAID employee for trying to help former USAID employees. That is about where the meeting ended. But the strangest part was what happened afterward. I just told him all right well we do not really have anything else to talk about. So I got up and walked out of the Bureau. And I could sense that he was behind me. But when I was standing at the elevator bank to go back down he thrusts his business card into my hand. And I did not really understand because obviously I had this guy's contact info. There is no point in giving me a business card. And I looked down and he is written the name of an Iraqi woman on his business card. And then he says to me in a hushed tone he goes look if she gets in touch with you make sure that you add her to your list. It was literally 90 seconds earlier that he had been trying to scare me out of doing something. And now he is asking me to help some Iraqi that he knew. And I looked at him and his eyes glimmer and he goes do not worry. It is not like I slept with her or anything. But see if you can get her help or whatever. That conversation and the sit-down with the State Department's Refugee Bureau happened in the winter of 2007. Kirk's conclusion was well that did not work. His next move was more media pressure some of which was happening on its own. George Packer wrote in The New Yorker about Kirk's list and the Iraqis on it. And Kirk saw that any Iraqis mentioned in Packer's story started moving more quickly through the bureaucracy. So Kirk spent the next few months trying to get every journalist who asked for an interview to write about a different Iraqi on the list. He also talked with more government officials and a lot of the conversations ended up being variations on the Saigon rooftop man meeting-- people in government who understood how bad the situation was but said to Kirk basically no I cannot help you. But could you maybe help me? He contacted the congressman from his family's district in Illinois. Rep. Peter Roskam-- he is a friend of my dad's because my dad had been a Republican in Illinois politics for some time. Kirk says he asked him to cosponsor a piece of legislation that would help Iraqi interpreters as well as Iraqi Christians who were under attack and gay Iraqis who were also being targeted all over the country. And my congressman would not sign on to it because he did not believe out of principle that gay people should receive any preferential treatment. And I think it was maybe a month afterwards his chief of staff started referring names to my list. I have some of the emails here if you want but-- Yeah. I will skip the guy's name. Kirk so and so worked with me in Iraq and is now in danger from Iraqi militia organizations. Please add her to your list of Iraqis who worked with US forces. Thanks period. Just out of the blue without any reference to not sponsoring the legislation? Yeah. There is another one. This one was two minutes later. Kirk so and so and his wife so and so worked with me in Iraq in '03 '04 '05 and '06. They are now in danger in Iraq for the association with the Americans. Please add them to your list period. Thanks period. Kirk realized that in Washington people had all sorts of reasons not to help him with his list. One was straight up atmospherics like I mentioned earlier. The list was bad news for the Bush administration a clear indication that the war in Iraq was going terribly. And there was a bigger problem. There is no point dancing around the fact that nobody in the State Department or Homeland Security wants their signatures to be on the next 911 hijacker's visa. And they have said this to me. I have gotten phone calls from people high up in State that have said not everybody agrees with you that it is a good idea to be bringing over a lot of Muslims into the United States now. That is the gorilla in the room here is that we see these people as potential terrorists. Even though you are talking about Iraqis who because they worked for the US in Iraq had been vetted there. Security procedures in order to allow them to work for USAID or -- You cannot ride in a Humvee with Marines without getting screened. The Iraqis that worked with me they were all getting polygraph examinations. And I will not try to pull out this card but I feel like I am not so naive that-- as someone who spent a fair amount of time in Fallujah I am aware that there are bad people in the world. But the people I am trying to help they are actually running from terrorists. One government official told Kirk he could not be seen with him that he was toxic. Later the man who suggested to Kirk that he should charter a boat and outrun the Coast Guard insisted on meeting with Kirk not in his office but in a sticky-floored bar in Washington at 200 in the afternoon. The most illuminating of these conversations was a bizarre encounter in Geneva Switzerland. The UN had called a big meeting to talk about Iraqi refugees. When Kirk arrived he got a call at his hotel from a US State Department official a stranger. And the man insisted that he had to talk to Kirk and it had to be in person and it had to be in secret. He told Kirk there is a bridge near your hotel. And I want you to go wait underneath that bridge. And I am going to come up in a sedan with a license plate that ends in the number nine. And that is how you know it is me. And it was right around that time that that Russian dissident had been dosed with polonium. And I was like are these my final moments? They were not his final moments. The man just drove him to a Chinese restaurant half an hour outside of Geneva in order to give him the names of two Iraqis with yet another cloak and dagger flourish. He pulled out a small slip of paper from his pocket and he put it on the lazy Susan between us and actually rotated the slip of paper to me. And I actually recognized the names because they had just recently been referred to me by another State Department officer. And I looked up and I said yeah. I already have them. They are already on the list. And I saw his shoulders relax. And he is just like oh thank God. Thank you. Thank you. I am so glad they are going to be all right. And when he said now they are going to be OK-- Yeah well-- How did you react to that in your mind? He was handing you this piece of paper as though oh now the process is going to happen. But the process was not happening. You had not been able to get a single Iraqi into the country yet. No. I remember at one point I was getting an email every 80 or 90 seconds from a family. And in some sort of overwrought case-- people were referring to me as the Schindler of the Iraqis and all this stuff just because I had a list but I still had done nothing. In some ways I saw the list as a drain pipe that everything just sort of tumbled down into it and people just chucked stuff into it and added names and this kind of thing. And I think in some way it made a lot of people feel-- I think it is still does. It makes people feel like oh God. Here's this huge crisis. Here's this huge stain on the honor of our country the abandonment of these people. But thank God there is this kid with a list. Late spring 2007 Kirk realized there were not enough journalists to write about everyone on the list. And he still had not gotten anyone out of Iraq and to safety not even the ones who had been written about. They were just moving faster through a process that was opaque. No way to know for sure if they were two weeks away from an answer or two years. Kirk was still in his aunt's basement still basically broke. And the stress of what to do about the ever-increasing list was so relentless that he was getting headaches he could not shake for days in a row grinding his teeth down. His whole existence was the list. He had no personal life. Every night the laptop would be next to me in bed. And I would wake up in the morning with more names to put in and type them into an Excel sheet. And then suddenly there was movement. In the summer of 2007 Kirk and some lawyers officially formed an organization-- the List Project-- recruiting lawyers around the country to work with Iraqis on the list pro bono helping them navigate the visa process. Kirk's friend the Iraqi USAID colleague whose email had started everything arrived in the US at the end of the summer with his wife. Kirk's parents in Illinois volunteered to take them in. And over the next year Kirk worked with some senators especially Senator Ted Kennedy to get a law passed that would create a fast track for these Iraqis to get to the US. Senator Kennedy was like a bulldozer when he got behind an issue. And he led this effort to create what was called the Refugee Crisis In Iraq Act. And what that did was create something called the Special Immigrant Visa for Iraqis but also for Afghans who worked for us. And I will never forget when it passed because a few of us who had been involved with his office and were in the trenches on this we were patched in. And we got to talk to Senator Kennedy on the floor of the Senate in the moments after the act passed. And it had all of this bipartisan support. Senator Brownback and Lugar and Senator Obama and Hillary Clinton were on it. And amazingly it created 25000 visa slots for Iraqis who worked for the Americans. Over the course of five years-- 5000 a year right? Exactly. But at that time when it passed I had maybe-- I do not know-- 1200 names on my list. And I just remembered after I hung up with Kennedy collapsing on the couch and truly feeling like it was over. Even if every one of my Iraqis took one of those visas-- the Iraqis on my list I mean there would still be tons left over for the others. And it was suddenly this-- it worked. We agitated and now there is a new law. But members of the Bush administration had opposed the bill and a year after it was enacted only 172 Iraqis who'd worked with the US got in through the new supposedly speedy Special Immigrant Visa program-- 172 out of a possible 5000. That legislation was basically killed by Bush administration lawyers who found any kind of vague language in it to produce a very narrow consular interpretation so that not many Iraqis who worked for us would be construed as eligible. Under this narrow consular interpretation some Iraqis found out that they did not qualify for a Special Immigrant Visa because they had worked under a grant or a cooperative agreement rather than a contract even though these were three different names for what amounted to the same thing. And for Iraqis who were eligible there were delays new choke points in the process. It is hard because as we are speaking I am looking at a countdown now of a few months left when the five years are up. And it is going to expire. And out of the 25000 slots there is something like 18000 that are still unused. In March of this year 19 members of Congress sent a letter to the Secretaries of State and Defense and the Department of Homeland Security saying that only 22 of the available Iraqi SIVs had been given out-- 5500 visas out of a possible 25000. Nancy Updike. She will be back with Kirk Johnson in the second half of our show. Coming up how you can provide two letters of recommendation three certificates of merit one work contract an employment verification letter and a federal contract number plus four phone numbers and one email address for your old bosses and that is still simply not enough proof of employment for the bureaucrats who are asking you for proof of employment before issuing the paperwork that will get you out of Iraq and save your life. That is all in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program Taking Names the story of Kirk Johnson's seven-year attempt to save the lives of Iraqis who worked with US forces during the war there. In this half of the show to get a better sense of what is broken about our process for bringing these Iraqis into the United States Nancy Updike looks at one guy. And though this guy seems to perfectly qualify for the Special Immigrant Visa program the SIV program which was created by law in 2008 specifically for Iraqis who worked with the US government in Iraq and whose lives are in danger as a result this guy was not applying under that program either because he did not know that it existed or because he heard it was all jammed up and going another way would be quicker or allow him to bring in more relatives. That is not unusual Kirk Johnson says. Instead he is applying through a different program-- something called the United States Refugee Admissions Program-- USRAP. This process involves the State Department and Homeland Security to make sure that we are not allowing terrorists into the country. There is also an organization that does some overseas visa processing for the State Department called IOM. That is the International Organization for Migration. So I am just saying all this to say you are going to be hearing a bunch of acronyms-- IOM and USRAP. That is basically what they are. It is these bureaucracies. Anyway here's Nancy. A few months ago Kirk sent me the draft of a book he is writing about all this. And the last chapter is about a case that is still going on now. That is the case I am going to talk about. It was sent to the List Project a year ago in July of 2012. When Kirk got the email he did not know anything about it. It was just a zip file full of documents and he started printing them and laying them all out. I started with my kitchen table. When that filled up from all the pages laid out I pulled some chairs up and used the chairs. And then I started running this paper trail along the floor. You were trying to line everything up in chronological order? Exactly. But I am basically looking at a dead man's attempt to get a visa. The documents are a back and forth between this one Iraqi man and the bureaucracies processing his refugee application. His first email goes like this. Kirk's translating it from Arabic. Greetings to those of you working in the immigration office. I ask your help in considering my request. I need a speedy solution to my situation which is filled with persistent threats. People want to kill me because I worked for the US Army. Please help me come to America. Attached are some of the certificates and records of my work. Gratefully. And in the book I call him Omar. But that is not his real name. So he applied on June 28. And their reply on October 9 2011 was this. Dear applicant please be informed that your application is in process but we still need a valid official email address for a supervisor or HR officer who can identify you and verify your employment and a copy of the contract between your company of employment and the US government. Please reply directly to this email and do not change the subject line. Thank you. In this exchange Omar is providing six documents that corroborate his work for the United States including contact information for American supervisors. He included copies of two contracts he would had for projects overseen by Parsons which is an American company. And there was a recommendation letter from the US Army. He would worked for them as a forklift operator. So here in front of me is a certificate of appreciation from the Department of the Army. Your dedicated service to the US is appreciated and will not be forgotten. October 2009 to October 2010-- and then it is got the names of his supervisors. There were two more Army recommendation letters along with that one. And among the three there were the names and signatures of six different US Army officers. There was also a letter from Parsons the American company that oversaw the projects he worked for. Parsons would be pleased to answer any questions concerning his employment. Contact can be made with the undersigned. And then they gave two phone numbers there. This one here this is one that also even says the exact long contract number that he worked under the federal contract number. Again at the bottom of this one there is a Staff Sergeant signature his DSN number his phone number and his Army email address. But in spite of all these documents and all this information it seems clear from the emails that follow that the bureaucracies involved do not think that Omar has provided exactly the information they want-- a valid official email address for a supervisor-- even though they have four phone numbers for different supervisors and the official Army email address for one of Omar's supervisors. If they found that email address to be invalid for some reason they do not make that clear to Omar. In the end of December-- actually the last day of the year December 31 2011-- at 946 AM he sent a short note saying Peace and respect for everyone who works in your office. My brothers I wonder if there is any news that you might share with me. What is the latest with my case? With great thanks Omar. So the war has officially ended. The troops have fully pulled out. The base that he was working on does not exist anymore. Four days pass and the State Department writes him back at 350 PM on January 4. It says Dear sirmadam we have checked your case and found that it is in processing pending verifying your employment. Please note that once you are scheduled for an interview you will be contacted. Your patience does assist us in accelerating the process which is a common phrase that I see all over the place this strange notion that if they are just patient things will speed up. It is not true. Not only was the process not on the verge of accelerating Omar was trying to get out during a period when US officials admit that refugee processing for Iraqis had ground almost to a halt. It stayed slow for over a year. The US was beefing up its security screening procedures because two Iraqis in Kentucky had been arrested and charged with sending money and weapons to al-Qaeda in Iraq. The two guys in Kentucky had never worked for the United States like Omar had. They had not gotten into the US based on American military or civilian supervisors vouching for them in writing the kind of letters Omar had. Omar was a different kind of case altogether. But he was Iraqi. The next email that he wrote to the State Department-- this is February 16 2012. I have all of these emails but this one was the only one that was all in red. He had changed the font color. He says Peace and respect to you all. I would like to explain some of the critical developments that have happened to me in Kirkuk. I feel that I am in a very critical situation. My security is not good and I am seeking your guidance. I fear for my life the life of my family and I am asking for you to help me by transferring my case to a neighboring country. If you were able to transfer my file to Turkey then my family and I will go to finish the visa process there. I await your speedy reply God willing. He is clearly trying to escalate the situation here and offering to flee to another country if-- If that'ill speed things up. Right. The next email back to Omar had a new paragraph that Kirk had seen in emails to other Iraqis and that would turn up again and again in Omar's case. Please note that you have to provide us with different contact info-- and then this is all in bold-- official email address for a supervisor or HR officer who can identify you and verify your employment. Once we receive this we will proceed wi