Rebecca remembers exactly when she learned the astonishing truth. She was in second grade and ran into her best friend Rachel at school one day. And she pulled me aside and said you know last night I lost a tooth and I woke up while the tooth fairy was putting the money under my pillow. And guess who the tooth fairy was? I said oh my god who was it? I have to know. And she said my dad. My dad is the tooth fairy. And I remember running home after school and telling my mom Mom I know who the tooth fairy is and declaring it as if I had grown up that I knew who the tooth fairy was. And she said oh well who is the tooth fairy? And I turned to her and I said Rachel's dad is the tooth fairy. Ronnie Loberfeld is the tooth fairy. And she said I cannot believe you know. It is totally secret. You cannot let anyone else know. But you are right Ronnie is the tooth fairy. And he works really hard and it is a secret so you cannot let anyone else know. He is the tooth fairy but you cannot let anyone else know. And from that day on Ronnie Loberfeld was the tooth fairy. And all of my notes under my pillow were signed Love Ronnie Loberfeld. Now in his day job what did Ronnie Loberfeld do? I think he did something in finance. He was either an accountant or a stockbroker. He worked next to a Stop and Shop in Massachusetts in Newton. Had dark hair. Wore a suit. And I definitely had images of his driving his Volvo around the Boston area and delivering the tooth fairy treats. I remember wondering what it was like for Rachel to know that her dad was the tooth fairy and definitely being a little envious that her dad had this special job and this special power and that he had this whole other interesting life where my dad just came home from work and that was it. So when you would actually run into Ronnie Loberfeld what was it like for you? How would you act? I tried to act cool. You know it is like if you are starstruck but you do not want them to know that you are starstruck. Just like meeting a celebrity. Exactly. You downplay it. You try not to mention it but you definitely check them out twice and look at them when they walk away. Like oh my god you are the tooth fairy. But you knew enough to play it cool. I knew enough to play it cool. I said hey how you doing? What is for dinner? How am I getting home tonight? Are my parents going to pick me up? Have they called? You did play it cool. One interesting question in all of this. Why did both girls come to what seems like the least likely conclusion from the evidence in front of them? Of a parent swapping money for a tooth under a pillow? Well Alison Gopnik studies how children think. And she says of course it is logical for a seven-year-old to conclude that her own dad might be the tooth fairy. Children understand that their parents for instance are powerful in all sorts of ways that make them very different from children. Now from a child's point of view knowing where those powers begin and end is pretty tricky. I mean think about all the things that your parents can do that you cannot do. And think about the fact that there is not any obvious explanation about why your father can use a Visa card for instance which is something that you cannot do. The power to be a tooth fairy is not all that much more impressive. There is a certain kind of story that kids tell like the Ronnie Loberfeld story where they look at something going on around them observe it carefully think about it logically how one thing connects to the next thing to the next and then come to conclusions that are completely incorrect. Therapist  Goldman in Texas tells this story about a little girl on an airplane. And she was about four years old and her very first flight. And as the plane was airborne she turned to the woman next to her and said when do we get smaller? That had been her experience at airports watching airplanes take off. They do get smaller. These stories are like jokes and they are also like poems I think because there is this aha quality to them some connection that is made between things a surprising connection a wrong connection actually. Well we at This American Life love these stories. And so today we bring you a full hour of them. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today on our program kid logic. Our show in four acts. Act 1 baby scientists with faulty data. Act 2 werewolves in their youth. That story from Michael Chabon. Act 3 the game as not over till the fatso man sings. Act 4 when small thoughts meet big brains. Stay with us. Because it turns out that babies are very interested in gravity and how gravity works. The fact that things fall down and not up is not obvious to babies. And it turns out another thing they are very interested in is human beings and how they work. We are actually the lab rats. They are actually doing experiments on us to see how we tick. So when you play drop the spoon you get two for the price of one. You get an experiment about gravity. You get a little physics tutorial. And you get a psychology tutorial. You can see about how that person will do something over and over again. Well kids think with the same logic that adults use and apply that logic just as rigorously. There are certain things that they simply do not know and take a while to figure out. Up to six or seven years old for instance it is not exactly clear to anyone what is imaginary and what is not or if wishing for something can make it come true. There is a wonderful experiment about this actually that Paul Harris in England did where he got children to imagine that something was in a box. So he would say OK now here's this box. We are going to open it up. We are going to close it. Now let us imagine that there is a puppy in this box or else let us imagine that there is a monster in the box. And he asked the children is there really a monster in the box? Is there really a puppy in the box? They said no. They were just imagining it. Then the researcher would walk out of the room leaving the box behind with the child. And then something funny would happen. The kids who were told to imagine a puppy in the box would go over and peek inside the box just to check. And the kids who were told that there was a monster in the box? They would edge away from the box. So they were not going to take any chances just in case wishing actually could make monsters happen. They did not want to take any chances about what was going on in that box. But by the time the children are six or seven like grownups they have understood that just wishing for things is not going to actually make them happen. When they are still small and inexperienced about what happens in the real world children have to make logical inferences all the time based on the data that they do have. Here is how children responded when our producer Jonathan Goldstein asked them about the tooth fairy. What do you think she does with all of these teeth that she is collecting? Maybe she gives it to the people without teeth. Like who? Old people. What do you think she does with all these teeth? I really think she just likes to collect teeth and make things out of them. Like what kind of stuff? Lots of stuff. Makes a tooth house tooth trophy and a tooth desk. How many teeth do you think it takes to make a tooth house? 100. 100. Why would not she just make the house out of bricks like everyone else? Because I do not-- because no one does not have brick teeth. These stories where kids take a perfectly logical premise and go through a series of perfectly logical deductions that lead to perfectly incorrect conclusions it turns out that science does not have a name for these stories which is surprising given how common they are and how they are recognized around the world for their sheer entertainment value. Here we have collected a few more. We lived in a duplex. The duplexes directly to the left and the right of us were aunts and uncles. Across the street from us all aunts and uncles. So there was no such thing as walking out and seeing a stranger. I just thought we all looked alike. We all had common ancestries. Well when I became mobile when I got my first tricycle I could go a little bit further. So I ventured down the street. And I looked and I saw this couple sitting there these two people. But they were people that I had never seen before. I had never seen anything like that because they were white people. And because I had never seen white people I assumed that they were ghosts. So I waved like I wonder if I wave what kind of people are they? What do they do? Do they talk? So I waved and I remember hearing the man going  And I thought wow that must be the way they talk. It was like a scientific discovery. I discovered the first ghost people and they talked to me. I communicated. I waved. They waved. I said hello and they said hello in their language.    Well it all began at Christmas two years ago when my daughter was four years old. And it was the first time that she had ever asked about what did this holiday mean. And so I explained to her that this was celebrating the birth of Jesus. And she wanted to know more about that. And we went out and bought a kid's Bible and had these readings at night. She loved them wanted to know everything about Jesus. So we read a lot about his birth and about his teaching and she would ask constantly what that phrase was. And I would explain to her that it was Do unto others as you would have them do unto you. And we would talk about those old words and what that all meant you know? And then one day we were driving past a big church and out front was an enormous crucifix. She said Who is that? And I guess I would never really told that part of the story. So I had this sort of Yeah oh well that is Jesus. And I forgot to tell you the ending. Yeah well he ran afoul of the Roman government. This message that he had was so radical and unnerving to the prevailing authorities of the time that they had to kill him. They came to the conclusion that he would have to die. That message was too troublesome. It was about a month later after that Christmas. We would gone through the whole story of what Christmas meant and it was mid-January. And her preschool celebrates the same holidays as the local schools. So Martin Luther King Day was off. So I knocked off work that day and I decided we would play and I would take her out to lunch. And we were sitting in there and right on the table where we happened to plop down was the art section of the local newspaper. And there big as life was a huge drawing by a 10-year-old kid in the local schools of Martin Luther King. And she said Who is that? And I said Well as it happens that is Martin Luther King. And he is why you are not in school today. So we are celebrating his birthday. This is the day we celebrate his life. And she said So who was he? And I said Well he was a preacher. And she looks up at me and goes For Jesus? And I said Yeah. Yeah actually he was. But there was another thing that he was really famous for which is that he had a message. And you are trying to say this to a four-year-old. This is the first time they ever hear anything so you are just very careful about how you phrase everything. So I said Well yeah he was a preacher and he had a message. She said What was his message? And I said Well he said that you should treat everybody the same no matter what they look like. And she thought about that for a minute. And she said Well that is what Jesus said. And I said Yeah I guess it is. I never thought of it that way but yeah. And that is sort of like Do unto others as you would have them do unto you. And she thought for a minute and looked up at me and said Did they kill him too? Act 2 Werewolves in their Youth. In this act we have this example of kids thinking like kids. It is an excerpt of a short story by Michael Chabon. I had known him as a bulldozer as a samurai as an android programmed to kill as Plastic Man and Titanium Man and Matter Eater Lad as a Buick Electra as a peterbilt truck and even for a week as the Mackinaw Bridge. But it was as a werewolf that Timothy Stokes finally went too far. I was not there when it happened. I was down in the ravine at the edge of the schoolyard founding a capital for an empire of ants. I had just begun to describe to myself and to the ants the complicated rites sacred to the god whose worship I was imposing on them when I heard the first screams from the playground. The girls screamed at Timothy the same way every time he came after them in unison and with a trill that sounded almost like delight as if they were watching the family cat trot past with something bloody in its jaws. I scrambled up the side of the ravine and emerged as Timothy shoulders hunched arms outstretched growled realistically and declared that he was hungry for the throats of puny humans. Timothy said this or something like it every time he turned into a werewolf and I would not have been too concerned if in the course of his last transformation he had not actually gone and bitten Virginia Bease on the neck. It was common knowledge around school that Virginia's parents had since written a letter to the principal and that the next time Timothy Stokes hurt somebody he was going to be expelled. Timothy was in our teacher Mrs. Gladfelter's words one strike away from an out. And there was a widespread unarticulated hope among his classmates their parents and all of the teachers at Copeland Fork Elementary that one day soon he would provide the authorities with the excuse they needed to pack him off to special school. I stood there a while above my little city watching Timothy pursue a snarling lupine course along the hopscotch crosses. I knew that someone ought to do something to calm him down but I was the only one in our school who could have any reason to want to save Timothy Stokes from expulsion. And I hated him with all my heart. I have been cursed for 300 years he declaimed. He was wearing a standard uniform of white dungarees and a plain white undershirt even though it was a chilly afternoon in October and all the rest of us had long since been bundled up for autumn in corduroy and down. I have been cursed to stalk the night through all eternity he went on. I have been searching for prey as lovely as you! He lunged toward the nearest wall of the cage of girls around him. The girls peeled away from him as though sprayed with a hose bumped shoulders clung shrieking to each other's sleeves. Some of them were singing the song we sang about Timothy Stokes. Timothy Stokes Timothy Stokes you are going to the home for crazy folks. And the one singing the loudest was Virginia Bease herself in her furry black coat and her bright red tights. Virginia had blond hair and she was the only girl in the fifth grade with pierced ears and painted fingernails. And Timothy Stokes was in love with her. I knew this because the Stokeses lived next door to us and I was privy to all kinds of secrets about Timothy that had absolutely no desire to know. I forbade myself with an almost religious severity to show Timothy any kindness or regard. I would never let him sit beside me at lunch or in class. And if he tried to talk to me on the playground I ignored him. It was bad enough that I had to live next door to him. It was toward Virginia that Timothy now advanced a rattling growl in his throat. She drew back behind her girlfriends and their screaming now grew less melodious less purely formal. Timothy crouched down on all fours. He rolled his wild white eyes and took a last look around him. That was when he saw me halfway across the yellow distance of the soccer field. He was looking at me I thought as though he hoped I might have something I wanted to tell him. Instantly I dropped flat on my belly my heart pounding the way it did when I was spotted trying to spy on a baseball game or a birthday party. I slid down into the ravine backward. At first I could hear the girls shouting for Mrs. Gladfelter. And then I heard Mrs. Gladfelter herself sounding very angry. And the bell sounded the end of recess and everything got very quiet but I just stayed there in the ravine. I told myself that I did not feel sorry at all for stupid old Timothy Stokes. But then I would remember the confused look in his eyes as I had abandoned him to his fate to all the unimaginable things that would be done to him in the fabulous corridors of the special school. I kept recalling something that I had heard Timothy's mother say to mine just a couple of days earlier. You know Althea Stokes had told my mother in that big sad donkey voice of hers Your little Paul is Timothy's only friend. I decided to spend the afternoon in the ravine. The sun started down behind the embankment and the moon rising early emerged from the rooftops of the houses somebody was putting up in front of the school. The moon I noticed was not quite full. I did not hear the scrape of footsteps until they were just above my head. Paul said Mrs. Gladfelter leaning over the lip of the ravine hands against her thighs. Paul Covell what on earth are you doing out here? Nothing I said. I did not hear the bell. Paul she said. Now listen to me Paul. I need your help. With what? I did not think she looked angry but her face was upside down and it was hard to tell. With Timothy Paul. I guess he is just very wound up right now. He is pretending he is a werewolf today and even though that is fine and we all know how Timothy is sometimes we have serious things to discuss with him and we would like him to stop pretending for just a little while. What if he is not pretending? I said. What if he really is a werewolf? Maybe he is Paul but if you would just come inside and talk to him for a little bit I think we might be able to persuade him to change back into Timothy. You are his friend Paul. I asked him if he would like to talk to you and he said yes. I am not his friend Mrs. Gladfelter. I swear to God I cannot do anything. Paul Timothy is in trouble. He needs your help and I need your help too. Now if you come right this minute and get up out of that dirt then I will forget that you did not come in from recess. If you do not come back inside I will have to speak to your mother. She held out her hand. Now come on Paul. Please. So I took her hand and let her pull me out of the ravine and across the deserted playground aware that in doing so I was merely proving the unspoken corollary that my mother had left hanging the other morning in the air between her and Mrs. Stokes. There was a song about me too I am afraid a popular little number that went What is that smello? Paul Covello. He is a big fat hippo jell-o. He is a snoop. He smells like poop. He smells like tomato beef alphabet soup. Timothy Stokes I knew as I followed Mrs. Gladfelter down the long silent hallway to the office hating him more and more with each step was my only friend. Timothy was sitting in a corner of the office trapped in an orange vinyl arm chair. There was a Roman numeral three scratched into his left cheek and his brilliant white shirt and trousers were patterned with a camouflage of grass and dirt and asphalt. Well now Timothy Mrs. Gladfelter took me by the shoulders and maneuvered me around her. Look who I found. Hey Timothy I said. Timothy did not look up. Mrs. Gladfelter gave me a gentle push toward him in the small of my back. Why do not you sit down Paul? No! I did not want to be left alone with Timothy. Not because I was afraid of him but because I was afraid that somebody would come into the office and see us sitting there two matching rejects in matching orange chairs. That is enough now Paul said Mr. Buterbaugh the principal is friendly smile looking more false than usual. Sit down. It is all right said Mrs. Gladfelter. You see what you can do about helping Timothy turn back into Timothy. We are just going to give you a little privacy. She followed Mr. Buterbaugh into his office and then poked her head back around the door. I am going to leave this door open in case you need us all right? There were three chairs next to Timothy's. I took the farthest and showed him my back so that anyone passing by the windows of the office would not be able to conclude that he and I were engaged in any sort of conversation at all. Are you expelled? I said. There was no reply. Are you Timothy? Again he said nothing. And I could not stop myself from turning around to look at him. Timothy are you expelled? I am not Timothy professor said Timothy gravely but not without a certain air of satisfaction. I am afraid your precious antidote did not work. Come on Timothy I said. Cut it out. The moon's not even full today. Now he turned toward me. Where were you? he said. I was looking for you. I was in the ditch. With the ants? I nodded. I heard you talking to them before. So? So are you Ant-Man? No dummy. Why not? Because I am not anybody. You are not anybody either. We fell silent for a while and just sat there not looking at each other kicking at the legs of our chairs. I could hear Mrs. Gladfelter and Mr. Buterbaugh talking softly in his office. Mr. Buterbaugh called her Elizabeth. The telephone rang. A light flashed twice on the secretary's phone then held steady. Thanks for calling back Dr. Schachter I heard Mr. Buterbaugh say Yes I am afraid so. I went to see Dr. Schachter a couple of times I said. He had micronauts and the fembots. He has Stretch Armstrong too said Timothy. I know. Why did you go see him? Timothy said. Did your mother make you? Yeah I said. How come? I do not know. She said I was having problems with my anger. I do not know. I guess I was mad about my dad and things. He had to go to jail Timothy said Your dad. Just for one night. How come? He had too much to drink I said. Did you visit him in jail? Timothy said. No stupid. God you belong in special school Timothy. I hope they make you eat special food and wear a special helmet or something. I heard the distant slam of the school's front door and then a pair of hard shoes knocking along the hall. Here comes your mother I said. What kind of special helmet? said Timothy. Ant-Man wears a helmet. Mrs. Stokes entered the office. She was a tall thin woman much older than my mother with long gray hair and red veiny hands. Every morning she made Timothy pancakes for his breakfast which sounded OK until you found out that she put things in them like carrots and leftover pieces of corn. Oh hello Paul she said in her Eeyore voice. Mrs. Stokes said Mrs. Gladfelter coming out of the principal's office. It is been kind of a long afternoon for Timothy I am afraid. How is Virginia? said Mrs. Stokes. She still had not looked at Timothy. Oh she will be fine Mr. Buterbaugh said. Just a little shaken up. We sent her home early. Of course he added Her parents are going to want to speak to you. Of course said Mrs. Stokes. I am ready to do whatever you think would be best for Timothy. I am not Timothy said Timothy. Oh please Timmy stop this nonsense for once. I am cursed. He leaned over and brought his face very close to mine. Tell them about the curse professor. I looked at Timothy and for the first time saw that a thin dark down of wolfish hair had grown upon his cheek. Then I looked at Mr. Buterbaugh and found that he was watching me with an air of earnest expectancy as though he honestly thought there might be an eternal black magical curse on Timothy and was more than willing to listen to anything I might have to say on the subject. I shrugged. Are you going to make him go to special school? I said. All right Paul. Thank you said Mrs. Gladfelter. You may go back to class now. See you later Timothy I said. He did not answer me. He had started to growl again. As I followed the secretary out of the office I looked back and saw Mr. Buterbaugh and Mrs. Gladfelter and poor old Mrs. Stokes standing in a hopeless circle around Timothy. I thought for a second and then I turned back toward them and raised an imaginary rifle to my shoulder. This is a dart gun I announced. Everyone looked at me but I was talking to Timothy now. I was almost but not quite embarrassed. It is filled with darts of my special antidote. And I made it stronger than it used to be and it is going to work this time. And also there is a tranquilizer mixed in. Timothy looked up and bared his teeth at me. And I took aim right between his eyes. I jerked my hands twice and went Foop foop! Timothy's head snapped back and his eyelids fluttered. He shook himself all over. He swallowed once then he held his hands out before him as if wondering at their hairless pallor. It seems to have worked he said his voice cool and reasonable and fine. Anyone could see he was still playing his endless game but all the grown-ups Mr. Buterbaugh in particular looked very pleased with both of us. Thank you very much Paul he said. I am not Paul I said. Everybody laughed but Timothy Stokes. Michael Chabon reading an excerpt from his short story Werewolves in Their Youth. You can find it in the collection of short stories of the same name. His latest novel just came out. It is called Moonglow. Coming up kids talking kid talk adults not understanding but you will as our special Kids say the Darndest Things edition of our program continues in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose some theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's program Kid Logic. We wanted an hour filled with stories in which kids employ kid thinking especially the kid thinking that is perfectly logical but completely wrongheaded. And we have arrived at Act 3 of our program. Act 3 The Game As not Over till the Fatso Man Sings. When little kids talk about a crush or love are they talking about more or less the same thing that adults mean by those words? Howie Chackowicz remembers how he thought about love in grade school. He wanted girls to like him but they never seemed to. Here he is. Looking back on it I think part of the problem was how I thought about love as a kid. I had a few ideas about how you get someone to love you that in retrospect were not particularly helpful to me. First I thought that if they could see me sleeping they would immediately fall for me. When I went to sleep each night I would consciously try to sleep in a cute way just in case the girls would peep on me. I would roll into a fetal ball a kitten and scrunch my head into my pillow hands under my head. I imagined that all the popular girls intent on cruelly pranking me on a ladder and climbed up to my bedroom window. But instead of painting fatso or whatever on my window as planned their collective hearts would melt as they saw me sleeping like a babe an angel buried snugly under my blankets. I guess there was some crossover of a kid's knowledge of what was endearing to adults applied to romance. My second theory was that they would fall in love with me if they can see me reading aloud. This conclusion came out of my experience with nieces and nephews who'd fawn all over me when I would read to them. By age 6 I was already an uncle and I felt this lent me a certain maturity. Often at recess time I would go to the back of the classroom and read from a selection of kids books. All the kids would gather around in a circle and I would pore through books like Percy the Rose-eating Donkey effecting the voices of the different characters and speaking with a preacher's sweaty charisma. I am not sure why but everyone in my class seemed to love the way I hammed it up. The only problem with this was the girls in class ended up treating me like their uncle. They would call me Uncle Howie and talk to me in baby talk. Wead me a story Uncle Howie. And so on. Do not get me wrong. I loved the attention but I wanted love not wuv. So I had all these ideas about love. And of all the girls I knew my theories were most intensely targeted at one girl the most popular girl in school Karen. She became my most serious crush. I carried a torch for Karen from grade 1 to grade 6. Though Karen did not seem to like me much one thing I would learned about love on TV was that if one was sincere love can break all boundaries. I believed that there would come a moment where I would speak the words I love you to Karen with such tenderness and tears that it would break her heart and she would cry too and confess her love. I would allow one brave tear to travel down my cheek.  really cute eh? Yeah. And Jonathan  Jonathan is very very adorable. Now years later I am friends with Karen actual friends with both her and her husband Alan. I even worked for him for a while. Karen and I have talked before about our elementary school days usually steering the conversation towards how mean she was to me. But I have never really spoken with her about puppy love. I wanted to know what she remembered whether she knew I even had a crush on her at all. Who were your interests? We will go year by year. Keith definitely love interest. Barry Seller the big one the big one. Lauren Wilter? Yes yes yes. Notice who she does not mention. Even though it was so far in the past a crush is still such an awkward thing to talk about. When I finally did tell her about how I felt about her when we were kids I mumbled my way through it backpedaling all over the place. I even forgot to actually point the mic at her. When I was in elementary school you were a big crush. Aw. You see? I did not even know that. I thought I was just responsible for tormenting you. I did not realize that there was a crush involved. Maybe at the time I knew but I had no clue actually that you liked me when I think back on it now. One time in the field Keith told me to tackle you. He said if you tackle her she will like you and then you will be popular. That is so funny. This is the thing. You know what? That is very good advice I think. It is very bad advice. I do not want to break your leg. Basically what happened was I was standing off to the sidelines. I was not often picked to play. This was a coed game and it seemed very fun. And Keith said I am going to throw Karen the ball. And he you know he could not pronounce his R's. He goes You tackle her Howard. Tackle her. Tackle her hard and you will be popular. And then everyone will like you. I am like OK I am going to do it. And I remember you were running the sun was shining off and your hair's bouncing and you caught the ball and I just-- I do not know what came over me. I just remember thinking that is what I had to do was I had to tackle you. And I tackled you really hard. You are on the ground and you are holding your leg. Now any kind of logic would have dictated that that is not the way to get the girl you like. Yeah but a lot of times the way young kids react or show affection is through physical-- like I was telling you before that I wrestled with Barry because you just want to be close. This is not how she felt about it at the time. Because I felt the harder I tackled her the more popular I would be. I took her down like it was prison football. The game came to an immediate end everyone circling Karen's writhing body the football near her lay totally still. She was holding her leg looking up at me saying You tub of lard you broke my leg! Karen does not remember any of this. She does not remember how she then jumped up got four or five of her girlfriends in a huddle and miraculously choreographed an impromptu chorus line of Fatso Man to the tune of the Village People's Macho Man. Fatso fatso man. I would not like to be a fatso man. Fatso fatso man. I would not like to be a fatso! And at that point they all threw their hands up in the air in unison. I remember it so perfectly but then after all it was my crush. She had no recollection at the time the school photographer called her Daisy Duke and then turned around and called me Boss Hog nor the fitness day that I beat her in a chariots of fire style race. She did not even remember the biggest story of them all our sixth grade graduation dance. Now the last dance was Stairway to Heaven. Mhm. Right. Now I went to the dance to dance with you. Aw. But I could not because as I was walking a line of people walked by and blocked me and then there was a split second but then you were in the arms of a grade seven. Really? What was a grade seven doing in there? They crashed our grade six graduation dance. Who was it? I do not know who he was. He was tall and thin. He had longish hair and he came through the back door of the gym. You do not remember the last dance? No. You kissed this gentleman. Did I? Like a peck or a make-out kiss? I 