There is this prayer hotline that a group called The Satanic Missionary Society of Olympia Washington started. It is like a regular prayer hotline except of course instead of praying to God you leave a voicemail message and then they will pray to Satan for you. If you want they will post your message to the internet so others will also pray to Satan for you. And with almost no publicity like from the very start people called. Like this was serving a need that was just waiting for some forward-thinking devilish entrepreneur. People definitely had stuff that they wanted that you cannot turn to God for. Hey how is it going? Basically a couple-- about a month or two ago my apartment got robbed. I still have not figured anything out or where any of my stuff is at. Basically I just want the people who stole my shit to suffer for it. Fair enough I think. Thanks. Hail Satan. Hello Satanists everywhere. I am calling to put a hex on the 1230 Club in Olympia Washington because they are just assholes. Because they start blasting the music really early every night. New Year's Eve tonight and they are already like starting at 600 in the evening. Please make the 1230 Club go out of business but make sure everybody that works there goes deaf like from playing their music so loud first. Hail Satan. Hello. I would like all of my enemies to suffer. Thank you. Really does not get more concise than that last one. There are people who call as a joke. One guy called to ask for one more Shrek sequel. There is an occasional drunk dial to Satan. Have a very Satanic day. And there are people who do not seem to understand the difference between the stuff you should be asking Satan for and the stuff you ask God for. Hello. Hail Satan. I am calling for you to help me. I have an interview tomorrow. I am trying to get my first job ever. I am 16. So please pray to our Dark Lord and hopefully I might get this job. Did you get that? Pray to our Dark Lord and hopefully I might get this job. Thank you. Hail Satan. There is a teenager who calls to ask for a hex on a tattletale named Matt. The phone message ends with the most cheerful hail Satan I have ever heard. Thank you! Hail Satan. I think one of my favorite things about these calls is to hear people just toss that off so casually. Like that is a thing we say. Thank you and hail Satan. Have a great day. OK we love you. Hail Satan. Goodnight. But in the end the meat and potatoes of this public service phone line is vengeance and relief. Or at least the level of vengeance that you can get with a phone call the kind of relief you get by wishing for something. Hail Satan. This is . And I would like to put a hex on  because he is a really big asshole and all my friends hate him. And he told me that he was going to kill me my daughter and my cat. And he poured piss all over my car and my front porch and he is just a piece of shit. Please put a hex on him. Hail Satan. Hi guys. I am a teenager and I am really in a sticky situation. I need you guys to pray that-- well I think I am pregnant. And I need you guys to pray against the pregnancy. And if there is a baby inside of me for Satan to kill it. Because I cannot have a baby right now. So I am turning to Satan and he is the only answer I have right now. So I am just overwhelmed. So call me when you get the chance. So thank you so much. Hail Satan right? OK thank you. Goodbye. We heard about the Satanic prayer line on KCRW's podcast Here Be Monsters and thanks to them for that. I reached out to the guy who started the prayer line on the phone at 800 at night after his kids were in bed. He is the primary caretaker. One's four one's 17 months. His name is Chris Allert and he says the prayer line really started as a lark after he got annoyed with a local Christian group in Olympia where he lives that he says would not let up with their proselytizing. He does not believe in God or in Satan. He started this out of curiosity to see who would call. And then when the voicemails started rolling in he saw oh people are taking this really seriously. And really it was not so clear what to do with that. Yeah they were really touching some of them. There is that one about that girl that called that said she did not want to have a baby and was like-- like I did not know. But she asked us to post it and it was so-- yeah it was just like wow she is really-- And I do not know I have never-- she has not called again or I do not know what happened to her or anything. Yeah. When you heard that did you feel like oh maybe I went too far? Yeah. I still think about that. And she is a teenager or something too-- Yeah. --or she was. And yeah I just remember almost not posting it. But then it is like she asked me to. But then I would have felt guilty about not posting it because she really wanted-- I do not know. When people put their faith in something you do not want to let them down. But then you do not actually have any way to help them. That might be part of the reason I have not really kept up with the calls. I mean I still listen to the people. I still get like 20 calls a day. I am not saying-- I listen to them as much as I can. I have not had time to really keep the website up-to-date. In fact it is been years-- since his first daughter was born-- that he is posted any calls to the website. People call in hoping somebody's going to pray to Satan for them. He never ever delivers that. Nobody does. I feel like I am people down. I actually do feel really guilty about not keeping it up. I think usually the problem when you start talking about the devil is that for some people Satan is real. It is no joke. He is out there. Nothing could be more serious. And for non-believers nothing could be sillier-- this cartoon-ish imp with horns. And even bringing the subject up divides people sends us into sparring camps. Which can I say is exactly what the devil wants. Or does not if he does not exist. And Chris is one of the few people I have ever heard of who is in the middle. Even though he does not believe in Satan he cannot bring himself to shut down the prayer line. He feels like he is seen that people need it-- they need a place to call. And it does not feel right to take Satan from them. Yeah the whole-- why do not I quit doing it? And it is like I do not know. But I think if I understood it-- when I understand it better I will be able to just let it go. I think I just do not understand it myself. And the thing you do not understand is just-- you are not totally understanding why this has a hold over people and why it has a hold over you. Yeah or over me even. Yeah. It matters in some way that I just have not figured out yet. Well from WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. And OK all this talk of Satan-- that is because today's show is a milestone for us. Not a milestone that we are necessarily proud of or anything-- just the odometer of our lives and of our weeks has ticked over and gotten us to the point where we did 100 episodes of our show and then our 200th episode and our 300th episode week after week show after show past episode 600. And finally here we are-- episode 666.  And to commemorate our 666th episode-- wow this music is loud-- LOUDER OK to commemorate our 666th episode we have stories about Satan in his many surprising forms here on Earth. I am your host Ira Glass. And to paraphrase Milton I would rather host a show in hell than just be somebody who gets quoted for a minute or two in a show on Heaven. Stay with us. Act One Record Deal with the Devil. So let us begin today by returning to a recent moment in this country when lots of secular people suddenly got worried about the devil. This was back in the 1980s. There was a whole Satanic panic. TV specials with Geraldo and Oprah and Sally Jessy Raphael about Satanic murders Satanic rituals Satanic cults. And the thing we want to talk about in today's story Satanic music. This was a low point I would say of the what are kids listening to today freak-outs among adults. It got so heated the Senate held hearings on this. Much has changed since Elvis seemingly innocent times. This is Senator Paula Hawkins in 1985. Subtlety suggestions and innuendo have given way to overt expressions and descriptions of often violent sexual acts drug taking and flirtations with the occult. Hawkins was a witness along with members of the Parents Music Resource Council the PMRC testifying to the dangers of rock music. Remember Tipper Gore? Remember those days? They are the ones who eventually got parental advisory stickers put on tapes and CDs. The hearing of course included the obligatory embarrassing-to-watch moments of serious-looking adults reading lyrics not written for sober people in suits and sensible dresses to enjoy. This next clip is a minister reading lyrics from a band called Piledriver. His performance is very different from the original recording of the song. The song is called Lust. The lyrics say Hell on fire lust desire. The devil wants to stick you. The devil wants to lick you. He wants your body. He wants your spirit. Naked twisting bodies sweating. Prince of darkness prince of evil. Spread your legs and scream. This is no dream. Degradation humiliation. Thrusting shoving animals humping. He is like a dog in heat. You are just another piece of meat. Craving-- Some very obscure bands got great publicity from this hearing. The band that recorded that song Piledriver says the hearing gave them a bump in record sales-- maybe 10000 albums they told us that they would not have sold otherwise. And it is right around this time that a religious crusader one of the most vocal devil hunters in the country dove deep into this controversy over rock lyrics. And this incredible thing happened where he went on tour. He went on tour with one of the thrash metal bands that sings about Satan to figure out just how evil and dangerous it was. It was a sincere attempt to try to see what the other side was doing. A very unusual encounter between big names in the two opposing camps the Christians and the rockers. And this was not a superficial drop in drop out. The preacher spent a week with them traveled on the bus with the band got to know them. All this happened in 1989. Not many people remember this weird momentary mash-up between the nonbelievers and the believers. Reporter Kelefa Sanneh takes us back to tell what happened. This warrior in the fight against Satanism-- his name was Bob Larson. He used to play in small-time rock bands. Then he switched sides and became a preacher with a taste for spiritual warfare. He started doing a nationally syndicated radio show called Talk Back in 1982. Good afternoon America. Welcome to Talk Back with Bob Larson. I will be here the next hour talking about what is on my mind and hearing from you about what is on your mind. In studio today-- He warned about the spread of Satanism told parents about the Satanic messages in the music their children were listening to. He had Satanists on the air to argue with him about Satanism including two guys from a band called Acheron. Let him come and take me. Where is Jesus? I do not see him. If the devil could kill you right now he would. You see the devil's got you where he wants you. Your souls are damned and doomed right now. Rather be damned. It is Jesus Christ that is keeping you alive. Oh is he? To me! To me. You gentlemen being here today is an incredible testimony to the mercy and grace of Jesus Christ. Oh really? Sometimes he would offer to perform an exorcism. He is really into exorcisms. And I did something that was pretty revolutionary at the time. This is Bob Larson today. I would play sound bites of songs. And sometimes I would start my show out with some really thrash music and let it play just long enough for some kid who was surfing across the dial to land on it before he realized what kind of a show he was actually listening to. Bait and switch. Yeah. Yeah bait and switch. Well it was not my intent but in fact it happened. So I would end up having some pretty profound spiritual discussions with kids who had no idea that they just happened onto a religious station. Even now Bob Larson clearly loves talking about this music. He loves being fluent in the language of metal even though he insists he is not a fan of it-- just a researcher with an unusually high tolerance for it. Everybody trying to outdo everybody else with outlandish antics of sorts whether it was Alice Cooper on stage with a snake or the death thrash metal bands trying to outdo themselves with Satanism motifs. Cannibal Corpse Deicide-- I mean that is right at the top of my list. That is late '80s right? Yeah Morbid Angel groups like that. One guy who sometimes called into Bob Larson's show was Bob Guccione Jr. And I was just about at the time the only person in the rock media the music media that wanted to debate these guys. He was the publisher of Spin magazine and he is also the son of that other Bob Guccione the one who founded Penthouse magazine. You know growing up in my household with my father who was constantly at war with the religious right-- he published Penthouse they were assailing it-- I knew you had to debate these people or else their opinion generally took. I argued the case against anyone who wanted to argue. Bob Guccione became a regular guest on Bob Larson's show. He became one of Larson's favorite antagonists. I would be on his show in his studio in Colorado and he would be assailing me. You are the son of Satan. My readers my listeners I am sitting with the son of Satan here. I was basically a devil incarnate. And he begged me begged me on air-- on air he begged me to exorcise me. And I said I do not need to be exorcised! He goes you have got to be born again. I said well I was born once! So anyway he would assail me. And especially when his listeners would call in and say he is got a point he sounds like a good guy he would assail me even further cut me off. And in the commercial break he would say where do you want to go for dinner? These two guys named Bob-- they were both performers. They both knew the value of a good spectacle. Maybe it was not pro wrestling exactly but it was a show. Behind the scenes they became fairly close friends. For both of them it was a transgressive friendship. And they liked that. And at some point you get the idea to invite him into your secular rock magazine. Yeah. Do not know what took me so long.  I was having dinner with him once. And he is talking away he is talking away talking way about this and the music you espouse. All the lives you are endangering and the souls you are losing. And I said look have you ever actually been to a concert one of these heavy metal concerts? Have you ever seen these guys? Have you ever met these people? And of course I would not go near that. That is all Satan stuff. I am not going to go near that. And so I said well look for your own edification-- and it would be great publicity for you-- why do not you go on a tour? Yeah why do not you go on a tour with Slayer? Slayer a thrash metal band from California that was basically designed to freak out people like Bob Larson. Reign in Blood their 1986 masterpiece-- 29 minutes of sickness and brutality-- fast and mean and scary. One of the songs Altar of Sacrifice is actually about Satanic human sacrifice. Bob Larson agrees immediately. Slayer's manager says OK fine. And the next thing I know I am in a taxi and on my way to the concert. It turns out Bob Larson makes a pretty good rock journalist. The article he wrote-- it actually appeared in Spin the May 1989 issue. It was accompanied by a maniacal family portrait Larson smiling in a suit and the four guys from Slayer howling behind him. The headline was Desperately Seeking Satan. And it is kind of great-- the diary of a man who had spent years demonizing this band literally demonizing them and then got a chance to see if they were as bad as he thought. Before he went to meet Slayer Larson told his listeners about the assignment. He says some of them wanted him to give Slayer the full treatment-- exorcise them convert them baptize them. But Larson told them no. This was a different kind of mission a journalistic one. The mission was is it an act of Satanism or something akin to that or how much of it is a genuine expression of belief system from the members of the band? I was not out to save their souls. I was out there to observe. That was a little bit hard for some of my hardcore religious followers to accept because they thought I should return triumphantly with confessions of spiritual faith from every one of them. But of those four guys that was asking a lot. So Larson flies to Germany shows up at the venue. It is a Slayer show and it sounds like it was epic. Are you live undead? One of these big flat floor standing room only type things. Nobody was in a chair. It was your typical thrash audience. Everybody stands and does their whole thrash thing. Was it exciting? Well of course the environment was just very very dramatic because it is just intense. I mean these guys-- they never saw a ballad that they did not hate. There was no such thing. They never slowed down. It was speed guitars constantly. It never let up. So Larson's there. He is not wearing a clerical collar. He is not even wearing a tie. But still he is this older normal seeming guy roaming around with a pad of paper interrogating the metal heads. So I walk around. I start interviewing people and asking them-- now I think the thing that was most interesting is that I did find hardcore Satanists there. At least they said they were. I would ask them do you believe in what these guys are doing? Yes. You see that upside down cross behind them-- what does that mean to you? Worshipping Satan. Now this is cool. That is great. We worship Satan. I mean if you are at a metal show and a guy who looks like a dentist comes up to you asks you if you are a Satanist you would probably say hell yeah. But Bob felt like these fans at least some of them were telling him the truth. They saw this as their demonic liturgy their place of worship and they took it very seriously. So my first conclusion was whatever these guys on stage believe or do not believe this is what their audience-- at least a portion of their audience-- believes. I think what makes Slayer great is not the Satanic stuff. In fact the lyrics are kind of secondary. What makes Slayer Slayer is the atmosphere the sense of mayhem. Those furious galloping drums. The way Jeff Hanneman and Kerry King the two guitarists lock into the same churning riff and then go hurtling off in different directions. The music sounds wild and evil. And for the whole thing to work the words need to be pretty sick too. So of course these guys end up singing about the devil. SUBJET SINGER An unforeseen future nestled somewhere in time. Unsuspecting victims no warnings no signs. Judgement Day the second coming-- If you are not into this sort of music it is easy to miss the sheer physical joy of it. Slayer's a rock band playing an exceptionally visceral form of rock and roll. And when Larson went backstage he found more or less what you would expect-- a bunch of exhausted musicians zero Satanic rituals. Well backstage of course is just a typical rock and roll show. And everybody's toweling down and just having a couple of beers and just trying to relax for a little bit. Trying to figure out if there were any nubile young ladies in the audience that would be of interest to them. But actually these guys were not too much into the girls. They were just more into the dope. Was that in the back of your mind? That maybe one of these people will be possessed and I am going to have to perform an exorcism right here backstage in Germany? Yes I did think about that. I absolutely did. But I also knew from a practical standpoint that this was a show business environment. And even backstage they are still playing a role. They are still being the bad guy Satanists to their fawning fans. So they were not going to get real with me. The only chance for that would be on the bus. Larson spent a lot of time on that tour bus. And in the article the thing he notices most is how bored the guys were. There is a collage of little snippets of conversation. I thought I would freeze my butt off before we went on stage. My drum solo just did not make it tonight. Something was not right. Ice where is the ice? You just cannot get ice in Europe. Larson says Kerry King one of the guitarists was literally counting down the days until he could go home. King told Larson about his Toyota 4x4 and his hobby breeding pythons. He said he did not know much about Satanism. He got most of his ideas from horror movies. There was a stack of them on the bus next to the VCR. The guys were really into Gremlins. I did not like the bus. No no. Well it just was not my kind of place because I did not appreciate having to inhale hash fumes. Because that was the drug of choice and that was not my thing. But I was on a mission. I was on an assignment. I had to do my job so I wanted to faithfully do that. Did you have any late night moments where those conversations became more like real conversations? Yes. Yes I did. Particularly with Araya. That is Tom Araya the bass player and lead vocalist. I mean he is a very bright guy very smart guy. If I may say so a little bit more than the others. I do not mean to insult them but he was kind of the intellectual of the group. And he deeply thought about this. He came from South America. He was raised in a Catholic culture. So to him it was serious business. And we had some pretty serious philosophical discussions about God about whether there is a hell and a heaven and there is a devil. And is the devil real and is singing about the devil such a good idea? Can you just dismiss it as show business? I reached out to Tom Araya and the band but they declined to comment. Tom Araya seemed like the one guy in the band who took these ideas seriously-- good and evil God and the devil. Larson does not think he actually believed in Satan but Araya went onstage with an upside down cross anyway. And to Larson that made him seem reckless maybe even evil. Araya understood what he was doing but he did not really care. If there was one guy who really needed an exorcism it was him. It is like he knew too much and he therefore was accountable for much more. As I recall he did not totally dismiss the idea of personal evil. But the idea that he would be an agent of that evil? No. The idea that Slayer was just going through the motions that this was all a scripted pantomime carefully calculated to separate German teenagers from their deutschmarks-- it offended Larson as a former rock and roller. His whole point is that rock and roll is dangerous because rock and roll is powerful. He is a romantic that way. He believes in rock and roll. And it drove him nuts to see the guys from Slayer night after night playing the same solos hitting the same marks like actors at a Broadway show. Nothing was spontaneous he wrote. It was a letdown. He had flown to Germany prepared for battle but now he was all alone on the battlefield. These guys were not his worthy opponents. My favorite line in the magazine story is when he is sitting on that bare bones tour bus and he wonders sort of wistfully where were all the porn videos? I mean it seems like here you are-- you are on tour with the most evil band on the planet. You are on the tour bus. And it is just a bunch of guys drinking beer. There is no Satan behind the curtain. Well yes and no. Because there is more than one way for Satan to be orchestrating things from the wings OK? And if they are speaking the words of Satan doing the things the devil would have them to do the potential disastrous end result is going to be the same whether or not they as the active agents believe it or not. They are the conduit. Mission accomplished. He is Reverend Bob Larson. Of course he found Satan. Satan was there. Satan was there every night. Satan was on the bus. Satan was in the concerts. Yes he was there in the form of what was being said. That is like saying-- since I was in Germany-- was the devil there at the Gestapo rallies? I am not comparing them to Nazis. I am just saying that yes of course the devil was there in the same way the devil was here at these concerts. So that is it. Spin prints the story. Slayer gets even huger keeps touring keeps raising hell. And Larson keeps warning about Satanism long after most of the country has moved on. They are both on the road right now. Slayer's in the middle of a two-year worldwide farewell tour. And Bob Larson is leading seminars and conducting exorcisms wherever he can. Larson's a performer. Just like the guys from Slayer he understands the value of good schtick. It is easy to think of this as a quaint story from another time the golden age of Satanic panic. But imagine if an up-and-coming band today put out a song like Slayer's Angel of Death. It is the first song on Reign in Blood and it is about Nazis. More specifically it is about Josef Mengele the Nazi official and doctor who performed horrific operations on prisoners at Auschwitz. Auschwitz the meaning of pain. The way that I want you to die. Slow death immense decay. Showers that cleanse you of your life. Slayer got asked about Angel of Death a lot. People wanted to know whether the band members were sympathetic to Nazis. Slayer thought this was ridiculous. All the lyrics are about how evil Mengele was. Sadistic surgeon of demise they call him. But Slayer is a band devoted to the proposition that evil is fascinating that evil is kind of cool. You might even say that Slayer glorifies evil. Certainly that is what Bob Larson would say. And he would say that is a terrible irresponsible thing to do even if you do not really mean it-- especially then. We live in a time when lots of audiences are saying something sort of like what Larson was saying that entertainers of all sorts should be accountable for the messages they spread. That they have a duty not to promote evil and to make it clear where they stand. But with Slayer it is not always so clear. Angel of Death is an unsettling song because it feels like you are not just listening to a song about evil you are listening to a song that is itself evil. That is part of what makes the song good I think. But I think lots of people today would be worried about that song being put out in the world. I think lots of people today might see things from Bob Larson's point of view. Kelefa Sanneh is a staff writer at The New Yorker. Coming up people ask where hell is-- hell as in hello. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. It is our 666th show episode number 666. And we are devoting it to Satan in his various forms. And the truth is people believe a lot of contradictory things about Satan. For instance one of our producers Ben Calhoun was talking to the people who head one of the two big Satanist organizations here in the United States. This is the Church of Satan based in Poughkeepsie New York. It is run by Peter Gilmore and Peggy Nadramia. And when they describe what Satanism is I have got to say it actually sounds a little bit like the Preamble to the Constitution. Satanism is a philosophical position that promotes individuality liberty joy and self-expression. See what I mean? They go on. We believe that you should seek to be the best you you can be whatever that might be. It is good to challenge yourself when you can to do the best you can. But if you reach a comfortable level enjoy the comfort. That you select pleasures to indulge in but rationally-- not to overdo anything to bring harm to yourself or anybody else around you. We tell people to be the best person they can be. They do not have to reach for some perfection that they can never achieve. They are sometimes perfectly fine just the way they are. That is pretty much it. It is amazing. I feel like without the Satanism in there what you just said would not be out of place on Mr. Roger's Neighborhood.  That is true. That is true. Satanism is a humanism of sorts. What they are saying might make more sense once you know this important fact about this church and the other big Satanist organization in our country the Temple of Satan in Salem Massachusetts-- they are both run by atheists who do not believe in the devil or in God. The groups are kind of a poke in the eye of organized religion. But so much of what we think about Satan is a kind of random mishmash of information and ideas that have sprung up over the last few thousand years like even the idea that the number 666 stands for the devil. It says that in the Bible right? Well that is the way it is read later. Elaine Pagels is an expert on these books in the Bible and the people who wrote them and their beliefs. She is a professor of the history of religion at Princeton. And she says 666 was not supposed to mean Satan in the Bible in the Book of Revelation which is the book where it appears back when it was written. She says to understand what 666 was supposed to mean you have to understand the context in which that part of the Bible was written. It is the first century. Rome sent 60000 troops into Jerusalem to put down a Jewish uprising. They are brutal destroy the Jewish temple. So the Jewish prophet John who wrote the Book of Revelation-- This man is probably a refugee from the Jewish war. He knew the horror of the Roman destruction of Israel. And it would probably have been dangerous for a Jewish prophet who hated Rome as much as this one did to speak about the emperor and the empire as the epitome of evil. And so he spoke in code. In the Book of Revelation instead of saying Rome he says the whore that sits on seven hills. But what he means is that is Rome of course. You know this because you have coins in which you see the goddess Roma sitting on seven hills. So everybody would get it but he is not doing it openly. He is doing it through the disguised language of prophetic metaphor that any literate Jew would get and Romans would not. He describes a seven-headed beast that Pagels says might be a reference to the first seven Roman emperors. And another beast that he refers to with the number 666-- that is actually where 666 shows up in the Book of Revelation. Each letter in the Hebrew alphabet corresponds to a number and depending on how you do the numbering it can spell different words. So a 666-- It says whoever has wisdom will understand what the number means. So the second beast who has a human number as the author says-- it is probably a hidden version of the name of the head of the Roman Empire. It is usually thought by historians to be a version of the imperial name of Nero who even Romans thought was the epitome of the worst you could get. It is like talking about Hitler. You are talking about the worst of the worst in Roman emperors. Or it could be the name of the Emperor Domitian the emperor at the time John was writing the Book of Revelation. I reached out to Professor Pagels actually not to talk about 666 but to talk about the devil. The thing I wanted to know was what does the Bible actually say about him? Where do we start to see the figure that we talk about today? This demon who is out to capture people's souls and rule over them in hell. Professor Pagels is a churchgoing person but she says that even she was taken aback when she was researching her book The Origin of Satan about the subject. What surprised me is that that figure almost does not appear in the Hebrew Bible. I mean Christians have always read Satan into the serpent in the Garden of Eden but that is not what any rabbi would say. It is not what the rabbis saw there. They saw a cunning animal. Now the scholar told us Satan's actually a minor figure in the Bible. Only appears 40 or 50 times. And one of the few times the word Satan actually shows up in the Old Testament the Hebrew Bible-- He appears in the Book of Job as you know. But in the Book of Job he is never a rival or an opponent of God. Right and in the book of Job he is not committing any evil acts. All he is doing is basically having an argument with God over whether Job really is faithful and really believes in God and what does his faith consist of. Yes that is right. He is an angel whose role it is to see whether Job is really loyal to God or not. He is saying well you think he is a perfect servant of yours but I can show you that he really would turn against you if he were not getting all these benefits. And he is called the Satan which means The Opposer. It is not a name. Wai