So John you are from Minnesota. Right? I am from Minnesota. John Biewen's a public radio guy makes documentaries. And he says growing up in Minnesota there was a way that people usually talked about the history of the state. And it is often told in a kind of light and self-deprecating way that northern Europeans came over and they staggered out onto the tundra and said oh this reminds us of home. And they did not know enough to keep going to some more pleasant place. And so they built their sod huts and laid out their farms. Sometimes there is an oh by the way Indians were here when we got here. It is either an afterthought or it does not come up at all. And there was always a sense too growing up in a place like southern Minnesota that nothing had ever happened there. Which John points out is completely weird. Southern Minnesota-- he is learned since he grew up there-- was the location of one of the major wars with the Plains Indians the US-Dakota War. It happened during the same period as the Civil War. More people died in that war than died at Little Big Horn or Wounded Knee. In fact John's own hometown-- Mankato-- was the site of the largest mass execution in US history of Dakota warriors. 38 of them were hanged by the order of Abraham Lincoln a little more than 150 years ago the day after Christmas 1862. And the place where that hanging happened it is right in the heart of downtown. I would have hung out at the mall not far from there a few blocks down the street. I would have ridden past that spot on my way to Pizza Hut with my buddies who knows how many times. And never-- it just never-- I did not hear about it. He says he does not remember it being taught in school or being mentioned at all his entire childhood by anybody even though this war is arguably the biggest event in the state's history. It paved the way for Minnesota to become the place it is today led directly to all the Dakota being kicked off their own land and expelled from the state under conditions that killed hundreds of them. And if anybody should have heard about it it should have been me. My parents worked on the McGovern campaign. They admired Martin Luther King. My dad was a high school English teacher who taught To Kill a Mockingbird. And every Sidney Poitier movie that came on TV they would sit us down and watch it. And I was raised to have a social-- look I went on to be a public radio reporter. I was going to say. Really how did you end up in public broadcasting?  I was raised to be aware of the nation's racial injustices. It is just that they all happened someplace else not in Minnesota. For the last 17 years John's lived down south in North Carolina. And he says that at some point the contrast in how people saw their own history down south really hit him. Not that people down south are sitting around reminiscing about Stonewall Jackson all day long. I mean that is really not the case. But there is a general and pervasive understanding in the South that something very big happened in the 1860s that shaped the place right up to the present. And that is what is missing in Minnesota. So a while back John Biewen started traveling around the state with two questions-- first what exactly happened back in 1862? And second-- Why do not we talk about it? Why have not we internalized this story in Minnesota into our understanding of the place? And so today the week after Thanksgiving we bring you this story of Indians and settlers. I found so many of the details of what John learned to be completely surprising. Maybe you will too. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. Stay with us. So now I turn things over to John Biewen. In setting out to understand what happened in southern Minnesota in 1862 I called up Gwen Westerman. She agreed to spend a few days with me driving around the state to the spots where it all occurred so I could tell the story here on the radio. We meet up in Mankato. I grew up there but have not lived there for 30 years. She is lived and taught there for the last 20 years. More people probably know about the town of Mankato than realize it. That is us in Gwen's SUV. Because in the television series Little House On The Prairie the Ingalls family lived in Walnut Grove. And whenever Ma and Pa wanted to get away from the kids they came to Mankato. Gwen's an English professor at Minnesota State University in Mankato and a member of the Dakota tribe. She is in her 50s like me. She grew up in Kansas part of the Dakota diaspora. A lot of her family was banished from Minnesota after the 1862 war-- not that she is always known that herself. See I grew up in Mankato a white kid knowing next to nothing about the bloody history that happened beneath my feet. Gwen got a teaching job and moved to Mankato also knowing nothing about that history. She found out later that some older people in her family did know. Then when I took the job here at MSU my father and my uncle would say well we will see how long you last there. But they never did explain why they had questions about whether I would stay here or not.  So December 26 1993 I had a friend who worked at the university. She said there are Indians coming. She was also Indian. She said there are Indians coming. Let us go see what they are doing. That is all she said? That is all she said. So I said OK. She came and picked me up. Gwen did not know it but she and her friend Kimberly were going to see the annual ceremony for the Dakota warriors who were hanged in the town square in 1862. They arrived late for the ceremony and stood in the back for the prayers and songs. They still did not know what the event was about. And then it was over. Kimberly and I got back in the car and she was driving. And she started to pull around the corner of the building. And I do not know if your parents drove fast on back country roads when you were small up and down the hills. We used to love it when my parents would do that because you would go over the top of the hill and then your stomach would kind of come up. But as we rounded the corner of the building my stomach came up just like that. And I started to sob. And Kimberly stopped the car and said what is wrong? What is wrong? And I told her I had no idea what was wrong. It was incredible sadness. I did not really say anything to anybody about that until a few days later when I called my uncle and explained to him what had happened. After I finished my story he was quiet for a long time. Then he finally said well my girl you are connected to that place. You are physically and spiritually connected to that place. Come on.  That is crazy. Yeah so I do not-- how do you explain it? I did not know what had happened here. After that she learned all about it-- how the Dakota chief who led the uprising in 1862-- Little Crow-- was the brother of her great-great-great-great-grandmother. Another relative Mazamani was killed in the last battle of the war. Now she is so steeped in it she co-wrote a book about the history of the Dakota people in Minnesota. The sign is faded-- Historic site to the right. On a gravel farm road an hour and a half from Mankato there is an oddly placed historic marker. Here? To find it you have to pull into somebody's driveway. The yard is sheltered by pine trees. We have driven on to a farm site with a classic weathered red barn and outbuildings a small house that looks newer complete with an American flag and a satellite dish. And then right in the middle of their yard is a marble monument. It is a short obelisk etched with the names of five white settlers who were killed here by Dakota men in August of 1862. This was the incident that started the US-Dakota War. Gwen reads a steel plaque that was put up in the 1960s-- The Acton Incident-- on a bright Sunday afternoon August 17 1862 for young Sioux hunters on a spur-of-the-moment dare decided to prove their bravery by shooting Robinson Jones. Stopping at his cabin they requested liquor and were refused. Then Jones followed by the seemingly friendly Indians went to the neighboring Howard Baker cabin which stood on this site. It is hard for me to picture the story this plaque tells. It says the Dakotas and the white man went to a neighbor's cabin-- right here where the monument is now-- and got into a target-shooting contest. Maybe that is what people did with passing strangers on the frontier in 1862. Then the plaque says the Indians suddenly turned on the whites and shot three men and two women dead. The Indians fled south to their village 40 miles away on the Minnesota River. There they reported what they had done and the Sioux chiefs decided to wage an all-out war against the white man. Thus the unplanned shooting of five settlers here at Acton triggered the bloody Sioux uprising of 1862. They decided to wage an all-out war against the white man. You shook your head at that part. I did. It is as if it were that there was nothing that led up to this. It leaves out so much. But it is a small monument. You cannot get everything on there.  To get some of the story that is not on the sign Gwen and I drive to a small museum. From the outside it looks like one of those wayside rest buildings. It sits on a highway 15 miles north of Mankato just outside the town where I went to college St. Peter. So this is our cleverly called Intro Room. Ben Leonard's tall and lanky. He directs this museum-- The Traverse des Sioux Treaty Site. I have been here since 2004. And for the record I am a 36-year-old white guy from North Carolina. Really? Our Carolina connection noted we have the required conversation about college hoops-- At a time when Duke basketball-- Then get down to the reason Gwen and I are here. This museum with its big central room of maps and panels gives the history that led to the 1862 war. First the basics-- the Dakota have lived in Minnesota at least 1000 years and maybe a lot longer. They vastly outnumbered any Europeans who showed up until the mid-1800s when white people started flooding in. And you can probably guess what happened next because it happened all across the country. The country's leaders going back to the founders talked bluntly about prying land out of Indian hands. I would never realized just how bluntly until talking to Ben. On the wall of the museum is a blown-up text from a letter I would never seen. Thomas Jefferson wrote it in 1803. Jefferson basically says look we want Indian land. But they are not just going to give it to us. So we have to motivate them to sign treaties. And the way that we do that is going to be to get them into debt. All right. How did Jefferson really say that? He said it hither-- the quote is here. To promote the disposition to exchange lands we shall push our trading houses and be glad to see the good and influential individuals among them run in debt. Because we observe that when these debts get beyond what individuals can pay they are willing to lop them off by the session of lands. So that is fairly matter-of-fact. It is pretty straightforward. That is what he said. And that is exactly what happened in the Minnesota territory. By 1851 the Dakota had come to rely on things they got from white traders-- guns food horses kettles and blankets and traps. They were deep in debt at least according to the traders themselves. And they were the ones keeping track. Here's Gwen. And the government calls them in again to say we will help you with your debt if you sell your land. Ben could you sort of sum up what was the deal essentially? If you look at a map of Minnesota today land-wise we are talking about basically everything south of Interstate 94. So we are talking essentially about the lower half of Minnesota. Plus some pieces of what would become Iowa and South Dakota. In two big treaties one of them signed very near to the spot where the museum sits the Dakota people traded away 35 million acres for about 3 million which was a better price than some other tribes got. The treaties set aside a reservation for the Dakota-- 10 miles on either side of the Minnesota River stretching for 150 miles a skinny strip in the middle of the vast territory the Dakota were giving up. They did not have much choice. They could see what was coming from the east-- a tidal wave of white settlers hungry for farm land statehood settlement. The white negotiators did not have to say it out loud but one of them did anyway. A guy named Luke Lea reminded the Dakota chiefs that the US government quote could come with 100000 men and drive you off to the Rocky Mountains.  A leading negotiator for the whites during these treaty deals was a man named Henry Sibley. Nobody was more important in the creation of the state of Minnesota. He would later become its first governor. The treaty could not have happened without Henry Sibley. To learn more about Sibley I talked to this historian. I am Mary Wingerd and I wrote a book called North Country-- The Making of Minnesota. And it is pretty much the definitive history of Minnesota up to and including the US-Dakota War is not it? Well I am not going to say that. But yes it is. Wingerd says Henry Sibley moved in from Detroit in the 1830s. He was just 23. The American Fur Company gave him a big job overseeing the southern half of what is now Minnesota. Sibley had a child with a Dakota woman. He understood the Dakota language. He went before Congress criticizing treaties that quote betrayed and deceived Indians. And as a young man he just relished spending his time with the Dakota. And he would go out and hunt with them and really fostered good relations with them. But the fur trade was a dying business. It was economically a dying business when he came here. By this time the region had been over-hunted. Revenues were down. And everyone from managers like Sibley to local traders on the frontier down to the Dakota men who did the actual hunting was in hock to the fur company who would advance them money for all the supplies traps and guns. Even though he may seem to be the big man in Minnesota he is buried in debt. By 1849 he was really looking around for some other way to make a living. But he could not get out of the trade until he could pay his debts. Because of his financial difficulties he really played the Dakota people false.  Sibley wrote to Pierre Chouteau who held most of Sibley's debt. He boasted to him-- The Indians are all prepared to make a treaty when we tell them to do so. And such a one as I may dictate. I think I may safely promise you that no treaty can be made without our claims being first secured. Sibley and Chouteau said the Dakota owed them a lot of money. Those are the claims he is talking about. And they saw the treaties as a way to get paid. The way it happened was pretty ugly. Take the treaty signed it Traverse des Sioux. The treaty was copied into the Dakota language for the chiefs to discuss. But their copy left out a key fact-- the government was not going to give the Dakota their payment in a lump sum as the Dakota wanted and expected. Instead the money would stay in the hands of the government to be doled out in much smaller annual payments-- not just in gold but also food and things like farming equipment. The treaty did provide 305000 in cash right away most of it so the Dakota could quote-unquote settle their affairs. After the signing of the treaty Sibley's allies took the chiefs aside to sign a second document. The chiefs later said they thought it was just another copy of the treaty. But in fact they were agreeing to hand over most of that 305000 to the traders all but 60000 to settle their debts. So the traders got their money. Sibley himself walked away with 66000-- more cash than the Dakota people got. Again Mary Wingerd-- That cleared him. That cleared his debts. That allowed him to get out of the trade. He has to know what he is doing. When he is faced with a moral dilemma of deal fairly with these people who have been my friends or take advantage of this opportunity to get out of this situation that I hate he chooses his own self-interest.  Did you get a trail map or anything like that when you came in? No we did not. We have some in there. Gwen Westerman and I have driven west out on the prairie for the next bit of the story-- the build-up to the war. We have come to the Lower Sioux Agency. This was the federal government's outpost on Dakota land near Redwood Falls Minnesota. Sioux was the white man's name for the Dakota. Oh yeah my name's Anthony Morris. I am a ninth generation Lower Sioux Mdewakanton. My family's been here for at least 150 years. We actually have a picture of my seven-times great-grandfather in the museum here. Morse is just 26. He wears glasses and a wispy beard. He directs the historic site. The government's two-story stone warehouse is still here surrounded by open grassland. In 1862 it was stocked with government food shipments for distribution to the Dakota. These were paid out once a year under the terms of the treaty. OK so in 1862 where they are coming off a bad crop year in 1861 there is a lot of bad feelings that are brewing. They are really waiting for that annuity payment in June. They are waiting for their food and gold. The local area here would really look about like it would right now. The annual federal shipment of gold and food promised in the 1851 treaty did not arrive on schedule in June. July passed and it did not come. In the decade since the Dakota signed away their land Minnesota had become a state. The white population exploded from 5000 in 1850 to more than 170000. Put another way in 1850 Indians outnumbered whites in Minnesota 5 to 1. By 1860 it was the other way around. And the Dakota were being squeezed into less and less space. Washington changed the terms of their treaties took half the reservation back and forced them to accept the new terms. This did not go down well. Minnesota's leaders thought that everything would be fine if the Dakota would just give up hunting which required lots of land and take up farming. Some did cut their hair raised crops. But as you would expect a lot of Dakota wanted to live as they always had. Dakota man had always been hunters. Farming was seen as women's work. Hemmed in on their skinny reservation lots of people could not feed themselves. By that August things were desperate. They were allowing their children to eat the unripened fruit off the trees because they had to eat something. However this unripened fruit would then make them sick. They would be even worse. And some people would end up dying because of these problems. Meanwhile the federal agent had food in the warehouse. But he refused to give it out to the Dakota until their full June payment arrived. Dakota men confronted a store-keeper named Andrew Myrick asking him for help or credit. What do you expect us to feed our families? And he said to let him eat grass. He considered them basically like livestock. They were considered animals to him. There are some versions of that story that say Andrew Myrick said let them eat grass or their own dung. In 200 years there had not been much violence between Indians and whites in Minnesota. But in August of 1862 Dakota country was ready to blow up. Maybe the only question was where would the spark come from?  That brings us back to the part of the story where Gwen and I began in that farmyard in Acton where the four young Dakota men killed the five settlers. There are other versions of the story. One comes from a Dakota who spoke with the four young men that do not include the Indians asking for liquor or the target-shooting contest. The story ends the same way though with five settlers dead. After the Acton massacre the four boys rode back to the Lower Sioux Agency. That is where their village was located. They went back to their chief and relayed to him what they had done in Acton. This is Anthony Morse again. And so their chief called a meeting with more chiefs and they eventually called a council with all of the chiefs of Lower Sioux at one of Little Crow's houses I believe. There they had their counsel on what they should do. Little Crow was one of the leaders who signed the 1851 treaty that turned out so badly for the Dakota. When the chiefs and some riled up young men showed up at his house in the middle of the night Little Crow said the white world would come down hard on all the Dakota not just the four men who'd been at Acton. A lot of the young warriors said the Dakota should attack first. Enough is enough let us drive the whites out. But Little Crow wanted no part of that. He would been to Washington D.C. In those days the government liked to invite American Indian leaders to the capital to show them how powerful the new white man's country was. Gwen Westerman my traveling companion is related to Little Crow. Like I said her great-great-great-great-grandmother was the chief's sister. She says Little Crow-- whose name in Dakota is Ta Oyate Duta-- was one of many Dakota trying to adjust to the white culture and find a place in it. And at this time Ta Oyate Duta was living in a house and farming trying-- And going to church. --and going to church. Had cut his hair. And he was trying to establish a homestead here-- because this is Dakota homeland-- in the hopes-- I think-- of being able to stay here. At first when the young men started calling for war what was Ta Oyate Duta's reaction his take? No. We cannot fight. We have a responsibility to stay on this land and to live. And he knew that if the Dakota went to war against the United States that all of that effort would be lost.  Everyone argued about what to do. Little Crow made a speech that his son years later recited to a lawyer who had it translated and written down. We asked an actor to read it. Braves you are like little children. You know not what you are doing. See the white men are like the locusts when they fly so thick that the whole sky is a snowstorm. You may kill 1 2 10-- yes as many as the leaves in the forest yonder-- and their brothers will not miss them. Kill 1 2 10 and 10 times 10 will come to kill you. Yes they fight among themselves away off. He is talking about the Civil War going on to the southeast. Do you hear the thunder of their big guns? No. It would take you two moons to run down to where they are fighting. And all the way your path would be among white soldiers as thick as tamaracks in the swamps of the Ojibwes. Yes they fight among themselves. But if you strike at them they will all turn on you and devour you and your women and little children. The young warriors called Little Crow a coward. His response-- Ta Oyate Duta is not a coward. And he is not a fool. When did he run away from his enemies? When did he leave his braves behind him on the warpath and turn back to his tepee? You are fools. Braves you are little children. You will die like the rabbits when the hungry wolves hunt them in the hard moon. Ta Oyate Duta is not a coward. He will die with you.  Most of Little Crow's band along with men from other Dakota bands decided to go to war. Historian Mary Wingerd calls the fighters a group of rash young men. She says this is a crucial point that is often missed when the story of the conflict is told in Minnesota. It is a complete myth that all the Dakota people went to war against the United States. So I have a little bit of trouble with calling it a war actually. I know that that is the preferred terminology now. But they would get the idea that all the Dakota agreed that they were going to go to war the way the United States would go to war. But in fact of course that was not the case. It was a faction that went on the offensive. And many people particularly the Sissetons and Wahpetons were opposed and wanted no part of it. Many men in those two bands did not fight. Over the coming weeks the war and peace factions had angry debates and almost went to war with each other. Gwen Westerman tells me her own family was split. And she is not sure who did the right thing. One of my three-greats grandfathers in 1862 was with Sweet Corn's band out on the prairie hunting buffalo. Another of my three-greats grandfathers was Mazamani who was killed at the Battle at Wood Lake. Another of my three-greats grandfathers was Ishtakhaba or Sleepy Eye who did not want to fight at all. The decisions that people made that allowed them to survive so that I could stand here today-- you cannot second-guess those. Coming up a prairie home explosion. And after it a prairie home expulsion. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Our program today for the week after Thanksgiving-- Little War on the Prairie the history of settlers and Dakota Indians in Minnesota. John Biewen first put this story together for our show a few years ago on the 150th anniversary of the so-called Sioux uprising and the war it led to. During that anniversary year a few years back probably more was said in Minnesota about these events than in the previous 100 years combined-- lots of newspaper articles and broadcasts and talks. Our guide to the story John Biewen grew up in Mankato. He now picks up the story where we left off before the break. So the morning after Little Crow's speech and after the murders at the Acton farm August 18 1862 several hundred Dakota warriors led by Little Crow started their assault at the federal outpost that sat on their land the Lower Sioux Agency. They took food from the stone warehouse burned buildings and killed about 20 men one-fourth of the whites at the agency. The dead included the storekeeper who said that if Dakota families were hungry they could eat grass. Again Anthony Morse who runs the agency's history center. Andrew Myrick's body was found. He was more than likely fleeing from his home to the tall grass and the trees. However he did not quite make it. And his body was found filled with arrows and with grass stuffed in his mouth. Most of Minnesota's trained soldiers were off at the Civil War. When word of the attacks reached a nearby fort some green unprepared soldiers came to help. The Dakota ambushed them killing almost everyone and sending the rest fleeing for their lives. From there the Dakota men fanned out down the river valley attacking the homes of settlers most of them unarmed. Joseph Godfrey was a young black man who lived among the Dakota. He testified later that fall telling how Dakota warriors he was with went house to house. This is an actor reading. Dinner was on the table. And the Indians said After we kill then we will have dinner. When we got near to a house the Indians all got out and ran ahead of the wagons and two or three went to each house. And in that way they killed all the people along the road. Some Dakota killed every settler they saw. Others killed only the men and took women and children captive. But many Dakota warriors spared and protected white people they knew. Even Chief Little Crow the leader of the uprising allowed a white woman named Sarah Wakefield the wife of a local doctor to take shelter in his house during the six weeks of the War. One Dakota woman who opposed the fighting named Snana took in a 14-year-old German girl who had been captured by a warrior. Snana traded him a pony for the girl. Snana wrote down her story in 1901. Turns out her daughter had died recently and she was heartbroken. The reason why I wished to keep this girl was to have her in place of the one I lost. So I loved her and pitied her. And she was dear to me just the same as my own daughter. During the outbreak when some of the Indians got killed they began to kill some of the captives. At such times I always hid my dear captive white girl. I thought to myself that if they would kill my girl they must kill me first.  The historian Mary Wingerd is a fifth-generation Minnesotan. She says for 100 years or more Minnesotans who heard the story at all heard a one-sided tale of savage Indians attacking innocent whites out of the blue. Now most historians like herself blame the war mainly on white double-dealing and bullying. But I also think it is a mistake to try to pretend that there was no wrongs committed by the men who rode against the settlers. A minimum 400 innocent civilians were murdered most of them who did not even have weapons-- women and children. The Dakota people were victims big time. But most of the people who died were victims as well. The people who would have been worthy opponents in a war were untouchable. Meaning the men in St. Paul and Washington D.C. who wrote then violated the treaties. The fighting lasted 36 days. Dakota warriors attacked New Ulm twice and looted and burned a couple other towns. White settlers turned into panicked refugees fleeing across the prairie. And the man appointed to lead a force to defeat the Dakota? Henry Sibley. You remember Sibley the fur trader who helped orchestrate the treaties of 1851. Well Sibley has no military experience whatsoever. But he does know the Dakota well. And he knows what great warriors they are. And he has the most hodgepodge troops ever. And he does not have enough weaponry. And so he is moving very slowly towards southwestern Minnesota. And of course every step of the way the newspapers are excoriating him. They called him a snail and a coward and the state undertaker because Sibley's militia showed a knack for arriving after battles were over to help bury the dead. They accuse him of not really wanting to go after the Dakota because he is really too close to them and all his sympathies are with them. So Sibley with his very thin skin is beside himself. And I think that that helps explain the really extraordinarily severe attitude he had toward all the Dakota people following the conflict I really think it was because he felt he was personally betrayed. Sibley had seen himself as a friend to the Dakota. He believed they could take up farming and co-exist with white people in Minnesota. But now even some Dakota he knew-- men who had started to assimilate-- were murdering settlers. In his letters Sibley was bitter. Quote A great public crime has been committed not by wild Indians who did not know better but by men who have had advantages intercourse with white men. In another he wrote Tame the Indian. Cultivate him. Strive to Christianize him as you will. And the sight of blood will in an instant call out the savage wolfish devilish instincts in his race. Years before all this Sibley had warned that if the federal government kept cheating Indians in treaties the result would be war. Now that very thing was happening in his own state. And he himself had helped convinced the Indians to sign those crooked treaties. But there was no indication Sibley took any blame says Wingerd. To me it is perfectly plausible that he could deny to himself that all the things he did really hurt them. And if only they would accept the route to civilization and become farmers they would be fine. If only they would do it this way they would be OK.  Altogether in the six-week war somewhere between 400 and 1000 white people died most of them settlers. Not as many Dakota died-- maybe 50 to 100 in the war itself. But payback was still to come. Our course then is plain-- the Sioux Indians of Minnesota must be exterminated or driven forever beyond the borders of the state. This is what Minnesota governor Alexander Ramsey said to a special session of the state legislature during the war in September of 1862. If any shall escape extinction the wretched remnant must be driven beyond our borders and our frontier garrisoned with a force sufficient to forever prevent their return. It is not surprising that white Minnesotans were enraged by the attacks. But things got extreme. A newspaper columnist named Jane Grey Swisshelm called for a bounty for Sioux scalps. And months later the state started offering 75 each and eventually 200. Chief Little Crow and a couple hundred of the most militant warriors had fled west out of Minnesota. The rest of the Dakota people gathered voluntarily at a makeshift camp on the prairie to wait for Colonel Henry Sibley. Most were women children and old men who had not participated in the killing. Here's Gwen again. There are letters back and forth between Henry Sibley and the leaders on the Dakota side where he specifically said come out under a flag of truce. You will be protected. I will protect you. You have my word. And like some other promises that had been made along the way-- That one was not honored either. The Dakota trusted Sibley's promise that only those who had murdered settlers would be punished. But the 1700 Dakota civilians were marched 150 miles down the Minnesota River a mini