From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. And in our show today we have two stories that have a lot in common but to explain the many things they have in common right here and now would reveal so many spoilers that I am going to say very little. Rather than do the kind of introduction I usually do right here all I am going to say is that each of these stories centers around some guy and the guy in each story has the right to remain silent and he does not exercise that right. Like they say in the movies he could take the easy way or he could take the hard way. And each of these guys goes way out of his way to take the hard way not totally realizing what he is getting into. And let us just get right to it. Act One. First Rule of the Apple Store Do not Talk About the Apple Store. At some point or another you have probably known somebody like this somebody who cannot resist the urge to talk back. Not out of principle but out of sheer chemical instinct. It is built into his personality. That is the guy in this first story. Ben Calhoun's the reporter. The guy in this story and he would tell you this himself he is a sarcastic jerk. He is honest that way. He will say he has no filter he has foot in mouth disease he is a loud mouth a big mouth. Like this is how he described getting kicked out of Catholic high school during his sophomore year. I cursed at a nun. My English teacher was a nun and one day she is screaming at me. Like we all know you are just some little thug hoodlum. And I was like we all know you are a  bitch. And they were like you cannot go to school here anymore. And I thought that was kind of ironic because they preach forgiveness. So what are some other instances where being like-- Being me got me in trouble? Yeah well just like-- mouthing off got you in trouble. Every day. I got tons from the army. I got tons from high schools. I got tons from my current school. I got-- relationships my parents. I do not know I am mouthy. The mouthy guy is a guy named Joe Lipari. And I should probably say this part of Joe's personality-- it does not always play badly for Joe. Like when he was in the army Joe talked back to a drill sergeant who was telling him to cut off his sideburns. Joe recited the military regulations on sideburn length from memory which made the sergeant mad but won over his battalion commander who became a friend and mentor for Joe. Joe also does stand-up comedy where mouthiness is encouraged. But those things the good things-- that is not why we are here. This thing that happened to Joe it started in September of 2009 when Joe needed a new cell phone. I switched to the iPhone with all my friends. We thought we were cool. And mine just never worked. It would freeze it would shut off I would charge it and then I would take it off the charger and immediately the battery would be empty of power. And it would just do all the things a computer should not do. So Joe made an appointment and went to the Apple Store. The staff did something they said should fixed the problem. And if it did not they said look just bring it back and we will give you a totally new phone. The next day the phone crashed on him again. So right after work I just go to the Apple Store. I get down there and that place is a zoo. It is a really pretty zoo. And so you get in there and walk up to the concierge that checks your in and stuff at the Apple Store the guy in the teal shirt. And any time I go up to any employee at a store I always-- because I have worked in retail many times growing up and whatever else-- I am always very nice like hey how is it going? How you doing? Having a good day? And he is like what can I do for you? I was like I was here yesterday. My phone's broken. They told me if I come back with it broken again they will just switch it out and give me a new phone. The guy said do you have an appointment? I said no I was here yesterday. They gave me the impression that-- just come and it is good to go. And he said well we are kind of busy. It is going to be probably about a two hour wait. I was like cool. I have a book. I am going to go sit over here. So 30 minutes go by. 45 minutes. An hour. Finally 90 minutes. 90 minutes and I am like they have got to be calling me soon. And I just went up and was like look it is been about two hours. Are we getting any closer to me getting up there? So he looks me up and he is like oh it is probably going to be about a two hour wait. I was like I have already been here for two hours. There is no way I am waiting for four hours. He was like well if you had an appointment this would not happen. That is what appointments are for. You get the appointment and then you get seen. And I was like slow your roll. And I shoved something off the table and I stormed out. Joe hopped the subway home to Queens and the whole way back even after he got home he could not stop thinking about it. How can I spend 600 for a thing that does not work? I do not make a lot of money. And so I was kind of steaming smoking a little pot like you do. It is medicinal I promise. And I was watching Fight Club. Fight Club was on TV. I want you to hit me as hard as you can. And I was just watching Fight Club chilling out trying to calm myself down. So Joe's on his couch-- a big puffy boat of a couch that presumably used to be white. Joe has his laptop. He is distracting himself by looking at Facebook and like he said he is watching Fight Club. And the scene from Fight Club comes on where Ed Norton's boss walks in with a piece of paper and he is like I found this in a copy machine. First rule of Fight Club is-- Second rule of Fight-- like do you know anything about this? Well I gotta tell you I would be very very careful who you talk to about that. Because the person who wrote that is dangerous. And this button-down Oxford cloth psycho might just snap and then stalk from office to office within an ArmaLite AR-10 carbine gas-powered semiautomatic weapon pumping round after round into colleagues and coworkers. This might be someone you have known for years. Someone very very close to you. I kind of took it and paraphrased it a little bit and my status was-- Joe's status on Facebook. --and I am reading it here Joe Lipari might walk into it Apple Store on Fifth Avenue with an ArmaLite AR-10 gas-powered semiautomatic weapon and pump round after round into one of those smug fruity little concierges. This may be someone you have known for years someone very very close to you. Just so you know I did ask Joe about his use of the word fruity here. And he told me that no it was not homophobic. He was just trying to describe the guy's demeanor. No I have a gay cousin. I am the least homophobic person in the world. In any case he types this thing into Facebook and he posts it. And that is that. For like an hour he just sits there feet on the coffee table. And I get a  'shave and a haircut two-bits' knock on the door. And I just think yay one of my buddies got in did not have to buzz great. Joe jumps up goes to the front door. Yeah without even looking through the peephole I swing the door open kind of go to lean on the door jamb and that is when I see that there is an officer here standing right in front of the door two behind him and one at the top of the stairs covering the high ground. These were not regular uniformed cops. They were the guys in street clothes the guys with black bulletproof vests. One of them had a machine gun. All guns drawn badges out cliche policemen sunglasses you know the whole nine yards. And the guy at the door's like are you Joe Lipari? And I was like uh yeah. Well you seem pretty nervous Joe. Well not every day a guy with an MP5 is knocking on my door. What can I do for you? Is everything OK? And he is like well you seem to know a lot about guns. It is worth stopping here. There was a perfectly good explanation for why Joe could identify the officer's machine gun something called an MP5. Remember Joe was in the military. He was a marksman in the army. And he could have said that. He probably should have said it. But of course he did not. Well me being a sarcastic jerk I go well I watch a lot of Bond movies-- which I giggle and they do not. What the officers did do then was searched Joe's apartment. And they were asking him all kinds of confusing questions like about explosives. And Joe he was trying to figure out why they were there in the first place. During the week or two before they had caught some terrorist or a wannabe terrorist in Queens. So maybe something in my building something in the neighborhood I had no idea. I am just trying to defuse the situation make jokes trying to show these guys-- I am not trouble. I could not be any further from it. Also remember while all this is going on Joe is high. Cops with machine guns are all over his apartment pulling out drawers and tearing things apart. He has no idea why and he is totally stoned. The one cop point at the marijuana on the coffee table and kind of snickers. And the other one is like well are you a big fan of the reefer? I said I kind of go through phases if there is a stressful day. And two of them go looking around and the one stays back with me. And he tries to buddy-buddy with me. He is like yeah I understand. I used to be an alcoholic. And in my mind I am like well it is not really the same thing but all right. And the one cop comes back. And he is like do you know what an AR-10 is? And I was like is that why you are here? I was almost dumbfounded-- in my mind I am like how in the hell are the cops here because of Facebook? Of all the dumb things I have done in my life. It is a joke. It is a quote from a movie guy. The movie's on in the other room. I can rewind it if you like. And then the one cop was like well we need to take you downtown for questioning. Homeland security wants to talk to you. I was like really? The cops escorted Joe downstairs and he saw that they were not alone. They would actually brought back up. There were two extra police cars with officers waiting in case the guys with the bulletproof vests and the machine gun needed help. They took Joe to a station in Queens and threw him into an interrogation room. Like in Batman where they leave the Joker. It is the same thing. All blank walls one mirror which is probably a two-way crappy table crappy chairs and one guy offers you coffee. And I am in the interrogating room for a good three three and a half hours. Just different people questioning me taking turns with me-- good copbad cop bad copbad cop good copgood cop. Joe was sure once he explained the situation they would see it was a mistake and everything would shake out. It was not until four months later that Joe understood he was in serious trouble. I brought a copy of the court records to our interview. Those are the actual charges against you. A PL240-60 and a PL490-20. The one is make terroristic threats and the second one is false report of a public building and place. Just to clarify because it is a little bit confusing Joe is charged with two felonies including making a terrorist threat. Joe says even today he is still not sure how something he posted on Facebook got him arrested. A popular theory with Joe's friends and family is that Facebook rummages through people's pages flags stuff and tips off law enforcement. Well I called Facebook. A spokesperson said flat out quote Facebook did not bring this to the attention of law enforcement. Facebook's policy is that they only turn over user content when law enforcement approaches them and even then only in extreme situations like when a child is abducted. Looking at the court records the actual answer about how the police got tipped off seems to be much more mundane and frankly kind of unflattering for Joe. The police report originated in Hawthorne New Jersey one town over from where Joe grew up. Which means it was probably someone Joe knew who did this-- someone who just dislikes him enough to report him for no reason or someone who actually thought he might do it. He had his first court date for all of this in January-- on the 15th a Friday. When the DA gets up-- or the assistant DA whatever you call them-- gets up and reads in front of the judge reads the charges and then reads the quote aloud in the court room-- and you could just feel everyone in the court room sink. Like you could hear a pin drop. In retrospect it sounds bad. And the judge even looked at me with a weird look. And I start giggling. When it gets to the AR-10 I giggle. The ADA was like the people understand that Mr. Lipari is a comedian and what he said is for the benefit of his friend. And so right there I am like so why are we even here if you understand it? If you understand I am just a schmuck that does not know when to keep his mouth shut why are we here? Since then Joe's been to court more than half a dozen times over this. And from the sound of it he has not been making things any easier for himself. By his own account he is given one or two speeches about the Constitution and about how the terrorists have won. Not exactly one to dress for court Joe recently got scolded for wearing Hawaiian shorts in the courtroom. Joe pointed to the guy next to him and said that guy's wearing sweatpants. This brings us to what might actually be the most remarkable thing about Joe's whole story which is this. Most of us learn at some point in our lives that we should not always say whatever impulsive thing we feel like saying. And if we did not learn that lesson by getting in trouble in school or making someone cry the day the cops showed up at our door with machine guns or the day we had to stand up in court and face felony terrorism charges over a broken cell phone-- those things would be a red light where we would stop and reevaluate. But has Joe reevaluated considered whether his life would be easier if he changed? No. I do not think so. I have not yet. No. Yeah I do not think I have ever gotten to a point where I am like oh man I am going to change who I am. No absolutely not. I cannot. I do not know how. Even if I wanted to shut my mouth more often I do not think I have the facilities to do so. Why not? I do not know. I cannot. I do not want to. I do not want to-- because some of the people who love me love me for that. The people who hate me hate me for that. So why am I going to worry about the people who hate me and not the people who love me? In the last few months the District Attorney's office offered Joe a number of plea deals. Some of them were pretty good. Most recently a misdemeanor with some community service. Joe rejected all of them. He wanted a jury trial. He was sure no jury would convict him. Finally Joe went back to court again. And it seems he kind of won. He is got what is called an adjournment and contemplation of dismissal which essentially means his case is on ice for the next six months. And then the prosecutors will drop the charges against him. There is of course one hitch to all that one thing that could ruin this and put Joe right back on the hook. During the next six months Joe's got to stay out of trouble.  Ben Calhoun is one of the producers of our show. Coming up another guy who is got no problem standing up to the police though in his case it is because he is the police. That is in a minute. From Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Our show today-- Right to Remain Silent. We have two stories of people who very much do not choose to remain silent. We have arrived at act two of our show. Act Two. Is That a Tape Recorder in Your Pocket or Are You Just Unhappy to See Me? Adrian Schoolcraft is a New York City policeman who decided to secretly record himself and his fellow officers on the job-- all day every workday he says for 17 months. Including lots of days when he was ordered to do all kinds of things cops are not supposed to do. It is led to a small scandal Several people removed from their jobs and four investigations of the New York Police Department. Though Adrian insists he did not get into this looking for trouble. His father is a police officer and I would say he went along with the program for a few years. This is the reporter who broke the story in The Village Voice about Adrian and what he recorded those 17 months a reporter named Graham Rayman. When I asked Graham what Adrian the person at the center of this scandal is like the first thing out of his mouth is-- I would describe him as an extremely earnest person almost-- in this cynical age-- almost to the point of almost too earnest. He actually believed that he could get the police commissioner to change certain things about how the police department was being run. Adrian Schoolcraft was working in Brooklyn-- precinct 81 in Bedford-Stuyvesant a rough neighborhood mostly black that was slowly gentrifying. The precinct is just seven blocks wide and 20 blocks long roughly and had 13 murders last year which is a third of what it used to be. Adrian's kind of an electronics buff and he bought himself one of those tiny digital recorders tucked it in his breast pocket and started recording-- as he walked his beat when he talked to other cops-- All right attention. Roll call. --morning roll calls. Enison. Here. Lewis. The only reason the thought entered my head was because-- to protect myself. This is Adrian. Like any other officer would carry a recorder-- was to protect themselves from any false accusations. Usually from civilians who are upset. How big was the recorder? Oh about the size of a pack of gum. The atmosphere at the 81st precinct was set by its commander Stephen Mauriello. When Mauriello showed up Adrian Schoolcraft says things changed. Offices were told to write more tickets do more stop-and-frisks arrest more people for low level offenses that they might otherwise let go-- get their numbers up. The pressure definitely increased when he arrived and took over as the commanding officer. The analogy I would uses is like having a boot to the back of your heel. It is do this or else. The rent's due. The rent's due? The rent is due. Pay the rent. Did you pay the rent last month? Pay the rent means did you get your numbers? Correct. Now it is perfectly legal for police to be told-- like anybody in any job-- here's the amount of work that we expect you to do number of tickets and arrests that are normal for somebody in your job in this neighborhood. But what is not allowed is to penalize police officers who do not make those targets. We do not want police officers under such pressure to deliver numbers that they make stops and arrests and write summons with no valid reason just to get their goals. Again reporter Graham Rayman. In other words as a police supervisor I cannot tell you you better give me 20 tickets a month or else I am going to transfer you to the graveyard shift. There cannot be a direct relationship between the two. That is just against the rules. It is against the law. Oh it is against the law? Yeah there is a state law against that kind of thing. But what was happening in the precinct and what the tapes show repeatedly is that they were tying it to disciplinary action. They were threatening the cops. If you do not hit your numbers you will get transferred you will lose your assignment we will change your partner you will go on a foot post you can be given a worse assignment. On November 1 2008 one sergeant declares at a roll call quote they are looking at these numbers and people are going to be moved. They can make your job real uncomfortable and we all know what that means. On December 8 2008 the sergeant tells the officers that if they do not get their activity up quote there is some people here that may not be here come next month. There is some people here that may not be here come next month. Because officially the NYPD does not allow numeric quotas to be tied to job performance you hear the supervisors in the recording sometimes get into real verbal contortions to get the point across. Like in this excerpt from a roll call the first month that Schoolcraft was recording June 2008. The XO was in the other day. I do not know who was here. He actually laid down a number. I am just going to repeat this because it is hard to hear. The XO was in the other day that is a commanding officer right? The Execuitve Officer. Or the Executive Officer. --was in the other day. He laid down a number. All right. So I am not going to quote him on that because I do not want to be quoted stating numbers. I am not going to quote him on that because I do not want to be quoted stating members. All right. He wants at least three seat belts one cell phone and 11 others. He wants three seat belts one cell phone and 11 others. What does that mean? He wants three seat-belt summonses tickets for people not wearing their seat-belt one cell phone someone driving in their car talking on the cell phone and eleven others there are dozens of other categories of summonses that you can give people. I do not know what the number is but that is what he wants. I do not know what the number is but that is what he wants. That is a really-- what does that mean? He is playing the same game. He knows he is not supposed to state a number but he wants to get his point across. So it is kind of like if you remember All the President's Men it is a non-denial denial. Adrian Schoolcraft says he is not exactly sure when but at some point he had decided that it was important to document the orders that he was given that he thought were out of line. He recorded roll calls where officers were constantly being told to do more stop-and-frisks even though it is illegal to stop a random person on the street and frisk them without reasonable suspicion. In December 2008 a sergeant tells officers to stop-and-frisk quote anybody walking around no matter what the explanation is. He recorded Stephen Mauriello the commander the 81st precinct-- and the person Adrian Schoolcraft says really brought the hammer down for higher numbers-- ordering the officers to arrest everyone they see. This happens in a couple of recordings like this one from Halloween 2008. Any roving bands-- you hear me-- roving bands more than two or three people-- He is saying any roving bands of more than two or three people-- he is talking about just people going around on Halloween night-- I want them stopped-- I want them stopped-- --cuffed-- --cuffed-- --throw them in here run some warrants. --throw them in here run some warrants. You are on a foot post?  it. Take the first guy you have got and lock them all up. Boom. You are on a foot post? F it. Take the first guy you have got lock them all up. Boom. We are going to go back out and process them later on I have got no problems-- --go back out and then we will come back in and process them later on. Yes. Yeah what he is saying is arrest people simply for the purpose of clearing the streets. Again Graham Rayman. He says the problem with that is-- There has to be a violation of the law to make an arrest. He is essentially making the arrest before the crime takes place. This is an example of something that I would say-- they are going out in the street and just grabbing people-- that is unlawful imprisonment. It is an illegal arrest. That is John Eterno a former New York City cop who went up the ranks from officer to sergeant to lieutenant to captain. He now chairs the Department of Criminal Justice at Molloy College and researches and writes about police practices with Professor Eli Silverman. And he says that some of the things that Adrian Schoolcraft documented on his recordings were no surprise to anybody-- like sergeants hounding officers to get their numbers up. That is been happening in every precinct for a long time he says. But for commanders to tell cops just lock people up and figure it out later-- Eterno says the word for that is kidnapping. That is exactly what it is. They are just pulling people off the street. It is an unlawful imprisonment and they are being kidnapped. If they do not have probable cause you cannot grab people off the street. It is kidnapping. At this point from what I am hearing on this tape it seems to me that this is probably illegal behavior that is taking place on the part of the police department. We were arrested they take us to the 81st precinct put us in lock up for maybe an hour or two. And they processed us and checked for warrants. And once they see no warrants they let us go but we were still issued a citation. Andre Wade has lived in the neighborhood for over twenty years. He is a commercial driver. One day he and two friends were picking up his brother to go to work together. They were standing on the sidewalk and a police officer came over and said they were trespassing. When his brother came down and confirmed no no they were there to pick them up Andre says the officer would not listen. He was just saying stuff like you know you are not supposed to be standing here. He started getting upset when we were trying to talk him out of giving us the citations. And it is like he just got out of control. He got real erratic and got on the radio. And the next thing you know we turn around and there is eight nine police cars. It was to the point to where you would think that somebody was getting arrested for murder or something like that. And they were just jumping out of their vehicles and me and my buddies already knew that we were in for a ride. The citation that the police gave Wade lists his name the day that he is supposed to appear in court but in the spot where it is supposed to specify his crime-- Yes in that field of the ticket there was nothing-- no violation. The violation was blank. One of the producers of our radio show lives in the 81st precinct. And she says that it is one of those neighborhoods where everybody has stories of ridiculous tickets. One of her neighbors was bringing his aunt home from the hospital and he double parked. Two officers told him to move his car and when he did not he was handcuffed forced to lie down in the street and tasered twice-- all in front of a crowd of people including her who live on the block and heard him calling for help. One common citation is for having an open container of alcohol. One neighbor says he was walking home from church with his six year old daughter drinking a small carton of Tropicana orange juice and he got a ticket for that. Others got tickets for water and Gatorade that was being given away at the park. George Walker has lived on the same block for over 40 years and says older guys like him get a lot of tickets. He thinks maybe they are targeted because they do not give the cops any fuss. He says he is gotten a dozen tickets this past year nearly all for open container even though he says he was not drinking alcohol. Every last ticket was dismissed. Every one was not a valid ticket. Because if you see someone drinking alcohol and you give them a ticket for open container you have to name what they were drinking. But if they cannot name it they just say cup with alcohol in it. But that is not the name of the alcohol so it gets dismissed-- because it was not alcohol in the first place. But they feel like they can do anything the want to us. So in this police station where everybody's obsessed with how many tickets they are writing-- where cops are told to pull people off corners and throw them in jail and figure out later what to charge them with-- comes Adrian Schoolcraft who had no interest in making his numbers. No I never tried to make anything happen. I went out there and you walk you beat. And whatever happened happened. When you would talk to other officers in the precinct did you have friends who felt the same way? Yes. And would they not get the numbers or would they get the numbers? They would get the numbers. It is easier. Especially if you have a wife kids. Then they are devoted to their pension and retiring. Do you not have a wife and kids? No. And so you would not go up to people just to give them a ticket? No. Because? It just was not right. I found I was getting along with a lot of the local business owners and I started interacting with the residents and they would tell me who the problems were. Now if you start messing with the residents and you start going into the barber shops and writing summonses that I do not feel police officers have any business writing-- they did not sweep the floor of hair-- these are the same people that could help you perform your job as a patrolman or a police officer. That was my philosophy and it did work. And so did you get a lot of heat for doing this? He  pressure from supervisors. What would they do? Well I think they considered the foot post punishment but I always enjoyed the foot post. But there is also hospitalized prisoners prisoner transports. So they would assign you to these lousy posts? Yeah. To get my mind right they would try those but I accepted those as normal duties as a police officer. But we still have not gotten to the most disturbing thing documented by Adrian Schoolcraft and his recordings. Schoolcraft shows over and over that sometimes when real crimes would happen serious crimes the 81st precinct would reclassify them as lesser crimes-- or simply not put them in the system at all-- to make it look like the precinct was doing a better job driving down crime rates than it really was. Again reporter Graham Rayman. There is a remarkable conversation that Schoolcraft has with another officer. And the other officer is just telling him three anecdotes of how the precinct commanding supervisor basically dumped three criminal complaints that should have been recorded. Yeah what are the stories that he tells? One is-- a young woman reports her cell phone was robbed and the precinct commander basically says-- --what do you want me to do? What do you want to do with this? What do you want us to do with this? How are we going to solve this? Are you going to get your phone back? You are not going to get your phone back. I mean he is like well what if we cannot get it back? He is like are you going to press charges? He basically talks her out of filing a complaint and that should be a robbery that should go in their numbers. And one of the other ones is-- the precinct commander responds to a report of a stolen vehicle. And his first question is he asks the victim have you done jail time? He is like you ever been arrested before? He is like yeah. And he is like what for? --which is not really a proper question to ask of a crime victim. But he asks it and the guy says yes. Yeah I did eight years in prison when I was younger. And the precinct commander says maybe karma stole your car. So you think maybe Karma woke up this morning and took your car? Karma as in the spiritual-- He was like no I do not think Karma takes cars. He is like I think somebody took my car. So he did not take his report because he is a felon? Yeah. Basically. In the end this cop tells Adrian their supervisor Stephen Mauriello told him to file the case as an unauthorized driver. --meaning that the guy loaned his car to somebody else who now has it. Then when the officer tried to file it that way because he did not have a name for the unauthorized driver he could not file it at all. So the robbery went unreported. Rules go into effect in the 81st precinct that make it harder to report serious crimes. Officers are told that if there is a robbery one of their supervisors has to come out to the scene themselves. And robbery victims are told that if they do not come into the police station no crime report will be filed at all. After Graham Rayman started publishing these stories about Adrian Schoolcraft retired cops and some on-duty cops started contacting him with their own anecdotes about crimes being downgraded from serious to much less serious-- the most shocking of these from a high ranking detective name Harold Hernandez. He is a very distinguished detective. He was working in the 33rd precinct in Washington Heights. And one morning he comes into work and there is a guy who is accused of first degree rape sitting in his interview room. So he sits down and he looks at the guy. And he has a little twinge and he says have you ever done this before? And the guy said yeah. And Hernandez says how many times? And he says oh I do not know seven or eight. And Hernandez says where? And he goes in this neighborhood. And Hernandez is now dumbstruck because there is been no report of a serial rapist-- sexual predator-- working the neighborhood. Like no crimes have shown up. People 