From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Well so the story starts where I get a call. It is interesting I remember this very well. I was sitting at my desk. This is John Diedrich a reporter who covers law enforcement for the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. I get a call. And it was from a landlord a guy named Dave Salkin. And Dave Salkin owns this place that he unbeknownst to him rented to the ATF. Did not know who they were they were undercover agents. And they had trashed his place and they were behind on rent. They had threatened him. And I said where are you I am coming right now. While they were undercover agents from the Bureau of Alcohol Tobacco Firearms and Explosives basically ripped up his place. Salkin said at the time that they owed 15000 in damages and back rent. Later he said it was more. When he tried to collect they did not pay up. In fact an ATF lawyer warned him that if he kept asking for the money it could be seen as harassing federal agents. So he took me through the place and he showed me the damage. There were door frames that were broken holes in the wall a toilet that had overflowed and ruined some carpeting on the floor-- they grew marijuana plants which later they got criticism from headquarters being an unauthorized prop-- and a bunch of junk that was left behind in the operation. What John had stumbled onto was an ATF operation of such blinding incompetence that it is kind of hard to fathom. The Attorney General later called what happened at this store and others like it very troubling. The ATF had set up a fake business a front in this out of the way warehousey space not near other stores. Raquel Rutledge was John's reporting partner on the story. It was called Fearless Distributing. And it was kind of a hip hop clothing store also sold some drug paraphernalia. But the real goal was to actually buy guns and drugs. To get the guns off the street and to catch people selling them illegally also to do drug busts. If you looked to be a real customer coming in to buy clothing from the store and so forth they would try to scare you away because the idea was they really wanted only sort of shady individuals that were willing to bring them guns and drugs. And so-- Wow a weird market to try to cater to. Yeah. It is not Retail 101. Their cover story was that they were a motorcycle gang from New York that had stolen all of this stuff off a truck. All this stuff the hip hop clothing that is. The agents would tell customers that they wanted to buy guns and drugs. And they left conversation starters like gun brochures and magazines lying around on the counters. And they distributed flyers with the store's logo which was a skull with angel wings made from assault rifles and knives with the words Buy Sell Trade wink wink. Federal agents actually ripped off the logo from the Sylvester Stallone film The Expendables possibly in violation of their copyright. The whole store was set up with secret cameras so everything that happened was filmed to use as evidence later. But right from the start like the most basic thing that you would think that the ATF would get right the price of guns even there they had problems. ATF policy was to pay whatever just to get the guns off the street. But that led to complications. Right. I mean when you looked at what the street value of these were they were paying really beyond well beyond retail well beyond mint value in these cases I mean to the point that people were able to go and buy guns from stores such as Gander Mountain and bring them right there. There was one gun that they paid 2100 for and just the day before the individual had bought it for 700 at a store. I mean it was really spurring folks to go out and steal. And neighbors we talked to around River West said they did also see an uptick in burglaries in their neighborhood. Wait wait. I just want to be sure that I have got this right. So they move in they set up an operation to buy stolen stuff and what that does is that it increases it creates an incentive for people to steal. And so they are creating crime. That is what we found to happen. Yes. Raquel and John found one guy Brandon Gladney who had no record of fencing guns before this. But they say he apparently started in the gun business because of the incredibly high prices that ATF was willing to pay for firearms. But so many other details about this operation seem poorly conceived. Like for example if their cover is they are starting a store why not have a sign or a storefront like a real store? Why pose as a white biker gang? Would that really fit in in a neighborhood that is mostly black people and hipsters? This thing was so suspicious. I mean OK so you are on a dead end street. There is no traffic that comes by. We did speak to the UPS guy who was coming through the neighborhood. This was interesting. And early on he said when the ATF agents first opened up he stopped in on them and said I am from UPS. I see you guys Fearless Distributing. I am happy to open an account for you. And the agent in charge quickly said no we are not going to be receiving or sending anything. And he was like but your name is Fearless Distributing. And so from the beginning-- How are you going to do the distributing without ever getting a package?  Yeah right. Right. For supposed criminals they did not seem too concerned with drawing attention to themselves. They threw barbecues and played loud music behind the building. Neighbors noticed customers walking in with guns and walking out empty-handed. And they were robbed. These agents whose job it was to get guns out of the hands of criminals had three guns that were stolen out of an agent's car while he was parked at a coffee shop. These included a fully automatic rifle. This is a machine gun the kind that normally only law enforcement and military can legally have. Not long after that the store itself was burglarized of 39000 in clothes jewelry and merch reportedly because the ATF had not bothered to do much to secure the store and just did not seem to care. Nobody was minding the store literally. The ATF had no working burglar alarm on their building. So it was sort of instead of a smash and grab it was just this sort of like slow burglary. The neighbors report at one point once they were able to get in-- again no burglar alarm-- they kept the door propped open with a shoe. And they were just kind of taking stuff out. And the word sort of spread. Hey this place is just open. Nobody's there. We can just go get stuff. And at one point they just pulled up a U-Haul. And they were just sort of emptying this. And this is over several days. And then even-- Renting a U-Haul is such a crazy move because is it means that somebody had to go and decide I am going to rent a truck. That is how slow this burglary is that you can do a rental. Yeah exactly. And there is no sort of concern that you are going to be busted at that point and just say OK I can only carry so much in my arms. Let us get something bigger. Let us get a U-Haul. The same day the burglary was reported an ATF ballistic shield the kind that they would use to raid a house or something was turned in by a scrapper at a Milwaukee police station. One item that was just left lying around in the store after the robbery for anybody to pick up and read-- it was there when reporter John Diedrich walked through-- was a secret ATF document listing the names of undercover agents their undercover vehicles from several law enforcement agencies in Milwaukee. After the burglary the ATF shut down Fearless Distributing. And what results did they get from their fake storefront hip hop clothing business? How many people were arrested? An ATF spokesman said it was a success quote in many respects. Over 140 guns taken off the street also 34 people were charged. But as John and Raquel point out these were mostly for low-level drug and gun crimes. Median sentence they calculated was two years. And nearly half the cases were dropped or resulted in no prison time. And despite having video surveillance John says the ATF incorrectly identified and arrested three suspects. And the alibi for one of them was that he was in prison at the time that they said that he was doing this operation on an ATF charge. So you know you would think that they would know they had busted him on an earlier AFT case. ATF would not tell the newspaper or us how much the operation cost the government. Things can get tricky pretty fast when you try to pretend to be something that you are not. To set up a fake gun-buying ring there are all kinds of details like you know get an alarm system for your fake fell-off-a-truck merch. Today on our radio show stories of people setting up fake operations in three very different settings including very surprising things happening at other ATF storefronts across the country. Stay with us. Act One WTF ATF? So a funny thing happened after John and Raquel wrote a series of stories about the ATF's fake business Fearless Distributing in Milwaukee. The United States Congress got involved. ATF came and briefed Congress. And they said this is a legitimate tactic that has worked well in other cities. And it is just a problem in Milwaukee. I acknowledge Mr. Chairman and members of the committee that there were deficiencies in our execution and management of some past activities in certain storefronts. This is the director of the ATF B. Todd Jones talking to the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. As recently as April of this year ATF and Jones were still defending ATF storefront operations across the country. Jones says that there were 37 of them since 2009. As a result of our storefront operations in Albuquerque Atlanta Milwaukee Pensacola Portland and Wichita over 250 defendants have been convicted and over 1300 firearms recovered. These convictions and the firearms recoveries undoubtedly made the communities and the people who live there safer. And so we said OK well let us test that premise. And that is when we looked around the country. And as we started looking really truly we came back to one other-- you are not going to believe this. I mean we were shocked. I do not think we expected to find this going on. Absolutely not did we expect to find that it would go on elsewhere because you cannot imagine this would be part of a playbook or an MO of a federal agency. So it was stunning to find. Had they been burglarized? Did they trash the landlord's place? We found in Portland the lady just said I am so glad you called. She said I have not known what to do. She said they left my place in shambles. She had photos of what they left it like-- I mean like a college fraternity or something. Just trash everywhere they tore out some walls and they rewired some stuff and caused a leaky roof. She estimates her damages were probably 20000 roughly 20000 25000. So that you think how does that happen? Is that again part of the playbook? Raquel and John looked into ATF storefronts in Wichita Portland Oregon Pensacola Albuquerque Atlanta and Phoenix. Some of the Milwaukee problems they found examples of in those other cities? Agents paying extra high prices for guns buying stolen goods criminals committing burglaries in the neighborhoods around the stores and then selling the stuff to the ATF. Raquel and John say that the quality of the convictions from these operations around the country the kinds of people that the ATF was catching were mostly small fry just like in Milwaukee. The ATF store in Pensacola was robbed just like the Milwaukee store was twice. Once surprising finding? Several storefronts were located near schools and churches. This came up in the trial of an ATF defendant in Lakeland Florida. The very first question from the jury when they were deliberating was is it legal for federal agents to open up a gun- and drug-buying operation within 1000 feet of a school because that seems illegal. That seems like that should not be allowed. That is what federal law is intended to do is keep those criminals who are bringing guns and drugs in away from the school. Yeah it is illegal for law enforcement to do that. But in Portland Oregon John and Raquel found the ATF agent who set up the storefront operation there said that when they rented their place he entered from the back and did not notice a school across the street. They said we did not know the school was there which is damning to their operational planning. How do you not know a school is across the street from your store? It turned out to be very helpful in their charging decisions later on. Helpful because? Well because selling guns or drugs within 1000 feet of a school a church or other protected place is an enhanced penalty. It is also eligible for federal prosecution. But probably the most outrageous ATF tactic that John and Raquel uncovered the tactic that seemed to horrify Congress the most was something they found in several cities. The ATF hired people at their fake stories who had a low IQs or were developmentally disabled mentally impaired and talked them into committing crimes like a 20-year-old in Wichita named Tony Bruner. So he cleaned up the store. He swept. He helped stock the shelves and so forth. And then as they talked to him they said hey can you go get us guns get us guns get us guns. And he trusted them. And they would buy him McDonald's and tell him he was doing a great job and keep leaning on him to get guns. He was not a gun dealer. This person was not anybody in the gun business. But he ended up being able to find some folks that could bring him some guns. And then they turned around and charged him. Charged him on 17 gun and drug counts. I mean even after the arrest Tony Bruner thought that he should call what he thought was his boss who turns out to be the ATF agents to help bail him out because he still does not because of his intellectual capacity-- limited-- he does not understand that they are federal agents and that he is in a whole lot of trouble. Tony Bruner pled guilty on one charge was given a three-year sentence. In Milwaukee at Fearless Distributing ATF agents hired a man who'd been brain damaged as a baby Chauncey Wright. Though to say hired implies that they paid him a salary. Like Tony Bruner Chauncey seemed to be working in violation of all federal and state minimum wage laws. Agents would just give him 20 now and then cigarettes clothing from the store an occasional beer or brat. They would also hang out together he says watch movies watch The Sopranos. Chauncey was closest to an agent that he knew as Mike. I called him Mike. Everybody else called him Chino. But he was cool to me. You know that was my guy. I felt plenty love coming from him you know. Chauncey says that Mike was a biker guy with tattoos. He first met him in the Walmart parking lot. Mike had a black Cadillac and asked Chauncey if he could help at their store. Chauncey would ride his bike all over Milwaukee to give out flyers for the store. I had a '52 Schwinn you know with a basket on the front of it. So I used to load up my basket. And I would ride from down around the east side all the way up to Mayfield Road you know what I am saying the south side all by like what you call it Target Walmart over there and I would go to Bayshore. I was just everywhere on that bike just trying to promote the store. That is how much I cared about the store. These are in fact the far corners of the city. I really pedaled it out for these people. So Chauncey start passing the flyers out to peoples and they wanted Chauncey to go out and let peoples know that they buy guns. And so I said Chauncey I said that do not sound good to me. This is Chauncey's grandmother Willie Campbell who he was living with. She did not like this job from the start. I knew there was something strange about it. Why would these guys set up some mess like that in this neighborhood you know? It was in a poor black neighborhood and white guys and what are you doing here? When the truth came out Chauncey was charged with eight federal gun and drug counts. He was in jail for nine months and sentenced to no more than six months of house arrest and four years of probation. The way Chauncey sees it he says that he was honest with the guys at Fearless Distributing. He was square with them. He put himself out for them. They should have done the same with him. If they could not you know tell him who they really work for he thinks that Mike should have just told him to stay away from the store not get involved. You know you could have just said you fired anything like that man. I mean if I would had a chance to talk to him I would be like man you know you could have told me I could get you know what is right from wrong because it is hard for me to understand what is wrong from right you know what I am saying? They knew that he did not know no better. And you a police. Ha-ha. That meant you supposed to be looking out for peoples. In response to our questions about this an ATF spokesman sent a statement saying quote ATF does not target specific people based on their IQ or other mental health status. He said the ATF works with groups like the National Alliance on Mental Illness to make sure that agents are properly trained to deal with people they encounter who are mentally disabled or impaired. In at least one city the way that ATF betrayed the trust of people who into their store so angered judges that agents were chastised from the bench. This was in Portland Oregon the ATF storefront operation near that school. An agent convinced two teenagers to have the name of their fake store Squid's which was also the agent's nickname tattooed to their necks with a picture of a squid smoking a joint so they would be like a walking advertisement for the fake store. Again here's Raquel. The judge in both in state and federal court for these two gentlemen admonished the ATF and just found it pretty outrageous and ordered the ATF to pay for the removal of those tattoos and said that is not conduct that they would expect out of federal agents. I do not understand. What does the ATF get out of two guys having the logo of their fake store on their neck? The more I talk to folks who have done this kind of work they said really it comes down to a lack of oversight and people just sort of losing perspective as to what you are there for and what you are trying to do. The ATF of course is the agency that before all this brought us the Fast and Furious operation-- you may remember that-- that allowed about 2000 guns to be sold to suspected gun smugglers. And then the agency lost track of most of the guns. Reporter John Diedrich says as best as he can tell ATF started lots of these storefront operations to generate good headlines about the agency in the wake of that scandal. In its statement to us the ATF defended the storefront operations but said that when it reviewed what happened at the Milwaukee store it quote found a number of deficiencies ranging from planning and oversight weaknesses to individual job performance issues. These matters have been fully addressed through a variety of major improvements put in place including strengthened policy and procedure increased national oversight improved training and revised procedures. They said quote The ATF has made many substantial improvements and strengthened accountability for local operations. The ATF probably never would have had to make those substantial improvements. They never would have been embarrassed in the press or chastised by Congress and the Attorney General. It might not have shut down all its storefront operations-- which by the way it did-- if not for one mistake. It seems so random this mistake actually. But I guess if you make as many mistakes as they made in these storefront operations any one might catch you. It was not the squid tattoos or the low-IQ employees or getting robbed over and over. It was not the way they caught and charged suspects. It was that landlord in Milwaukee. If they had not trashed his place or if they had just paid him promptly to repair it instead of fighting him over every penny apparently he would not have called the newspaper. John and Raquel say the whole thing might never have come to light. John Diedrich and Raquel Rutledge's coverage of the ATF there is lots more than this. It is at the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel website. If you Google ATF backfire it will get you there. Coming up if a Border Patrol agent is not actually at the border do you have to obey him? That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Every week on our show of course we choose a theme. Today's program A Front stories of setting up a business or operation that looks real but is it as real as a pretends to be? We have arrived at Act Two of our show. Act Two the border between America and America. So if you have not spent much time in the Southwest you might not know about this. But there are these Border Patrol checkpoints that are just like in the middle of highway interstates and other roads not at the border not even near the border. They are as far as 100 miles from the border. There are dozens of these interior or inland checkpoints across the country. They are mostly in California Arizona New Mexico and Texas. But now there are a couple in Vermont New Hampshire and Washington state. You know that you are approaching one of these checkpoints because the speed limit will suddenly drop to 45 miles an hour and then 25. You will slow down and you stop you see these orange cones coming up. And then often there is this big sort of tent-looking structure like right in the middle of the highway. And then you stop and you are right in the middle of the highway. And an agent in uniform an armed agent walks up and asks you questions like are you an American citizen? Sometimes he asks to look in your trunk. All this so they can catch undocumented immigrants and drug smugglers. Reporter Debbie Nathan used to go through these checkpoints regularly when she lived in El Paso back in the '80s and '90s. And not long ago she discovered something that made her see these checkpoints in a whole new way. Here's Debbie. I had to go through the checkpoints a lot on Interstate 10 or I-25. And I dutifully complied. I did not joke around. I answered their questions. If they asked to look in the trunk I popped the latch. I treated checkpoints like TSA screening at the airport. And then about a year ago I ran across this video on YouTube that made the checkpoints seem less like serious law enforcement and more like the sitcom Reno 911. It started with a guy in a red polo shirt filming himself as he rolls up to a checkpoint on Interstate 8 in California. What is up man? How you doing today sir? Good. Are you a US citizen? That is my business. Well it is our business to ask. Are you a US citizen or not? You can ask. That is fine. And you have to answer me or I will have to detain you until you can either tell me that you are a US citizen. Well I do not have to answer you because I have rights as an American. Sir go ahead and pull over there behind that other vehicle if you would do me a favor. Nah no thanks. The video was called Top DHS Checkpoint Refusals. DHS of course stands for Department of Homeland Security under which US Customs and Border Protection operates. Refusals means just what it says. I watched as one driver after another approached the border agents greeted them politely and then proceeded to be 100 uncooperative. How you doing? US citizen sir? Respectfully sir I do not have to answer that question. All of them refuse to answer questions or comply with commands. Can you park your car right up there by those orange cones?  No. They will sit in the main lane for traffic while cars back up behind them refusing to pull off the highway to a secondary inspection area or secondary for short. Where is the border at? It is about 50 miles that way sir. 50 miles? Yes sir. Did I cross it? The refuseniks say these stops are illegal unconstitutional. Many cite the Fourth Amendment which just to refresh your memory prohibits unreasonable search and seizure. And technically these non-border Border Patrol checkpoints do constitute a seizure. If you are stopped you have to wait for the agent's permission to continue on your way. Do you mind rolling down the window please? That is as much as I feel like rolling it down sir. Excuse me? That is as much as I am going to roll it down sir. That is as much as you are going to roll it down to? Yes. OK. Can you shut off the vehicle please madam? Can you please shut off the vehicle? That would be no. But the really crazy thing is that after several minutes of being stonewalled the agents finally just give up. You can call their bluff refuse to cooperate and continue on your way. Well go ahead go. Go ahead and go where? Keep going on the road. OK. See you later. I have developed a serious obsession with these checkpoint refusal videos. There are thousands of them on the internet now and more are posted all the time with names like Illegal Checkpoints in America Because This is America. At least once a week I sit down and search for the new ones. I have made my husband watch with me and definitely bored some of my friends with them. I love these videos partly because they are just terrific theater. Each driver has an individual style. Their personalities come out. Some are mellow when they confront the agents. So who are you with? The US Border Patrol. What border am I on? Um it is-- you are currently near no border. This is just a border control checkpoint. I am in the United States right? Yes. So what is going on? Others get angry in all the different political and psychological flavors of angry you can imagine. Some are Libertarian angry some are human rights angry some are Tea Party angry. There are simmering-just-under-the-surface angries and big-bountiful-bombs-bursting-in-air type angries. We will not bow down to the illegal authority of the Border Patrol when we are not at the border. We are not at the border. You are 80 miles inside Texas. You have no authority. Calm down. Are there any weapons in the vehicle sir? Calm down. It is a stunning display of grassroots democracy in action all these everyday folks with no organization all questioning arguing debating their freedoms on the open road. Then there are folks who simply outwit the border agents. The guy in the red polo shirt who you heard earlier-- the first one I ever saw-- is actually an evangelical pastor named Steven Anderson. This is how he got through a checkpoint back in 2011. As usual the agent asks him US citizen? US citizen? Hey actually a more important question than that you know it is asked one time in the Bible it is what must I do to be saved. And they said believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved and thy house. So if you have got about 10 minutes I can walk you through that in the Bible and show you how to be saved. I cannot right now. I cannot right now. You cannot. Now is not a good time? Nah not while I am at work. OK. All right. Have a good one sir. Thank you. Yep. See you later. I just want to point out that most of the challengers you have heard from so far are white men. From what I have seen in the videos Latinos are hassled a lot more at checkpoints. The questioning is more suspicious. It goes on for longer. I saw one where parents were asked for their kids' birth certificates. And when Latinos are asked their citizenship they answer like yes I am here legally. Are we done? Where were you born? I was born in Waco. OK so are you a United States citizen yes or no? Yes sir I am. But the agents want this guy to pull over into secondary that secondary inspection area off the highway. And that is what Latinos challenge frequent and prolonged detainments and searches. They think they are being profiled and they want the agents to admit it. Park right there. What is the reason? This is an immigration inspection. I am asking you now-- Why am I being inspected though? Park right there. Why am I being inspected? Are you a lawyer or what? No. I am asking why-- We are asking the questions here. Park over there. Why am I being inspected though? I had the same trouble last week. I mean why am I being inspected? Because I do not want-- We have suspicion of something going on. Park over there. All we need is-- Mostly checkpoint challenge videos are supposed to be gotcha videos. But half the time the agents actually seem calm and reasonable. And very rarely-- in fact I have seen this exactly once-- an agent congratulates the challengers for exercising their rights. In that video four kids who are maybe in their teens chewing gum roll up to a handsome young agent. He asks them if they are US. citizens. All they say is-- We are free to go? Am I free to go? Yes. You know what you guys are awesome for exercising your constitutional rights. I totally respect that. Cool. Thank you. A lot of the guys who come through here they are jerks to us and you know we do not appreciate that. But I totally appreciate you guys who are respectful. You do not want to talk and we cannot force you to do it. You guys have a good day. Thanks you too. You too sir. The friendly agent is right. By law the Border Patrol cannot force you to answer their questions. But there is a lot of confusion about the legal side of this by both the drivers and the agents and lots of videos where both sides get it wrong. So after reading up on case law and talking to four lawyers here's a quick rundown of your rights. Yes you have to stop at a checkpoint. But according to the Fifth Amendment you do not have to say anything whether you are in the country legally or not. You do have to pull over to secondary when asked but again a lot of drivers refuse to go to secondary. In their arguments with one another drivers and agents tend to refer to two main documents. One is a Supreme Court case called US versus Martinez-Fuerte. It was decided in 1976 and says many times in many different ways that the checkpoints are not that intrusive especially compared to how important they are from a law enforcement standpoint. Justice Lewis Powell gave the opinion announcement back in '76. We hold that stops for brief questioning routinely conducted at an official checkpoint are wholly consistent with the Fourth Amendment. The intrusion on privacy and the limitation on freedom of movement in these situations are minimal. So anyone who says it is illegal i.e. unconstitutional to screen for undocumented people at a checkpoint they are wrong about that and a lot of challengers say it. I do not recognize or legal authority to ask me that question. And not only that but I think it is unconstitutional. A lot of the challengers. Read the Constitution. Understand-- understand me sir. Seriously man. Understand this. Read the Constitution. And if you do not happen to have a copy on hand-- Here's a copy of the Constitution of the United States. Here's a copy of the Constitution. Of the Constitution? The other document that gets cited a lot in the checkpoint videos is the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 or the INA. But some agents misinterpret that too. What right do you have what cause do you have to suspect me here to pull me over? Section 287 of the INA says-- Says what? Says that you must talk-- Answer all the questions you ask me? No it does not. It says I have to stop. I am here stopped and I am free to go on my way. The driver's right. The INA does not explicitly say you have to answer their questions. Other fun facts-- if agents ask to search your vehicle beyond just looking through the windows if they want to look in your trunk you can refuse like this driver did. So-- so you are saying that there is probable cause because-- Not probable. Reasonable suspicion. There is a difference. OK reasonable suspicion because I refuse a search? Right. That is giving me reasonable suspicion that you could be hiding something or else you would be sure why not? How is that so? It is not so. For one thing to justify a search agents need more than reasonable suspicion. They need probable cause that is a good reason to believe a crime is being committed. And this is important. Refusing to be searched saying you cannot look through my trunk that is not probable cause. Neither is looking Latino. The Supreme Court and the INA only authorize agents to search for undocumented immigrants. These days they also search for drugs contraband and terrorists. Recent case law has allowed for this. It is legal. In terms of whether checkpoints work or not wheth