Dave was in his late 20s and it would not be accurate to say that he was living at home with his parents but only because half the time he was staying at his sister's house. He was playing in a band doing some writing not making much money and his parents were worried. And one day he was hanging out with his mom. We were coming home from going ice skating together which right there you can see that out. To be fair I like ice skating. I am a quarter Canadian. Wait wait wait. You can see what? What does that show that you went ice skating with your mom? Well most guys after a certain age would not go regularly ice skating with their mom to like  sessions where you are skating arm in arm around. I mean this is the sort of stuff I would do with my mom like pretty regularly. So they pull into the driveway. Dave's mom tells him there is going to be a benefit for this retirement home for nuns and priests. His mom's an old school Catholic who goes to mass every day. And she says it is going to be at a hotel in downtown Cleveland. They live in Cleveland. And Maureen McGovern who sang the theme to The Poseidon Adventure back in the '70s was going to be the entertainment. And she is like so I am getting tickets. So let me know if you want to go. And I said no I do not want to go. And then so she just said OK well just let me know then. She is like because I have to get the tickets in the next couple of weeks. And I figured I did not give it any thought but then it kept coming up over and over. Like let me know the benefit is coming up and I need to buy tickets. So are you going to go? And I said no. And she said all right well I need to know by next week if you are going to go. And this just went on and on for a couple of weeks. This was a big thing. My mom kept saying like and there will be nuns and priests there. Like they are going to get some of the old nuns and priests from the retirement place out. You can walk up and touch them and stuff. I do not know why she made that a selling point. Maybe that was a selling point for her. Maybe she likes nuns and priests. She does. And she knows some of the old ones from back in the day. Oh yeah she is super into nuns and priests. And these were not just the regular nuns and priests that she see's everyday on the ball field. These are some of the older players. You have the cards you know but you never see out of the stadium anymore. Yeah exactly. It was like the fantasy league. Like Father Mackey from St. Anne's in 1952. So there is a lot of that going on. And then somewhere along the line my mom brings up the fact that a priest that used to teach at my high school when I was there Father Dennis was recovering from two heart attacks. And so she is like you know I ran into Father Dennis up at church. And I was telling him about the benefit. And he was really into it. Yeah I bet he would like to come to this benefit also. Why do not you bring him? And I was like I am not going. And she is like well I already told him you were going to call. So Dave realizes he is trapped. Checkmate. He is going to have to at least call Father Dennis. And Father Dennis was he just like another teacher at the school or was he somebody who you especially liked? I liked him. Yeah I mean I knew him. He ran the choir. Yeah I thought he was a great guy. He loaned me his guitar. He played guitar. So it was not like we had kept in touch or anything. You know I had fond memories of him. But I had not seen him in years. So he gets Father Dennis on the phone and they agree that Dave is going to pick him up and they will attend the event together. Comes the big day it goes exactly as you might imagine a lunchtime fundraiser for retired nuns and priests in a hotel in downtown Cleveland with Maureen McGovern singing usually goes. Now there were a couple of wild card moments to the day that I will run through quickly for you. First Dave runs into a friend at the event from grade school-- now gay-- whose Dave mom is convinced that they should set up with one of Dave's sisters even though Dave tries to keep explaining to her that Guy is gay. And she thinks that I am being mean insulting him by calling him gay. I am like no he is a gay man. That is fine. And just explain to me why it is not going to work out? Second the luncheon buffet turns out to be mostly fried foods. None of which can be eaten by Father Dennis who is still recovering from his two heart attacks and requested a special low fat meal. Though Dave's mom has come prepared for this. She sort of like looks around real quickly and then reaches under the table. And she snuck in a bag of bread and like sandwich meats thinking that we could just make some sandwiches for him at the table. And I am just horrified. Father Dennis tells her very politely thanks but no. He does not want a sandwich. And eventually the waiters do arrange for him to get some sort of meal. At their table are some very old people Dave's parents Dave and Father Dennis. There is no drinking which Dave says might have really helped things. And after a while Dave and Father Dennis have run out of small talk. So it is getting quiet and we are sitting next to each other. At some point Father Dennis turns to me and he is sort of like you know I do not know. Normally I understand why I am somewhere. If I am invited somewhere I know why. But I guess I do not know. I do not know why I am here. I am really confused. I do not feel any connection to this. And I was just like what? What do you mean? I thought you wanted to be here. I thought that was the whole thing. That is why I am here. I thought you wanted to be here. And he says no. Your mother told me that you wanted to be here and that you really wanted me to go. So I thought that I should do it for you and your mom. And we are just sitting there like oh gosh. We have been just duped by what I thought was a really nice lady. My mother just tricked us into this. Did you ask your mom afterwards about the whole thing? Yeah. And did she explain what she was hoping was going to happen once she got you and Father Dennis together? No she just kept saying like oh I just thought it would be a really nice time for you. For both of you. She was very invasive about it. And I confronted her saying do you think like that I am going to hang out with his priest and then I am going to want to become a priest? And she is like no. She would not admit to that and that is maybe-- But you think that is what it might be? Like in the back of her mind she is just like maybe you are single you are in your late 20s. Maybe you should be a priest? Maybe. Or at least have some sort of like priestly influence. I think there was like a bigger thing but she will never tell me. Dave says this was par for the course. His mom often mystified him. And a certain amount of her parenting of any parenting really is putting your kids into situations you know are going to be good for them whether they like it or not. Or even whether they understand it. There is been a number of things over the years that I just could not wrap my head around why she was making me do it. And I really thought she was torturing me. Like what? She made me take typing lessons that I could not fathom why. I was like 13-years-old 14-years-old. It just seemed just random like here's something that I will hate. I will just make him do it. And like now literally like it did not even hit me until like the last few years when I realized that a huge part of everyday for me I am typing all the time. I remember seeing that one day and be like oh my God. That is why she made me endure that horrible summer of typing lessons. Literally 20 years later I figured it out why she did that to me. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Today on our show The Parent Trap stories of parents doing their best to be good parents and do right by their kids by putting the kids into situation that they believe will be helpful. Our show in two acts today. Act one Letter Day Saint. David Segal has the story of a mom doing something that you would expect and hope a mom would do give her kid a little advice. Act two The Opposite of Tarzan. We are very very excited to have a brand new story from the amazing team that does the show Radiolab. This is a story about interspecies parenting. Stay with us. Act 1 Letter Day Saint. Sometimes a parent can do something kind of extraordinary really above and beyond what most people do with the best of intentions just looking out for their kid. And do I even need to say that they can have all kinds of unintended consequences. David Segal has this example. In 1991 Elizabeth Gee was dying of cancer. And as she thought about the time she had left to live she worried about her only child Rebecca. Then 16 years old. And she discussed her worries with her husband. She just looked at me one night. I mean she was hooked up with all of this stuff. This is Gordon Gee. And she just looked at me. She said you know I really feel that I need to continue to be an influence on Rebecca's life and continue to be part of her life. She knew she was terminal. She knew that she only had about a month to live. And she made this discrimination that she was going to write letters to her daughter. Specifically birthday letters. The plan she told Gordon was this. She would write letters that he would send to Rebecca one per year every year on December 4 Rebecca's birthday. The letters would be sealed and for Rebecca's eye's only. There were 13 of them. Each tailored for a specific birthday. Plus a letter for the day of Rebecca's wedding. Rebecca did not know any of this until the first letter which she read the day she turned 17. To a daughter reeling from the loss of her mother it was the ultimate birthday present. She said in one of my first letters that these were a way to connect to her. That all I had to do to connect to her was to open a letter. And then she would be there. One of the early letters arrived on a birthday at college when she was feeling particularly isolated. And this letter said basically you will never be alone. You will never be alone. You will always have me. And I just remember feeling this incredible feeling of peace. It almost felt like getting a letter from someone who was alive. It happened the same way every year. Gordon a college president for most of his professional life now at Ohio State University would overnight a sealed envelope adding a brief card of his own. And every year Rebecca went through a birthday letter ritual. Usually sometime in the afternoon before dinner I would sit down and open it and read Dad's note. Feel the page look at her signature. Usually it would be the first thing. And think gosh that is just so amazing that she is gone and I am looking at her signature and it is saying I love you. And then I would read through it. Each letter was about 2000 typed words on thick white paper signed by hand You are the sweetest girl in the world. Or just Love forever Mommy. Elizabeth told Gordon that she wanted to describe the world as she saw it and as Rebecca would see it as a young woman. And she does so in the letters with a mix of pep talks moral instruction autobiography and parental affection. Often she focuses on what was happening to her on the age Rebecca would be when she opened each letter. So when Rebecca turned 21 Elizabeth described a dress she owned when she was 21. Quote You would not believe what I wore. A black fake fur suit with a pink top and the plastic ping pong earrings. Everyone thought it was fashionable but I laugh when I think of it. A lot of the letters are advice on how to live. Quote Most children benefit from the simulation of daycare she writes. Urging Rebecca not to give up her career when she has children. Quote You are not a uni-dimensional person. Under that balance you will be frustrated. And her mother had high expectations. In one letter she asks her daughter Are you contemplating a dissertation? Interviewing with scientific laboratories or NASA? Traveling to excited places? Rebecca pushed herself to meet those expectations. In college when her friends were out drinking she stayed in and studied. Other kids might have found this all a little too heavy Rebecca found it inspiring. For example when I decided I did not have the confidence to go to medical school and I was not going to do it the letter that year basically said you need to find ethical expression in your work. She ended up going to medical school. There was just no way I could have become a banker in the setting of these letters. I mean not that bankers do not have ethical expression but for most of college I think I had this enormous sense of purpose that I had a responsibility to do something meaningful. Both to me and to other people. As galvanizing as these letters could be they could also be upsetting. The first person to fully appreciate how upsetting they were was her father. He was the one who dealt with the fall out. He saw that keeping his promise to his wife meant causing his daughter emotional distress. And on her birthday. It was as if I could predict the sunrising. Rebecca would get the letters and then I would receive either that night or the next morning a very tearful telephone call about how much she missed her mom. And I would have these prolonged telephone calls. What sort of things would you talk about? Well I mean she would just say she is sad. You know very sad. I wish my mother had been able to live. And been able to be here for me when I needed her. And been able to go shopping with me and all the kinds of things that I think any young woman would love to have her mother do. And you can imagine that was very difficult for me. Toward the end of her college years the letters were difficult for Rebecca for another reason. One of her mother's regular theme actually you could say it was the dominant theme was religious faith. The Gee's are Mormons and to her mother staying close to the church was essential. The most important thing for her was that I be a Mormon woman in the way that she wanted me to be. Which was a woman that went to the temple. A woman who married a Mormon man. A woman who believed all of the Mormon theology. By the time Rebecca was a senior in college she was moving away from the church. So she worried a lot about disappointing her mother who in the letters was constantly imploring her to stay. Quote You must always have the goal of going to the temple. For there you receive great gifts. It is in the temple that we are joined in eternal bonds and powers that will unite us in the world's beyond. In another letter she wrote You will make good life choices. I know you will. But no matter your choice never lose sight of the temple for me please. By age 21 after a few years of getting these letters and going through a process where I realized this right not going to be in my life sometimes I would feel angry. And I remember at age 21 thinking man do I have to open up this one this year? This is tough. I do not want to do it. And my friend saying well why do not you wait? We will go out to dinner. Maybe open it up tomorrow. And I felt guilty. And I remember feeling like if I did not open it up I would really disappoint her. And yet then I open it up and it is all about I hope you marry a Mormon man and I hope you go to the temple. And if you do not go to the temple you will not go to heaven. You are not going to see me. And I am not doing it. And that is a pretty hard thing to hear on your birthday. Gordon was devout but he could listen to Rebecca's reasons for leaving the church and came to accept them. Her mother could not do that. And in the three-way conversation that is part of any relationship of child mother and father the voice of Rebecca's mother always spoke the loudest. It might seem strange that the deceased parent had the most sway but her mother's opinion was fixed. There is no arguing with her. That haunted Rebecca. And while Gordon found himself reassuring his daughter the comforts he offered were always trumped by Rebecca's memory of her mother. It is difficult to compete with a dead spouse or in this sense a dead mother. Because I am here and I have all of the frailties of who I am. And over time obviously her mother became very iconic. In many ways very perfect. And clearly could do no wrong. And I mean I never did say this to her although I have joked with her a couple times. You know who am I chopped liver? Because the letters were written exclusively for Rebecca Gordon thought it was inappropriate to ask too many questions about them. For the same reason Rebecca never volunteered to share them. Father and daughter were just following a set of instructions. As outdated and as trying as those instructions were. Over the years as he dealt with his daughter's anguish Gordon tossed out some hints the perhaps it was a bad idea for him to lob these annual grief bombs into her life. I did on several occasions I just said you know you have to remember that your mother was very ill. And that she loved you very much. But I am not quite certain how healthy this is to have these letters and I said that to her directly. And I have said that to her on several occasions. And because it was very hard on me. It would really break my heart when I would hear her be so sad. But Rebecca never seemed to pick up on her father's hints or his misgivings. As painful as the letters were she felt as though she had no choice but to read them carefully. So Gordon sent them all though he was conflicted about it enough that he actually delegated the FedExing part to his secretary. All of this letter related dread culminated with Rebecca's wedding which happened in 2006 in an Episcopal church. But Rebecca and Gordon suspected the letter Elizabeth wrote for Rebecca's wedding would contain her longest course yet on the importance of marrying in a Mormon temple. Which is why both father and daughter told me they were secretly relieved when the letter which Gordon's secretary says she sent vanished in the FedEx system. I remember thinking if there is one for my wedding I definitely do not want to open it on my wedding day. Because I really want my wedding day to be happy. And I do not want to sit I do not want to cry. That day in particular did not want the letter to be a part of it. Because all the birthday letters had been sent the wedding letter would have been the final letter in the series. Was there part of you when the letters ran out that felt relief? Yeah I think so. I think that without a doubt it was an opportunity to move on. On the other level this was the last kind of visible written tangible connection that she had with her mother. It is almost like another death? Right. And I think it was to her in many ways. But it was also a new beginning. For the first time Rebecca began living a life that was not shadowed by a looming reminder of her mother's unmet hopes. Rebecca had become a physician. And she married a doctor named Allan Moore whom she had met in residency. It was a very happy marriage and it ended tragically a mere 18 months after it started when the couple was hit by an SUV while riding a Vespa. Rebecca was severely injured and Allan was killed. For the second time in her life Rebecca was forced to cope with a devastating loss. But this time was different. She spent her months of physical rehab contemplating and writing about her memories of Allan. And I remember thinking to myself this is how it should be when you grieve for someone. You should remember the beautiful times the things you shared. You should celebrate that person but you should not be dragged back into the grave with them every year. Why did she do this to me? Rebecca says a year and a half after her husband's death she feels like she is farther along in her grieving for him than she was 10 years after her mother died. I mourned my husband's loss Allan's loss. I love him but I am moving on with my life as he would want me to. I think to have letters from him for my birthdays or a yearly would make it harder for me to move on. At the same time the letters her mother sent were so essential in forming the person that Rebecca became it is hard for her to imagine growing up without them. In the end would I have wanted a life without these? I cannot say that because they made me feel incredibly loved. They made me know how much she valued her time on this earth with me. I got to hear that. I got to hear that after she died. Recently Rebecca has started to grasp the hardships the letters imposed on her dad. And she thinks it would have been better if she had shared the letters with her father in real time even if that went against her mother's wishes. This surely was not Elizabeth's intention but when she wrote those letter she left behind the bricks for a wall that kept her husband and her daughter apart at least when the subject came to Elizabeth. Along with instructions that made discussing that wall very difficult. It was a plan that neither Rebecca nor Gordon ever consented to. And now very gingerly the wall is being dismantled. A months ago Rebecca sent her Dad a copy of one of the letters from her 24th birthday. Much of which is about Gordon's strengths as a dad. She has yet to share any of the others. And during our interview Gordon joked that he was a little jealous that I got to read the letters before he did. But a dying wish has a momentum all its own. And though the letters are now locked in a safe in Gordon's home he still has not looked at them. And Rebecca still has not asked him to. David Segal is a reporter for the New York Times.  Coming up a set of parents like any others trying to impress their values on their child. Though in this case it is tricky because the child is not in their same species. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show Parent Trap we have stories of parents doing their best to be conscientious loving parents accidentally setting traps for their kids or themselves along the way. We have arrived at act 2 of our show. Act 2 The Opposite of Tarzan. The parents in this next story do a lot of things that are really just amazing. They actually reach outside their own species into a different species adopt a baby raise it love it without really thinking through the consequences. Which turn out to be big. Here are the hosts of Radiolab Jad Abumrad and Robert Krulwich and the story this baby Lucy. So let us just start at the beginning. Who is Lucy? Lucy is a chimpanzee that actually this was found out later born to a circus entertainer. Born in their camp. What country are we in? In the US. They traveled up and down the East Coast the  Chimp Arc Show something like that. They were very popular. We heard about Lucy from Charles Siebert he is a reporter. And he tells the tale of a chimpanzee. She was a chimpanzee born-- do you know Jad? 1964. This is an early version of a chimp raised entirely in a human environment. One of the earliest. But it is not the kind of story that you may have heard before where the chimp grows up with humans and then actually ends up mauling the humans. This is much more complex than that. And Charles himself first bumped into the tale in this really old obscure memoir. Long out of print. Yeah what is the name of the book? Do you actually have it with you? Hold on. It is called Lucy- Growing Up Human A Chimpanzee Daughter in a Psychotherapist's Family  by Maurice K. Temerlin. Maurice K. Temerlin he is the psychotherapist. He is a psychotherapist. And he is also the dad in this story. And his wife Jane who is a social worker she is the mom. Now the thing to know was that especially for Maurice Temerlin this was more than just adopting a baby champ. This was an experiment. He wanted to know given the right upbringing how human could Lucy he become? What he says early on in this book Would she learn to love us and perhaps-- --have other human emotions as well? Would she be well-behaved rebellious. Intelligent or stupid? What about sex? Maurice Temerlin actually died in 1989 but these are his words read by radio host David Garland. Would she mother her offspring? Could she learn to talk? How intelligent might she be? And so how did they her? He says that he and his wife Jane made all the arrangements. Went and got the chimp-- --from the day the infant was born. The mother was anesthetized. In the early morning of her second day Jane fed the mother a Coca-Cola which had been spiked with phencyclidine a drug which puts chimpanzees into a deep pleasant sleep. And the baby was taken away. Jane named her Lucy and brought her home on a commercial airline carried in a bassinet her face covered with a lacy blanket. We were blissfully unaware of the complexities we were creating on the day Lucy came home. So the baby was a day or two old? Just two days old. So it was not weened? No and that was part of the experiment. They bottle feed her. Yeah. She quickly learned to hold her own bottle. At two months her eyes would focus. At three months she was trying to climb out of her crib to go to people. And at six months she was pretty mobile on all four limbs. The memoir goes on. By the time she was about a year old-- She was eating at the table with us. Forks spoons knives. She would see us using silverware and immediately dos o herself. She began to dress herself in skirts. Shw would often grab my hand pull me to my feet and beg me to chase her. Always looking back to see that Daddy was not too far behind. You know he really went at this with this sort of full bore earnestness. You know when he calls her his darling daughter-- I took great pride in my daughter's achievements. He does feel like a real parent to Lucy. She was so responsive to being looked at held and stroked. But he is also make no mistake treating this as a very intense cutting edge experiment. The next phase of the experiment which occupies a good deal of the book involve one of those talents that we thought used to only be limited to us language. OK. Can you introduce yourself please? OK my name is Roger Fouts. I am a professor of psychology and I have worked with chimpanzees since 1967. Roger Fouts was called in by Maurice Temerlin to address one of the crucial questions of the experiment. Could she learn to talk? Right. And at the time he was the guy. He had just been part of a team that had proven for the first time the chimps could use sign language to communicate. So his job with Lucy was to teach her how to sign. And I think I came into her life when she was-- as I remember it was 1970. I think it was four or five. She was four or five years old. Roger taught her signs for airplane baby doll ball banana barrette berry bird. Yeah so I was sort of like-- Blanket. --the tutor friend babysitter that would come over for a few hours each day and spend some time just playing with Lucy. I would work on signs. Cat. We would read books together or we would go for walks. I would chat with her basically. Cry. Dirty. And he says that Lucy-- Enough. Just sort of-- Picked it up. Picked it all up. It was like a game. She learned some 250 signs. And the big question is OK so is it me or mimicry or are they able to spontaneously create words and put some together in a new original way? And there is been a lot of anecdotal evidence that in fact Lucy did spontaneously create words. In a later session when shown a piece of watermelon Lucy tasted it and she called it candy drink. When shown an onion before Roger good teach her the ASL sign for onion Lucy volunteered-- Cry hurt food. Wow. She would also lie to me. Really? Yes. And lying we should also say is another one of those things that people used to think only we do. During one of my sessions I came in and she had a potty accident. She had been potty trained but sometimes she did not always make it. And I was upset because I was now faced with having to clean it up. And so I said who is is that? And she said Sue. Who is Sue? Sue was one of my students that would come in and spend time with Lucy too. I said no Sue's not here. She blamed it on Sue. Finally she fessed up and yeah said Lucy. And sorry. Sue? Yes This is Sue. Sue Savage . The grad student of yours who says she did not actually see that like take place. Yes well I was not there. But she told us that when she met Lucy she was blown away by the incongruity of it all. Like for instance every time she would walk in the house Lucy would just-- Walk casually into the kitchen and search through the cupboard for the kind a tea she wanted that day and put some water in a kettle and put it on the stove and make us tea. But it was the casualness with which she did it the kind of air about it that yes I am making tea and I would like you to have some too. Because tea is what we do. When we meet new people we have tea. Wow. Lucy her developed an awareness of our emotions. If Jane is distressed-- Temerlin's wife. --Lucy notices it immediately and attempts to comfort her by putting her arm about her grooming her or kissing her. If Jane is sick Lucy would exhibit tender protectiveness toward her. Bringing her food sharing her own food. As we get to this next part this is sort of the midpoint of the memoir. It is useful to sort of remember a basic fact of biology. Speciation happens when you have got one group of creatures that gets divided into two and then these two groups evolve away from one another. And eventually they get so far away from each other that they cannot have babies. And nature makes sure that they cannot have babies by making one species basically undesirable to the other. You look across you are a baboon. You look across at a chimp and you go eh. Yeah you are only sexually attracted to your own kind. That is essentially what a species is. This is not something you are supposed to be able to learn or unlearn. This is just the way it is. Yeah which brings us to some troubling passages in the book. Beginning really on page 105. Can you read it? Yeah. And we should warn that this next minute and a half contains s sexual reference. One afternoon around 5 oclock Jane and I were sitting in the living room when we observed this sequence of behavior. Lucy left the living room and went to the kitchen opened a cabinet and took from it a glass. Opened a different cabinet and brought out a-- Bottle of gin. Gin? Yeah. She loved gin and tonics. That is actually not the important part. It is what happens next. She takes her gin and goes back to the living room sits on the couch and there is really no other way to say this. She starts to masturbate. But even that is not the important part. It is actually the very next moment. That a boundary that took proximity six million years to establish dissolves. Mr. Temerlin sees Lucy doing this and he thinks hmm this? This is a perfect experimental moment. So he runs off to the mall. Buys a copy of Plagirl magazine and brings it back to her. Because it is full of naked guys? Yep. And Lucy would masturbate to these centerfolds. I was not a part of that. I was never there when Lucy looked at the porno. But Sue says that she was there for what happened next. Yes. I was there when she was introduced to her first adult male chimpanzee. Had Lucy ever seen another chimpanzee before? Never seen another chimpanzee from the moment of birth. Wow. She says they brought this male chimp in To see if Lucy was attracted to chimpanzee males. And was she? Well the male chimpanzee would sit there with his hand held out toward her and she was very frightened. And she tried to move away. It was then says sue that she realized that in every way that mattered Lucy was no longer a chimp. She was stranded. Right in between this great divide that I knew was there between humans and non-humans. And I did not know how to negotiate this. There is no category in our language except a mythical one for something that is not human and not animal. Insofar as this was an experiment Maurice Temerlin wrote about it as a kind of triumph. Human nurture conquers chimpanzee nature. But slowly over time nature reasserted itself. As Lucy grew became five and then seven and then nine-- 10 going on 11-- She became strong says Charles. Really strong. They had by this time rigged up an entire portion of the house for this very strong willful animal. Behind bars padded rooms so you can bounce-- Behind bars? They built a cage inside the ho