MS-13-- President Trump talks about them a lot. He is mentioned them 198 times since he became president according to one database of everything that he said publicly. Here he is in Nashville in May. This vicious gang has transformed the once peaceful beautiful communities that I know so well. I know them all. Into blood stained killing fields. Savagely murdering raping and mutilating their victims. The communities he knows well are on Long Island near where he grew up in Queens. MS-13 is a particularly brutal gang. Originally formed in Los Angeles in the 1980s by immigrants and refugees from Central America. Their weapons of choice tend to be machetes and baseball bats. MS-13 has been especially violent lately on Long Island. Last year the president spoke there at Suffolk County Community College. The audience was filled with law enforcement of various kinds-- immigration and customs officials FBI agents members of the local police in their dress uniforms and white gloves. And the president praised law enforcement for doing a great job eradicating MS-13-- arresting gang members throwing them in jail deporting them. And I want to just tell you all together right now. And the reason I came this is the most important sentence to me. On behalf of the American people I want to say thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. At this speech he shook hands with officers from the Suffolk County Police Department. Our story today is about that police department and it documents the opposite. It documents them failing repeatedly in fighting MS-13. Particularly when the victims were Latino immigrant kids. In the end there were 18 murders in 16 months. Literally teenagers were disappearing. And for a long time the Suffolk County Police did very little to investigate. Made the same mistakes over and over. Missed clues missed leads. Brushed aside distraught parents who were looking for their kids. Parents who had information that might have been helpful. Investigative reporter Hannah Dreier from ProPublica who spent the last year in Suffolk County reporting on MS-13 and the police there. And she is found pervasive problems in how the Suffolk County Police Department treats Latinos in general. Problems which dramatically slowed their response to this MS-13 murder spree. And let us just get right to it. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. Here's Hannah Dreier. The first teenager who was murdered was Miguel Garcia Moran. His family always teased his mom Carlota over how over protective she was. When Miguel was a toddler back in Ecuador she put chicken wire around their house to keep him from running down the street. When the family got green cards and moved to Suffolk County she imposed a strict 10 PM curfew. And when he wanted to play video games at a neighbor's house on a cold Friday afternoon in February of 2016 Carlota drove him there a few blocks away even though he had just turned 15 and could have walked over. Carlota got home later that evening around 730 with some dinner for Miguel. She called out his name. When he did not answer she felt a jolt of alarm. She texted him to ask where he was. No response. She texted him a third a fourth a fifth time. By midnight Carlota's stomach was clenched with dread. Miguel never failed to let her know where he was. He never missed his curfew. He was even too afraid to go to sleepovers. By 200 AM she could not wait any longer. She and her boyfriend Abraham Chaparro got in the car and started driving.   And I was like where is Miguel. What happened to Miguel?  He normally he calls me every 5 every 10 minutes.   But during all those hours they seemed just so long and I did not know whether I should scream or cry. I just felt like I was losing the whole world at that moment.   At that point I was just saying you know it is like someone stole my son.  After hours of searching the streets Carlota finally went home. She sat down on her bed fully clothed and waited for the sun to come up so she and Abraham could go to the police station. When they got there two Suffolk County Police officers were sitting on an elevated platform behind the counter drinking coffee. Carlota only speaks Spanish. But her boyfriend Abraham has lived in the US for years and speaks some English. Abraham helped her give the officers the basics. The missing kid was Miguel Garcia Moran 15 years old tall and big 235 pounds lived in the town of Brentwood last seen at a friend's house the night before. A detective named Luis Perez was assigned to the case. He is a veteran detective in Brentwood and one of the few officers on the force who speaks Spanish. The police told Carlota and Abraham that some officers were going to drive around their neighborhood to look for Miguel. But really they should not be too concerned.   And they said look it is Saturday. Your son's going to be back on Monday. He is probably just hanging out with friends. But I said no my son would never do that. He always comes home early. This is not like him. At this point Miguel had been missing for 24 hours which in a missing persons case are the most crucial. There is a truism in law enforcement-- the first 24 hours are the only 24 hours. The New York City Police Department has a checklist of dozens of things officers have to do immediately if a minor goes missing. Things like talking to the kids' friends checking their social media accounts and putting out a press release. Nassau County which borders Suffolk County on Long Island has an even more extensive protocol which includes alerting state officials within two hours of taking a report. The Suffolk County Police handbook on the other hand has no checklist for what to do if a minor goes missing. Nothing about talking to the kid's friends. Nothing about social media. Nothing about a press release. In the whole handbook there are basically two paragraphs about what to do if a minor is reported missing. And they boil down to take a report search the area where they live. That is it. So on Sunday two days after Miguel went missing that is what the Suffolk County Police did. They searched the woods closest to Carlota's home. And they also talked to the neighbors. On Monday three days after Miguel went missing the police put out a press release and a photo of Miguel in a green shirt with a red bandanna around his head. It said quote Detectives do not believe there is foul play involved in Moran's disappearance. And they listed Miguel as a runaway which Carlota found extra upsetting.  I felt a lot of indignation because they would say that oh he just ran away from home. And I would think why would you say that?   Why would you say that he ran away from home when I have proof? I have pictures of us like going to the store. Us going to different places even from that day where we went to the firefighters. The day Miguel disappeared he and Carlota had gone to the firehouse to fill out an application. He wanted to join the volunteer firefighters. They spent the morning and afternoon together as they often did on weekends. Miguel liked to walk with his arms slung around his mother's shoulders. At 5' 10 he towered over her. Miguel was a total mama's boy. For his 15th birthday a few months earlier his older sister helped him get Carlota's name tattooed on his arm. So to Carlota the thought that Miguel had run away from home was insane. She tried to explain this to the police but they still listed him as a runaway. And when they did that the police were acting against guidelines from multiple agencies. According to the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children and the Department of Justice law enforcement should quote Assume the child is at risk until investigative facts contradict that assumption. When a kid is listed as a runaway instead of as a missing or endangered person it basically stops an investigation before it starts. Listing Miguel as a runaway is the first big mistake the police make. They will be many more.  My hope truthfully was that if I go to the police they would help us. You know this was just a disaster. A disaster.  Going to the police was a disaster. After days with no apparent progress from police Carlota realized she needed a new strategy. She started going around posting missing person flyers which she wrote herself because the police had not made any. She searched for Miguel every day on residential streets strip malls at American Eagle his favorite clothing store and in the woods. Including one patch of forest that the police call the killing fields. It is a gang hang out and dumping ground for bodies. The trees are so dense there that it is hard to see very far into them. Condoms and cigar wrappers and empty spray paint cans blanket the ground. At the heart of these woods is an abandoned psychiatric hospital. The dozens of possibilities she would been replaying in her head we are converging on a single fear MS-13. She knew they were active in Brentwood but she did not know much more. MS-13 leaders in the US are often really young like high school aged. On Long Island some of the most brutal MS-13 violence has been masterminded by 15 and 16-year-olds. Brentwood high school was shared by a few MS-13 cliques. That is what they call their subgroups-- the Hollywood Locos the Brentwood Locos and the Sailors. They wear blue plastic rosaries and Nike Cortez sneakers. The other gangs at the school were as color coded as teams at camp. At the time Miguel went missing Suffolk County Police mostly left the gangs alone. Members had the run of the woods around town and the halls of the high school. Miguel's older sister Lady was a sophomore at Brentwood high school when Miguel went missing. Lady has a habit of narrowing her eyes when she talks. She is streetwise but also churchgoing. She had been a natural loner all her life unlike Miguel who has always been teased for his stutter and was desperate to seem cool. At Brentwood high school Lady had become even more standoffish to keep the gang kids away which was not always easy because gang members aggressively approach new students at school and pressure them to join.  If they did not see you with a stern look in your face or if they did not see you mad then they would treat you badly.   It was different for me because I had a strong temper. But Miguel was not like that. He was weak. He was the spoiled child. When Miguel started in the high school did you tell him the things that you had learned?  I would tell him you know when you are changing period from one class to the other do not talk to certain people. And he would say OK.  And at first he did. He did listen to me. But then you know he had friends that I did not know. And I told him do not make friends.  A week after Miguel went missing Carlota did an interview with a Spanish language news channel to talk about his disappearance.  The footage shows Carlota leaning heavily on Abraham as the two walk through a strip mall in jackets and winter hats taping up their missing person flyers. She says there are so many things you hear about in this country. That the gangs go and take kids. That is what I fear the most. That they have taken him. Carlota brought up the possibility that gangs might be involved in Miguel's disappearance. But the Suffolk County Police still said no foul play was suspected and continued to list him as a runaway. Another big problem with the police's treatment of these immigrant families was they were dismissive and sometimes even treated them like suspects. Carlota came to feel intimidated by Detective Perez. She says he seemed angry at her. He was big like a bodybuilder with tattoos circling his arms. One day he sat her down and accused her of knowing more than she was saying about Miguel.  Then he started telling me you know where he is. And I said what? Like why do I know where he is? I come here all the time asking where he is.  If I knew where he was then I would not be here. And I just wanted to hit him when he told me that. And he said well if you do not know where he is--  --then you should go to a witch doctor because then they can help you find Miguel. Detective Perez told Carlota to find a brujo which is Spanish for witch doctor or fortune teller.  I do not know why he said that. It is like I cannot do anything more for you. You need to go and see the witch doctor because he just did not want to help anymore.  One of the starkest ways that the police demonstrated their indifference to the families was that they would not even speak to them in their own language. This underlies so much of what went wrong. Even Detective Perez who could speak Spanish. Lady told me something else that happened in that brujo conversation.  He just said I am not speaking Spanish anymore because this is America. Nobody speaks Spanish only English so why do not you just go back.  Even knowing that my mom does not speak a word of English. How did you feel when he said that?  I felt bad. You know because she was Latino and to come and say this to us knowing that we needed him. That we needed for him to find someone for us.  And he just simply did not feel like speaking our language to us. Carlota and Lady are not unusual in Suffolk County. Though the county includes really ritzy places like the Hamptons it also has towns like Brentwood where families get by on minimum wage jobs and most people speak Spanish as their first language. 20 of the county is Hispanic. But in 2016 in the entire Suffolk County Police Department 3500 employees only three people were certified to interpret for Spanish speakers. Unlike a majority of big police departments Suffolk County does not give officers extra pay for knowing a second language. They do pay police well though. They are actually one of the best paid departments in the country. Detective Perez made just under 200000 a year and lived in a gated community several towns away from where he works. Detective Perez would not talk to me for this story by the way. When I knocked on his door he said he had no comment and told me to get off his property. Almost two months after Miguel went missing there was a breakthrough in the case. But the person who made it was not a Suffolk County Detective. It was Miguel's sister Lady. One morning she borrowed Abraham's cell phone and discovered that Miguel had left his Facebook account open there. She suddenly had access to his Facebook Messenger chats. She could look through all the conversations he had with his friends up to the day he went missing. Here look. Lady showed me the messages.  Yes. That was Miguel's entire messenger conversation. Most of them were failed attempts to flirt with girls at school. In others he is talking about smoking weed. In one conversation he tells a friend he wants a pair of Nike Cortez sneakers. But the friend tells him he cannot wear those because they are a sign of MS-13. That is an important piece of advice. MS-13 does not have businesses like a normal criminal organization. And instead commits violence for the sake of violence killing victims with bats and machetes for minor shows of disrespect like wearing Nike Cortez shoes without their permission. And then there is just one conversation from the day Miguel disappeared. Text and audio messages between Miguel and someone named Alexander Lokote. Lokote is not a last name. It means something like homeboy or gangster. So you can see the day that Miguel went missing. There is like 20 messages back and forth between him and Alexander. The conversation begins at 854 in the morning. And ends at 706 that night. Right around when Carlota was getting home and discovering that Miguel was not there. Alexander tells Miguel he is gotten his hands on some weed and invites him to smoke later on with two other boys. One of the other boys is a kid named Jairo. Miguel had just started smoking weed. His mother and sister did not even know he had tried it. Miguel seems pleased and surprised and responds with a voice message.  That is Miguel. He is saying oh you are so bad. What have you done? At this point in the morning Miguel was still with Carlota at the mall. It sounds like her in the background of some of these messages talking and laughing.  Miguel says he wants to bring along a friend but Alexander says no do not do that. Jairo will not like it. Jairo's going to hook them up with weed. Later Miguel and Alexander argue about whether to meet in the woods or at Miguel's house. Miguel tells Alexander that he would prefer to meet at his house because he does not like to go out into the trees. But finally Miguel gives in and agrees to meet in the woods near the high school a few blocks away from his house. The last message is from Alexander.   He tells Miguel he is by the fluorescent lights already at the school. He seems annoyed that Miguel is not there yet. And then nothing. In the days and months after that night Miguel's Facebook account is flooded with messages from family and friends wondering where he is or vowing to find him. But none of those messages was from Alexander Lokote. Abraham showed all these Facebook messages to Detective Perez. Carlota said soon afterward the detective called with a strange suggestion. He asked Abraham and Carlota if they wanted to meet him at the high school. He said he was going to interview Alexander Lokote in the principal's office to see what he might know. And for some reason he wanted to give them a chance to be there for it. When they got to the high school Alexander Lokote was there. Lady had been called out of class and was waiting outside the office. What did Alexander look like?  He was scared. Scared how?  He looked kind of pale and as though he wanted to get out of there right away. Did Alexander dress like a gang member?  Yeah he was dressed like a gang member. He was wearing his white long t-shirt.  And I saw the rosary. What color rosary? Blue. I ran this episode past a few police experts. And they all said it was really odd that Detective Perez invited the victim's family to an interrogation of a witness or a potential suspect like that. For one thing it could make it harder to use anything Alexander said that day to build the case in court. They said that if Detective Perez suspected foul play at that point he should have gotten a warrant to search Alexander's phone. Abraham thought that Alexander looked young and so weak that he could not break a plate. He said that Alexander told him that he Jairo and another kid had planned to go with Miguel to some train tracks. But Miguel never showed up. Carlota told Abraham that so far her teenage daughter seemed to have made more progress than the detectives.  This was such a key thing that he knows. What else do they want? They were not doing anything.  It is not clear what happened to Alexander Lokote. Lady tells me that after this meeting she stopped seeing him in school. I have been trying to find Alexander for months but nobody I have talked to knows his real last name. Carlota stopped going to her job at an envelope factory. She spent most of her time in her basement apartment looking through Miguel's clothes breathing in their smell and trying to distract herself by reading romance novels. She hated when Lady went out even to attend church. Nearly three months after Miguel disappeared at the end of April the state finally gave Carlota a missing person poster. The poster read quote Miguel is a runaway. Then one afternoon in May Carlota was watching the news at home when she saw another mother on TV crying. Oscar Acosta disappeared two weeks ago. Police believe it is suspicious. Oscar Acosta was a 19-year-old weeks away from graduating high school. He had emigrated from El Salvador to Brentwood three years before. He left home to play soccer one night and had not been seen since. When Oscar's mother went to the police station this may sound familiar to you she had a hard time finding an officer who spoke Spanish. So she enlisted her cousin and a woman from church to help her talk to the officers. She felt that the police were ignoring the case so she started posting handmade missing person flyers just as Carlota had. In June a third Brentwood high school student went missing Jose Pena. He was 18 years old. Emigrated from El Salvador two years before like Oscar. Jose's mother did not speak English either. When she went to the police station she also says there was no one who spoke Spanish. So she had to ask her cab driver to interpret for her. He charged her 70. The police told her not to worry. Her son was probably hanging out with friends. He would be back soon. Oscar and Jose were not minors so they could not be listed as runaways. Police put out a press release on Oscar's disappearance two weeks after he went missing. They never said anything about Jose. These mothers have told me that it seems to them like police were either uninterested in helping them or unable to do their jobs. They said it seemed like they were being brushed off because they were immigrants. The Suffolk County Police Department would not comment on any of the specifics of what happened with these families. They would not comment about why they incorrectly classified all these disappearances as runaways. But they did send this statement quote Our response to a reported missing person does not differ based on nationality or ethnicity. They also said quote Suffolk County Police officers are among the finest in the country and treat everyone with professionalism and compassion. But the mothers in these cases are not just being oversensitive. The Department of Justice investigated the Suffolk County Police Department for two years and in 2011 issued its observations. It documents a pattern of discrimination against Latinos. A former DOJ official said the department was both over and under policing Latino residents. Stopping them more frequently than white people for minor violations while also failing to fully look into the crimes they reported. The DOJ called out the department for the exact problems Carlota and the other parents had told me about-- not enough Spanish speakers not doing enough to protect Latino teenagers from gangs and not taking Latino victims seriously even treating them like suspects. The police department agreed to federal oversight until the bias issues were fixed. But seven years after the DOJ investigation ended they are still finding the same problems. Because of the nature of the agreement it is not overseen by a court. There is not much the DOJ can do beyond issuing progress reports every year. In the midst of the disappearances of these three boys another Brentwood high school student went missing. A 15-year-old girl from El Salvador whose family asked that I not use her name. But unlike Miguel Oscar and Jose after 2 and 12 days her father found her just walking on the street by a White Castle. She said she would been with some older boys. Her father could not figure out if she would gone with them willingly or if she would been kidnapped. But something seemed wrong to him. His daughter was not acting normally. He thought maybe she had been drugged possibly raped. And she would just gotten some threatening text messages. So as soon as they found her he and his wife took her to the Suffolk County Police Department to ask them to investigate. The girl's father had been a cop in El Salvador and ever since she would gone missing he would been having trouble getting the police to take her disappearance seriously. So he and his wife secretly videotaped the meeting. OK. And what did you do? I left. With? Watching the video you can see firsthand how two Suffolk County Police officers treat an immigrant family that is come in to report a crime. In the video the girl is sitting at a desk across from a detective named Michael Cammarata who is leaning back in his chair. The father's crouching on the floor. And immediately Detective Cammarata begins interrogating the girl in English. As if she was the one who'd done something wrong. Instead of asking the 15-year-old girl about how she may have been hurt Detective Cammarata threatens to throw her in juvenile detention which is in Nassau County. He thinks she was lying about something. And she is being vague and evasive in her answers. Who were you with? . They said you were with two boys. That is what Fanny said. Really? Yeah. So you need to -- look I do not-- do you not understand what I have been going through for the last two days trying to find you? OK. And how much trouble you could be in? It is up to me whether or not I take you to Nassau County and you stay there. OK? Which just means it is just you and I. Not your family. I take you. I put handcuffs on you. And I take you. OK? So you need to tell me who you were with. Who were the boys? The girl's dad does not speak English but he can make out the details of what they are talking about. He hears a name he recognizes and he can tell his daughter is not giving the full story. He wants to jump in and help the cops. Give some information about an older guy she is been hanging out with. And he wants to understand and monitor the conversation between the detective and his 15-year-old daughter. So he asked the detective for an interpreter.  OK.  The detective ignores his request which is technically a violation of federal civil rights laws. A minute later the girl's dad asks again.  He said that too. Another 2 and 12 minutes pass with no interpreter. So the girl's dad asks her to translate his request to the detective.  Well he said he needed an interpreter.  So he can inform you of everything. So he can inform me? No. So he can tell you everything. Because he does not speak that much English. The girl's dad actually starts leaving the room to try to find an interpreter himself. The detective tells him to stay put. Tell him he has to stay. Finally as the detective continues interrogating the girl the dad takes out his cell phone and calls a community advocate he knows. He passes the phone over to the detective. Hello?  This is Carlos I need interpreter no understand. OK. What is he want me to interpret? The guy on the phone repeats what the dad has been saying that he needs an interpreter. And the detective agrees to get another officer who speaks Spanish.  OK. All right. I am just going to use an officer. I just wanted to make sure what he was looking for. He said I wanted to make sure what he was looking for. Though it seems like the dad has made that pretty clear.  OK. All right. The detective hands the phone back to him and he goes right back to interrogating the girl-- All right. So you are with Carlos. Who else is in the house with Carlos? --in English. Just Carlos. Six minutes go by the dad asks for an interpreter for the seventh time. And finally the detective goes out to get one.  Here he returns with another detective who speaks Spanish.  Si senor.  OK. It is Detective Perez. The same guy Carlota has been dealing with. The dad starts explaining the whole saga in Spanish but Perez cuts him off. He turns to the girl and asks if she speaks English. She says she does. Now you speak English. You speak English? The dad jumps in and asks Perez to speak in Spanish. He does not speak Spanish so if you speak English you speak English.  Perez Ignores her dad and begins interrogating the daughter in English. You think that we are as dumb as the kids you hang out with? He tells the girl she is lying. And like the other detective he threatens to lock her up in juvie. How about instead of going back with your parents we bring you to the Nassau County juvenile facility to jail? Because you are a juvenile delinquent by law. You know what that means? That you do not follow the rules we can bring you to a juvenile jail. And you just stay there until your parents are ready to get you. The interrogation gets more intense. Detective Cammarata threatens to take the girl to a hospital and do tests on her to see what she is been up to with these older guys. The 15-year-old hangs her head and explains to her mom in tears what the detectives have been saying. She says the officers are accusing her of lying. She says she does not want them to arrest her and deport her.   The girl did give them one of the names of the guys she was with. The detectives as far as I can tell do not use it as a lead. Instead Detective Perez goes into this whole scared straight speech with her. He tells her to stop hanging out with these guys. And if she does not he will go after them and then they will be mad at her. We have ways of going into old messages. We will find this guy you were with. We will lock him up. We will then lock everybody up that they end up hating you for you putting them in this position. You are a young girl. Stay away from these older guys because you will only get them in trouble. OK? Instead of taking the girl's parents' concerns seriously or even hearing them out in their own language Detective Perez threatens their daughter. And her parents had good reason to be concerned. Their daughter told me that she had spent the days with an MS-13 gang member who a year later would be charged with four murders. Nine months later the girl went missing again. She came home again and this time she seemed genuinely scared. Her father called the police to ask once more if the officers would investigate the guy she would been with. He says they came over talked to the girl said they would be in touch and never were. It is unclear if they investigated beyond that. If they did investigate they might have learned that she would been with the leader of one of the MS-13 cliques a guy who is now charged with six counts of murder. Hannah Dreier. Coming up all those cops you have been hearing about all this hour? Hannah asks their boss what the hell? That is in a minute when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's show The Runaways investigative reporter Hannah Dreier from ProPublica is telling the story of a string of murders of immigrant teenagers in Long Island by the gang MS-13 that for months and months it seemed like the Suffolk County Police were not treating as murders and certainly did not solve. When families reported their children missing police told them that their kids were fine. They chose to ignore leads and evidence the parents offered did not follow procedures and best practices that other police departments follow in similar cases. And they listed the children as runaways which had effects on how rigorous the investigations were. The families believe they were treated this way because they are all Spanish-speaking immigrants. So Hannah sat down with Timothy Sini. He was the Suffolk County Police commissioner from 2016 to the beginning of 2018. Basically he was in charge of the cops during these cases-- to see how he explained this police behavior. Here's Hannah. When people on Long Island talk about Timothy Sini they talk about him as a future congressman or New York attorney general. Sometimes they say it in an earnest way because he is clean cut with some movie star sparkle a heavy square jaw and a diploma from the Harvard Kennedy School of Government a Democratic Golden Boy in Trump Country. Sometimes they say it with an eye roll because Timothy Sini is a professional politician who revels in media attention who has been known to hold press conferences to talk about Halloween safety and who appears to be swinging through short stints in New York institutions with his eye on bigger things. Sini worked his way through the US attorney's office and the Long Island County Executive's office to become the youngest ever head of the Suffolk County Police Department at the age of 36. Today he is no longer the police commissioner. Last year he was elected to be the Suffolk County District Attorney. One of his campaign slogans was the man who took MS-13 down. We sat in a conference room at a beautiful dark wood table. Government buildings are unusually nice in Suffolk County. And I asked him about the immigrant boys who went missing in 2016. Part of what we are writing about is the kids who went missing during that time. And I noticed that-- What time? During like 2016 2017. What kids went missing in 2016 2017? Oscar Acosta. No that is before then. No they all went missing in 2016. Miguel Garcia. That was all 2016. No it was 2015. No no no. It was definitely 2016. I would have to double check. This is an important distinction because if they had happened in 2015 which they did not that would have been before Timothy Sini took over the department. I guess like-- But they went missing in 2015. OK. I mean-- Right? I mean we can just check. I do not know. Yeah 