This reporter named Eric Mennel told me this thing a little while back that I found totally fascinating knew nothing about at all. Eric was raised as an evangelical in Florida and works these days at Gimlet Media. And he is been reporting on this one part of the Christian world for a while. There is this whole Christian version of Silicon Valley only instead of like creating apps and tech products what the Christian world is trying to do is use the tools of Silicon Valley to create churches. They will call them church startups or church plants. And so what are some of the tools that they use that are the same? It kind of runs the gamut right? If you can find it in Silicon Valley it probably exists somewhere in the church planting world. So for example there are boot camps where for maybe three or five days of your time you can go and learn everything that you need to learn in order to start a new church. Mhm. They have these big incubators right? Like there is one in New York City where over the course of two years you will come to get this product off the ground-- this product of course being your church. And the same way that tech companies are obsessed with their origin stories-- one thing you hear a lot is how they have gotten their start in garages-- church plants have their own origin stories. Over two decades ago my wife Amy and I started Life Church in what was then a little two-car garage. That is from a video off one of these churches' websites. They also have conferences. We are going to go ahead and get started. Glad you are here. We will give you one minute. Kind of our background-- So this is a session at the biggest church planting conference in the country. It happens every year in Orlando. It is called Exponential. It is sort of the TechCrunch Disrupt of church planting. So we ease-- again our goal our target is unchurched people high-conversion growth rate. So we are targeting them. So we are easing them in to the process of church. Now there is two gathering models if you will. So this sounds so jargony-- like high-conversion growth rate means they are trying to convert non-church people into church people? Yeah. It is really interesting. You actually kind of see this like blending of techy jargon with Christian jargon in this world. Like in this particular seminar they talk about kingdom return on investment. Or evangelistic networking is one I have read or corporate renewal dynamics. Launch is a big word that they use in both worlds. They talk about launch Sundays and launch budgets in church planting. And the framing of what they are doing is in business terms right? This is a story about-- This is from a website from one of the gurus of this movement. His name is Tim Keller. I have actually heard one pastor call him the Yoda of church planting. Uh-huh. He founded this incredibly successful church in New York City called Redeemer Presbyterian church. And it is also formed its own church planting organization called Redeemer City to City. So this is a video about planting more churches in New York City and it is described entirely through business terms. In 1989 New York was the least religious city in America. Less than 1 of center-city New Yorkers attended a gospel teaching church. Today that number is 5. These are their own numbers by the way. And in the video a dot is moving up the graph. We are launching a 10-year vision to see the body of Christ in New York rise from 5 to 15. That means tripling by 2026. And here's the thing. We think that just might represent a tipping point-- a tipping point of gospel saturation that does more than just-- OK so in the tech world the investors are these VC firms Venture Capital firms. What is the equivalent in this world? So a lot of the startup capital comes from the biggest denominations. The Southern Baptists-- they spend tens of millions of dollars a year on church planting. But a lot of church plants actually get their funding directly from megachurches-- established churches that have thousands of members. They view it as their mission to launch new successful churches. And how long has this been happening? Church planting in its modern form started about 20 or 30 years ago. And they came about to solve what is basically a business problem. Since the 1970s the number of people who have said they are going to church at least once a week has dropped 40 according to the best data on this. That is from the National Opinion Research Center at the University of Chicago. And it is been especially bad among young people in their late teens and 20s. The percentage of 20-somethings who claim no religious affiliation has doubled since 1996. Wow. Yeah from 20 to almost 40. And these churches have recognized that without young people they simply cannot survive. So they wanted to get nonbelievers coming to church. And to do that what they have tried to do is disrupt the way evangelical church is usually done. So they will meet in weird lean hipper spaces. They will have better music. And has that worked? Yeah it is worked. When you look at church attendance one of the only groups that are not seeing drastically falling numbers are evangelicals-- the group that has focused most seriously on church planting. And Eric you are here today to tell this story. You have spent months following somebody who is trying to attract funders and start one of these church plant startup churches. Yes yes. His name is Watson Jones III. Watson is 34. He is bald. He has a clean beard and thick-rimmed glasses. He grew up going to a traditional Baptist Church on the south side of Chicago. And he knew that he wanted to start a church even since he was a teenager. So he did all the things you are supposed to do to become a pastor. He went to seminary. He got a master's in divinity. And from the beginning he had a real gift for preaching. This is from a sermon he gave while he was still in training. Remember growing up on the south side of Chicago and my daddy was teaching me how to ride a bike. Your parents ever walked alongside of you while you riding that bike? And I remember we were going down the street and I saw some girls on the porch. Oh yeah. You know when you see them girls on the porch you got to get it together. Cannot have your parent holding your hand now. You got to straighten up and fly right. I said Daddy get your hands off the handlebars man. I got this.  And it did not take me too long to get to a point where I realized I never learned how to balance myself without my daddy's help. Here it is-- some of us are busy slapping Jesus' hands off the handlebars of our life. There are many of us-- And Watson really knew nothing about the church planting world until a friend clued him into some of this told him about a boot camp that Watson then attended. But Watson did not understand it was this entire movement-- not until he went to a conference. This was in 2013. He went to that big conference in Orlando Exponential. It was eye opening. It was really exciting to him. Some of what I was seeing was so new to me. It was so different. They were wearing skinny jeans and they looked real cool. And I felt like in my background we still wearing suits. And I felt like people in those conferences were talking about things that helped relate with people who were not used to going to church. I felt like they were on the cutting edge. I believed that the only people who were effective were church planters. And the rest of these churches that they need to close or they need to adapt to all of that. He did notice something else when he was there at the conference something that was also very similar to Silicon Valley. There were at least 4000 in the room. And I saw a lot of white people. You know I would be the only black in the room because it was not really a black thing more than it was a white evangelical thing. That is true in general for this movement. In the United States it is mostly white evangelicals doing this. And they are mostly planting churches in the suburbs or affluent or gentrifying areas in cities. So Watson wanted to do things the way these white church planters were doing them. But he wanted to fill the church with people like him-- people of color who lived in the inner city. And that difference was to use tech world language his competitive advantage. That was the thing that set him apart from thousands of other evangelicals looking for investors. I saw myself practically dancing between two lines-- between the white church and the black church. I danced in the black church because it was my identity but danced in the evangelical world because that is where a lot of financial partners were. And so as you are about to hear Watson jumps into it like a proper pastoral entrepreneur to build his church. And some of what that involves is not so different from starting any business of course. And some of it is very particular to bringing people to God. It is a funny mix where you are taking charge of things right? You are marching to this future like you can make a difference while all along there is this weird powerlessness to it. Like at some point no matter what you do no matter how hard you work how hard you think about it people either show up or they do not show up. Either they love your thing or they do not love your thing. It is like that saying from Field of Dreams-- if you build it they will come. The real-life version of that usually has a question mark at the end of it. If you build it will they come? Today on our show we have stories about people building stuff and wondering exactly that. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. And we are just going to jump right in with Act One  Act One Come All Ye Faithless. So Eric Mennel in this act explains what happened when Watson started his years-long quest to build his church and all the things that he could only learn the hard way. Part of what is impressive about the church planting world is how thoroughly it tries to prepare its pastors for what is ahead. When he was first getting started Watson enrolled in this sort of boot camp called Fellowship Associates. They flew him to Arkansas every two weeks for a few days to train. They teach you everything from fundraising to developing a core team to writing a philosophy of ministry which is basically a business prospectus to crafting a budget to funding the budget to managing donors to gathering people around a vision and an idea. Fellowship Associates set Watson up with a year-and-a-half-long residency at a church plant like the one he wanted to create in a poor neighborhood in North Philadelphia where Watson learned the nuts and bolts of a daily church operation. One of the main things to accomplish during the residency was working out a business plan. And I mean that literally-- a business plan a clear idea for his church that he could pitch to raise money with a clear simple mission. We want to create a church that will seek to reach people who do not know Jesus Christ or who are not a part of a church. Part one of the pitch-- location. He would stick with his vision to serve the kind of neighborhood church planters do not usually go into. For decades when church painters went into urban neighborhoods they usually picked gentrifying ones or wealthier ones. Watson chose an area on Philly's northwest side that was not gentrifying. It was mostly black mostly low income. I am a product of the South Side of Chicago. My whole life has been living and navigating as a black Chicagoan on the South Side. That was core to me. So I really wanted to target the thoroughly urban Philadelphian to engage people who Jesus would engage. Jesus was willing to be associated with prostitutes and with tax collectors. I had the idea of whosoever we will let them come. Whoever wants to be a part of our church can be a part of our church. Then I also wanted to be able to reach people that were in my age group initially-- at the time I was 28 29 30-- and then also trying to reach older people-- my mother's generation which is a little more stable so-- So that was part one of the pitch-- location. Part two of the pitch-- the building or lack thereof. They would not have a building. This is a strategy that had been really successful for planting churches elsewhere in well-off or gentrifying neighborhoods. They do not meet in an actual church. The idea is that the church buildings carry a lot of cultural baggage. They can be stodgy and uncomfortable. So to get away from all that and as a sort of hack to save money early on church plants will scrap the building. In most places this is church planting 101. I said man churches spend too much time focusing on a building. And they put so much money into a building. So early early early on I was not thinking anything about owning a building. He figured they could meet in a coffee shop or a bookstore or something even his living room. And finally part three of the pitch-- a business partner. No OK I am going to give you a picture of myself at this point OK? You ready? This is AJ Smith. I am this white kid with dreadlocks all the way down my back with a scraggly beard wearing moccasins with holes in them pants that have been patched up a million times flannels ripped up. Now AJ a good day for him is to go sit in the mountains and just sit there by himself. That is a good day for him. That is kind of how he dressed. Crunchy dude. Yeah no yeah. But he was a nice guy. AJ actually brought a lot more than just worn-out moccasins to the table. He was training at a church nearby to plant a church in the inner city. He is 31 now and he had grown up in a church plant. He would gone to seminary. He would run a homeless ministry. Once you got past the dreadlocks AJ seemed like a great number-two guy. And he was fired up to help make Watson's vision a reality. I really believe strongly in submitting to African-American leadership if you are in a largely minority setting-- or minority leadership even. So I am this white guy. So I say yeah man. I love the idea of like-- I want to be in the inner city. I want to plant churches. Let me spend some time under you and just helping you do your thing. Talked with my wife. We were like yeah. I like it. Let us do it. We prayed about it. And we felt like it was what the lord wanted. It was going to be called Restoration Church. Watson did not have the direct connections to megachurches who might help fund Restoration. But he would heard about some people who did-- a church planting network called Orchard Group. Orchard is this middleman organization. They help connect church plants to established churches that have a lot of money. Orchard Group is very selective. Of the thousands of people planting churches every year about 100 apply with them and the network only supports three or four. Watson called the president of the network directly. And before even putting in a formal application they were excited about his vision. So in 2013 Restoration Church became one of the few churches they supported. They helped line up a good chunk of startup capital-- in total about 100000 per year for three years. Most of that was just going to cover his salary and half of AJ's. The reason for the three-year funding terms is that surveys of new churches show if a church plant is not sustainable after three years it will likely never be sustainable. And nobody wants to sink their money into a failing church. And so with their seed funding in place the countdown started. It was April 2014 and Watson and AJ had three years to get this church off the ground to attract enough people to become self-sustaining. Initially they just wanted people to come to a once-a-week Bible study at Watson's home. So the first thing they did was try to drum up interest the old-fashioned way-- through outreach on the streets in the neighborhood. Early on man me and AJ were out on corners passing out coffee free coffee on bus stops. We would make signs. We would go to the community days. We would go to volunteer at elementary schools. We passed out water. We would have our team standing on crowded corners in the hot summer. We were handing out Blow Pops to people. This is Leah Smith AJ's wife. And I think we put a little message on them-- let the love of God blow you away-- so corny. So corny. But we were trying to get people. It kind of felt like anything could happen at any moment. So as we meet with people we are going to ask hey man who are three to four people you think would be interested in this? And we met a ton of people a lot of people. We prayed for and prayed with a lot of people. Over the course of just a few months they had conversations with hundreds of people. And occasionally some of them would take down Watson's address and show up to the Bible study. Any time a new person would come it was like ah this is exciting! This is great! We had interest from all kinds of people-- people who did not go to church people who did go to church were very interested in us because we looked different. And they liked us. They liked our spirit. For the most part people were very receptive and even I would say very respectful of the ministry and what we were trying to do and were very appreciative. But it did not translate. We largely were not successful at getting people to come to our outreaches. It was a major disappointment. Man I probably gained 20 pounds that year alone. It was extremely stressful. It felt like the outreaches were missing the mark. The goal had always been to reach people who were not served by other churches who were not going to church. But by the end of six months it was clear-- the people showing up for the most part were already church people coming from other churches. And they realized maybe one of their basic premises was wrong. Something that other church plants always did something that worked in the suburbs was not working here. I think in retrospect what probably hurt us is the thing to bring them to was a Bible study in my house. The first thing they would ask me is where is your church? Oh well we meet in my house. And one lady told me-- she said you guys are a cult. You call me when you get a church. Especially I think among black people the more out of the box or avant garde you are the less likely you are to be trusted. Theologically we say all day long the church is the people of God. The people in your city in your neighborhood does not understand church apart from a building a preacher a choir or a praise team and something that looks like a church service period. That was really a gut check to us because that was our-- that was plan A. And we were not really sure what plan B was. Plan A was the outreaches? Yeah. I mean we were going to be the people who were out there on the streets pastors who were very much present with the people. And that is how we will grow the church. That did not work. Hm. Why not? I think people have been to church. I think people have done church. And I think people do not have great experiences with church. And because of that I think the last thing people want to do is waste a day in their mind of the weekend coming to church. Yeah. I love what you all are doing but you know-- OK maybe I will come by sometime. They as not coming to church. They have been to church. Their uncle started a church 20 years ago and they had to go sit through three hours on a Sunday morning could not wait to get out of there. They could not wait till they were 18 and they did not have to go to church anymore. This is perhaps where planting a church is most different from starting a company. It is very hard to get someone to try a new app. But what Watson was attempting seems even harder-- to get someone to try something they have already tried and rejected and then to readjust their whole way of understanding the universe and their feelings about God and to start going to church and to help fund that church. It is exactly the problem the church planting movement is supposed to solve and does solve in lots of new churches. But the way most church planters usually solve this problem is to make church feel more relevant meet in weirder spaces like warehouses or coffee shops. There are church plants in breweries. The music in a typical church plant does not sound like the music in a traditional church. There are electric guitars with lots of effects on them. If they sing hymns they are done in a style more like Mumford and Sons than Mozart.  SINGING And I will-- This is a church plant worship service where they are literally just playing Mumford and Sons. And I got to say the lyrics I will wait for you land very differently when you are thinking about the rapture. SINGING I will wait. I will wait for you. I will wait. I will wait-- These churches are intentionally made to feel like going to a concert not like going to church. There are professional lighting systems and even smoke machines in some cases. But the thing about relevancy is that it is relative. A lot of that stuff-- the lights the music-- it was designed by white people for white people. What Watson and AJ were finding was that in an African-American context in northwest Philly those things do not necessarily feel relevant. So nine months in Watson and AJ decided to scrap a key part of their business plan one of the things that was going to make their church so different. And that is the part about having no building. They decided to reboot and to hold regular weekly services in a building like the neighborhood seemed to want. They did two preview services-- preview services are a kind of beta test for the church-- in a banquet hall. They wanted to pick a space that did not carry any of the negative connotations and baggage of a traditional church. But it was maybe a bit of an overcorrection. We went to this place called Temptations. And we went to Temptations-- Wait it is called Temptations? Yeah yeah we-- yeah we made all kind of jokes about that. Yeah Temptations. The first time we went there they just had trash everywhere-- hair weaves and bras and open bottles and-- Wait there were literally like bras? Yeah yeah. We saw two bras just on the floor while trying to set our own stuff up. So next they tried an elementary school cafeteria. That is where they moved out of beta and held their first-ever regular Sunday service. In the church planting world it is called launch Sunday. And it is a huge deal for a church plant-- a sort flag-on-the-moon moment saying we are here to stay. It was March 2015 11 months after they started just about two years left on the countdown clock. They put out the word on Facebook on flyers. They told family and friends. And then they prayed. Were you nervous before? Very yeah. Very nervous yes. What was going through your mind? What if no one comes? Why would they come? There was a guy I knew who had launched a church. And every week it decreased until like a month later it did not exist anymore. So in my mind I am like well what if that is me? What do I tell these donors who gave a lot of money to this? And what will I tell my wife? What will I tell my family? All of that. Amen. You may be seated in the presence of the lord. Watson woke up on the morning of March 22 2015. He put on his brown corduroy pants and a blue patterned shirt and a white cardigan. And at 1100 AM he stepped up to the podium in front of more than 100 cafeteria chairs. And he started to pray. Lord while we use technical terms of launching and all of that stuff Lord we do not want any of all of this to stand in the way of you getting glory and you getting honor. What did the launch look like? How many people were there? Man I think it might have been maybe 150 maybe more. Wow. Yeah. That must have been huge. That must have felt really great. It did. I cried actually. And I am not really a public crier. But I cried that day. Really? Yeah. Why? Well partly because I was surprised. When you have a launch there is a gamble man. And the deepest fear is no one comes. And the fact that I walked in and there were-- it was a lot of people there. I wanted to talk about this because I need to define why are we starting a church in a city of churches? You can drive down the street and you can see 10 of them on one block. There is a street not far from here where you can count five of them on one block. And it is simply to say this. You cannot have too many number one. But number two we are being sent-- we as the Church of Restoration are being sent to represent the reconciler. Amen. Can we give the Lord praise one more time for His word going forth this morning?  Amen. Yeah we maxed out. We absolutely-- we had standing room in the-- it was standing room in the back. We completely maxed out. And it was like OK this is great. So when I saw those people I was like OK this is going to be like a regular church-type thing-- see you next week. Leah Smith again AJ's wife. I was not thinking about it at that time Eric. I was not thinking about church planting-- you kind of start small and then you grow and then you grow and then you grow. I was not anticipating that in the weeks to follow the numbers would drop so harshly. The next week only about 60 people showed up fewer than half the launch. And then the next week was about the same maybe even a little fewer. It turns out a lot of the people who packed the church that first week were friends and family-- people already committed to other churches but who came out once to show support. And so before long Watson and AJ were back to the small group of about 30 or 40 people they had pulled in before moving into the building. They were a year and a half into their three-year mission and they were stuck. So they tried new tactics more direct forms of networking. They went door to door and prayed with people in the neighborhood. They tried getting members to invite their friends to church rather than just strangers. We would have invite cards. And we would say listen let us invite them to church on this day. We had them all on MailChimp. When we had big parties like a Christmas party we would email them out. And we would see who read them. Very few people would even open them. Some people would come visit for a week maybe two. But they would not stay. We had good follow-up. Like we always-- me and AJ would hand-write cards to visitors. And there would be people who would comment like I love this church all this other stuff. And they just never-- they would never come back. All these people would visit. Why would not they stay? I do not know. I do not know. There were periods over the next year where attendance was so low one person told me it felt like the band was playing for itself. The hardest stretches for Watson? Summer months. Summer months is when everybody in Philadelphia went to the shore you know? Or everybody traveled. And so attendance-wise man it felt like someone took a scalpel and cut massive chunks off the church. Those periods were extremely deflating. I mean they were dark moments. Sometimes I would battle depression. Most preachers tend to take Monday off because you tend to be more prone to depression on a Monday because Sunday you expend so much of yourself you know? You are preaching and then you are talking to people. You are counseling people. You have meetings and all that other stuff. But for a church planter in an urban church struggling to move this thing it was exponentially worse. You are tired. You are busy. You are lonely. You are burned out. I would wonder was this God or was this me? Did God really call me to Philly or did he not? I felt like quitting because any church planter I would ever talk to would say that they felt that at some point. Nearly two years went by like this. They would get up to 60 people and then they would drop again. They were coming up on March 2017 their three-year deadline. It is not that you cannot plant a church in a neighborhood like this and succeed. The church that Watson was a resident at run by a pastor named Dr. Eric Mason-- it is nearly 12 years old now with hundreds of attendees every week. Another preacher named Doug Logan has done something similar in Camden New Jersey. But these guys the Erics and the Dougs-- they are machines. They are not like normal people. They write books and organize conferences. They have web series. It is exactly the kind of mentality you imagine in a successful startup CEO. Watson was a talented guy with a lot of energy. But he was not that. A lot of the times I felt it was something about me. Maybe I am doing something wrong. Maybe I am missing something. This is not happening because you are just not a great leader or you are not a great preacher or you are not a great whatever whatever whatever. I do not know. Yeah. I do not know. On top of all this Watson and his wife were dealing with all kinds of complicated family stuff. We had a miscarriage before my third child and that was very painful. We had a diagnosis of autism on my first child. And in that same period while starting a church my wife almost died while giving birth to my final child. And all of that was a lot of trauma. I think it probably eventually made me wonder is my time up? Time was up. The three-year clock ran down. They still had some money coming in from their donors and they were getting by. But Watson knew some of those donors were going away. It was not going to be enough to pay both him and AJ. So last spring Watson took a trip back home to Chicago alone to see his family. That weekend was Mother's Day weekend actually. And I was on a layover in Chicago and I got to see my mother right? And my mother-- it was the first time I had been with her on a Mother's Day for some years-- like five years. It was so special. And I just started to feel like man if I could not go back I would not go back. I loved my church deeply. But I started to feel like the Lord was saying it is time. So I talked to my wife about it. And I just said look I am just going to tell you this. Do not get mad at me. But I am just going to let you know exactly what I am thinking here. And my wife said to me you know Watson I have been feeling the same way. And then one Sunday morning last October Watson got up in front of the congregation of Restoration. And he gave them a sermon that seemed like advice to prepare them for the road ahead. This is the part in your life where you cannot find your way. You do not know to go left. You do not know to go right. You do not know to go up. You do not know to go down. You do not know who to call. You do not know where to go. This is the in-between times. And in-between times according to the biblical narrative have the ability to either make you or they can break you. After the service he had all the members stay for a meeting at which point he said he was officially stepping down and they would be going home to Chicago with his family. Taking over the church AJ. My first-- my first reaction was no-- like no no. AJ's wife Leah. No you are not. I mean majority African-American church. You are white. To be clear Leah's mother is black. But her father is white and a pastor for majority-black congregations. But she says AJ is really really white. AJ-- he is not submerged in black culture. He is just not. I mean it just was just weird to me. And I felt a little bit self-conscious about it and still do. After moving back to Chicago Watson looked around for another job. And he found himself drawn to exactly what he had been trying to disrupt-- an old church with a few hundred members and lots of years of baggage Compassion Baptist Church. It was originally incorporated in 1879 two years after the end of Reconstruction.   This is a recording from the morning Watson was installed as the new pastor there. He is onstage in a suit. Turns out the look really works for him. And behind him is the church's choir-- which alone is almost as large as Restoration was when Watson left. At the church I am at for instance the church is older than me. It is 138 years old. And my wife and I definitely brought the median age down some when we got there. But it is been interesting to see the life in that church with me being there the new young guy. Younger people are starting to come or come back. So it shows me that you can be effective in an established church. But seven years ago I did not believe that. Seven or eight years ago I did not believe that at all. Some of those churches man survived the civil rights movement. Some of those churches brought black people in these cities through hellacious times. And then I this little 26 27 28-year-old guy who just got a master's deg