This is a video shot not too long ago. When it starts you can see the gear shift in a car. The camera's shaky. It is a car full of young undocumented immigrants. They park. Last words? Last words? Take this ICE. The audio is not so good. One of them said last words? The other says take this ICE. ICE he means the Immigration and Customs Enforcement Agency which enforces federal immigration law. The guy who is filming a 24-year-old named Jonathan Perez puts the camera-- or maybe he is filming with a cellphone-- so that it is peeking out of his coat pocket. You can see the zipper in the frame. He gets out of the car walks up a sidewalk to a building's front door. And you can catch a glimpse of a doormat that says US Border Patrol. And you realize oh he is going inside. Can I help you? What is this? Border Patrol. Oh . Did you get that? When he says what is this she says Border Patrol. Yeah we are lost. He says he is looking for Mobile Alabama which he calls Mo-bi-al. OK hang on one second. Nothing happens for about a quarter minute then two Border Patrol agents enter. Hey what is going on hoss? Hm? How you doing? I am doing good. Can we help you with something? What are you all doing here? What are we doing here? Mmhm. Doing a job. Why? What is your job? To enforce immigration laws. Can we help you-- So you all are deporting people? We do not deport people. Judges do that. What is it is to you? I am undocumented too. You are what? I am illegal too. Oh you are illegal? So you think I should get deported? I do not know. Why do not you show us some ID? See what you have got for ID. Soon the camera clicks off and the guy gets arrested. OK why in the world would a young illegal immigrant do this right walk into a Border Patrol station get himself arrested? Well that is what our program is about today about people doing the one thing that they are not supposed to do. What makes that happen? We have three stories in today's show. One of the stories is this one. One is about a teenager who listens to her parents gets good grades follows all the rules until she disobeys the one ironclad rule she was never supposed to disobey. And one story involves a moose that engages in some very un-moose-like behavior I think you will agree. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass and let us just get to it. Let us get to the first act. Act One Breaking the Ice. So OK why does a kid like Jonathan Perez get himself arrested on purpose by Border Patrol? OK well here is where he is coming from. And Bob do we have any idea how old some of the protesters are? There they go. All right. OK these activists are young. They are in their early 20s and they are undocumented. You have seen them in the news over the years probably. And a lot of them have this very sympathetic story. They were brought here when they were little. They grew up here in the United States. Some of them only found out they were illegal when they got old enough to apply to college and found out they could not go to college in this country. These are the kids that the Dream Act was designed to put on a path to citizenship. And fighting to get the Dream Act passed is what got many of them into politics. And they have not been shy about using confrontational tactics to get their point across. They block traffic. They get arrested. They lobby Congress wearing graduation gowns. And by 2009 they had stumbled onto this new tactic. Hello I am Walter Lara. As you know I am being deported this 4th of July weekend. When kids like Walter Lara right here who would have been helped by the Dream Act got pulled into deportation hearings they made internet videos they went to the press they organized petition drives they got senators to write letters on their behalf. And amazingly this worked. Walter was allowed to stay. And you can just imagine how this caught on. One of the groups helping immigrants do this was the National Immigration Youth Alliance NIYA. Mohammad Abdollahi-- everybody calls him Mo-- is one of its leaders. From there every time we would do a case another person would-- it would literally work like dominoes. We would do one case and then we had somebody else contact us. And then we would do that case and then we would have somebody else contact us. So it was just a complete domino effect every month pretty much doing a different case of somebody that would contact us from the previous one. OK so it is going great for two years. And then the activists thought OK let us scale this up not just do one person at a time. Let us go for a big group all at once. And just think about it. If you want to help a big group of people who are about to get deported where could you find them? Well the obvious place an immigration detention center. Mo thought all they needed to do is get inside a detention center that was full of people who are about to get deported. And he thought that should be no problem right? Because he and his activist friends were also illegal immigrants. They could get themselves detained. And you might think that his friends would say no way. That is nuts. No when I called people everyone was super down. Yeah I just quit my job. Why not? It was pretty much a response of like how long? And let us do it. Why not? Hence the video from Alabama of Jonathan Perez getting himself arrested. That was their first attempt at a radical in your face bank heist version of this. And by the time the activists tried that they also had a new weapon at their side. There was a set of government documents that unless you are involved in this issue you have probably never heard of. These documents are known as the Morton Memos named after John Morton President Obama's current head of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency ICE. He is actually leaving the job next month. And the memos say basically that since the United States does not have the money and resources to deport all 11 million illegal immigrants that are in this country we have to prioritize. So it says let us focus on the people that we most want to get rid of. And those are of course criminals. And as for all the other people who are undocumented but do not break other laws-- let us say you have a job you go to church you raise your kids you work hard you pay your taxes. You are low priority. We are not coming after you the administration is saying. Here's the president at a town meeting on Univision. And so our deportation of criminals are up about 70. Our deportation of non-criminals are down. And that is because we want to focus our resources on those folks who are destructive to the community. And for a young person like that young woman that we just spoke to who is going to school doing all the right things we want them to succeed. But there is a catch to all this the way that the Morton Memos work. And that is these memos are just guidelines. They are just recommendations to the ICE field offices. They are not legally binding. If an ICE office stumbles on a low priority immigrant and feels like it has the resources to detain or deport that immigrant it can do that. And so lots of people are getting detained who the Morton Memos say should not be. And just in case you do not know this overall President Obama has been deporting people at a quicker rate than any previous president. OK which brings us back to our activists. Remember they wanted to get into a detention center. They wanted to help release the kinds of people who would be covered under the Morton Memos these low priority detainees. And that video that you heard of Jonathan Perez getting himself arrested was the very first time they tried to get themselves locked up. It was a test of whether they could get themselves put into a detention center gather evidence and then later get themselves released. And this worked. So a half year after that July 2012 the activists decided to try again and take things further. This time they were really going to try to get lots of people set free. Reporter Michael May picks up the story from this point and explains what happened next. Their next target was a detention center in Florida called the Broward Transitional Center. Broward only holds non-violent illegal immigrants the very people the Morton Memos were designed to steer away from deportation proceedings. Since Broward is segregated by gender the plan was for a man and a woman to go in. The man was Marco Saavedra. He is 23. His parents farmed a tiny patch of land in Mexico and brought him to the US when he was a toddler. Through some lucky breaks Marco went to a fancy boarding school and then to a private college that accepted illegal immigrants. He wears wire-rimmed glasses. He is earnest and thoughtful uses words like hegemony in regular conversation. And here he was trying to get locked up. I got really nervous. And I was-- I guess it is not the worst thing to get arrested. So on a bright sunny Florida morning last July Marco dresses up like a day laborer and drives with some other activists to a commercial port with freighters and cruise ships and a lot of security. They had heard of people being detained there before. I mean there is like two booths. And there is always a guard that needs to check everyone that goes in and out. The other activists drop him off and drive to a nearby CVS drugstore and park. Marco walks up to the security booth. I am saying like  A job a job. I just keep on saying that.  I have no money or something like that. And he just said go home. I cannot do anything for you. And I am not going to call the police. So I am like-- I walk like 100 feet away and then I call the folks that are in the CVS parking lot saying I was shut down. What do I do? And they just said go back. So three minutes later I am right back at the guard in a Kafka-esque situation like kind of begging them to take me in. Like I need a job. I have no money. I am hungry. But no matter what Marco said the guard just was not in the mood to call the cops on him. Again Marco walks away. Again he calls his friends. Again they tell him to keep trying. So he goes back. Gets sent away again. At this point he is just baffled by how hard this is. Finally after three or four rounds of this Marco just refuses to go away. And then he gets what he wants. The guard calls over a police officer. He was like a big-- I mean he is a big white guy. He is like in his 40s. But he is like friendly right? So he is like how are you? Like . He tries to speak his minimal Spanish greeting. And then again I gave the cop the same spiel of like I am looking for a job. Let me in. The guard has not let me in. I really need a job because I am hungry. I do not have any money. I show him my wallet. I show him that I just have a Mexican ID card and like 2. Marco was like now we are cooking. But the cop also refuses to take the bait. Even though Marco is really pulling out all the stops talking about how he crossed the desert with a bunch of people. He even says it flat out. And I do. I do say like I do not have papers.  And he continuously says do not tell me you are illegal. Do not tell me you are illegal. He is like begging me not to tell him that I am illegal. At one point the cop-- I mean I think he almost wants to throw up his hands and say just go home. We will pretend this never happened. So he opens up his wallet. And it looks like just singles. And so to shoo me away he offers me 5 to get on the bus. And I just refuse just because it is so weird. All these young activists they would heard stories of people being detained for hardly any reason. The guy who dropped his kid off at school and a cop sees him and detains him. Or the one pulled over for making a wide right turn. But Marco cannot seem to get detained no matter what he does. That is really strange. And it is so arbitrary. Eventually he gives up. They leave the port and go somewhere that seems like it has to be a sure bet the immigration office at the Fort Lauderdale airport. We knock on the door and the agent just shuts the door on my face. And he is just like go away. Do not bother me. The next morning they decide to keep it simple. They drop Marco off right in front of a Border Patrol station. I just go to the front door and just ring the bell. Someone responds and I say  I am looking for my cousin. And the lady is just like one moment sir. An agent will come out to see you. And so this big agent-- he is pretty tall maybe six foot two glasses. His hair is thinning because he is probably in his 40s. He comes out with a pad and he is wearing his Border Patrol uniform which is just all green khakis. And I just say like I am looking for my cousin. We think that he was stopped near Broadway Avenue. He does not have papers so we went to the police but we were thinking that maybe Border Patrol stopped him. And then I said something like because we all came here together. ON RECORDING We all came together. Marco used his cell phone to record the conversation. It is fuzzy and hard to hear but Marco goes around and around with the guy for a while. Finally the agent asks him directly so you are illegal too? Marco says yes. The officer says you know I have to arrest you. You know I have to arrest you. Oh. Yeah. Put your hands behind your back. You presented yourself to a-- I am a law officer. I have to arrest you. You can hear how surprised the agent is like someone who is fishing and has a fish jump into their boat. I am still holding the phone in my hand so you can hear the handcuffs clicking as I turn the phone off.   What kind of risk was Marco taking getting locked up? Well by this point President Obama had announced a sort of watered down version of the Dream Act and Marco met its requirements. On the other hand he had a criminal record from protests he would been at-- disorderly conduct. And as he was being processed by an agent who thought Marco did not speak any English the agent took a look at his criminal record and said this guy will be a bag and ready case. They filed paperwork to begin deportation proceedings. And those are still going ahead today. The young woman who was going to get herself detained is an honors student over-achiever type named Viridiana Martinez. She goes by Viri. She had to try twice before a cop reluctantly detained her and sent her to Broward. My brother was like whoa dude you are in the pen? Shut up. When are you getting out? She called her family and tried to explain why she took the risk. Everybody reacted differently. I told my mom. I told her on the phone. And she was like why are you doing that? And I was like Mom because it could be you. And it is not right that people go through this you know? And you say that you have faith and you go to church and you believe in God. Well then Mom it is time to put that faith to practice. I am going to be fine. And my dad ever since-- this was like I had already been arrested before. And my dad always says like are you ready to go back to Mexico? Well if you are ready to go to Mexico then go ahead. I am like OK Dad. Thanks. The night that Marco got arrested a man inside Broward a detainee named Claudio Rojas got a phone call.  My son had called me that night.  He told me he had a surprise for me.  And that I would find out. At this point Claudio had been in Broward for several months. And his lawyer had been arguing that he was a Morton Memo case. He was a hardworking family man with nice kids who paid his taxes and was devoutly Christian. He would been in the US for almost 12 years. His lawyer argued he should not be locked up much less deported. Claudo is a people person kind of a natural organizer. And talking to other prisoners he realized there were lots of people like him who would be covered by the Morton Memos. So completely on his own he started collecting names and passing them to his son on the outside. And his son contacted the activists at NIYA. That is one of the reasons NIYA decided to send Marco and Viri into Broward. But Claudio was in the dark about all that except for the phone call telling him a surprise was on the way. The next morning--  I was in my room.  And Marco opens the door.  And he asks for Claudio Rojas.  He tells me I know your son.  And then he explains how they met and that is when I realized this was the surprise my son was talking about.  I say what are you doing here Marco?  He says I came to help you.  You came to help me. Yeah.  Well let us get to work. And that is when we began to work. We did not waste a second. Just like that the plan was under way. Claudio began introducing Marco to people showing him around the detention center. Broward is a strange place. It is in the suburbs of Fort Lauderdale across the street from a Domino's Pizza. Except for the walls around the perimeter it could be mistaken for a low budget retirement home. It is painted pastel pink. There is a courtyard with palm trees and a volleyball court. But everyone wears orange jumpsuits. Marco says it is low security but it still feels like a jail. It is like a nightmarish boarding school would look like. I mean it feels like if you were confined to a really really cheap motel room that you could not get out of that is basically what it feels like. Though the doors are not locked there are hours during the day when the detainees are not allowed to leave their rooms. Marco says kind of the only thing to do is watch TV. As Claudio showed Marco how everything worked he also told him about what he would been finding-- that there were all these Morton Memo types at Broward who should be able to get out. And Claudio said that deportation officers openly admitted that those memos those mean nothing.  I have heard immigration agents tell people who were fighting for their rights tell them President Obama is not going to tell me how to do my job.  Because their job is to deport people. The president in his presidency and me here.  That is how things were done. He heard people say that?   Of course.  It was every day. Marco and Claudio began to move systematically through Broward. They went door to door interviewing the some 600 guys inside one room at a time. They interviewed detainees in the courtyard in the cafeteria in the game room. Always their plan was to figure out who qualified to get out under the Morton Memos. They wanted the most sympathetic cases they could find. It was a big job.  We began speaking individually with the detained asking them what their situation was.  If they had wives kids how long they would been in the country.  If they had criminal records.  Something that could help them.  And all of that we turned over to the people outside the people with Mohammad. So the role of the outside team was essentially we fielded calls all day. This is Mo Mohammad Abdollahi the guy who came up with the idea to infiltrate Broward. While Marco and Viri were inside Mo and the others had set up at a house not far away where they were pulling together all the information coming out of Broward. We would get our first call every morning like clockwork. I would be sleeping-- 700 AM-- because Claudio was a gardener so he is used to waking up really early in the morning. So every morning 700 AM Marco would call me. And every morning he would give me a list of 20 names-- at least 20 names if not more of people to contact. The first thing they would do with these names is to make an attempt to vet the person's story call friends and family to make sure they were telling the truth. If they thought the person really did have grounds to be let out they would launch a public campaign to get them released. They would put up an online petition that told their story. They would help families hold press conferences and vigils help them get media attention. They would reach out to the detainee's church and get them involved. They would urge people to call politicians and give them sample scripts asking congressmen and senators to intervene with immigration authorities. Day after day Marco and Viri and Claudio were now roaming the halls of Broward slipping people tiny pieces of paper with the phone number of the activists in the house outside. Here's Mo. Initially when we got to Florida everybody would call my phone because that was the number that Marco and Viridiana had memorized. After the third day or so it got to the point where literally every 30 seconds we were getting a phone call from a family member from the facility or somebody in the detention center calling us. And that is when we realized we cannot do this with just one phone. So the group set up a hotline and enlisted activists in several other states to help field calls from detainees in Broward. This is Lindora. I talked to you about Hugo. He is in the Broward County Detention Center. These are recordings from that line. It is hundreds of calls and messages. . . Most of the calls are in Spanish. You can often hear children crying or playing. A few tell whole stories.  This woman named Elefsina she got the number from her husband who had been in Broward for months. She says please truly from my heart I need you to help me. I have three children. One who is 16 is disabled. He says he is worthless that he is a nobody the he will not be able to help me. He made it clear that he wants to kill himself because he does not have his father. At this point she starts to cry.  And then she finishes please please I need you to help me. I need you to help me get my husband out. He is a good father a hard worker. Please help me. It may seem strange that a bunch of 20-somethings with no legal experience could become the best option for so many detainees so quickly. But most detainees at Broward have no lawyers. Immigration violations do not qualify you for a free public defender. I talked to a lawyer who does pro bono work inside. She told me most of the detainees are confused cannot afford a private lawyer do not know their rights. Sometimes she has to explain to them what the place is and why they are there. This lawyer her name is Jessica Shulruff. She works for a group called Americans for Immigrant Justice. She said that most of the people she encounters in Broward should not be there. But last year when she provided ICE with a list of all the people who would qualify under the Morton Memos-- To say these are individuals that we feel would benefit under the Memos that you should take a look at to go ahead and release quickly. And in conversations with ICE officials they came back to us and said no we need you to provide individual documentation for each of these individuals. In all honesty the purpose of the memo was for ICE to be reviewing these cases on their own. And so that is I think what is been problematic. The reality is that the implementation of the Morton Memos has been tangled and messy. Lawyers like Shulruff say that ICE should be investigating the detainees that most detainees while they are locked up have no way to gather the documents and witnesses they would need. Most as I have said have no lawyers. ICE meanwhile says it is not their job to investigate. It is their job to review all the evidence that detainees show them. Then there is the question of whether ICE should be detaining any low priority cases at all. Immigration lawyers like Shulruff argue that if someone squarely falls within the guidelines of the Memos the answer is no. When I talked to the head of ICE in Florida the guy who is in charge of Broward he saw it differently. His name is Marc Moore. He says the Memos clearly allow him to detain low priority immigrants. Let us say his agents run across two illegal immigrants. One is high priority and one is a typical low priority case stopped on a traffic violation. So if it is a choice between somebody who has an aggravated felony for manslaughter or a choice between somebody with no driver's license both are illegally present in the United States and subject to removal. Director Morton is clear that he wants us to focus on the one that presents the greatest threat to public safety and we would go after the individual with the aggravated felony crime. Now does that mean we are going to turn a blind eye to everyone else? Not necessarily. Where there is an ability to do both then sometimes yes we are able to do both. Moore is saying that if he is got the manpower and resources to deport them both that is what he will do. The low priority detainee will be deported. And he is right. The Morton Memos leave him that discretion. So though a memo from December 12th states that only real criminals not people with traffic offenses should be detained one page later it says and I quote Nothing in this guidance should be construed to limit ICE's power to apprehend charge detain administratively prosecute or remove any alien unlawfully in the United States. In other words Moore can throw out anyone he wants. So Broward was full of hundreds of people needing to make their case to ICE. After about a week the activists had taken on dozens of detainees were holding press conferences counseling families. Mo says at the peak they were working from 700 AM until 1100 PM sometimes later. During the infiltration Mo and the other activists scrambled to keep up with this huge demand Claudio and Marco and Viri were finding inside. So tell him to try and refuse to board like do that same strategy as Andy that he did which was he told the pilot that he was afraid that his life is in danger. He refused to board. There is a video of Mo on a typical day during the infiltration. You can see him pacing the halls of the house they are working out of. He is on the phone with Marco trying to feed advice to a detainee at Broward a guy who is scheduled to be deported on an airplane that afternoon. Tell him to refuse to put on his seat belt and those sorts of things. I mean ICE can drug him right there on the spot if they want to. So just try and see if he can stall it and say his life is in danger. I do not know how else people stall that . But can you please please please try and find out what time his flight is? Then after Marco had been in Broward for just over three weeks the group decided it was time to make their next move.  What they did next was make the infiltration public. Marco and Viri both did interviews over detention center phones with TV stations outside. So Marco spoke with Univision and I spoke with Telemundo. It was like a Thursday evening. This is Broward with all these Hispanic detainees. So that is on like every TV. So Marco and I are on there and everybody's like . They are like the infiltrator. She is here. And people were coming into the room. You probably can already imagine what happened next. They got kicked out. That happened on Thursday evening. Friday morning ICE calls us to an office and like Simone Lee-Fatt is her name. And she said I am here because you all meet the requirements for release. And I was like OK why are not you bringing everybody else that meets the requirements for release as well? I am not in the business of telling you about anybody else's case. So please like you meet the requirements for release. All of a sudden right? Like what a coincidence that after this interview and people make a big deal we meet the requirements for release. It took two weeks. Wow. In a sense this was true. The activists say that some days the main requirement to get released seemed to be that you get media attention. Now Marco and Viri had done just that. About an hour later they were being released. To give you a sense of what the whole thing meant to those held at Broward it is worth mentioning what happened. After Marco and Viri were kicked out detainees demanded to know what happened to them. Right away people gathered in the courtyard in the middle of the detention center and refused to move yelling and chanting. Only when Claudio was assured that they had been set free did everyone agree to go back to their rooms. That weekend the detainees held a hunger strike to protest their incarceration. Claudio Rojas was still inside for a month after Marco and Viri were released. He says the change was remarkable. He says he saw new ICE staff brought in to review people's cases and people started getting out.  When you leave the lunchroom and go into the store where they sell goods that is where they have put up the court forms. It is like a form for the court.  Of the people who had court that day.  Before the 25 people who may have had court that day maybe one or two would qualify for bond.  Everybody else would be deported. After Mohammad's people started working and the system opened we saw the change when that closed system opened up.  When the system opened up those pieces of paper and now said next to each name relief relief relief bond bond bond. That is what Claudio says he saw. But the total effects of the infiltration well they are actually kind of hard to pin down. The activists say they took on around 150 cases and got somewhere between 40 and 60 people out of Broward. ICE denies that the activists got anyone out. They say those people would have been released anyway. Claudio was released about a month after Marco and Viri. He would spent a total of seven months in detention. One day an ICE agent just took him to an office told him he would met the qualifications for release. Did they tell you why they let you out?   No. In the months after the infiltration 26 members of Congress signed a letter to ICE head John Morton. It was put together by Congressman Ted Deutsch whose district includes Broward. And it asked for a case-by-case review of every single person in the facility. When I talked to Congressman Deutsch more than half a year after ICE received his group's letter he said ICE had refused to do what the letter asked for. He says low priority people are still being locked up across the country which he thinks is a problem. The immigration reform bill that is now in the Senate tries to address this head on. It orders ICE not to detain any low priority immigrants unless there is a specific reason like they are a flight risk. But what are you noticing Cynthia in your surroundings? Like all of this is happening-- Like how many people are there and who is talking to who. And while you are doing that they are going to cuff your hands like this instead of cuffing you like this. In April Mo and Viri and three other organizers were in a condo in the outskirts of Raleigh North Carolina. Mo and several of the organizers had just finished driving in from Texas to be there. The point of this meeting was to train two young activists to be the new infiltrators to sneak into another detention center in Michigan. The meeting was surreal. The condo belonged to the family of one of the women planning to go in though her parents had no idea she was planning to do this. They were not home. Her brother played video games with a friend while just outside the door the activists sat around the kitchen table discussing what the women should expect when ICE brings them into custody. They are going to ask you about your family at which point you can choose to answer or not right? About your family? Yeah you can choose to answer or not but I mean obviously do not say anything. And so that is the part I was talking to you about yesterday. Did you answer-- Maybe the most striking thing about seeing all this though is how different it was from the early videos of the activists preparing for Broward. Those videos exist. I have seen them. And in those it is clear that nobody has too much of an idea about what they are doing. It feels like 20-year-olds imagining something they have been taught never to do but otherwise know very little about with cartoonish ideas about how the cops will treat them. This night in Raleigh Viri and Mo tell anecdotes about Florida strategies for gaining people's trust how not to attract attention. The two women ask questions and Mo and Viri explain what to expect in detention. Their advice is matter of fact and practical. They found a strategy that works that frees people. And this summer they are rolling it out in seven detention centers across the country. Michigan's just one of them. They are not waiting for lawmakers to fix the problem from Washington. When all this started infiltration felt outlandish and risky. Now it just seems pragmatic. Michael May. He also wrote a version of this story for American Prospect Magazine. Thanks to filmmaker Alex Rivera who is working on a movie about this and provided audio of the activists when they got detained. Coming up disobeying a rule that is so important in your family that you wait half your lifetime before ad