One of the first times I met David Rakoff-- this is before he started writing stories for the radio-- he invited me to sit in the window of a department store with him. He was playing Sigmund Freud in a Christmas display window at Barney's and he was seeing patients in the window. David sat in a chair. I lay on a couch. My mom was the therapist. David's dad was a psychiatrist. We would both been therapy patients ourselves at some point or another. And so it was easy for us to play this simulacrum of psychiatry with each other. I do not remember what we talked about. It was so long ago. But I remember very clearly the feeling of it. David gently asking leading general questions like a real therapist would-- how are things going? Why do you think you said that? It was easy to talk to him. And unlike the real Sigmund Freud he offered advice. And it was surprisingly cozy. Though one wall of the room that we were in was this plate glass window that faced Madison Avenue the space was narrow and cocoon-like. The muffled street noise that leaked through the window made it feel more womb-like if anything. People on the street could not hear what we said to each other. So it was both public and intimate. I left feeling close to him. I left wishing we could do it again. And we did in a way. Nearly everything he ever made for our radio show was a personal act made in close collaboration for public consumption performed behind a plate glass window of one kind or another. This week marks the fifth anniversary of his death. He would been on This American Life 25 times. The first time was in 1996 just two months after we went on the air. The last was just three weeks before he died. He travelled with the show when we took it on the road and on tour. When the staff and some favorite contributors all had our testosterone levels tested as a stunt for an episode in 2002 David to everybody's surprise including his was the one with the highest testosterone. When my mom died in 2003 and for the first time we had a guest host fill in for me David was the guest host. Because of that I have a recording of him handling this next bit of business I need to do. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am David Rakoff. Stay with us will not you? Today those of us who make this radio show have the pleasure of bringing you an hour of stories by our friend David Rakoff. This is the show we made and broadcast back when he died to remember him by. David helped invent and define what our radio show is. And he was just a great writer-- lucid and funny and mean and big-hearted. He was that way in conversation too. In thinking about what stories to put on today's program I realized that David has been on the program so often that we have stories covering most of the different phases in his life. We could actually line up the essays in an order and tell his life story. And we are going to do that at least for a bit here. As you will hear it is not a story with big dramatic turns and surprises. But like the old saying goes great stories happen to those who can tell them. These are very very fun to listen to. So David was born in Canada. He talked about Canada and his Canadianness with me in an interview back in 1997 the third time he appeared on our radio program. He said that actually from the day that he arrived in New York City for college as a teenager he did not want to seem Canadian. He wanted to pass as a New Yorker. My tactics were to adopt a certain kind of world-weary jaded anxious neuroticism. And it was taken on as a cosmetic mantle at the beginning until such time as you know you simply cannot pull the mask off your face. Oh my god it is stuck! But there you are years later a jaded affectless neurotic disenchanted sad person. I am told that Canadians tend to know who else is Canadian you know who is famous. All the time everything. And that to me is chemical. You know there are the easy ones you know Kate Nelligan Hume Cronyn Cowboy Junkies Monty Hall. Monty Hall? Wait Monty Hall? Monty Hall. The host of Let us Make a Deal? Yeah. Live and learn huh? Who could be more American than the host of Let us Make a Deal? Even the name Let us Make a Deal. And yet remember Monty only facilitated the deals.   Who else? Glenn Ford John Kenneth Galbraith. But here's the thing about knowing who is Canadian. I mean there is a woman named Shania Twain. She is Canadian. I know that she is Canadian. I do not know who the hell Shania Twain is. I do not know what she does. And yet for some reason I know that she is famous in America and that she is Canadian. How did this come up? Did your parents talk to you about it? I literally do not know. I feel there is a chip in my head. How do these things enter my brain? But at some point somebody told you? I do not even think so you know? I just think it comes in off the breeze or on a cold front. And I know. I just know in my heart who is Canadian. It is so strange. And of course you know the arm on your space shuttle-- I am sorry? The arm on your space shuttle for making interstellar repairs. In Canada the space shuttle was referred to as-- The American space shuttle with its Canadian-built arm.  Never any other way as in the American space shuttle with its Canadian-built arm blew up today. No that did not really happen. No well I was actually here at the time but the Canadian-built arm gets a lot of air play. Not down here huh? In fact if you were to ask most Canadians what do you think the space shuttle is for they would say oh you know to go up and move stuff around in space-- with an arm.  You know. And so when a Canadian finds out that some figure is Canadian what happens in their heart? Oh well your heart does a little bit of-- a certain special Canadians chamber opens up and enfolds that name and you keep it. Or if you mention a Canadian a famous Canadian in conversation to a Canadian without acknowledging it there is a vague flicker over their eyes like the shadow of an angel's wing passing. And then the conversation will go on and on and then just as an after thought they will say oh you know he is Canadian by the way. You know of course it is all you have been waiting to say the entire conversation. You would actually say at some point you know he is Canadian? I would not even-- not even at some point Ira. Let us try it. Go on. You start. All right. So anyway I was in the car on my way to work. And that song from Bachman-Turner Overdrive-- They are Canadian. --came on. That is how I do it. I do not even wait. I do not even wait. There are other bits of his childhood that David wrote about over the years. In 1998 on our program he talked about this incident from high school that was a big turning point for him. At the time he was part of a Zionist socialist group in Toronto very idealistic about Israel. They would meet every week and at 15 go live on a collective farm a kibbutz in Israel for the summer. There we would meet other members of the movement from all over the world and spend many a happy hour engaged in honest labor sing Crosby Stills Nash and Young songs and if one's older siblings were any indication lose our virginity. From the start David did not do well working in the fields. He suffered heat stroke. And then one day came David recalled the boys were informed that they would be doing a special work detail that night that was going to begin at midnight and that no girls would be accompanying them. It was going to be men's work men only. So after 1100 they gathered and they were driven to the farm's chicken house. The chicken coup of the kibbutz was a one-storied structure of corrugated iron about half the size of a football field. It emitted a low rumbling a vague buzz that you could hear from far away. And of course from even farther away there was the smell. Chicken  is an olfactory insult a snarling saw-toothed ammoniac cheesy smell needlessly gratuitously disgusting. Rather than making you never want to eat a chicken again it simply makes you angry. It makes you hold a grudge. You will eat chicken again by god and you will chew really really hard. One of the barrel-chested Israelis shows us what to do. Pick up four chickens in each hand. This is done by grabbing hold of the birds by one leg. If the leg snaps he says it does not matter. Just to get four in each hand. So there. he says. OK? He faces us holding the requisite eight four in each hand living messes of writhing feathers. He looks like some German expressionist cheerleader his pompoms alive convulsing filthy. Who will see their dreams fall away into the abyss and eventually succumb to the crushing sadness and meaninglessness of it all? We will. And what does that spell? Madness! Louder! I cannot hear you! He crams the chickens roughly into a blue plastic crate smeared with wet guano. And you close the lid and chick-chuck he tells us clapping his hands with that is that finality. Before I even try I know that I will not be able to do this. It is midnight and we will be here until dawn or until the truck is piled to capacity with crated birds. I walk out into the sea of chickens. I reached down and grab one its leg a slightly thicker segmented chopstick. I recoil and stand up. I take a fetid breath regroup and bend down with new resolve grab the chicken by its body with both hands thinking somehow that might be preferable. Although how I think I am going to get eight of them this way I am not sure. Its ribs expand and contract under my fingers a dirty warm live umbrella. I drop the bird as if it were boiling hot. I leave the coop and go out to the trucks. Hoisting myself up onto the flat bed I start to help with the stacking of the full crates. I know that my unilateral decision to change my task is met with displeasure on the part of the men who run the coop but I do not care. Their muttered comments are predicated on a direct poultry-penile relationship. I might as well have spurned the stag party whore or gone to the wood shop and fashion myself a sign that said fag.  what is the matter with him? the head of the work detail asks when he sees me on the truck.  he is answered using the female pronoun when referring to me. The lady does not like the chickens. It would be years before I was referred to as she again and then very rarely and only as a joke by friends. I turn around to look at the men making it quite clear to them that I understand what they are saying. The man who called me she avoids my eyes and busies himself was straightening a pile of crates and tightening the tarpaulin on the side of the truck. You are right I tell him in Hebrew she does not like the chickens. Have you ever had one of those moments when you know that you are being visited by your own future? They come so rarely and with so little fanfare those moments. They are not particularly photogenic. There no breach in the clouds to reveal the shining city on a hill-- no folk dancing children outside your bus no production values to speak of just a glimpse of such quotidian incontrovertible truth that after the initial shock at the supreme weirdness of it all a kind of calm sets in. So this is to be my life? At that very moment I saw that I would never live on a kibbutz. I would not lose my virginity that summer to any of the girls from the group. Indeed I would not care to do so. I am grateful to that macho blowhard. He made me consciously realize what I had always known but been somehow unable to say to myself. He is right. I do not like chickens. I like men. Now I live in Manhattan the un-kibbutz where nobody would dream of touching a live chicken where whatever spirit of collectivist altruism people might have had dried up long ago. At camp when I was young I and the other children of affluent professionals would gather under the trees every day to sing before going into lunch. One of the songs was always The Internationale the hymn of the proletariat. One summer we were even taught to sing it with our left fists raised. We were none of us by any stretch of the imagination what could be described as prisoners of starvation wretched of the earth or enthralled slaves. Admittedly they are all catchier metaphors and easier to scan than arise you children of psychiatrists. But they had little to nothing to do with us personally. And yet for those few moments when we were singing those words seemed so true. How can I describe to you that 11-year-old's sense of purpose? That thrill of belonging to something larger something outside of my own body? The sheer heart-stopping beauty of a world of justice and perfection arising on new foundations? And that one line-- We have been naught. We shall be all. Naught-- it spoke as much about my wish to be delivered from this pre-adolescent self-loathing as it did to any consciousness of liberating the masses. But it held such promise of what I might hope for that even now as I write this I can still call up that old fervor. It still makes my breath catch in my throat. You are listening to This American Life. We are hearing stories by David Rakoff. So David goes to college at 17. He has an incredible ear for mimicry. He has a real gift for languages. He majors in Japanese at school. He told me once that was because it was the hardest language he could find. After graduating he moves to Japan. He moves to Japan gets a job. It is 1986. And in this office job David was convinced that he understood something about their business in this office that no one else in the office could see. Primarily the office was an advertising agency. But what they were setting up was this thing for expatriates who were living in Tokyo at the time or perhaps all of Japan. And it was like a network on a computer. And they would set up a newsletter on the network. And people could quote log on to the computer and talk to one another or do research. And I was just-- I do not know. I just looked around the room and I saw these computers and could only think like what kind of loser would log onto a computer talk to someone. And in fact that night in my diary I had written something like this is like those comic book enthusiasts who actually read the little instructions at the bottom of the panel that said you know for more on the Green Goblin check out Spidey number 137 you know from the editor. And in almost the only moment of decisiveness in my entire adult life-- I have certainly never equaled this-- I went in the next morning and I quit. And all I could think was like sayonara suckers! You know good luck with your network. And we know exactly what the network was. It was the internet. I have a negative capacity to identify trends. Like when in college I went to see Madonna at Danceteria which was a club downtown like 1982 or whatever. And I thought boy is she lousy! Are there examples besides Madonna and the internet? Other than Madonna and the internet you need another example? When I was an editorial assistant working in publishing I was handed a manuscript to read. I think I wrote something like subliterate borderline misogyny an easy pass. And somebody thought I am just going to take a look at this anyway. It was Men Are From Mars Women Are From Venus.  These are not like me saying like I do not think Alicia Silverstone is going to be very good in Clueless. I mean these are like you know-- Pretty big iconic ones. Yeah. It was like have you fellas heard that crazy lunatic in the marketplace inveighing against the Pharisees? He will burn off like so much morning fog. We will never hear about him ever-- you know it is just like that. So David's living in Japan. And he is only there for two or three months in this new life that he is made for himself when he gets cancer for the first time. Hodgkin's lymphoma he is 22. He flies home to Canada for treatment radiation then chemo takes over a year before he will be well again. There is a story that David wrote years ago. And just a few days after he died I listened back to it. I had not heard it since the year 2000 when we first broadcast it. David was 35 when this aired. In the story he was looking back on this first experience that he had with cancer back in his 20s. He was treated at Princess Margaret Hospital in Toronto. And there is this scene in the story where he describes what it was like to go there and get treatment. The radiation room itself is a lead-lined interior chamber of the hospital. Two red laser beams cross over the exact center of the table where the patients lie. Using the cross of four small black tattoos on my torso the technicians line me up and ready me for the thousands of rads of radiation. The machine is bulbous huge and a dull hospital green a death ray straight out of '50s sci-fi. I lie down and look up. Above my head directly at eye level someone has drawn a hastily rendered happy face in magic marker. Underneath that is written the message Give us a smile. Like Rita Hayworth's picture that graced the side of the atom bomb they dropped on Bikini Atoll there is something so pathetic so vastly outmatched about this little happy face. It is like putting a garnish on annihilation. Still I never fail to smile. Even when I reach the point in the treatments when most of my hair has fallen out and my throat has been burnt to such an extent that I cannot swallow I smile. They have not stopped at the happy face either. Every time the lead door closes latching with a booming clank so too begins the music-- the same song every time the same place in the same song every time. The full horn section buildup of the chorus to the song You are Just Too Good to Be True. The plutonium drops down into the central cone. A warm wind starts to blow on my chest indicating that I am now getting the equivalent of a lifetime's worth of the recommended dose of gamma radiation. And I smile. Two decades later when cancer returned and killed him the tumor was in that very same spot where the radiation had shot into him in that room in Princess Margaret Hospital. David had what is known as a post-radiation sarcoma. That is not what he is writing about in this essay though. He is writing in this essay about how he remembered that period of his life and specifically how numb he was whenever he thought about that period of his life how he usually shrugged it off as no big deal his long first trial with cancer. It has only recently occurred to me he wrote that perhaps I might stop glibly insisting that the cancer was not real and that the doctors popped me into an Easy Bake Oven where a 40-watt light bulb halted the metastasis in its tracks. David said that looking back he felt completely detached from the fear or the relief that somebody might feel in remembering this kind of medical slow motion near-death experience. And he described revisiting the old hospital years later this place that was so important in his life that saved his life and just going back there and feeling nothing. And then he launches into this passage which is just intensely personal. They say that times of crisis are the true test of one's character. I really would not know since my character took a powder that year leaving in its stead a jewel-bright hardness. I was at my very cleverest that year and airless relentless kind of quippiness. Every time a complex human emotion threatened to break the surface of my consciousness out would come a joke. Come on give us a smile. I was Thanatosis' rodeo clown-- I still am-- and Eros' as well as it turns out. Years later in a tender embrace in bed with my first real boyfriend he said my name. Oh David. I stopped sat up and responded in my best Ed Wynn-- Yes? This kind of behavior essentially killed things between us. There was a period during the illness when I was at my very sickest at 115 pounds hovering in and out of consciousness. This month and a half was the one period in my life when I was not faking it where I was not deflecting every emotion with repartee. That it would take millions of cancer cells lining up for their big Esther Williams finale in my lymphatic system for me to finally shut up is sobering-- or would be were I to think about it which of course I choose not to. What remains of your past if you did not allow yourself to feel it when it happened? If you do not have your experiences in the moment if you gloss them over with jokes or zoom past them you end up with curiously dispassionate memories procedural and depopulated. It is as if a neutron bomb went off and all you are left with are hospital corridors. David returned to this thought that cleverness can substitute for intimacy in a few pieces of writing. It is in his book Half Empty. It came up memorably in the interview that David did with Terry Gross on Fresh Air about that book. In your chapter about your therapist you have a great description of yourself when describing your thoughts after telling the therapist that you are going to stop seeing him. And I would like you to read that for us. Yes. This is when he-- I am not talking about terminating. I seem to be avoiding the topic. And finally he stops me one day. I am ranting about I think human rights in China or something like that. And he finally says you know look we have got to talk about you terminating. This is a big thing. Turning things around I asked him what his feelings were about our ending things. 'I am incredibly angry' he responded fondly. 'How dare you. You should at least have to come and have coffee with me once a week.' I asked if he felt this way about most of his patients. 'Not really' he responded. Sigh. Should you happen to be possessed of a certain verbal acuity coupled with a relentless hair-trigger humor and surface cheer spackling over a chronic melancholia and loneliness a grotesquely caricatured version of your deepest self which you trot out at the slightest provocation to endearing and glib comic effect thus rendering you the kind of fellow who is beloved by all yet loved by none all of it to distract however fleetingly from the cold and dead-faced truth that with each passing year you face the unavoidable certainty of a solitary future in which you will perish one day while vainly attempting the Heimlich maneuver on yourself over the back of a kitchen chair then this confirmation that you have triumphed again and managed to gull yet another mark-- except this time it was the one person you would hoped might be immune to your ever-creakier puddle shallow sideshow barker variation on adorable-- even though you would been launching this campaign weekly with a single-minded concentration from day one. Well it conjures up feelings that are best described as mixed to say the least. I just want to point out since our listeners do not have a copy of your book in front of them that most of that reading was one sentence  that one very well-balanced juggling act there. So I just want to ask you did you consciously intend to keep that one sentence? Yeah. Yeah it felt-- well I like a little ranty sandwich of a sentence or a lasagna of a sentence or a mille-feuille of a sentence to be perfectly homosexual about the metaphor.  I like things that build in that way with semicolons and em dashes and things like that. Do you think of yourself as somebody who is the kind of fellow who is beloved by all yet loved by none? We are verging into territory that is a little too personal so let me just say-- That is fine. OK. Yes I do.  OK. We will leave it there I suppose. Yes I guess so. If you are just tuning in it is This American Life. Today we are remembering David Rakoff. When David was 23 after recovering from Hodgkin's lymphoma all he wanted to do was move to New York City. He arrived in the city got low-level jobs in the publishing industry-- first at a literary agency then at a publisher. He wanted to write but he did not write. Instead he was an assistant. David later wrote about this for a show that we performed at a town hall in New York City for the fifth anniversary of our program. He said assistants like him did the same work as the professional secretaries but got paid a lot less with the thought that they were climbing the ladder to real publishing jobs. He said they were miserable. They hated the work. They resented the menial tasks they had to do. And they drank a lot. Our drunkenness was twofold. First there was the liquor. But there was also the intoxication brought on by the self-aggrandizing conviction that we happy few we cheery booze hounds were the new incarnations of that most mythic bunch of souses the Algonquin Round Table. This pipe dream sustained not just us but I suspect countless other tables of publishing menials all over town. So desperate were we to assume the mantle of Parker Benchley and their ilk that we were not going to let some silly thing like a dearth of wit or the complete absence of a body of work on any of our parts deter us. With enough 4 drinks sloshing through our veins even the most dunderheaded schoolyard japery qualified as coruscating repartee. What do you want? a riposte might begin a medal or a chest to pin it on? Oh touche! we cried merrily as a clutched our martinis. Paying the bill we stumbled out into the street and back to our apartments where we spent the rest of the night jealously reading the manuscripts of those who actually wrote and did not just drink about it. This period in David's life pops up in other things that he wrote. For years I have had this recording of him on my computer at work reading another essay on stage about his 20s. And now and then we have actually considered it for this theme or that theme on the radio show. And it is one of those stories that never ended up on the air. I think mostly because the beginning of the essay is about the Broadway musical Rent. You remember Rent?   OK so Rent closed years ago and so it just-- it was hard to put on the air this piece because it just seemed weird to pick a fight with a hit Broadway show that had closed and nobody was talking about any more anyway you know? But it is this great piece of writing and one of my favorite recordings of David. A warning to our podcast and streaming audiences on the radio we beep a few words and actually eliminate a sentence or two that here on the internet we are not going to beep and that we are going to restore. So some of this might be the kind of thing you do not want your children to hear. There are 525600 minutes in a year. I learned that from watching Rent. From watching Rent I also learned that the best way to mark the passing of these 525600 minutes would be to measure them out into something Jonathan Larson the writer of the musical called seasons of love. What does that even mean seasons of love? In Rent the characters live out their seasons of love in huge lofts. Some of them have AIDS which is coincidentally also the name of a dreaded global pandemic that is still raging and has killed millions of people worldwide. In Rent however AIDS seems to be a disease that renders one cuter and cuter. The characters are artists creative types. They have tatterdemalion clothes. Some of them are homosexual and the ones who are not homosexual do not even seem to mind. They screen their calls. And when it is their parents they roll their eyes. They hate their parents. They are never going back to Larchmont no way. They will stay here living in their 2000 square feet of picturesque poverty being sexually free and creative. Here's some ways to broadcast creativity in a movie. Start plinking out a tune on a piano. Scratch a few notes on some music paper. Plink some more. Suddenly crash both hand down on the keyboard then bring them quickly up to your head and grab the hair on your temples screaming it will not work! Or sit at a typewriter reading the page you have just written realize that it is shit and tear it from the platen and toss it behind you. Cut to waste paper basket overflowing with crumpled paper. Here's what they do in Rent to show that they are creative. Nothing-- they do nothing. They hang out. And hanging out can be marvelous. But hanging out does not make you an artist. A secondhand wardrobe does not make you an artist. Neither do a hair-trigger temper melancholic nature propensity for tears hating your parents nor even HIV-- I hate to say it-- none of these can make you an artist. They can help. But just as being gay does not make one witty-- you can suck a mile of cock. It does not make you Oscar Wilde. Believe me. I know. I have tried. The only thing that makes you an artist is making art. And that takes the opposite of hanging out. So when they sing the anthem of the show-- that is a lie really. Every song in the show is an anthem delivered with adolescent earnestness. It is like being trapped in the pages of a teenager's diary. So when they sing the title anthem of the show We are not gonna pay this year's rent followed by kind of barked cheer of rent rent rent rent rent rent rent my only question is well why are not you going to pay this year's rent? It seems that they are not going to pay this year's rent because rent is for losers and uncreative types. Rent is for suits. By contrast they have the last bastion of artistic purity. They have not sold out and yet their brilliance goes unacknowledged so fuck you yuppie scum! I know what it is like to feel angry and ignored. I lived in Brooklyn a long time ago about a block away from a prison. During the day the neighborhood bustled with lawyers judges criminals bail bondsman private detectives. I lived on a block in a little two-story building that had once been a coach house in the 19th century. And the basement had a red dirt floor. On the ground floor below me was an office that did what exactly resumes? I cannot remember. What I do remember is the man whose office it was. Raul was knee-buckingly handsome. If my life had been different like I do not know if I were like a hot girl with a driver's license I could have put on a tube top and gone outside to wash my car in slow motion or something but alas. Once during the day-- it must have been the weekend because I was at home-- I could hear Raul having sex in the office downstairs. I skittered around my apartment like a cockroach on a frying pan trying not to make any noise while desperately looking for a knot hole in the crappy floorboards. Eventually I just laid down flat against the tile of the kitchen floor listening. Lying flat against the tile on my kitchen floor listening to someone else have sex is essentially in my 20s in a nutshell. I was robbed in that neighborhood twice. And there were days when it hardly seemed worth it to live in a horrible part of town just so that I could go daily to a stupid soul-crushing low-paying job. Especially since as deeply as I yearned to be creative for years and years I was too scared to even try so I did nothing. But here's something that I did do-- I paid my fucking rent.    David Rakoff. Coming up how to give the winning toast at a wedding that you should not be at in the first place. More stories from David Rakoff in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. It is the fifth anniversary of the death of our friend and contributor David Rakoff. And if you are just tuning in we are replaying the program that we made five years ago remembering him with stories that he did on our show plus a few other things. This court is in session. David's very first appearance on our program in 1996 was in a radio drama written in rhyming couplets by David Sedaris. It was about a courtroom where animals come to resolve conflicts. David Rakoff played a cat a cat who was also the prosecuting attorney in the courtroom. Your honor destruction's no small misdemeanor. The accused here is vicious. We should quarantine her. Now I plan to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Kathleen the Spaniel engaged in a bout of senseless destruction. Coincidentally Rakoff's very last appearance on our program was also a radio drama in rhymed couplets something that Rakoff wrote four years ago for the CBC radio show WireTap. In this thing he played Dr. Seuss in a correspondence with Gregor Samsa a man who found himself turning into a cockroach. This weird premise if you heard this led to some surprisingly affecting moments. I am astonished at times when I think of the past of my thousands of rhymes of how life is so vast. I am left then to wonder how anyone gleans a purpose or sense of what anything means. It is not ours for the knowing its meaning abstruse. We would both best be going. Your loving friend Seuss. In fact David's been doing lots of rhyming lately. A month before he died he finished his last book which is a story to