All right Mr. Ken Lane whenever you are ready we are going to sing a few of these songs. We hope you enjoy them. Yeah we hope you enjoy them. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. What are you staring at?  Brassieres. I dig a broad with no brassieres. This is a recording from 1962 of Frank Sinatra Dean Martin and Sammy Davis Jr. performing in a club outside Chicago. And like everything else about Frank Sinatra what is fascinating about this recording is how many different people he is able to be all at once-- cutting up on the one hand and then turning around and singing the most vulnerable possible love songs on the other.  When you are alone who cares for starlit skies? Where does it hurt baby? When you are alone. Not three minutes later he is lashing into a gossip columnist he hates Dorothy Kilgallen. I never met a-- I mean I have met many many male finks but I never met a female fink until I met Dorothy Kilgallen. How is that for an opener?   I would not mind if she was a good looking fink. That such beautiful music should emerge from such vulgarity is one of life's great mysteries The Washington Star once wrote. The town where she came from they had a beauty contest when she was 17 years old and nobody won.   There was poor little Chinese kid. The boy was standing there. There was nobody else. They gave him the cup because he was better looking than the broads in the line. And this is the way he is on stage with Sammy Davis Jr. In 1962 it was still groundbreaking for a mainstream white performer to be integrating his nightclub act at all. But a good portion of the act is just Sinatra and Martin telling Davis to get off the stage and Davis pleading with them to stay. Did he ask me out here-- can I sing with you guys? A couple of-- Hey hey hey hey hey hey-- I will dance with you. I will sing with you. I will swim with you. I will cut the lawn with you. I will go to Bar Mitzvahs with you. But do not touch me.   A half century after this was recorded I think what is most striking about it is how many of the jokes are simply about the fact that a black man is on stage with these white guys. I am going to play you a big chunk of this because it is amazing-- the jokes they make what the jokes are about how bare the whole thing is. Well now that you are out here you might as well do something. You might as well leave.  Hey how come he got a white stool?   I tell you what-- ladies and gentlemen may I offer some impersonations for you nice folks? Sam that is a good idea. Why do not you do Paul Revere get on your horse and get the hell out of here?  I tell you what-- do James Meredith of Mississippi.  Help!  Ladies and gentlemen my first impression is that of Mr. Frank Sinatra.   When somebody loves you it is no good unless she loves you all the way. Man if you like him you are going to be cuckoo about me.  He is just if you will excuse the expression a carbon copy.   Sammy Davis Jr. takes a breath and launches into his next impression. Mr. Nat King Cole.   Through the good lean years yes and all those in between years. You notice he does his people better than he does ours?   Because we are born with a natural sense of rhythm you nitwit. That is Sammy Davis Jr. saying that. Hope I am not out of line Frank. Hope I am not out of line Frank. Then he says-- We just sit around all day eating chicken and watermelon. Gak yuck gak. I hope it is clear this is Sammy Davis Jr. pushing back at Frank calling out what is happening with his friend. When Sammy Davis Jr. finally sings a duet with Sinatra it is a duet between a black man and a white man that is imaginable to hear. You cannot imagine this being performed today by a black man and a white man together except in some deeply ironic context. This is a duet that they performed for years together Me and My Shadow.  Me and my shadow. Closer than pages that stick in a book. We are closer than ripples that play in a brook. Strolling down the avenue. Whereever you will find him you will find me just look. Closer than a miser or the bloodhounds to Liza me. Closer than smog is through all of LA. Me and my shadow. Closer than Bobby is to JFK. In Frank Sinatra we see the history of the 20th century. In Frank Sinatra the Chicago writer Rennie Sparks put it we do not just see a man we see every man. Here's Rennie. He is a frail boy crooner in a floppy bow tie. He is an thug smashing his fist through a wall when his shirts come back with too much starch. And he is a bewildered old man falling off a stool during My Way. Shirley MacLaine says he let her stick her gum behind his ear during takes Some Came Running. But he also liked to grab an ice cube from his drink thrusting it in the palm of a gaga fan snarling Here go skate around on it. I wish someone would hurt you he told Shirley so I could kill them for you.  She gets far too hungry babe. Wait there for dinner at eight. She adores the theater however does not get there late. She would never bother with someone she would hate. That is why the lady is a tramp.  Well today on our program of course the chairman of the board Frank Sinatra. This weekend marks his 100th birthday. He was born December 12 1915. And today's program is one that we first broadcast a year before Sinatra died. He died back in 1998. As you will hear this show sounds different in certain ways from the shows we do today but in lots of ways not so different. The show is an appreciation of Frank Sinatra. But it is also even more than that I think a bunch of people trying to make sense of Sinatra. We have Gay Talese Michael Ventura. We have Sarah Vowell making a plea to television executives everywhere. We have a quick history lesson for all of you who right now are saying really Sinatra? That is what we are doing? Really? Stay with us pally.  That is why the lady that is why the lady is a tramp.   Act one Frank Sinatra has a Cold. So Frank Sinatra's at his peak in the 1950s up through the middle of the 1960s. Those are the years of his greatest recordings. Those are the years of the Rat Pack the iconic defining years for him. And to see inside the life that he led during those years during his heyday one of the best accounts is by journalist Gay Talese. It was first published in Esquire magazine in 1966. It is called Frank Sinatra Has a Cold. It is also one of the most famous magazine stories ever written-- or anyway famous among journalists-- because Talese managed to do this complicated portrait of Sinatra without ever interviewing Sinatra. Sinatra refused to talk to him. So Talese talked to all the people around Sinatra and watched Sinatra. So this is this long great story with many many scenes. We only have time for an excerpt here which Gay Talese agreed to read for us. Frank Sinatra holding a glass of bourbon in one hand and a cigarette in the other stood in a dark corner of a bar between two attractive but fading blondes who sat waiting for him to say something. But he said nothing. He had been silent during much of the evening except now in this private club in Beverly Hills he seemed even more distant staring out through the smoke and the semi-darkness into a large room beyond the bar where dozens of young couples sat huddled around small tables or twisted in the center of the floor to the clamorous clang of folk rock music blaring from the stereo. The two blondes knew as did Sinatra's four male friends who stood nearby that it was a bad idea to force conversation upon him when he was in this mood of sullen silence a mood that had hardly been uncommon during this first week of November a month before his 50th birthday. Sinatra had been working in a film that he now disliked and could not wait to finish. He was tired of all the publicity attached to his dating the 20-year-old Mia Farrow who was not in sight tonight. He was angry that a CBS television documentary of his life to be shown in two weeks was reportedly prying into his privacy even speculating on his possible friendships with mafia leaders. He was worried about his starring role in an hour long NBC show entitled Sinatra A Man and His Music which would require that he sing 18 songs with a voice that at this particular moment just a few nights before the taping was to begin was weak and sore and uncertain. Sinatra was ill. He was a victim of an ailment so common that most people would consider it trivial. But when it gets to Sinatra it can plunge him into a state of anguish and deep depression panic even rage. Frank Sinatra had a cold. Sinatra with a cold is Picasso without paint Ferrari without fuel only worse. For the common cold robbed Sinatra of that uninsurable jewel his voice cutting into the core of his confidence. And it affects not only his own psyche but also seems to cause a kind of psychosomatic nasal drip within dozens of people who work for him drink with him depend on him for their own welfare and stability. A Sinatra with a cold can in a small way send vibrations through the entertainment industry and beyond as surely as a president of the United States suddenly sick can shake the national economy. For Frank Sinatra was now involved with many things involving many people-- his own film company his record company his private airline his missile parts firm his real estate holdings across the nation his personal staff of 75 which are only a portion of the power he is and has come to represent. He now seemed to be also the embodiment of the fully emancipated male perhaps the only one in America-- the man who can do anything he wants anything-- can do it because he has the money the energy and no apparent guilt. All the way. All or nothing at all. This is Sicilian in Sinatra. He permits his friends if they wish to remain that none of the easy Anglo-Saxon outs. But if they remain loyal then there is nothing Sinatra will not do for them-- fabulous gifts personal kindnesses encouragement when they are down adulation when they are up. They are wise to remember however one thing-- he is Sinatra the boss Il Padrone. Or better still he is what in traditional Sicily have long been called oumini rispetatti-- men of respect. Men who are both majestic and humble. Men who are loved by all in are very generous by nature. Men whose hands are kissed as they walk from village to village. Men who would personally go out of their way to address a wrong. Frank Sinatra does things personally. At Christmas time he will personally pick dozens of presents for his close friends and family remembering the type of jewelry they like their favorite colors the size of their shirts and dresses. This same Sinatra can within the same hour explode in a towering rage of intolerance to a small thing being incorrectly done for him by one of his paisanos. For example when one of his men brought him a frankfurter with ketchup on it which Sinatra apparently abhors he angrily threw the bottle at the man splattering ketchup all over him.  In Las Vegas after the last show at The Sands the Sinatra crowd which numbered about 20 all got into a line of cars and headed for another club. It was 3 oclock. The night was young. They stopped at The Sahara taking a long table near the back and listened to a bald headed little comedian named Don Rickles who is probably more caustic than any other comic in the country. His humor is so rude in such bad taste that it offends no one because it is too offensive to be offensive. Spotting Eddie Fisher among the audience Rickles proceeded to ridicule him as a lover saying it was no wonder that he could not handle Elizabeth Taylor. And when two business men in the audience acknowledged that they were Egyptians Rickles cut into them and their country's policy toward Israel. And he strongly suggested that the woman seated at one table with her husband was actually a hooker. When the Sinatra crowd walked in Don Rickles could not be more delighted. Pointing to Sinatra's pal Jilly Rizzo Rickles yelled How is it feel to be Frank's tractor? Yeah yeah. Jilly keeps walking in front of Frank clearing the way. Then nodding to Leo Durocher a former baseball player Rickles said Stand up Leo. Show Frank how you slide. Then he focused on Sinatra not failing to mention Mia Farrow nor that he was wearing a toupee nor to say that Sinatra was washed up as a singer. And when Sinatra laughed everybody laughed. And Rickles pointed towards Joey Bishop and said Bishop keeps checking with Frank to see what is funny. Then after Rickles told some Jewish jokes Dean Martin stood up and yelled Hey you are always talking about the Jews never about the Italians. And Rickles cut him off What do we need the Italians for? All they do is keep the flies off our fish. Sinatra laughed. They all laughed. And Rickles went on this way for nearly an hour until Sinatra standing up said All right all right. Come on get this thing over with. I got to go. Shut up and sit down Rickles yelled. I had to listen to you sing. Who do you think you are talking to? Sinatra yelled. Dick Haymes Rickles replied and Sinatra laughed again. And then Dean Martin pouring a bottle of whiskey over his head entirely drenching his tuxedo pounded the table. By 400 AM Frank Sinatra led the group out of The Sahara some of them carrying their glasses of whiskey with them sipping it along the sidewalk and into the cars. And then returning to The Sands they walked into the gaming casino. It was still packed with people. The roulette wheels were spinning. The crap shooters were screaming in the far corner. Frank Sinatra holding a shot glass of bourbon in his left hand walked through the crowd. He unlike some of his friends was perfectly pressed-- his tuxedo tie precisely pointed his shoes unsmudged. He never seems to lose his dignity never lets his guard completely down no matter how much he has drunk nor how long he is been up. He never sways when he walks like Dean Martin nor does he dance in the aisles or jump up on the tables like Sammy Davis. A part of Sinatra no matter where he is is never there. There is always a part of him though sometimes a small part that remains Il Padrone. The crowd that had gathered around him now opened to let him through. But a woman stopped in front of him handing him a piece of paper. He signed it and then he said thank you. In the rear of The Sands large dining room was a long table reserved for Sinatra. The dining room was fairly empty at this hour with perhaps two dozen other people in the room including a table of four unescorted young ladies sitting near Sinatra. On the other side of the room at a long table sat seven men shoulder to shoulder against the wall two of them wearing dark glasses all of them eating quietly speaking hardly a word. Just sitting and eating and missing nothing. The Sinatra party after getting settled and having a few more drinks ordered something to eat. The table was about the same size as the one reserved for Sinatra whenever he is at Jilly's in New York. And the people seated around this table in Las Vegas were mainly the same people who are often seen with Sinatra at Jilly's restaurant in New York or at a restaurant in California or in Italy or New Jersey. Wherever Sinatra happens to be. When Sinatra sits to dine his trusted friends are close. And no matter where he is no matter how elegant the place may be there is something of the neighborhood showing because Sinatra no matter how far he has come is still something of the boy from the neighborhood. Only now he can take his neighborhood with him. In some ways the quasi-family affair at the reserved table in a public place is the closest thing Sinatra now has to home life. Gay Talese reading an excerpt from Frank Sinatra has a Cold. A quick Google search and you can read the full thing online. Act two One Sinatra Fan Versus All of Network Television. So as I said earlier for Frank Sinatra's hundredth birthday we are bringing you an old show that we made back when Sinatra was still alive first broadcast a year before his death. He died in 1998. And in our original broadcast one of our contributors Sarah Vowell made a plea to television newscasters. Her plea was simple. She said when Frank Sinatra dies please please do not use the song My Way to commemorate his death. Do not let that be the soundtrack to the video montage you broadcast in tribute. She was sure that is what they were going to do. When the guy who generously gave us greats like I Get a Kick Out of You kicks it we will not put on our Basie Boots or get a load of those cuckoo things he is been saying. We will be bored terrifically screaming at the TV set every time he and that sappy string section face the final curtain.  And now-- A few weeks ago here on the radio program I went on a little rant about one of the lyrics to the song My Way. But Sarah's problem with My Way was much more fundamental than mine. Basically she said it does not have any of the qualities of the great Sinatra songs. It does not swing. It does not break your heart. It is sappy. It is boring. It is even a little whiny. Anyway here's more of Sarah. The only way My Way has ever worked is if the person singing it is dumber than the song which is why the only successful rendition of it was perpetrated by Sid Vicious. Frank and Elvis for that matter was always too complicated too full of rhythmic freedom to settle into the song's simplistic selfishness. My Way pretends to speak up for self-possession and personal vision when really it only calls forth the temper tantrums of two-year-olds or perhaps the last word spoken to Eva Braun.  The record shows I took the blows and did it my way. Remember the stories from Belgrade? How each night when the government-controlled evening news aired the townspeople blew whistles or banged on pots and pans so they would not hear the state's lies? Keep that beautiful action in mind when Sinatra is dead and all the TVs in your more boring democratic world are playing My Way. Drown it out. Play something else to the montage in your own heart. Or just turn off the TV sound. Have your stereo cued up and ready to go. He could keel over any second. I mean he might not even make it through this hour long radio show. Be prepared. Why not play Angel Eyes for its subtle reference to the singer's Mediterranean windows to the soul for its knowing jaunty adieu?  Excuse me while I disappear. Hear how great that would work under all those post-war black and white snapshots how that nice Christian harp outro hints at Frank's unlikely salvation. Let us all listen again. Excuse me while I disappear. I admit this may not be quite stupid and obvious enough for network television. So if the staff of the Today Show is hearing my voice right now here's another suggestion.  That is life. That is what all the people say. You are riding high in April shot down in May. If Angel Eyes is all periods and pauses this song is all exclamation points. Picture please Good Morning America staffers quick cut shots of Sinatra with Ava Gardner Sinatra with daughter Nancy at age five Sinatra with Kennedy Sinatra with some mob boss no one will recognize anyway over these lyrics--  I have been a puppet a pauper a pirate a poet a pawn and king. I have been up and down and over and out and I know one thing. Each time I find myself flat on my face I pick myself up and get back in the race. That life. I tell you-- It is really a terrible choice-- just as corny as My Way but at least it is got a little bit of the old ring-a-ding-ding. It swings. This is my ABMY vote-- Anything But My Way. As for me when I hear the big news I am tempted to think I will be cranking up my favorite Sinatra side Come Dance With Me but it is too disrespectfully cheerful to work as a dirge and kind of creepy if taken literally. Who except Tom Petty wants to fox trot with a corpse? I have decided instead to blare the Capitol recording of Cole Porter's What is This Thing Called Love? It is the driving question behind the entire Sinatra research project and it is a lovely pop song suitably melancholy for mourning reflective and wise. The orchestra starts off low. Enter a clarinet that is somehow lewd and ponderous at the same time. Frank scrawls the topic sentence then repeats it adding one word-- this funny thing called love. It begins as a rhetorical question and by the end turns into a cosmic inquiry of God.  What is this thing called love? This funny thing called love. Just who can solve its mystery? And why should it make a fool of me? Now ET producers are you paying attention? At the end of the song Frank asks one more time to the Lord in heaven above just what is this thing called love? And then he cuts out as if he is off to face the creator in person.  That is why I ask the Lord up in heaven above just what is this thing called love? And then once he is gone the orchestra resolves to a sweet final chord as if they have the answer but Frank Sinatra is no longer around to hear it. Cannot you just see the freeze frame? Frank in the recording studio the Capitol years the hat askew the tie loosened. TV producers of America I beg you for all of us for Frank ixnay on the My Way. Excuse me now while I disappear.    While Sarah Vowell's plea to network television was broadcast twice twice on our program before Sinatra's death his death on May 14 1998 it had no effect whatsoever on television newscasters. Every network newscast used the song My Way in its network obituary. So much for the power of public radio to shape our nation's destiny. The one exception was ABC's Nightline. The night that Sinatra died Nightline ended a special hour long tribute they would created to Sinatra by playing Sarah's radio story. In other words the person who got the last word in American network news that day the day of Sinatra's passing was Sarah. Her essay has been collected in one of her many fine books Take the Cannoli. Coming up Frank Sinatra shifts through all of his different ages in one concert. That is in a minute on Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week of course we choose a theme invite a variety of writers and performers to take a whack at that theme with fiction nonfiction radio monologues whatever we can think of. And the subject of today's show-- what what was his name again?  My name is Frances Albert.  Francis Albert Sinatra.  And I sing love songs mostly after dark mostly in saloons. Yes you cannot have a career as long and distinguished as Frank Sinatra's without some experiments that fail. Witness Frank Sinatra's cover of Bad Bad Leroy Brown or the Rod McKuen poetry he recorded. I can just about get through the day but the night makes me nervous. Not for any reason except maybe that it catches you unaware and follows you the way a woman follows when she wants something. What-- what is that? The night makes Frank Sinatra nervous? Frank Sinatra? But that is not what I am really here to talk about here in Act Three. What I am really here to talk about is not the failures of Frank Sinatra but what makes Sinatra so special in the first place. And the answer is from the time of his first big breakthrough as a solo singer in 1942 Frank Sinatra was more emotionally expressive more vulnerable more openly sensual than other male pop stars back then. He was a torch singer a guy torch singer who picked up moves from Billie Holiday. Sinatra said Holiday influences singing more than anybody. And then in the 1950s he did not let go of all that but he reinvented himself. After a career slump after his second marriage with Ava Gardner broke up he went into the studio to create records with a much tougher more swinging sound than he would done before. His public image became the character Frank Sinatra who we know now-- half tough guy half sentimental saloon singer. And Nelson Riddle invented this sound for those albums with apparently heavy input from Sinatra. It is the sound of most of the songs that we think of today as Sinatra standards.  Those fingers in my hair that sly come-hither stare that strips my conscience bare it is witchcraft. Music writer Will Friedwald says that the sound that Riddle invented for Sinatra is built around bass trombone flute muted trumpet and strings. And there is this lightness to the orchestration with a much more complicated mix of melodies and counter-melodies on different instruments than other composers were using then on pop records. Witness for example how Riddle used trumpeter Harry Sweets Edison. Essentially he was not hired as a trumpeter to sit in the section but he was hired strictly as a soloist or and obligatist. And he would not sit in the section. But he had his own-- he would sit to the side and had his own special microphone. And so Sweets would just improvise these little trumpet fills here and there on the muted trumpet. And when he plays he is only playing almost in between the breaths. Well as Gary Giddins points out Sweets essentially plays three kinds of solos-- beep beep beep and beep beep beep. Let me play a little bit of this. He comes in here if I understand right right after Sinatra sings with people she would hate.  She loves the theater but never comes late. She would never bother with people she would hate. That is why the lady is a tramp. He is going to come back again in a couple seconds.  She will have no crap games with sharpies and frauds. And she will not go to Harlem in Lincolns or Fords. And she will not dish the dirt. Which brings us to Act Four the Death of Frank Sinatra. Michael Ventura grew up in the 1950s in New York. I am Sicilian on both sides of my family. And if you grew up as a Sicilian kid in the '50s in New York it was like Sinatra was part of your family. He was the most famous Italian except for some baseball stars. Literally just a figure people gossiped about and they listened to his songs and he was held up to me by my father as an example. You see him? He can spit in anybody's and get away with it. When Michael Ventura published a novel in 1996 called The Death of Frank Sinatra Sinatra's people were not pleased. The book however is not literally about Frank Sinatra. It is about men like Michael Ventura whose sense of style and sense of self came in part from Frank's style. What is it mean to you the death of Frank Sinatra? The death of a style. The death of the last and greatest embodiment of a kind of street elegance a style that is particularly and indelibly 20th century and that we will not see again. Of course he wrote his book long before hip hop artists like Jay Z adopted Sinatra as their own. Frank Sinatra himself only appears in this book once. In the scene that he is in he is doing a concert. And one of the things that is interesting is that in a work of fiction Michael Ventura could choose to write about a Sinatra concert from any era Sinatra was alive. And Ventura decided on the mid-1990s the last years of Sinatra's life. The reason why he says is because in the old man you get Sinatra at all of his ages. You can still hear the young man and the middle aged man and the old man all of them when he sang. Here's Ventura reading from that part of his book. As the old man walked out onto the stage a curtain came up behind him to reveal a large orchestra. Every musician wore a tuxedo. The conductor was a small round man sitting at a grand piano and wearing earphones. With a slash of the conductor's hand the rhythm and brass burst into a loud uptempo number and Sinatra flashed a smile that made him look uncannily young. A young smile on the old pasty face. And his eyes were the same as they had always been-- brighter in person than they ever registered on screen. And like the smile the eyes were young to the point of seeming unnatural. For though no makeup could conceal the sad ravages of the face the eyes and the smile seemed untouched. As though to put his listeners at ease with these contradictions Sinatra grabbed the microphone from the top of the black grand piano and sang about how they made him feel so young. These strangers in this room had that power. They made him feel so young and he would feel that way even when he was old and gray. The song itself was keeping him alive. The first bars were the voice of the old man-- raspy worn unable to hold notes for longer than a beat. And only his mastery of rhythm kept the song alive and made each word surprising. Surprising though everyone in the room knew the lyrics by heart. Then on a high note the voice cracked. And for an instant the music soured and the audience flinched as one person. But instead of retreating from that bad sound Sinatra leaned into it. Sinatra bent the note further into a jazz-like harmony. And then instead of softening after the mistake Sinatra held the new note longer and louder as though diving into it then took a quick breath and sang the next note louder still and fuller until seamlessly for several bars it was the voice of 30 or 40 years ago-- full and unfettered resonant and suggestive. Until again it began to crack. And again he used the cracking to modulate back into the voice and style of the old man-- on pitch but raw one note per beat sometimes right on the beat sometimes just off it-- keeping the performance tense until on the last note the young man's voice returned as though saluting the old man who sang it. And Sinatra let that note ride and the audience cheered. It was a breathless performance like watching a trapeze artist work without a net. I lit my cigarettes like he did. I wore the kind of clothes he wore. I still do. I tried to stand as he stood. I tried to walk as he walked. I still do. Not because I was imitating him but because I was imitating all the people who gave and taught me life and they took so many of their cues from him. And where had he taken his cues from? From peasants who came to America from an older less sentimental world. Peasants who came with the intention of becoming aristocrats and who almost as soon as they arrived began to stand and walk like those aristocrats they had watched so closely yet from afar for generations. European princes had taught them grace. American streets taught them flare. They did not need to learn violence from anyone. That they were born with. And Sinatra blended all this better than any and sang as he did so. Sang of love and of pride despairing of one and revelling in the other. And this is why Sicilians especially gave him respect in the peculiar way Sicilians use that word meaning homage deference consideration and that invitation to betrayal loyalty. Now Sinatra sang about how they whoever they were could not take that whatever that was away from him. That somehow in the way she held her hat and the way she sipped her tea was beyond the world's possibility to destroy or erode. There was a scrapbook of Sinatra's pictures. The pictures were all of Sinatra but he was never alone. Sinatra with Lyndon Johnson with Adlai Stevenson with Eleanor Roosevelt. He was holding her hand and looking into her eyes. With Jack Kennedy Bobby Jackie Nixon Reagan Nancy. And Sinatra with very different people. Sinatra with Johnny Roselli Paul Castellano Carlo Gambino Carlo's son Joey Jimmy Fratianno Sally Spatola. And still another kind. Sinatra with Marilyn Monroe Lauren Bacall Humphrey Bogart Marlon Brando Louis Armstrong Elvis Presley Duke Ellington. That man on the stage that old man was where it all connected. Who else had held the hand of Eleanor Roosevelt and shaken the hand of Carlo Gambino both and on equal terms? That man on the stage that old man. And why? Because he could sing love songs like no one else-- history of a kind. History transfixed by love songs. That is life. That is what all the people say the man is singing now. Some people get their kicks from stomping on a dream but he do not let that get him down. And now he is singing that we are much too marvelous for words. The man was speaking now. I am just waiting for a downbeat not a bus. Where you working tomorrow? The musicians laughed. The conductor that little round man laughed. That is my son the guy with the earphones. I had to promise his mother I would give the bum a job. More laughter. But something was wrong on the stage. The music was playing but Sinatra was not singing. He was looking around as though he is forgotten where he was. He started a lyric then stopped. It did not fit the music. He looked frightened a scared boy in the body of an old man. He turned toward his son whose presence seemed to remind him of who he was. He was Frank Sinatra. He was there to sing love songs to history. And he wheeled around and began to beg but in the proudest terms that luck be a lady tonight and that she keep the party polite. But i