From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass and this is our 500th episode. And what does that feel like? Well it feels like both a milestone and it feels like nothing. It fills like an odometer clicking over. I was talking to the show is senior producer Julie Snyder about this. She is been here for 15 of the show is 17 years since episode number 58. Five hun-- what-- I just-- I just come to work. I do my job. I go home. Play each ballgame the best I can. Yeah exactly.  No it really is a blur. It is a blur. And over the last few weeks here at the radio show we talked about what we should do for the 500th episode. And like first of all should we mark it at all? You know what I mean? Like 500 shows on the radio actually is not that big of a deal for most programs. Like Terry Gross she knocks through 500 shows like every two years. Does not even notice. Just spins right by them. Lots of shows are like that. But you know the kind of show that we do here it takes three or four months to make each episode. So that is different. And besides that you know 500 the number 500-- that is a number you notice. And if we did not do something today like that would feel weird you know? So anyway so as we talked about different things that we could do for this episode at some point Julie had the idea that it might be fun to go back to the archives and choose favorite moments from the last 499 episodes. And all this hour you are going to be hearing the producers of the program the people who find the stories and who put them together each week talking about their very favorite moments that we have ever put on the radio. And the reasons that the producers picked their favorites I think are different than the reasons that most listeners would give. Some of them chose stories that had been I have to say completely forgotten by the rest of the staff for years. Some chose just like one little section of script. Some chose like a scene that secretly made them cry and they never told the rest of us. They said things like this. When I heard that I was like wow that is one articulate bank robber. And then as it unfolds you just realize like no no no no no no no. I felt like I would been hit by a car or something. But in a nice way.  It just made me really mad. Do you remember this? STAMMERING It is mind-blowing. And so I am really excited to play you the stuff that we have found. And let us just jump in. Julie Snyder our senior producer is the mastermind behind a lot of our most ambitious shows like Harper High School episodes if you have heard those. And she came into the studio with a list of favorite stories from over the years starting with a shortie. It is only like a minute long. OK. It is really really lovely writing that I have thought about ever since it aired I do not know 12 years ago 14 years ago. Wow. What in the world are you talking about? It is from Sarah Vowell's Trail of Tears story. Can you guess it? Hold on. That is a whole show. Like America is a country that hits you but-- that is not the moment. It is. It is? It is. I cannot remember the set-up for it. I just remember the punchline of it. Well the set-up-- OK. Well so the story right is that Sarah is part Cherokee. And she and her twin sister Amy go on this road trip going from Georgia driving to Oklahoma following the Trail of Tears. And-- That their ancestors had walked before them. Exactly. That their ancestors have walked when the Cherokee were expelled from Georgia. And it is super depressing. I mean what would a trip like that be? It is. It is just depressing. So it is very hard to know what to do with all these feelings. And so that is where her writing picks up. You want to hear it? Yeah. OK. It is Trail of Tears starting at 4514. OK here we go.  The most happiness I find on the trip is when we are in the car and I can blare the Chuck Berry tape I brought. We drive the trail where thousands died and I listen to music and think what are we supposed to do with the grizzly past? I feel a righteous anger and bitterness about every historical fact of what the American nation did to the Cherokee. But at the same time I am an entirely American creature. I am in love with this song and the country that gave birth to it.  Listening to Back in the USA while driving the Trail of Tears I turn it over and over in my head. It is a good country. It is a bad country. Good country. Bad country. And of course it is both. When I think about my relationship with America I feel like a battered wife. Yeah he knocks me around a lot but boy he sure can dance.  Is not that so nice? It is perfect. I know. I remember-- I remember when she wrote it. I remember reading it. I remember when it aired. I just thought it was great. I love that writing. And I think about it all the time. I think about it for so many times when trying to put stuff-- like how do you hold two thoughts together? You mean about this country? Yes. All right you want another one? Mm-hm. OK you want to do Testosterone? Sure. All right. I really do-- so this is another one. I will just continue to do these through how they personally affected me. Good. So Testosterone this is the one where I feel so bad for you guys. I feel really bad for men. This blew my mind the interview that Alex did with Griffin Hansbury. Griffin Hansbury. Yeah. And so Griffin was talking to Alex about-- Griffin was born a woman and went to Bryn Mawr and was a feminist and really-- you know what I mean? Yeah lesbian feminist. Lesbian feminist. And then so then Griffin decided to transition and so he started taking testosterone. And he started taking pretty intense amounts apparently. Like way more than a man has. Yeah it is like I think twice. And so this part of the interview is when Griffin is telling Alex about the effects of the testosterone. The most overwhelming feeling is the incredible increase in libido and change in the way that I perceived women and the way I thought about sex. Before testosterone I would be riding the subway which is the traditional hotbed of lust in the city. And I would see a woman on the subway and I would think she is attractive. I would like to meet her. What is that book she is reading? I could talk to her. This is what I would say. There would be a narrative. There would be this stream of language. It would be very verbal. After testosterone there was no narrative. There was no language whatsoever. It was just I would see a woman who was attractive-- or not attractive. She might have an attractive quality nice ankles or something and the rest of her would be fairly unappealing to me. But that was enough to basically just flood my mind with aggressive pornographic images just one after another. It was like being in a pornographic movie house in my mind. And I could not turn it off. I mean I could not turn it off. Everything I looked at everything I touched turned to sex. What did you do with that? I mean what did you think? Well I felt-- I felt like a monster a lot of the time. And it made me understand men. It made me understand adolescent boys a lot. Suddenly hair sprouting and I am turning into this beast. And I would kind of-- I would really kind of berate myself for it. I remember walking up Fifth Avenue and there was a woman walking in front of me. And she was wearing this little skirt and this little top. And I was looking at her ass. And I kept saying to myself do not look at it do not look at it. And I kept looking at it. And I walked past her and this voice in my head kept saying turn around to look at her breasts. Turn around turn around turn around. And my feminist female background kept saying do not you dare you pig. Do not turn around. And you know I fought myself for a whole block and then I turned around and checked her out. And before it was cool. When I would do a poetry reading I would get up and I would read these poems about you know women on the street. And I was a butch dyke and that was very very cutting edge and that was very sexy and raw. And now I am just a jerk. You know?  And then Alex's final question when they talk-- you know when Alex is um-- I know exactly. I know it so well because it is one of my favorite ever posed on our show. I know. Are there other ways that you feel like testosterone has altered the way you feel or perceive? Something that happened after I started taking testosterone-- I became interested in science. I was never interested in science before. No way. Come on are you serious?  I am serious. I am serious. You are just setting us back 100 years sir. I know I am. I know--  Both Julie and another producer on the radio show Robyn Semien surprised me by choosing as one of their favorites this interview that we have never replayed from an episode we have never rerun. This has not aired since September 2005. This is the show that we did immediately after Hurricane Katrina hit New Orleans. And what they each wanted to play was the same interview from that show. It was an interview with this woman named Denise Moore. Denise Moore had stayed behind in New Orleans with her mom who was a nurse at Memorial Hospital. She was essential personnel so she had to stay. And her mom asked Denise to stay with her and also her niece and her niece's two-year-old. And in this interview Denise just tells me what happened to them over the course of the first few days after the hurricane. Here's Robyn talking about that interview. She heard this on the radio. She was not on staff back then. The shock to my system that happened listening to that was so severe that it is one of those shows where I remember exactly where I was. And it is everything that you have heard on the news so far up until that point. I mean this was kind of Katrina wall-to-wall media coverage about the Superdome and the convention center. But just hearing it I did not have a way to really let it affect me until I heard one woman's experience and to let her kind of lay out exactly what was going on. I mean I do not think I fully realized how desperate I was at the time to have something make sense until I heard this. I remember when we put that show together we all knew that there had already been lots of coverage of Katrina everywhere. And we thought the one thing that we could do was that till then when you heard from people in New Orleans in the news it was mostly in tiny little soundbites. And we thought the one contribution we could make was just let people talk longer. You know it is easier to connect emotionally when you hear more. And so Denise is one of the interviews where this happens. And what happened to Denise after the flood is the hospital where her mom works at she stays there for a couple days then it gets shut down. And then everyone is ordered to move to the convention center where they are told that there'ill be buses to take them to safety out of the city. So they go. And when we arrived there were people all over the street under the bridge. And we are like why are these people on the street? Why are not they in the convention center? And when we got there people were saying you do not want to go in there. Did you go inside at all? Not until the next day. What'd you see? Inside? Yeah. A sewer. A sewer literally. Stepping in feces stepping in urine all over the carpet. And people were sitting close as they could to the doors but the smell was overwhelming. So then what do you do? Like what is the best you can do? I actually stopped eating the minute we got there. I would not eat or drink anything. 'ecause I figured if you do not put nothing in nothing's coming out. I was in the Army. But even at that I still had to use the bathroom. It was ridiculous. And where did you all sleep? We slept on the sidewalk. And then what my mom wanted me to make sure I tell you what they kept doing the whole time was tell us to line up for the buses that never came. It was like they were doing drills every four hours. You all have to line up for the bus. And if you bum-rush the bus they are just going to take off without you and nobody's going to get to go anywhere. You have to line up. You have to be in a straight line. We are talking about old people in wheelchairs and women with babies in lines waiting for buses that you know goddamn well are not coming. Like they were playing with us. And then the story became they left us here to die. They are going to kill us. You mean that is what people were saying to each other? Yeah. And is that what you believed? I was almost convinced. That basically-- 'ecause I kept having a vision of them opening that floodgate on us of my niece and her baby floating away from me screaming. And I just knew it. And then the next morning I heard from somebody that they actually were going to open that floodgate. So by the time the rumors started that the National Guard was going to kill us I almost halfway believed it. And so people were saying basically they just brought us here. They are going to leave us here to die? Yeah. That is what we thought. The police kept passing us by. And the National Guard kept passing us by with their guns pointed at us. And because they would not-- when you see a truck full of water and people have been crying for water for a day and a night and the water truck passes you by? Just keeps going? How are we supposed to believe these people were here to help us? It was almost like they were taunting us. And then do not forget they kept lining us up for buses that never showed up. Yeah. We thought they were playing with us. And that best-case scenario. And the worst-case scenario they want us to either kill each other or die.  Or they were going to kill us. Why did not people just walk away? That is what I do not understand. Could not you just-- We were not allowed. The police-- people kept trying to go up the bridge so they could go to Algiers and they would be turned away. And they would be sent back down. And literally they would just like go a couple streets away and somebody would send them back? They would go up the bridge to go across to the west bank where it was dry. Right. And lights were on you know? And the National Guard was up there with guns. They turned them back with guns. And the governor gave orders to shoot to kill. You could not get through them. Yeah. So people in groups would go up the bridge trying to get across the river. People who had family across the river could not get across the river. They were not letting us out of there. They was not letting nobody in. So we were trapped. I cannot even express it. Yeah. I guess someday it will calm down and I will be able to just cry like a normal person. But I feel like if I started crying now I would never stop. That was Denise Moore in 2005. The next producer we have is Nancy Updike. Nancy is the only person other than me who is working here now at the show who was actually here at the very beginning of the program. She moved to Chicago and then a week later we did our first episode. And what did you want to hear on today's show? I want to hear John Hodgman's story from The Real Story. Do you remember this? I think about this story all the time because the beginning of it is so beautiful. It is-- I mean I think it is one of the best pieces of writing that is ever been on the show. It is so inviting and funny and it keeps making these turns. OK so looking this up on our website this is Episode 232 February 2003. Let us hear that. Here is something I am not quick to admit even to close friends-- never mind on the radio. Every day for the past several years I have been working on a screenplay. This of course is shameful on its face but it gets worse-- believe me. Working on my screenplay has been very hard because the story I am telling is long and complex and important. It is also difficult because I am not actually writing anything down. Until recently I would only think about it night after night lying in bed rewriting my screenplay in my head. And as this process tends to make me sleepy I have actually not gotten very far. I began my screenplay on May 19 1999 a date that may resonate with some of you who may already guess at the other main challenge of my project the one that lends it the extra measure of sad delusion and ultimate futility that accompanies the writing of any screenplay. And that is that my screenplay has already been written by someone else and it is called Star Wars Episode One The Phantom Menace.  It is perfect.  It is perfect. And then the whole essay it makes this incredible turn at the end to his mom dying. And that is why he is been obsessively rewriting The Phantom Menace in his head that he is turning away from this terrible thing that is happening. Nancy Updike talking about John Hodgman's writing. When I sat down in the studio with Sarah Koenig to talk about her favorite moments to play on the show today her favorites included some of Nancy's writing. And just to introduce Sarah she is been here at the show for nearly a decade. She is reported lots of stories. She is filled in as host now and then most recently of the Coincidences show. And she brought a whole list of favorites into the studio. And she said some of Nancy's writing has just stayed with her. Do you remember all that nice writing and I was listening to I am From the Private Sector and I am Here to Help when she went to Iraq. There is a passage about-- are you going to talk about the passage about that one guy who is leading the-- Hank. Hank. Where she describes Hank. Yeah that whole opening thing with Hank she has this light touch and it is funny. And you immediately feel like oh I know who this guy is. So this is show number 266. It is from I think 2005. 2004 maybe. It is 2004. It is June 2004. And it is pretty early in the coverage of the private contractors in Iraq. Right. And one of the companies she focused on was this security company called Custer Battles. And it turned out that they were kind of in some trouble. And so she just hangs out with Hank for a while. Hank is the man who was brought in to clean up Custer Battles' PSD operation. Hank has a vision for the kind of men he wants working for him. Steely-eyed flat-bellied professionals. It is possible Hank came up with this description by looking in the mirror. He is a 49-year-old man with small blue eyes a former paratrooper and ranger. The son of a decorated soldier. Married to the daughter of a soldier. Father of two soldiers one of whom was in Iraq and is now in Afghanistan on a mission he cannot talk about. Hank is cryptic. He does not want me to use his last name. He will not even tell me what rank he achieved. I looked it up later-- lieutenant colonel. He is done private security work overseas before. He will not give details of course. But he will-- and this is the thing about Hank-- he will poke fun at it. So you gotta get the look the security guy look. Serious I am dead serious about this business. I am steely-eyed and I am scanning the horizon constantly. And usually when you go to-- like if I go to Africa or someplace like that and you are on some kind of security mission it takes you about two seconds to get off the plane look around and say oh there is somebody else on a mission. And you kind of sidle up to them and you go SAS? And they nod and then they go Rangers? And you go-- you kind of nod. And then finally you ask who are you working for? Of course he cannot tell. He asks you and you cannot tell. And then you--  And then you wander off you see? But you had that initial like dogs sniffing each other you do. But it is very easy to pick the guys out. They all got the look. So he wants his PSD guys to have the look. Steely-eyed flat-bellied professionals. And he walks around doing that look. But he also knows it is all a bit of a put-on. A man dance as he calls it. And with tens of thousands of American military and ex-military and private military in Iraq right now it is very possible that we are standing in the middle of the largest man dance on the planet.  OK so what else you got? I have to say this story the one I am going to pick right now is the one sort of if people do not know the show this is the one where I am like just listen to this one. It is from 2007. It is Duty Calls. It is Josh Bearman's story about his family. Oh yeah that is a really beautiful story. And it is so deftly done in this way where if you really think about what the story's about-- it is like in someone else's hands it could just be this cliche of like oh you know my mom's an alcoholic and my brother's a screw-up. And all the cliches that could go along with that. And you know who these people are. And then you listen to his and you realize like no you do not know. And it is so compelling. And everyone in it it turns out to be so likable you know? You sort of-- and that is I feel like in a way the surprise of the story which is also super raw in parts. Which part should we play? I do not know. The scene that really got me is when he talks to his-- it is a conversation between Josh and his mom. And it starts at 1907. Are you on the thing? Mm-hm. If you start it at 1907 where they just have this conversation and so much is happening in the course of this conversation where like he is sort of angry and she gets kind of defensive. And then she sort of says this really honest thing that makes you understand how she is been feeling all this time. Yeah OK so this is episode 334 from June of 2007. Take for example the hurricane that hit Florida months before the paramedics came for my mom. As the Category 5 storm was making landfall David decided to go for a drive. He was pulled over by the cops which was not that surprising since the car had no registration no insurance no working taillights and a cracked windshield. David who had no license-- and maybe had taken some pills to boot-- had been pulled over twice already for having that car on the road. He was thrown in jail for a week and my mother was left all alone. I mean I was sitting here in total darkness. I mean there were not even any streetlights on. You know water's falling down. Everything was so chaotic. And then of course I started drinking out of control and that was you know-- it just started out saying I just want a little relief from this insanity and it made me even more insane. How come you did not call me during that whole period? Maybe because I really did not know what to say Josh. Well I wish I would have known to come down. I mean that is-- you know and then especially as it got worse I mean I wish somebody had called and-- Yeah I know. Ethan or I could have come out. Yeah. Yeah I understand that Josh. But it is just like--  And I am not-- I was not saying that to make you feel guilty about not calling me. I was just-- TEARFULLY No it is hard to explain. It is just like you know you just do not want to intrude into your and Ethan's life and say one more time one more time one more time. Well I would not have minded. Well I did not know about it. I would rather have done that than wind up down here for four months. Yeah I know that. It is part of the whole cycle is that you do not-- you do not want to tell anybody else because when you tell somebody else then you have to-- you are telling yourself. Which is the last thing you want to do. Is not that good? Yeah. OK so what else you got? So there is one-- I do not know if it is too weirdly self-referential or sycophantic or something. But there is this really nice moment of you and Tami Sagher that I came across. It is not one that is in my pantheon at all but just as I was looking back at old stories I was like oh what is this one? And I listened back. And I realized some of the things I like best on the show are when you are just interviewing someone and you get a little off-topic and suddenly something really revealing happens. I feel like it happens kind of a lot when you are interviewing people. And I do not know. You say stuff in interviews that I find really surprising. And so anyway there is this nice moment in-- I think it is show 314. It is a show called It is Never Over. And it is the last act. And it is just this interview with Tami Sagher about this joke that she would thought up like four years earlier and never deployed because it was a topical joke about Ralph Nader. And then this opportunity comes for her to deploy this joke. Tami Sagher I should say is a comedy writer and she was deploying this joke in a room full of writers at her brand new job. And she just nails it and everyone thinks it is this off-the-cuff hilarious comment not knowing that she would been saving it up for all this time. And it like gets teed up for her perfectly and she just like lets it off really casually and everybody laughs. And there is this moment right after that where the anecdote has been told. She has the slightly larger thought like you would think done. And then it keeps going and it is good. And that is at-- I do not know if you want to play it but that is at 5022 of that show. Hold on. And so are you done? Are you in? Is that it? Like you used that joke to kind of get you over the hump and now is it through? Um I felt like I am more in yeah. I do not know that I will ever feel like I am in with everybody.  But no I have felt like I am more in. I have felt a marked difference. I mean do you ever feel like you are totally in with anybody? Dude I am married to somebody who I feel like I am constantly in a situation of having-- I feel like-- and she does not feel this way but I totally feel like every day I have to prove myself anew. Really? Well here's one more thing though that is kind of sucky about it though is by constantly checking in with what the other person's opinion of you is you are not just being with that person. There is a level of removal there that is sad. Totally. That is totally my personality. For me I think that something went wrong when I was a kid where I think that other people they just accept that they are in. They accept that this other person likes them and they do not have to keep proving themself. Whereas for me it is entirely temporal. I am constantly judging the whole thing moment by moment. And it could always fall apart. For me it never ends. I remember when I was a kid and I think I was probably like four? So wait so that thing that I say that is the thing? That is the thing. Yeah. God I totally did not remember saying that until just now. Yeah that is so true of me. It is so personal. And I feel like it is really-- I do not know. Like I have known you for 10 years now right? And I heard you say that. I was like oh right. That is right. Because I was like I know there is a lot of times in interviews where I have just been listening in and you will reveal this thing and I am always just like that is ballsy. To me that is just so obvious that you would do that if you have something like that to do because it is good tape. Like your job is to make good tape. You know what I mean? Like that is our job is to make good tape. I know but I feel like that is the thing that is different right? Like you are willing to kind of exploit anything you have got in there. And I think a lot of people for a lot of people that stuff is just off-limits.  Sarah Koenig. Coming up me and Bruce Banner so similar. And more favorites from the past 499 episodes. That is in a minute. From Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International saying this now for the 500th time when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. It is our 500th episode. We are spending it by having the producers of the program come into the studio and pick their favorite moments from the last 17 and 12 years of shows. God it sounds like so many. Well four of the producers of the show when they came in to talk about the favorites they said they thought of all the possible stories they could play today the story that meant the most to them was the one when they first heard our show or first noticed it doing something different from other radio shows. For me it was sort of like what-- what is this thing? That is Jonathan Goldstein. He was a producer on the show for a few years and he is continued to do stories for us since. Longtime listeners may remember the story of the phone message You and the Little Mermaid can go eff yourselves. Anyway he is now the host of the Public Radio show and podcast called WireTap. And he said this about his first time hearing our show. There was a particular kind of mood to it and it just-- it really it sucked me in. You know which one I am talking about? No I do not. It is the top the prologue to The Cruelty of Children. Oh that is so interesting. No one has mentioned that one at all and that is totally a favorite of mine. Really? Well OK so I have not heard it in years. And so I was surprised by a couple things. One that it was two minutes long. Wow is that true? It is that fast? Yeah. And it is so funny because in my memory it was like half the show or something which is insane. And you come on and you are saying I was talking to a first-grader about libraries-- I was talking to a first-grader about libraries. Then I suddenly found myself talking about bullies. And I suddenly found myself talking about bullies. That is the thing about the idea of bullies. The idea is so powerful that it can derail any conversation and pull it towards its own orbit. Here's how it happened. We were on a school bus. I was asking the first-grader what kinds of books he takes out from the library. Like I could not even wrap my head around it. Like I did not even understand. Like who is this guy? Why is he talking to a first-grader in the first place? You know what I mean? Yeah. Like why are you-- like were you out for coffee? Are there six-year-olds in your social circle? And because it was like my first glimpse into the world of the show my sense of it was here's this guy who is this kind of like wandering America like the Incredible Hulk or something. Like with his jacket slung over his shoulder down a highway with his microphone out looking for company and taking it wherever he can get it. Whether it is in a roadside coffee shop or on a school bus talking to a six-year-old. And that was all it took. Suddenly he launches into this big thing. This kid in our class he is a bully and he takes out bully books. Takes out bully ones. Like what are the bully books? They teach you how to be meaner to push people around and stuff. There are books to teach you how to be mean? Yeah. And nice. There is this one book that is called Bullies Are Made for Pushing Around and Bullies Make All the Rules. And they be picking on nice kids. As far as I was able to determine later talking with parents and teachers and consulting with books in print there is no book--  There is no real book that corresponds to the book this first-grader thinks he saw the bully read. And you know it is a shame. It was such a comforting thought. Why are people bullies? Why are they so mean? Why do they push you sometimes and take your change and say nasty things? Maybe they are just getting it from a book. I am surprised-- are you sure that that is what the book was about? I cannot believe somebody would write a book saying here's how to be mean to other people. Well maybe the person who wrote is was probably a bully himself.  Next up is Brian Reed. Brian is one of our newest staffers. He was an intern here. He is been a producer for a year and a half. Regular listeners may remember the story that he produced about Guatemala last year and that guy who survived a massacre at a place called Dos Erres. Anyway the story that Brian wanted to play today was also the first story that he remembers hearing though he did not hear this story on the radio. When he was in college I came and spoke and I played this story from the stage. Yeah and I think-- I mean I knew what the show was because clearly I went to see you. But I do not remember ever hearing the show before that. I do not have a memory of it. Wow. Yeah. And it is this little story that Jack Hitt told on the Kid Logic episode. Well it all began at Christmas two years ago when my daughter was four years old. And it was the first time she had ever asked about what did this holiday mean? And so I explained to her that this was celebrating the birth of Jesus. And she wanted to know more about that. And we went out and bought a kid's Bible and had these readings at night. She loved them. Wanted to know everything about Jesus. So we read a lot about his birth and about his teaching. And she would ask constantly what that phrase was. And I would explain to her that it was Do un