Hey there everybody. If you are listening on our podcast or the internet there are words in this episode that we have un-beeped. If you prefer a beeped version of the show you could find that at our website thisamericanlife.org. There are 9-1-1 calls where people are basically calling the cops on the cops. Lisa Mahon did that in September. She was on her way to the county hospital in Chicago. Her mom was dying and the hospital called saying that she would stopped breathing and had just been put on a ventilator. So Lisa had her two kids in the back and her friend Jamal was up front and she was just about to pull into the expressway near Hammond Indiana near where she lives when a police officer pulled her over for not wearing a seat belt. Now the strange part about all of this is when he asked me for my license and insurance usually the police officer gets back in the car and runs the license plates runs the license. He did not do any of that. He put the information in his pocket and never took it out. What officer puts it in a pocket and not go to the police car? And what is his manner like when he asked you for the license? Oh my god. Well first of all he is moving from side to side. His body is not still. His eyes was not blinking. He was really acting kind of hyper. He was not acting professional. He was not acting like a police officer at all. Lisa had been in law enforcement herself. She would been a corrections officer. Her dad taught criminal justice. She is got no problem with cops at all. But this one was acting so weird she says she kept her window up. The officer Lieutenant Patrick Fucari did not return our calls. According to Lisa and to a statement issued by the Hammond police Lieutenant Fucari next asked for Jamal's ID. Jamal was sitting in the passenger seat and Lisa says wearing a seat belt so it is not clear why this was necessary. Jamal did not have his ID. According to the police statement Jamal moved his hand below where the officer could see and the officer started fearing for his own safety. A second officer arrived. The interaction got weird enough that Lisa turned to her 14-year-old in the backseat and asked him to do what people do these days in this situation. Jojo get your phone out and videotape this. I am already doing it. The officers asked Jamal to get out of the car. Jamal did not want to get out and through the window he asked for what he called a white shirt a supervisor. You all got a white shirt? Look at my shoulder dumb ass. I got the bars. I got the bars. He is a supervisor. From the police perspective Jamal is not complying. Jamal starts looking for a ticket that he would gotten that could prove who he is. He reaches into his book bag. As soon as he went inside the bag that is when the two officers pulled the gun out. I got my kids in the car. You are drawing your weapon. It continues like this. Lisa starts to feel like these cops are not acting the way cops should. Let us get some adults here. There must be somebody above these people and she calls 9-1-1. Hammond 9-1-1. The police just pulled a gun on me. I am sitting in my car. And then they are asking me to open the door. I am scared. The officer pulled a gun on me I am sitting in my car they asked me to open the door I am scared she says. Calm down. Pulling out a gun-- are you opening-- are you getting-- are you following the officer's orders? Now they are asking me to open the door. I am scared to open the door. Why are you scared to open the door? Because he pulled a gun out. OK. If he is pulling a gun out maybe because he is in fear of his life as well. No. We do not have anything. Madam madam madam. Yes yes. He cannot see in your vehicle. You-- She said the officer cannot see in the vehicle. I said what do you mean he cannot see in the window? I said it is broad daylight. All you need to do is follow the officer's orders. I am scared to open the door. Do you think the dispatcher understood why you were afraid? She did not care. She did not care. She never was helpful. Now I am scared for my life. Why are you scared for your life? It is a police officer pulling you over for-- Because he pulled a gun on us. Are you going to-- are you going to stop screaming and listen? Were you surprised at the tone she took with you? Oh yes. It was unbelievable. I do not have no help. No one's going to help. OK. Number one if you are getting pulled over by an officer for not wearing your seat belt if you cooperate there would be no problem. You would already be at the hospital. The Hammond police statement on this incident runs two pages but does not mention Officer Fucari drawing his gun. It does say that the officer was afraid that the passengers had a gun though it does not say why this mom and her friend and two kids would make him think that. Can I ask you do you think if it had been me who had been pulled over do you think he would have treated me that way? Oh absolutely not. Because I am white? Right. Then you need to just get out of the car. They are not going to hurt you if you listen. What are you saying somebody's not going to hurt you? People are getting shot by the police.  The next thing that happens you may have seen on the news from her son's video. No. Do not mess my-- now they are about to mess my-- no!   Oh .   The police bust through Jamal's window taser him open the door and pull him out. He was arrested for failure to aid an officer and resisting law enforcement.  Lisa says 9-1-1 hung up on her when they heard the window smash. In the end of all this the car damaged her kid's crying she was handed a ticket for not wearing a seat belt.  People in our country do not agree on what to make of a story like this. Lots of people hear the story or see the video and they side with the dispatcher right? If you are stopped by the police just do what the officer says. It will be fine. This is what lots of people said after Eric Garner died while being arrested in July in New York. People said it after Michael Brown was shot in Ferguson in August. Then there are lots of people like Lisa who say if you are black it might not be fine. I was petrified. I just thought it was over. Our country is divided on this-- people who think the police are on their side people who do not but it is complicated. For instance if you are starting to think you know which side of the divide Lisa's on especially after that experience well-- Oh I still trust the police. So I do not have anything against the police officers. I think they deserve all the respect in the world. The other day there was a police officer on the side of the road with his blinkers on. I pulled over and asked him if he was OK. It was just this one officer she says. He was the problem. She is now suing the city of Hammond over the incident and has learned that this officer was named in three other lawsuits for using excessive force. In all three the city settled. For so long now there is been this conversation or debate-- I do not know what you want to call this-- about policing and race and people being targeted and whenever it comes up it seems to split very quickly into a kind of my side versus your side sort of thing. In these last few months we have been talking about this stuff amongst ourselves here on the radio show staff and researching and reporting in different parts of the country and we have found some things that surprised us about policing and how complicated and difficult it is and about how hard it is to sort out the part that race and racism play in all kinds of incidents and we found ways that racism seems undeniable. Anyway we discovered things that made us see some of this differently and we want to share that with you this week and next. We have found so much of this we actually could not fit it into one episode. So from WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. So today what we are going to do is we are going to focus on just one police department a police department with a troubled history and we are going to tell the story of the chief who is trying to change that and why it is so hard to change certain things. Brian Reed tells the story. When Chief Ed Flynn took over the Milwaukee police department in 2008 he was coming into one of the most segregated cities in America a city that sends enormous numbers of black men to prison. Wisconsin sends the highest percentage of black men to prison of any state in the country and in Milwaukee that means more than half of black men in their 30s and early 40s have been to prison. And just to give you a sense of how bad relations got between black residents and police in 2004 the city saw a brutal incident that some people call Milwaukee's Rodney King case the beating of Frank Jude. They are beating him up. OK. . Jude was an exotic dancer. He did bachelorette parties. And one night after work he ended up at a party full of off duty police officers. A group of about a dozen officers all of whom were white and many of whom were drunk surrounded Jude who was black and started beating him. They claimed he would stolen one of their badges. Just like in the incident you heard about at the beginning of the show one of the women who'd brought Frank Jude to the party decided to call 9-1-1 on the cops as they handcuffed Jude cut his clothes off and essentially tortured him-- kicked him repeatedly bent his fingers back shoved a pen in his ears causing them to bleed. Even when the dispatcher sent on duty officers to the scene one of them joined in the beating stomping on Frank Jude's head while the other officers stood by. They are kicking him too. You are saying that the two officers that just arrived in the squad got out and started beating your friend also? Yeah. They are holding him down. They are beating-- . Eventually seven officers were fired three were sentenced to over 15 years in prison but before that officers closed ranks. No one talked. No one knew anything. It showed the city how cops would turn the other way and protect their own even if they saw something truly terrible. The case hung over Milwaukee for years. So this was the climate Ed Flynn was walking into when he became chief. Flynn had been in law enforcement for 35 years. He would led several small city departments-- Chelsea and Springfield in Massachusetts and Arlington Virginia. He would served as Secretary of Public Safety for the whole state of Massachusetts. But when the job opened up in Milwaukee it had a special appeal. One of the attractive things for Milwaukee for me was that it had a very significant crime problem highly concentrated in communities that had an historical antipathy for their police department. That is what was attractive to you crime and antipathy for the police? I mean absolutely. I mean to me Milwaukee represented the crux of the challenge of American policing in the 21st century. And as Chief Flynn sees it that challenge is-- Those neighborhoods that need us the most and demand our services when they get us get mad at us. How do we bridge that? Flynn says he is confronted this his whole career all the way back to when he started out as a beat cop in the '70s in Jersey City. I would go to street corners and there would be like six black kids on a corner in an all black neighborhood. I would always end up with a call for service saying complaints about kids hanging on a corner. Go back to that corner. OK kids you have got to move. You are just harassing us because we are black. OK do you see anybody else in this neighborhood? Why do you think I am picking on you? I said somebody called. Well who are they? We want to know. We have a right to stand here. Point is folks that were calling us up looked just like the people that were hanging on the corner. Flynn still sees this today in Milwaukee. Most of the city's crime victims are African American and they are the group that has the most animosity towards the police. That is not just in Milwaukee obviously but all around the country. So here's a problem people have been debating heatedly especially since Michael Brown was killed in Ferguson and here's a guy who is been trying to fix the problem to mend the relationship between black residents and the police in his city for the last seven years. He is idealistic. He is smart. He can sound very professorial especially when he talks about the history of poverty and crime and policing. He goes in front of residents and says things like this. We in this police department and in the police profession know we have inherited a social history of which we cannot always be proud. The police have often been in the middle of great conflict and not infrequently been agents of social control to preserve a status quo. By the way he is not reading here. This is just how he talks. And certainly in Milwaukee in the last 40 years you have have your own rich history sometimes between the police and the community. So we have been working real hard in improving our relationship with neighborhoods so we had achieved some level of legitimacy. Flynn became police chief in 2008. So what is he done? How is it going? He did not enact one single big reform. It was lots of smaller sometimes boring stuff. He created a code of conduct redrew the borders of police districts shifted hundreds of officers from the citywide detective unit onto the streets a move that was not popular in the department. He did a big push to work with dozens of community groups. He started this program with researchers at the University of Wisconsin Milwaukee to go into schools and teach kids in high crime areas why police are stopping people more often in their neighborhoods how they should behave during stops and how officers should behave. So how would you as a kid feel walking in this area knowing what you know now and the police stop you? I would be upset. OK. But you should be appreciative and happy that they are doing something. As I spent time with members of the department it was hard to pinpoint exactly what effect these changes have had but I did get the sense that something had changed even if it was sometimes intangible. For instance I kept hearing certain words again and again. The most popular noun I heard community. The most popular verb? We are here to engage and have a conversation. The officers should be marketing all the opportunities to engage with us. It has helped us to become more engaged in the community. Our community engagement and the activities that we have been doing. Building police legitimacy takes place when you directly engage. Of course police departments all over the country use these exact buzzwords-- say they are engaging more and doing community policing-- but it is hard to know what this actually means. I am sorry I threw engagement out there. I am trying to get engaged. No it is all good. It is a term that you guys use but I think that does not mean a lot to the outside world. Right right. I am on an evening shift with Sergeant Theresa Janick. She is been on the force seven years. She is worked juvenile crimes auto thefts. She worked undercover. Now she is a supervisor and she says it is an entirely new police department. 10-4 thank you. Go ahead and respond to 3291 to the shots fired. 3217. I can respond to that as well. We could use just one more squad. Sergeant Janick works in district three a largely black area with one of the highest crime rates in the city. At around six oclock she heads to a block where shots have been reported. So now we are in the area. We are going to try and see what we can stir up. Do you see anything going on out here bud? Nothing out here. Janick talks through her window to a guy on the sidewalk. He says he is been out there like five minutes. You did not hear anything? Not five minutes ago. About five minutes ago you heard something? No no. It is worth noting that the gunshot Janick is responding to she did not learn about it from a 9-1-1 call. She learned about it from something called Shot Spotter. It is new technology that Chief Flynn and several other chiefs around the country have put in place that uses sensors around the city to detect when gunshots go off and tells the cops what block they happened on. What that means though is that even though Janick talks to several people who say yeah I heard a shot not one of them called 9-1-1. No one in the neighborhood did. Sergeant Janick says this is common. When they installed Shot Spotter the department found out that only 17 of all the shots fired were resulting in residents calling the police. You heard it? Where do you think you heard it from? From back here. From back here somewhere in this lot? Mm-hm. All right. We will let you guys get out of here OK? OK. The Milwaukee police department's standard operating procedures Chief Flynn put into place include this line. Police members can be expected to make numerous contacts with the public on a daily basis. These contacts form the basis for the relationship between the department and the community. I rode on three shifts and watched a bunch of different officers and one thing that struck me was how a single 9-1-1 call or just a single shot fired on Shot Spotter could quickly lead an officer to talking to a dozen people or more as they try to figure out what happened. With this shot fired for instance when I was out with Sergeant Janick there was no conclusion. They did not find a shooter or a bullet or a casing but still it was an excuse for Sergeant Janick to interact with at least seven people and it was easy for those conversations to move beyond the gunshot she was there to look into like with this woman who was coming out of her garage. Madam did you hear anything out here? You said did I hear anything? Yeah. No I did not. Nothing? How long have you been here? I live in this building so I was downstairs in the garage for like 10 minutes. Did you see anything crazy on the block lately? It is always crazy stuff going on around here. Do you call? Huh? Do you call? Uh-uh. It is just people outside drunk people like. I just mind my business. As long as I do not see anything like someone fighting or something like that I will say something but other than that no. OK. Can you do me a favor and call that stuff in when you see it so that we can help you out with some of the problems that are going on over here? OK. No problem. I did not know that you guys wanted us to call that stuff in but I will if I see anything. Yeah. If there is a problem we want to know about it. OK. All right? All right. Thank you. You are welcome. On one of her trips around the block Sergeant Janick asks a man staggering outside a liquor store if everything's OK. He tells Janick that he is been robbed at gunpoint two times recently on that corner. Did you contact the police Janick asks him. Nope he says. Would you like to report it now? Yes. She gets two officers to come take the report for him. So that was engagement. We just saw engagement. I hate-- now that you say that we say it all the time-- No it is fine because I think you just-- Now I am noticing it. No no no. That actually I think I just finally saw what engagement was. Yeah. I know. Listening to residents and actually trying to help them. It did not strike me as revolutionary either. But Assistant Chief James Harpole who is been with the Milwaukee police department for nearly 30 years told my producer Ben Calhoun and me about this one time before Chief Flynn but not that long ago when he went with an officer to a neighborhood meeting. A number of concerns were brought to our attention and he was writing them all in his book and we left the meeting. And I said OK so what is the next step? He said well nothing. He said I just keep these in my book and if it ever comes up again I can say how we were aware of it. I am like OK that is not going to cut it for me. I said these people expect that something's going to happen here. We cannot just write it down and drive away and say we are done. We have got to do something. Did you say that to him at the moment? I did. And what did he say back to you? He seemed shocked. He is like well that is just the way we have always done it. The cop Harpole is talking about his whole job was to coordinate with residents. His title was Community Liaison Officer. Contrast that with what I saw at a daily briefing in district three. So much of it was cops discussing intel from residents and taking it seriously. They updated the captain about a meeting they would held with people who lived near the site of a recent homicide who had helped them identify 17 nuisance properties where criminal activity might be going on. They read aloud from emails a guy sent them with the license plate of cars he saw picking up suspected prostitutes and-- One more update. If someone can help Dave from the bakery get in touch with Gorman Properties regarding some windows at 40th and Cherry. They are broken? Yep. OK. In case you did not get that this is literal broken window policing. They are going to get a landlord to replace some busted glass. Three years into Flynn's tenure it was going pretty well. Violent crimes were down homicides were down citizen complaints against police were decreasing by quite a bit. Then in the summer of 2011 things took a bad turn starting with the arrest of a man named Derek Williams. One night in July officers responded to the scene of a robbery and found Williams. He was 22 years old black. He ran. Officers chased him over a fence caught him handcuffed him and put him in the back of a police car where a camera recorded what happened next. . What is your last name? I cannot breathe. You are breathing just fine. Believe me. What is your last name? I cannot breathe Sir. You are just playing games. The video is horrible to watch. Minutes go by as Williams shirtless and in handcuffs writhes in the backseat gasping for air. He pleads for medical attention but the officers ignore him. Help!  This goes on for nearly eight minutes then Derek Williams slumps over on the seat at which point an officer opens the door and tries to wake him up. Hey Derek. Derek. He checks his pulse. A few minutes later in the video you see police administering CPR but it was too late. Derek Williams died in the back of a squad car as he pleaded for medical help. It was Milwaukee's own Eric Garner video three years before it happened in New York. And through all the investigations Chief Flynn defended the officers involved and they continued on active duty. People were furious. They protested demanded that the state press criminal charges against the officers demanded that the chief resign. Amazingly Flynn says when he and other commanders first watched the video they did not foresee that reaction. Our first thought when that tape was finished was breathing a sigh of relief. Well gosh the cops did not do anything to him. And of course what we are completely missing is that an average person seeing that tape is perceiving absolutely uncaring unfeeling officers who refused to do anything about a man in distress and we missed it. Flynn says part of the disconnect stemmed from the fact that the video camera was infrared so people watching it after the fact could see Derek Williams in a way the officers could not in the moment because it was dark. But the biggest problem he says is that he took for granted that the public would understand his reasoning for not disciplining the officers. You know in hindsight one recognizes it is difficult to explain the universe of police officers in crisis situations and how often an average officer encounters an arrested suspect who does not want to go to jail and wants to go to the hospital. That specific scenario happens a lot? Exactly. I cannot breathe I have something wrong with me I have a pain. And after a while it becomes just part of the noise of making an arrest and officers get a little inured to it. Now that is not something the public wants to hear the police chief try to explain when a young man just dropped dead in the back of a car and so the lesson that was clear to us is if you say you cannot breathe OK we are calling an ambulance. You changed the policy? We changed the policy. We made it mandatory. We probably tripled the number of ambulance runs for people under arrest going to jail but we removed the officers' need to make a judgment. I think part of what upset people so much about that and what is upsetting to watch about it I think it made people wonder why a policy is needed to have officers respond that way. You know you look at this and it is kind of like would not it be basic human decency to respond to someone who is in distress like that or asking for help like that? And I wonder if you think that incident points to some kind of lack of empathy. Cops start out empathetic or they would not be doing this in the first place. You come to a police academy graduation you talk to officers in training. They are dying to get out there and help people. But as the social net has frayed cops are spending enormous amounts of time with the social problems that society's taken a walk on and night after night after night police officers go through the same problems for which there are no solutions. The people that are police officers are regular people just like you and they have faced the same kind of long term stresses on their equilibrium that anybody who is deployed year after year after year to Iraq and Afghanistan experiences. It happens more rapidly in a war zone obviously but the same dynamics are working on America's police officers every day on the streets of our cities and they do harden themselves. They have to. One thing Flynn says he is doing to try to rebuild empathy he is trying to get cops on foot patrols at least an hour a shift so they can have friendly interactions with people who are not in bad situations. Assistant Chief James Harpole says cynicism is especially dangerous to cops on third shift from midnight to 800 AM. He worked that shift for four years and he remembers the moment he realized he would become jaded. It was when he got switched to second shift in the afternoons. My first day working second shift was an eye opening experience for me. I am driving down the street in the very same neighborhood I patrolled on third shift and I see families people pushing their babies people waving at us as we were driving down the street. It shocked me. I was in shock. I had not experienced that. I realized at that very moment that the area that I was patrolling had an overwhelming majority of hardworking outstanding individuals who wanted to have safe neighborhoods. That had not occurred to you before for real? Because I did not deal with people like that. Before you even made it out of the station house the dispatcher was sending you to the first fight and everybody was drunk and blood everywhere. So no I had not even begun to think is there anybody that is not like this? Harpole says working second shift completely changed his mindset for dealing with people on the job. I asked Chief Flynn if they ever change people's shifts with this in mind rotate cops to give them different perspectives on a neighborhood and he said they cannot because the union contract does not allow them to. I told him it seemed like from Harpole's story there might be value in it. He said yeah there would be value in renegotiating the contract too. Brian Reed. Coming up his story continues and among other things we go with Chief Flynn's officers as they try to solve a case a shooting. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. This week and next on our show Cops See Things Differently stories of policing and race. We are telling the story today of Chief Ed Flynn's tenure at the Milwaukee police department and how he is trying to improve relations between the police and black residents. One of the challenges he faced was he wanted to start a program that would basically be Milwaukee's version of the stop and frisk program which is so controversial in New York City. Stop and frisk of course was policemen stopping pedestrians but in Milwaukee people drive so lots of the stops were traffic stops. Again here's Brian Reed. When Chief Flynn looked at the data from Milwaukee he saw that when officers pulled over people in high crime areas more frequently for minor violations like having a taillight out or running a stop sign car thefts went down. Flynn believed more stops would mean fewer crimes so he wanted to do more stops but somehow without angering people or alienating them. I also wanted to make sure we did not accidentally enact a poor person's tax. If I am going to put the cops on the hot spots and say enforce traffic laws because I really want to reduce robberies and car thefts but I am writing everybody tickets how much good did I do myself? Maybe I am going to reduce the number car thefts but everybody hates us. So the order that implemented this policy said give warnings if you possibly can. The preferred outcome is a warning. The number of traffic stops in Milwaukee almost quadrupled and the number of times officers stopped pedestrians tripled. And like Flynn wanted he says fewer than 20 of the traffic stops resulted in citation or arrest. Car thefts and robberies decreased and Flynn saw an added benefit. Citizen complaints dropped too. He thinks that is because more people were having good interactions with the cops and there are numbers on this. A University of Wisconsin Milwaukee study that came out last month found that more than 60 of people who'd been approached by police during traffic stops said they were satisfied with how the officer handled the interaction. But it was also during these traffic stops and pedestrian stops that one of the biggest scandals of Flynn's tenure as police chief happened. Dozens of people are now suing the department. One of them is Brandon Graham. Brandon is 25 years old. He says he started getting stopped back sometime in 2011 about three years into Flynn's push to increase stops. The way Brandon remembers it one day he went back to a neighborhood he used to live in on the north side of Milwaukee and his friends kept telling him how the cops in that district district five had been harassing them constantly. I did not really take it serious what they were saying. I am thinking like you guys were doing something wrong to be stopped by the police. There is no police officer that is going to waste their time in Milwaukee Wisconsin where there is a lot of crime to stop you from walking down the street. Brandon's naivete lasted for all of two hours. Sure enough he says that very afternoon the cops came by. We all stopped. I had no worries. I thought they were maybe looking for someone else and I am sure that it is not legal for the cops just to pull up and just pat you down with no probable cause. So we were all sitting there and they asked me my name or whatever asked me for my ID. I am like OK. I give them my ID or whatever. I am like is there any type of problems? They tell me to shut the F up. A warning. This gets explicit. He grabbed my pants and pulled them up to almost where I was on my tiptoes and once he did that he rubbed his hand from the front all the way to the back from my testicles to my buttocks back and forth. So I am like what is going on? I am not understanding why this is happening. It seemed as though they were trying their best to intimidate us how they were talking to everyone end and not waiting for an answer. And like I said it is only the first time. Soon after Brandon ended up moving back to that neighborhood and the random stops continued in the same style as that first one. So wait. How many times has this happened to you? It is happened almost every single day like a couple years every day. One night I spent time with Brandon and some of his friends back in district five. Brandon does not live there anymore but they got to reminiscing about officers from the neighborhood and listen to how well they knew them. It is like they are talking about old high school classmates or something. You talking about the short fat one? No the little short white dude. Slam. The one that slammed you all on the hood. You talking about Kapinsky? No. Kapinsky was kind of big. Kapinsky's kind of big. I am talking about the dude that is like your height. What time was it when it happened? Late night. Oh. That is probably  Letterman. Vag was probably in the green car that night. Because did not Vag use to be in a white detail car? Yeah. That is the car he pulled in the driveway in my aunt's driveway. They are saying Vag sho