Last year a tunnel was discovered in Toronto a secret tunnel. Basically a conservation official was walking through a wooded ravine in the city and stumbled upon this thing. It was described as sophisticated by police. Tall enough to stand in 33 feet long with support beams a plywood ceiling and walls water-resistant lighting a generator and sump pump to pump out groundwater. And at the end of the tunnel two little rooms were still under construction. Intriguingly nailed to a wall was a rosary and a plastic red poppy. Canadians use the poppy to commemorate fallen soldiers on Remembrance Day up there. Here in the States all this got a little bit of coverage but in Canada it was big news. No one knows who dug the 30-foot-long tunnel near the site of this year's Pan-American Games in Toronto. A bizarre tunnel found near one of the venues for the upcoming Pan-Am Games has sparked fears of an imminent terror attack. Rarely has a dirt tunnel received so much attention. No one knows why it was created. Do you think someone told their kid to dig to China and the kid actually tried? It is not just the sophistication that police say is troubling but the lack of suspects or a motive. When something unexplained like this happens of course people go nuts speculating about what it could be. That is actually what our program is about today. In this case the media pondered whether the tunnel would be used to plant a bomb at the upcoming Pan-Am Games nearby. The Pan-Am Games are like an Olympics for North and South and Central America. Or maybe somebody was going to build a meth lab in the tunnel or an operation to grow marijuana. Or they would use the tunnel to hide foreign athletes from the Pan-Am Games who might want to stay in Canada illegally. On Twitter it was terrortunnel. But the truth of what was going on in that tunnel and what its purpose was was nothing like any of that. And the way the Canadian police figured it out-- OK first of all can I say sometimes one is reminded of what a very different country Canada is from the United States. As part of the manhunt for whoever built the tunnel a policeman tweeted If you built a tunnel near the Rexall Centre in Toronto give us a call OK? The Toronto police pointed out that it is not illegal to dig a hole. Apparently no law was broken. From the start they said they saw no evidence of terrorism and they did not want to jump to conclusions. For instance here's an exchange between then-Toronto deputy chief Mark Saunders and reporters after he showed them a photo of that rosary and plastic poppy. This was found inside the actual tunnel itself and it was nailed on the wall. What does that tell you? That tells me that this was nailed inside the tunnel on a wall.  The police basically went on TV and showed pictures of the stuff that they found in the tunnel-- a ladder and the generator and the sump pump. And they asked the public this jog anybody's memory? Anybody know anything about this stuff? And that turned out to be exactly that move. Because watching that coverage was a guy named Boko Marich. He sees that ladder-- And I said to myself that look exactly my step-ladder and I bet you any money this is mine. I bet you any money this is mine. And then when I saw sump pump. And I said oh-ho-ho my step-ladder and sump pump. But I could not believe. I could not believe. Like I could not believe myself. I could not sleep. I was thinking about that. He could not sleep because he knew who he would given the stuff to. Bob is a contractor and he lent that stuff to one of his favorite employees this young guy just 22 Elton. What was Elton doing? And come to think it Elton had been asking to borrow a lot of tools lately. He was asking me for shovel for pick for another shovel another tool so many tools. I just would say OK if you need take. Boko loves Elton. He loves that Elton's a great worker. He loves that unlike other young people Bob's worked with in the past apparently Elton always wants to learn asks lots of questions. What do you do when you do the roof? How do you connect this? How do you put joist hangers? What is the distance between this and that? Can I do this instead of that? Is this going to carry this support? Unbelievable you know? And I joke with everybody if everybody asked me who is that guy? This is my adopted son Elton. Always I used to say this is my adopted son. OK? So I would lend him any tools he wanted. So the morning after he sees the police pointing to a photo of his ladder and sump pump on television he goes to pick up Elton to bring him to work like always. Elton gets in the truck. He brought two coffees for me and him. And I said Elton tell me one thing. That sump pump-- I did not even ask full question. He said Boko yes I did. Oh my god. Boko went to the authorities and made sure that Elton would not get arrested or go to prison for this and then turned him in. The police talked to Elton satisfied themselves that Elton was not a terrorist or an evil criminal mastermind but just some guy and they let him go. They did not even give him a fine though they did suggest that he not dig more tunnels. Canada. So who is Elton? Why did he do it? Why go to the trouble? Well Elton has not given many interviews though he did allow one reporter named Nick Koehler to spend a couple days with him and his family to write it this long story about them in Maclean's Magazine and Nick was able to tell us a lot about Elton. Elton turned down our request for an interview. Elton was maybe two minutes from the ravine and woods where the tunnel was found in a kind of rough neighborhood in public housing. Nick says both of his parents are from Jamaica. He lives with two sisters an older sister and a younger sister. And they all live with their mother. Elton's the quiet kid in the family. Nick says everybody else is a big talker. And I think in particular his older sister Anora she has a lot of ideas about how Elton should be living his life. And she is not shy about sharing that with him. She is a big fan of self-help books. And so I think Elton is often in the position of listening to life talks as they put it. Advice. Advice. And Elton found refuge ever since he was a kid in the ravine. In the ravine there were no life talks. And from the time he was little Elton was this introspective kid who loved to build to take machines apart and put them back together. He fixed up old lawnmowers. He built clubhouses. And like he said in a short interview that Nick recorded for a video that Maclean's Magazine made He would go to the ravine. OK what I used to do in the ravine when I was a kid is run around play hide and go seek. We would play like apple war. We will go fishing. But I started my first tunnel probably when I was in elementary school. I would go in the creek walk around. And this was something on my mind. I wanted to build a clubhouse. I had five or six attempts and I think the sixth one was the huge tunnel that the guys found. I have heard him call it sort of the future of clubhouses. Again here's Nick. The tree house of the future. That it is underground because one of the fundamental things he wanted from this was that it be secret. It was his secret place that he could go and just relax and be alone. And not always alone. A friend helped Elton dig the tunnel and build it excavating he thinks two dump trucks of dirt by hand. And once it was done they would go there together-- watch movies listen to music barbecue. OK I did this because it was something I always wanted to be doing but I know I should have grown out of it. And I knew that OK if I build a tunnel it came from childhood reasons but at the same time if I build it who knows? I could probably hang out there turn that childhood dream into a man cave a bunker whatever you call it just a place to go hang out. And if there is something that happened like a natural disaster or something that would happen I could go there if there is a blackout turn on the generator charge my phone even make a small meal down there just to bring back up to my house. Back when Elton would go to the tunnel his sisters did not know exactly what he was doing but they knew something was up. For months while he was digging the thing he would come home just covered in dirt tracking dirt everywhere. Anora though he was building some kind of underground house and grilled him about it but he would not say. His other sister Tracyann found the rosary actually sitting at a bus stop and gave it to Elton to protect him. As soon as she gave it to me like an our later I was already down there I nailed it up. Every day after that day I would go there I would sometimes make a prayer. Not every day. Some days I would forget. But sometimes I would remember to have a little prayer just so I am safe and it is some peace of mind. Yeah. The reality of Elton's tunnel it was so different from what people thought it was when it was first discovered by police. And I think what that is about is I think when we encounter something inexplicable or mysterious our imaginations we are such hacks. You know? We go to the most standard stock seen it in 100 TV shows version of what something probably is. Like oh it is a terrorist attack. Oh it is drug dealers. You know? When the reality of what this tunnel really was it was this dreamy guy who just wanted a place to get away from his sisters and be alone for a little while. It is so much smaller but so much less predictable and way more interesting. Well today on our program what is going on in there? We have stories where people think that they know exactly what is going on in situations of various kinds and we get inside and find out just how much more interesting the reality of all of it is. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us.  Act 1 I Can Explain. This story is about a teenager in a situation where everybody in her life thought they knew exactly what was going on with her and what she should do. It seemed so clear to everybody else and she would not do it. This teenager met a producer from a public radio station WNYC a producer named Courtney Stein two years ago. Courtney works on this project called Radio Rookies. And the teenager her name is Rainy. She was 17 years old at the time. She applied to be in the Radio Rookies program. She wanted to make a radio story. And she wanted to talk about how she had been in an abusive relationship for a long time and was trying to figure out why she stayed in it for so long. And Courtney the radio producer was not sure that Rainy was ready to tell that story. It just seemed so soon. But Rainy wanted to and the school principal thought it would be a good idea because it would give Rainy a reason to come to school which at the time she needed. So Courtney said OK. Here's Rainy back then. Are you recording? Yes she is recording. I am recording. This is live recording coming from West Brooklyn's Community AC office. I started reporting this story in the fall of 2013. This is Radio Rookie Lorraine reporting live. I had not really been going to school for over 2 and 12 years. So I transferred to an alternative high school for kids who dropped out but are trying to come back and graduate. We all have assigned counselors. We call them ACs. OK so I am here with my own AC Elizabeth. They check in with us every day. So how have I been as a student? Lorraine when I first started Lorraine was only a name on my roster because she would never come to school. And now she is here every day. She is doing what she needs to do and she is a potential June graduate. Definite June graduate. Clear that up. You know got to clear that one up. Since I never came to school when I first transferred here Elizabeth only knew me by my school ID picture. So my first impression of you I saw your picture I saw a little girl in size with a black eye. So I thought to myself what is going on? I said did you get into a fight? And you said no. But you were like it is a long story. You will get to know me. I had a black eye for the whole first week. I thought people were thinking that I got beat up by a girl or something that I am soft. Nicole's my best friend but I call her my stepsister because my mom and her dad used to date. We all lived together kind of like a family. I am the only one who calls her Nicole. Everyone else calls her by her nickname. My name's Nicky Boombox but no. She was with me when I first met-- I do not want to one his actual name. What should his name be in my story? Doodoo-face. I am going to call him Tony the guy who became my first serious boyfriend. I met him the summer after eighth grade. By the time we started dating I was 14 and he was 21-- six years six months and six days older than me-- 666. It is creepy right? Nicole remembers when we met him. But In the beginning-- do not get me wrong-- he fooled me too. He fooled all of us. I really thought he was actually really good. I was like oh my god. He is really nice. I would never expect him to actually ever lay a hand on you. So what do you think drew me to him in the first place? What made me start liking him? His looks. Cannot deny it. The fact that he is older. He is short with tan skin big pretty eyes and an Italian schnoz. He has tattoos and a clean-cut beard. When you think of that arrogant guy that all the girls want that is Tony. He walks with confidence dresses flashy and wears big chains. But he also made you feel like you were special like you were wanted. He was actually putting some effort into it. He would text you back. He would pick you up from the school. He did not even try to kiss you the first time you hung out. The poems the song the rap he made on Facebook. He made a video of it. The lyrics went something like do not worry baby. It does not matter about the age. Back then Nicole took a video of me watching it. I really could not stop smiling. Oh my god. Or as Nicole would say cheesing OD. Oh you are cheesing OD. I have never seen you cheese like that. When we first got together he liked that I was smart and young and pretty. He wanted to shape me into his perfect wifey. Before I got to the age where he says girls become whores. I was getting 90s when I started the ninth grade. I would show him my report card but he did not pay it any mind. He just saw high school as a place for guys to bag girls. He did not tell me to skip school. He just punished me when I went. He would ignore me after I came back or show up at school and flirt with girls in front of me. So I just hung out with him in his room all day instead of going to class. I did not want him to think I was cheating. I was not even talking to Nicole. Everything you thought was just about him. You just completely stopped caring about everything and he really had that control over you. How did I look back then? Look? You looked like a ghost. Completely dead skinny as hell. You still looked good. Do not get me wrong but you still had that dead look on your face like you were not happy at all. He was verbally abusive way before he became physically abusive. He talked to me so nasty that I could feel it. The bruises clear up but the words stick with you and they change how you act. He would tell me you are boring you are awkward you are the weirdest of the weird you will never fit in anywhere. And I believed him. I did not feel like I belonged anywhere. I did not talk to anyone anymore including my mom. I lied to her about how old he was and started coming home late or not at all. I was livid. I wanted you home. This is my mom. She used to be a drug addict but she is been clean for 10 years now. She is pretty ditzy and forgetful but she is definitely there for me. What were you doing then? Worrying cursing yelling. At me. At you. At him. You tried punishing me tried to take my things away. Punishment taking your things away-- it did not matter. Nothing she did worked because I would not let it. She knew I was the only one that could stop myself from seeing him. The first time he hit me was because I was looking through his Facebook. I caught him messaging his ex so he slapped me across the face. He was yelling at me telling me to get out. It escalated from there. Then one night two years into our relationship we went to his friend's birthday and he got really drunk. I went to sleep at his place and woke up to him pouring water on my face and dragging me out of bed by my hair. He was yelling and calling me names like a dirty whore and a slut and a piece of trash. He slapped me and grabbed things from around the room like lighters and medicine bottles and through them at me. He was screaming that he hopes my mom dies. I had choke marks on my neck. But he was not really choking me to cut off oxygen. It was more like choking me to grab me and throw me around. After he did that I went over to Nicole's. My mom showed up there and started freaking out and crying when she saw me. So I walked down the block to my friend Steven's house. You came and then I saw you. And once I saw you I just felt bad. And then you started crying and you told me you did not see it yet. So I brought you in my bathroom and I made you look. And you did not want to look at it. So I told you you were not leaving until you looked at it. When I looked in the mirror I saw a face covered in tears red and swollen with blue marks on my cheeks under my eyes on my neck and on my arms. I just could not believe I was looking at my own reflection. When he hit you I wanted to have him arrested but you would not let me. My mom promised me she would not call the police but it was a trick because she knew my brother would. They came. They tried to talk to you but you would not give him up. I saw the cop car outside so I hid in the bathroom. The cops stood outside the door and kept asking me if I got hit. He was like just say yeah. That is all you have to say. I said no. So they did not press charges. What did you guys-- you guys filed a report or something? What did you guys do? No they would not let us file a report. We tried to any which way get him for something and we could not because you were over 16. There was no proof that he was having sex with you before that age so I could not have him arrested. They told me I needed to go to the DA. So I called the DA and they did not want to be bothered with it because it was consensual which is not the law. The law is that he is an adult and he should not have been having sex with you. That is the law and he should have went to jail. After that happened he and I did not talk for a week. Then he showed up in my school. He had this really sad face on. He brought me a burger. He does not know how to say sorry so I guess the whole act was kind of like an apology. We walked around the neighborhood for a couple of hours. He played one of those toy vending machine games with the arm and he got me a baby blanket with a dog head and tail. It was not much but the look on his face was just so sad that-- I do not know-- it convinced me to go back. He was overly nice at first-- extra big smiles longer kisses-- but then he started talking about how you got to put your girl in her place. He kept accusing me of cheating on him and I just had enough. So after two months we finally broke up and I moved back in with my mom. How do you feel since I came back? Oh so relieved that I have my baby back. I am so done with it. I am just like free like a bird and wings on a cage. I feel great. You know it feels good not to feel bad. Thank God thank God. I hate him. This is Nicole again. I still hate him. I will always hate him. He would be the one that I would kill. I would keep his boxers on but cut him up into little pieces put cement in the body bag dump him down in the ocean and just smile smile with happiness. And just smile ladies and gentlemen. The monster is gone. We gotta get rid of these monsters. I am just telling you. I am gonna be the one. I am gonna be Dexter. She is confessing murder. Actually just because this is recorded I am kidding. Anyway-- So I am looking through my old diary. I mean I had diary entries from the very very beginning. A star means we got into an argument. A heart means it was a good day. The circle means he ignored me the whole day. Good things about breaking up with Tony? I get to hang out with Nicole and I get to go back to school. Bad things about breaking up with Tony? I am alone. I feel like I just need someone to shock me to take my mind off things. And I do not have anyone now even on Christmas. My mom was at her boyfriend's house so I was on my own. I was just in my bed looking at Facebook. Tony posted a status saying how Christmas will never be the same. He obviously meant that for me since it was our anniversary. My heart stopped for a second. When he is in my life-- I do not know-- it is like it is the one thing that just gets me going like really gets me going. I just want him to understand that he was wrong about everything he accused me of so I decided to write it all on a letter. I included a playlist with an even number of FU songs and I miss you songs and a weird little purple rock I got from the Museum of Natural History. We started talking but only over Facebook. I wanted to keep my distance. For a couple of weeks we went back and forth. He was not being pushy. He was actually being really sweet so I agreed to see him. And I ended up staying the night. This is Courtney Rainy's Radio Rookies producer. Rainy was working on her story with me for about a month before she disappeared. She stopped returning my texts at Christmas time. When school started again in January Rainy was not there. Then a few weeks into the semester her English teacher Erin emailed me. Rainy was back. I met her after school and set her up to record a diary. I am just going to put it on hold. You do not have to do anything. You can even just put it in your pocket. OK I just press play when I want to record? Or is it recording already? It is already recording. You do not even have to worry about it. I will be back. All classrooms have teachers. Leave leave leave. You know I do not think I am supposed to be in this room. Oh but I am going to be in here anyway. So I have obviously got back with my ex. I have been on the lookout for abusive behavior to see if he is going to revert back to his old ways. I mean at first he was you know how you would expecd-- sweet gentle nice caring all those things. But I have noticed some behavior that I do not like. About a week two or three weeks ago he told me to shut up in a nasty way. I mean it is not that big of a deal but I felt like it was a sign that the pattern might re-emerge. I mean he is rough just by nature. I do not think that is abusive though. I think that is just how he is. But at times I do not really like it. I know that in a lot of ways he is a really bad person. But I know that he could be a good person. No one's all bad. We slip back into our old routine of me never going home or going to school almost immediately. He became slowly more disrespectful and then violent again. I was surprised because I really hoped it was going to be different this time. I remember being 13 and just being like I just want to be 17. When I am 17 that is going to be the perfect age. And I get to 17 and it is like wow. This is what 17 looks like? This is what my 17 looks like? Rainy barely showed up to school for the rest of the year. She was supposed to graduate but did not. From the beginning Rainy told me she wanted to tell this story so she could try to understand herself and figure out why she was ever with him. She said that if she understood that might help her leave. So over the course of the next year Rainy would reemerge for a day or two go to school record a bit and then be gone again. I insisted that if we were going to keep producing this story together that she meet with someone from an organization called Day One. They work with young survivors of intimate partner violence. I brought her to meet with their community educator Sarah Gonzales. OK so my first question is what are the signs of teen dating abuse? So what is extremely common in teen relationships is the forced absence from school. Right? So if I am forcing you to be absent from school I am affecting your grades which will then affect how you graduate if you graduate when you graduate. That is actually exactly what happened to me. It is funny you brought that up. I should be a senior now and I am still not graduating. So I am usually looked at as someone who could be considered a strong female. I do not let guys mess with me. I do not put up with stuff like that. But then somehow I am in this relationship that I allow myself to get stepped over. The only thing that I would change in that is the allowed part. People even with good intentions unintentionally blame victims or survivors. So we say things like if that person just had self-esteem it would be OK. What that tells someone is that it is your fault because you do not have the esteem to leave when that is not really the case. On average it takes seven to nine times for someone to leave. So just because someone went back does not mean that they are never going to leave. I mean every time we get into a fight and things start getting really bad I am just sitting there like you should be leaving right now you need to get your stuff you need to get out the door you need to go home. And I never do it every single time. And every single time I blame myself. Because I have feet. I could walk if I want to but I do not. Have you ever asked yourself the other question? What makes me stay? What keeps me here? I mean I do and I do not understand the answer. Because it does not make sense why being happy 5 of the time makes you stay. I do not know. You know you do love your partner right? And so a lot of times what you really want is just for the abuse to stop but you still want to be with your partner. I mean we have happy times. We will cuddle and laugh. Sometimes he even cooks or makes us tea. Well you can say OK I should be leaving. And if you do not it is just like today was not the day that I was leaving. As opposed to blaming yourself because then that might keep you there a little longer. It is like OK it did not happen today but it can happen tomorrow. Lorraine what are you doing with your life? I know you are at that boy's house-- My assigned counselor has been leaving me voicemails. I never even listened to them. So do not shut down because you are with this boy. We already spoke about this. The weather was bad. You do not do snow-- I know all your excuses in the book. But right now the weather's better so you should have been here today. So obviously if I do not see later that means it is not good. OK? So call me or show up. Bye. When the new cycle started I told him I had to go back to school. And not even five minutes later he held me down and started sucking on my neck. I was like get off babe. You are hurting me. He did not do it for very long but he did it hard enough to leave a huge dark purple mark. I guess he was trying to mark his territory. What are you doing here? When you have not gone to school in a really long time and you come in with a hickey that looks bad. I tried to cover it up. I felt like my teachers are going to look at me so disappointed. Testing Courtney Courtney hello. School just ended about 15 minutes ago and today is the first day I have been in school for at least the past month. Not something I am very proud of. I am sure you are thinking who the hell stays with someone like him for this long? Believe me I get it. I think I am an idiot. I do not know what makes me stay. I mean one time I was trying to leave and he took my sweater into the bathroom and peed on it. He spit in my face in front of company more than once. There are some things he is done to me that are just so embarrassing I have never told anyone. I do not want people to look at me and say you allowed him to do that to you and you are still with him? So I just shut down and do not talk to anybody including Nicole. This is what she thinks of the situation. I feel like basically you do not leave because when you come home there is really no one here. She means that my mom works a lot and spends weekends at her boyfriend's. So she is not always home. Personally you really have nobody. I feel like that is the real reason because you are used to that environment always being with him every day. I know it is hard. You always say it is hard for you to make new friend. Meanwhile it is really not that hard. I mean I did not have that much of a hard time making friends when I was younger. I was not like that. I do not know when it changed or how it changed. Because he shut down your whole confidence. It is hard to come back when you do not talk to anyone like you have not talked to or interacted with a person in how long? And you expect to interact--  Hold on. Yo. Hello? Hi .  What are you doing? No are you drunk? You promise? Naw man. Because you are talking like you are twisted. Why are you laughing? Are you laughing at me because I am an idiot? I will think about all the stuff he would done to me and just be like I hate him I hate him I hate him. What are you talking about? You are not putting me on nothing. I am going to stab you in the face. No chill. Oh. All right bye. What happened? I feel like he does not take you serious. He does not. You do not scare him. I think this would not have happened with someone my own age. I mean Tony was the first guy I was ever seriously with. I did not know anything really about being in a relationship. So I trusted him on how he thought things should be. In the beginning I was always worried that he would break up with me. I remember the first time he did. I was just shivering literally shaking. I did not know how to be without him. I cannot believe that I have been with him for five years now. That is over a quarter of my life. The first 50 of my life I was probably pissing my pants and my mom was on drugs. So I blocked a lot of it out. Then I was fat for the next five years. Then I have this . I am wasting my life. Oy vey. Yup so another diary. It is just coming to a point where I am pretty much unhappy all the time. I cannot do this much longer. I get told all day every day that I am an evil monster. And men? Men are the ones that made the Verrazano Bridge. That is what he says to me. Women are evil and if you are born with a vagina you deserve to suffer. He yells at me and tells me that I am not learning. Because I do not agree. Why would I agree that I need to be punished just because I was born. The longer I live with him the more angry I get. He will not let me express my emotions. He will not let me cry. He will not let me yell. Some girl kept coming around. She would not leave him alone. I wanted to beat her up but then she started telling me what was actually going on that she would been seeing him on and off for the past two years. This is not the first time he is cheated on me but she is the youngest. She just turned 15. And Tony's 25 now. He is doing the same thing to her that he did with me. I always felt like I needed this huge epiphany or something crazy big to happen to end the cycle. But something just broke inside me. A switch turned off. And that was it. I am done with him. All right mom I want you to be as truthful as possible. And do not think I am going to get mad at you for anything you say. I have not really been home since I got together with Tony. I have not had a chance for my mom to baby me. I feel like I missed out on that for a lot of my life actually. What did you say when I said me and him were breaking up this time? I said thank God. Did you believe me? I prayed so. Yeah I wanted to believe you. Yes absolutely. Are you watering your truth down maybe just a little bit because I got mad at you last time you said that? Yeah you did get mad at me the last time I said that. The last time you said-- what the hell did you say? Oh I said that we were broken up and you said for how long this time? Two weeks you are going to be back together. Something like that. Is that how you really felt? Well that is how it is been basically. I mean the longest you have broken up so far is six months. Do you think my relationship with him is like a drug like an addiction? Absolutely. Yes I do. I think it is a drug that you cannot seem to stop. You want it. You know it is no good for you. And you want it. You want to caress it. You want to hold it. You want it to be in your body to be next to your body. You want to suck in every minute thinking it is life. And then when it