When I reached Eric Pahls three weeks ago he was on the road. In fact it was his second day on the road headed from Kansas where he is from to Washington DC. I am in the mountains of southwest Pennsylvania-- or hills-- right now so I hope I do not lose you. I would say that part of the drive is so incredible because suddenly you really are not in the Midwest. Right. The houses get older and the land gets a little more diverse than it was. Yeah. There is hills suddenly. Yeah. Right. Not flat I guess in other words. Yeah. And describe the scene. Explain who is with each other right there in the truck. Yeah we are in a GMC pickup with a U-Haul trailer on the back of it. My dad's driving. My younger brother's in here as well. And explain why you are going to DC. I am going because I am the press secretary for an incoming congressman. Not just a press secretary the 22-year-old press secretary fresh out of college for a first-time congressman who is never held elective office himself Republican Roger Marshall of Kansas' first district. Eric got the job since Roger Marshall was a long-shot candidate a doctor. And Eric was his press secretary for the campaign. Eric's previous Washington experience? Intern. In a way the two of them are like Donald Trump and many of his appointees. They are newbies to politics now thrown into the biggest political swamp in the country. On the road Eric's been getting advice from his dad on how to stick to a personal budget. He is not making that much money in his new job. And he is been trying to get his father and his brother to listen to some very old music-- Kris Kristofferson The Eagles Fleetwood Mac oh and Elvis. And I know that becomes a little more cliche young Republican but Crosby Stills and Nash-- Dude that is Democrats' music. That is right. Yeah they were like '68 outside-the-convention music.  Back in the U-Haul there is furniture that he just bought from Ikea for his new tiny studio apartment a recliner from home that he brought despite his mom's objections and ties-- lots of ties. I did not realize I had that many ties till I went to pack. I would say probably 30 to 40 ties. Oh wow. You own more than I do. Well last Christmas I asked to be a member of the Tie of the Month club. Now I am no expert on being a press secretary but from seeing them on TV it just seems like you could get by with like four ties-- blue red blue stripe red stripe. Right. I get really self-conscious about wearing the same tie like more than once in a couple weeks. I also just really like ties. Eric is very aware that is he is going to be working on Capitol Hill during a historic moment in our country with a president who is all about disruptive change and a Republican Congress that is out to prove what it can accomplish. Not that Eric agrees with the new president on every issue. He does not want to build a wall and he comes from a big agricultural congressional district so he likes our current trade deals. Hes likes the TPP. But he is an idealistic young conservative the kind of Republican fanboy who was thrilled when he met Bob Dole and John McCain and Jerry Moran. And if you are asking yourself who is Jerry Moran? Well then that is exactly my point. He is excited to see his team poised for big things. The Republicans for all my lifetime have been fighting for an opportunity such as this. And it obviously did not come in the package that most of us thought it would come in but it is here. And here's our big audition and we best not screw it up or it is going to be another lifetime if we even get another chance. Well today on our program it is inauguration weekend. And after this insanely divisive and bitter election we seem to be heading into these next four years with some people super stoked for what is about to happen and others horrified and frightened. Today's program reflects that. We are going to hear from both groups. And given the mutual animosity between the two sides we have worked extra hard to find Republicans to put on the air who Democrats would find interesting to listen to and maybe even kind of like and to find Democrats who Republicans would find interesting to listen to and maybe even like. You can be the judge of how well we did. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One Mean Come True. Thursday night in the same room where the annual White House Correspondents' dinner is held was the DeploraBall. The crowd was in a mix of inaugural formal wear-- gowns heels minks-- plus tons of young people in jeans and T-shirts-- red Make America Great hats everywhere of course. It is not unusual for people at any inaugural ball to congratulate themselves for electing the president. These balls are for donors and fundraisers and organizers after all. At the DeploraBall people made the case for themselves this way. Jay Boone and Conor O'Hagan explain to our producer Zoe Chace using a curse word by the way that we did not beep here in the podcast. The crowd at this ball-- We did it. We memed him into the presidency. You memed him? We memed him into power. We shit-posted our way into the future. It is true. This is true. This is true because we directed the culture. Directed the culture he said through social media-- making snarky memes for Twitter and Facebook creating a climate disseminating a rolling trolling message over months and months. Zoe explains what they are talking about and how they all ended up in this room. This is a place where being called a troll is a compliment. And the best trollers from Twitter are the celebrity guests. Kat Niedermair explains the original concept for the ball like this. A meeting of the trolls. A troll con. It would be a gathering of some of the most triggering personalities. There would be a video playing or projected of all of the top memes of the election. Kat is a small twitchy 22-year-old girl-- big eyes enormous glasses stringy blonde hair online marketeranarchistlibertarianpunk kid. She spends a lot of time on Twitter. Everyone at this ball pretty much got to know each other online in Twitter chat rooms on Reddit threads like The Donald online forums like 4Chan and 8Chan. There was much to discuss and analyze and joke about in these corners of the internet during this election. Like when those Podesta WikiLeaks came out thousands of emails to and from Hillary Clinton's campaign chairman this was the army that weaponized that information for political warfare. They wanted to get that information out. I was not one of those people who was reading every WikiLeaks but a lot of my friends were. I knew a batch would drop. Someone would download them. Many people would download them. Many people would read through them. And then there was a bit of an industry created. You have got a few different types of people that you will find in the Twittersphere. There are the researchers. There are the compilers. And then there is the meme magicians. The meme magicians? Yes. The meme magicians. They are the ones who are able to translate what the people who are spending 18 hours a day reading through the emails. Here's how it works. This is an email from the chairman of Hillary's campaign to other people on the team about potential vice presidential picks. So this is from Podesta from March the 17th 2016. Let me know if there are people you would like to see added or removed before we begin the process. I have organized names in rough food groups. And from there the food groups begin. The first group is Javier Becerra Julian Castro Eric Garcetti Tom Perez Ken Salazar. It is a group of Hispanic people. Then it is a group of women mostly white women. There is a group of black people a group of rich people. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Yeah. And Bernie Sanders. And Bernie Sanders. One of the meme magicians this guy Triggerbait turned that into a meme. Simple just a picture of the food pyramid with little emojis of black people at the base Hispanic people and women right above rich people at the top. He included a link to the original email. Kat's job was to collect stuff like this and spread it around. Like before a presidential debate she would put the word out. Because we need memes. Need more memes. The great thing about the Podesta emails in particular she says is they got everyone working together. A bunch of the Twitter trolls swarmed together on the same quest. That is kind of the funny thing about trolls. If they do not have a thing to do then they are going to be trolling either way. But if they have got a mission with a clear focus it meant that the trolls were trolling but they were all trolling in the same direction sort of. Right. Around these emails. Yeah. And when Trump's campaign was at its lowest point after the Access Hollywood tape came out and Republican leaders were abandoning him the deplorables swooped in to the rescue. Some of the most popular trolls on Twitter came up with this MAGA3X hashtag. That is Make America Great Again three times. Do three Trump things every day. Hold pro-Trump flash mobs. Get three Trump supporters to the polls. Retweet three Trump-related memes. This did reach a lot of people including deplorable Wiggleman-- Phillip Wiglesworth offline. He is a vet living in Florida. He voted for Obama in 2008. He would started this election as Trump-curious. He got caught up retweeting all these nutty memes and jokes till he became a hardcore Trump fan. Basically he is the 3X in MAGA3X. There is a nice really funny YouTube video. Let me find it in my favorites here really quick. This is one of his personal favorites. His YouTube name his SocialistMop. And he did a video on Hillary Clinton and James Comey. And he put James Comey's press conference to music with auto-tune. AUTOTUNED Good morning. I am here to give you an update on the FBI's investigation of Secretary Clinton. What I am gonna do is tell you what we are recommending but first let me tell you what we found. 110 emails 52 email chains have been determined to contain classified information-- Deplorable Wiggleman came to the DeploraBall to commune with like-minded retweeters. He was not the type to comb through WikiLeaks himself. He just laughed at what came around. He would started following some of the leaders of the MAGA3X team-- Mike Cernovich Jack Posobiec-- over the summer. By September he was fully in. He changed his name took a movement name. His old Twitter handle was Harleytime1. I made it Deplorable Wiggleman when Hillary called us deplorable. The Twitterverse grabbed hold of that moniker and we owned it. And I think that is why she lost. Because she said the word deplorable? Mhm. I personally-- yeah. Yeah definitely. She also called Bernie supporters what? Basement dwellers? Oh my goodness. Is she trying to lose votes? That is what it seems like. On election night he waited up till it was clear Trump had won. I got out. I put my flag on my motorcycle and I went and rode around town for a couple hours at 2 3 4 oclock in the morning. Got myself some McDonald's for breakfast then came home and went to bed. To counter Michelle Obama it was the first time in a long time that I felt hope for our country. Really felt hope for our country. I do not need to tell you that lots of people felt the opposite on election night-- despair fear. Trump's America does not necessarily feel like a welcoming space for everybody. Deplorable Twitter does not either. This pro-Trump corner of the internet can be super racist. It includes people who call themselves alt-right or white nationalists. It seems like in a way some of the deplorable internet the trolling internet was creating a space to say racist stuff. So the more that it offends and the more that it triggers the more they will say it. Kat says it does not mean they are actually haters. They are making a point. We go over this one guy's tweets Baked Alaska. Big Twitter personality in this world. He does stuff like retweet white supremacist David Duke. But he tweets out hateful things. Are they really hateful? I cannot wait till you are deported deport you. That is hateful. Yeah I guess. I think he is joking though. Yeah but-- I know I know. You kind of like that stuff? Uh-- no. I mean yeah. I do not know. I like trolling. I enjoy trolling because I think that things should be talked about. I think that trolling encourages that. But I do not know. I mean I think that if you are saying that actually at somebody then-- I mean it depends on the context. We go back and forth. I tell her I do not get why you would make hateful jokes like that. Ever. She says it is making a bigger point about free speech and political correctness. I am like this is creating an environment where an actual guy came to DC and at the end of his speech called out heil Trump. He was trolling. But why is that a joke? Because you cannot say it. Because it offends people. That is why it is a joke. It offends people but it also has consequences right? Like when people said heil Hitler there were these big consequences. They just do not care about the consequences? Not really. But they also-- he said hail Trump because he thought it was funny because it is like not really quite heil but it is like very close. I see a lot of the kids online are either LARPing-- Live-Action Role-Playing-- or just seeking to offend because they want a reaction. I wonder if that is what Trump is doing playing a role to get a reaction. Is Trump LARPing? Trolling? Is he saying what he actually believes? Kat thinks Trump's been trolling since the beginning. He was completely trolling the Republican establishment. Little Marco Lyin' Ted inviting Bill Clinton's rape accuser to the presidential debate-- he offended his way to the top. Or as Kat puts it Donald Trump trolled his way into becoming the President of the United States of America. That is why they like him. He is one of them. The greatest troll who is ever been. And the DeploraBall Kat tells me that is the place for the trolls of Twitter to celebrate the troll-in-chief.   Zoe Chace is one of the producers of our show. Act Two Dreamers Get Real. So President Trump has said from the beginning that he would get rid of DACA. DACA is short for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals. It is the executive action taken by President Obama for the DREAM Act kids who were brought to the United States when they were children. Under DACA they got to register with the government and in exchange they did not get deported. Suddenly they could get work permits which was a big deal. President Trump could end DACA immediately in his first week. But after the election he seemed to backpedal a little on DACA and said in interviews that he would quote work something out for DACA recipients. So since the election DACA recipients have not been sure what to think. Of course they are worried. If DACA is rescinded their names and addresses are in a government database. The government knows where to find them if it wants to end their protections and deport them. Reporter Seth Freed Wessler has been talking to several DACA kids since the election and he is found some who were thinking about their options. A few weeks after the election Kenia and her brother Henrri started planning a trip to El Salvador where they were born. They have not been back in 12 years. And at this point they are total New York kids. She is 22 and studies film and she looks like it. She wears black has chunky glasses. Henrri's 21. He is a music major plays classical guitar. Preppier than his sister. Kenya says that the threat that Donald Trump could just rescind DACA that she might have to go back to being totally undocumented or even be deported it made her wonder. I am thinking could I make my home somewhere else? Can El Salvador become home? If I migrated to a country and thought of it as my home before can I do that again? Can I just go somewhere else? She and her brother wanted to go back to El Salvador for a visit just to see what it would be like just in case they had to go back someday. That is the only thing I really have control over right now. I do not have control over Trump becoming president. I do not have control about the decisions he is going to take. But I do have control in seeing my family right now. Most of her family is still in El Salvador. In November their grandfather had a stroke. It seemed like he could die soon. He would pretty much raised them before they left for America. Kenia and Henrri really wanted to see him. And they found out that people with DACA can apply for this special permission to leave the US and come back in but you need a really good reason to leave like a family emergency which they now had with their grandfather. Here's Henrri. Knowing that he is sick right now and who knows how long he has does scare me. I want to see him as soon as possible. I am honestly scared for his health. In the weeks after the election a lot more DACA recipients applied to travel abroad than usual-- four times as many according to a couple of lawyers I talked to. In December a few days before Christmas Kenia and Henrri were granted permission to travel. Pulling it off was not going to be easy. The whole thing was going to cost them more than 2000 between the plane tickets the documentation to re-enter the country which was 360 each. They just recently re-upped their DACA status. That was another 495 each. Plus they are missing three weeks of work Kenia as a waitress at a restaurant and Henrri as a waiter at a catering hall. It is a big hit. They are paying their own way through school living pretty much week to week in their parents' house on Long Island. Their parents thought the trip was a good idea. My dad always says Kenia do not worry. You can go back to El Salvador. You can work at an airport or a hotel somewhere where they need bilinguals. And when you hear that idea-- I am like oh hello no. I am like well that is not the life I pictured for myself. But for them they see us as having opportunities. But again they are thinking of survival. They are not thinking of dreams like the American-- you know how we think. The next time I talk to them just after New Year's they were in El Salvador for the first time since they left as kids. I called them up on the phone. Hello? Hi Kenia. Are you guys recording yourselves? So we are actually but-- Kenia brought a bunch of her film school equipment to record herself with and to document their trip. So where are-- like where are you sitting right now? We are actually sitting in a tree. What do you mean you are sitting in a tree? Like in a tree? Yeah. There is this small tree by the house so we are just sitting here to get clearer sound because of the signal. How far off the ground are you sitting right now? How many feet is like that branch? That branch? It would be like five feet. Yeah like five feet. Like my height. When Kenia and Henrri arrived at the airport in El Salvador they got off the plane. And then I see a lot of faces. And I am like yo they look like they are my family but I did not know who they were. And then I see papita barely standing like in the middle of the crowd of people who were waiting. And I am like papita! Papita!   They had not expected to see their grandfather. He was still pretty much bedridden. But the family had pooled their money to pay for a microbus so he could get there to greet them. Kenia rushed through the crowd of people to hug him. And he is like so little. I remember this tall big man with a sombrero. And his face looks so old in the beginning that I was like I am surprised I am even holding him right now.   OK. So today is day three of our trip to El Salvador. We are recording from bed again. Every night they would record their impressions and there was a lot that was different from their hazy kid memories of El Salvador. Their grandmother still made coffee. The hammock where their grandfather used to lay after a hard in the cornfield was still there. But other stuff was not like they would thought. Like we are amazed at how beautiful El Salvador is. We remembered it but we did not remember completely and it is so beautiful. The whole time we were coming up here we are like I want to stay. I want to stay. But then you sit down with everybody and you have a conversation and gang talk is a lot of it. You cannot escape that conversation of violence. When they were little the gangs had mostly been confined to cities but now they would reached little towns like theirs. Before the trip Kenia had been careful not to ask her relatives for too many details about the violence. She was afraid to know. But being there it was impossible to escape. They kept hearing this one story about their cousin Daniel. Daniel gave a friend a ride on his motorcycle to a nearby town one night. It was a little later than Daniel felt comfortable. Normally nobody goes out after 8 oclock. He told the story to Henrri as a warning. Henrri says Daniel was on his way back home and a group of guys signaled him to pull over. They forced him to stop there with the motorcycle. Once they had that they started taking his stuff. He had a blue shirt on. I am not sure if maybe that is some symbolism here for gangs as well. I think it was red. It was blue. I do not know. Well it was either a blue or red shirt. I would have to make sure on that. But they took his shirt. They took his wallet all his money. And then the next thing that they asked them for was for his papers like the license and all that stuff because that is how they see what town people are from. The license showed that Daniel was from Los Achiotes their rivals. Once they would robbed him it seemed like they might let him go. But he heard that another guy who was just like he is from the Achiotes. We know we hate those guys. Why are you going to leave him alive? So then at that point the other guy that was about to let him go grabbed him told him to get on his knees and pointed a gun to his head. And right when he was about to kill him this other car just came out of nowhere and shone his headlights onto them. Everyone stood still for a second long enough for Daniel to reach into his pocket and grab the keys to his motorcycle. He ran to the bike picked it up and took off. But as he was riding away one of them got a big rock and threw it at him and hit him in the back because they were hoping to take him down and then kill him with that. And he said that as he was driving away he overheard them shouting we are going to get you and we are going to find you and we are going to kill you with that. I am just super freaked out. This is unbelievable. And just like damn. The only reason he got out of there was because he got lucky. Daniel had actually lived with them in the US for years when they were little. And in a lot of ways Daniel is who Henrri and Kenia might be if they did end up back in El Salvador. He owns his own construction company has a nice house a family. By any standard he is made it. But it is just a fact. El Salvador has one of the highest murder rates in the world. A recent survey of Salvadorans found that 40 wanted to get out of the country. Now Kenia and Henrri could see why. This is from one of their late-night recordings. I feel like as time passes I do love it here and everything. It is like a romantic little dream you have of living here in peace. If we could live in peace then yes. I would say definitely. But that is the thing. You do one wrong thing and you do not get a redo. Yeah things are super hard here. Beautiful beautiful place but life is damn hard. It is tough. When Kenia and Henrri really tried to imagine what their lives would be like in Los Achiotes they started seeing all these other problems. Where their grandparents live is really isolated. There is nothing to do no internet. Everything's expensive but there is no work. By the way the closest movie theater here-- It is in the city. It is in San Salvador. That is two hours away bruh. Two hours away. I cannot go right now and watch a movie anywhere here. Insane. I gotta change that. I mean where are the sponsors? We gotta get some film festivals out here. That would be amazing. ASAP. But Kenia says she probably could not make a living doing film here or documentaries or photography. And the university she looked into did not have a film department. And Kenia feels like her chances of making it here are even more difficult because she is a woman. She is watched women stand behind while men did all the talking. At a party with her relatives she was chatting with her aunt. Her son is just chilling with his girlfriend and whatever and she is like oh he must be so cold. Take a coffee for him. And I am like what? He has legs. Like they have to always-- my aunt always feels like she has to protect her little boy. This is how women are here with men. They have to I do not know be like the mom. Even as a partner they are being moms to them. And that makes me uncomfortable. I think visiting is great and I love it but I do not know if I could do it for a long term. Henrri and I have been talking about it and I think it comes down to if I had no choice left I would definitely make the best life here. But right now it is so much easier in the United States because I am already ahead in a world that I really under-- at least I understand more than El Salvador. So if DACA ends they probably will not move to El Salvador. They will try to make it in the US like every other undocumented immigrant-- working off the books worrying they could get deported at any time. Kenia says she hates her choices but the crappy option they know seems better than the crappy option they just checked out. They are back in New York now. They were allowed to stay overseas till January 20 which happened to be inauguration day. They came back a few days earlier just to be safe. Seth Freed Wessler. He writes frequently about immigration. By the way even if the president decides to get rid of DACA Republican Lindsey Graham and Democrat Dick Durbin have announced legislation that would keep DACA protections going for people like Kenia and Henrri. A few other Republicans have signed on-- Jeff Flake and Lisa Murkowski. The bill has not been formally introduced. Which brings us to Act Three. Act Three Law and Border. So let us turn now from DACA kids to a group that you would expect would be pretty stoked for the new president Border Patrol agents. Their union endorsed Donald Trump last March. He is the first presidential candidate they have ever endorsed during the primaries. Stephanie Foo went to Texas to see how they are feeling. Before I tell you what bugged Chris Cabrera about his job under President Obama let me describe him for you. Chris has been a Border Patrol agent since 2001. He is 43 has chewing tobacco tucked under his lip and a tattoo of army airborne wings on his arm. He used to be a paratrooper. And he likes the action part of his job. It is like playing hide-and-seek he says except you are always it. But he also sees it as a humanitarian job. He keeps his son's old toys in the back of his truck for when he picks up children crossing the border. He is rescued migrants who were dumped in the Rio Grande River by smugglers. Like a third of all Border Patrol agents he is Latino himself which is something he gets flak for. I have even had it from some of my in-laws. How could you do that to your own people? Like over Thanksgiving or something? Maybe not Thanksgiving but just out there barbecuing or something. I tell them look I can do my job with compassion. I know I can do my job the right way. I said but if I was not there who is to say the guy that fills my shoes is not going have the same level of compassion that I do? But anyway back to the thing that drives Chris nuts about his job. In the last two weeks of the Obama presidency he takes me out to this spot one of the busiest places people cross the border. 500 people most days he says. We are maybe half a mile from the Rio Grande the border between Texas and Mexico. Yeah I would say here not too long from now somebody will come through here. Is there a time of day that they usually come? Usually around now. Yeah see? You got some footprints right here. Oh. They are small. They look like kid's prints. Yeah. Look at that. I mean that one's new right there. That one's real fresh. Chris is not on duty right now just wandering around in a Detroit Tigers T-shirt. And it is getting pretty hot out so we walk back to his pickup to sit and wait. We are in his car for seven minutes and 37 seconds when it happens. Oh my god. There is three people coming down the road. It looks like we have got a group of four. I am calling it in. Yeah this is Cabrera mike 207. I am off duty. I am down here record-- It is a young man and his teenage sister and an older man and his teenage son. They have to have seen our car but they do not run or hide. The travelers amble right up to us. Chris goes up to say hi.  The older man speaks for the group. They have just arrived from Guatemala. Chris asks the men where they were going.   Si. Para Atlanta. Atlanta? Chris says I am Border Patrol.  Ah Border Patrol? Si. Chris shows the man his badge and the man looks relieved. He sighs rests back on his heels. Chris asks him if he would like some water.  The man giggles bashfully showing off some missing teeth and says that would be nice.  Then the Border Patrol rolls up and hops out of their vans clipboards in hand. They say hello and then hand the family plastic evidence bags asking them to put their belongings inside them. The whole confrontation is surprisingly non-confrontational. The Border Patrol agents are joking around asking kindly if everyone in their group made it. I expected the travelers to look weary and dusty from a long trek but the girl is wearing these silver rhinestone-covered sandals with pink socks underneath. Her socks are clean. Just on the other side of the border is Reynosa a major Mexican city and the man says they took a bus there. So they probably just walked here from the nearest stop. I asked the girl if she is OK. She smiles at me and says she is. She looks nervous but not afraid. I ask her why she is crossing. Her brother answers for her.  He is saying that the gangs in Guatemala wanted his sister to join and because of that she felt her life was threatened. Bingo. This group is seeking asylum which is why they were so glad to see Chris. Before they send migrants over coyotes tell them to look for the Border Patrol. In the last few years there is been a big increase in people fleeing from El Salvador Guatemala and Honduras seeking asylum mostly from gang violence. It shot up from around 8000 adults in 2012 to at least 68000 in 2016. Chris believes that a lot of these migrants have been handed a script by coyotes who tell them to say what this group said that the girl would be killed if she went back home. Those are the magic words and they work to get her entry into the country. And this is the part of the job that bugs Chris. It means he is not doing what he signed up to do-- protect the border. You are like the welcoming committee. In a sense yeah. We are a welcoming committee. That is your job. Yeah. That must be frustrating. Yeah. You are figuring what is my job come to? I am releasing 80 of the people that are coming through. Not releasing right away. There is a process. Some will be detained for weeks or longer vetted in various ways. But the reality of the situation is you can only get asylum for a few very specific reasons. You have to be persecuted for your race religion nationality membership in a particular social group or political opinion. Most of these Central Americans probably do not qualify. Over the last five years 80 have been rejected and deported after their hearings. So the girl who said the gangs were after her she probably would not get asylum. But she is entitled to a hearing to see. So she will be taken to a detention center processed and eventually released. She will be assigned a court date but because the system is so backed up that date can be more than six years from now. And during that time Chris says she and the others can disappear into America get work permits. The kids will enter school. They will start a life. Lots of people do not show up for their court date. They join the 11 million undocumented people living in this country. It is catch and release Chris says. He and I and another border agent watch the four of them get into the van to be taken away. So how long will it take for them to get to Atlanta? They will be in custody what? 24 or-- I am sorry-- 72 Hours. 72. And then they will hit the bus station. By this t