Last year Kevin got his mom gloves for Christmas and a hat. And his twin sister Karyn what did she get their mom? I got her a pair of leather gloves I think. Yeah. I got them before Kevin so I was kind of angry with him because-- Oh because you knew that she got leather gloves? No. I did not know. So then she asked me what I was getting my mom. And then I was like I got her gloves. And she was like no I got her gloves. And I am like-- yeah. So that is why I got her the hat was because she got gloves and then I had to go get something else. Now to be clear he still gave her the gloves. So basically he gave their mom the same present that Karyn gave her mom plus a hat which might sound like he totally trumped Karyn's gift for the mom except-- I got leather gloves though. So it is kind of different. Oh yours were nicer. Yeah mine were nicer. I got leather. He had to add a hat to rise to the level of her leather gloves. The French essayist Roland Barthes once wrote that when people say I love you it usually does not mean the thought I love you. And I think what he was saying was that more often when we say I love you what we mean by it is I need to get off the phone right now mom. Or let us stop fighting. Or I am not loving you right this very second but I definitely do feel love in a more general and bigger way that I want to acknowledge with these words. And giving a Christmas present I think is a lot like that. Sometimes it means I love you right? I want you to have this. I love you. But a hat that you get from your teenage son it can mean all kinds of things. I bought the LEGO Star Wars Defender Class Cruiser for a little kid this year. And what I meant by it was I love you. I definitely meant I love you. But I also meant I know that your mom and dad just split up and I feel like I should be flying out to California more often to see you. And I feel guilty about not doing that more. And I know that that is a lot of feelings to be putting on to 927 little plastic bricks. Or you know take the gift that Kevin got his dad last year. I got him some hammers because he was low on hammers. And he is good with his hands and he likes to build stuff. So I got him some nice hammers. How did that go over? He likes them. I do not have to take his word for this. We are at the Arundel Mills Mall outside Baltimore and Kevin's dad JD is standing right there. They are doing Christmas shopping. Do you remember the hammers? I do. He lost all the other ones so his mother made him buy me hammers to replace the ones that were all gone. But they were all gone. So he brought me an assortment of hammers. And have you used them? Yes I have. Are they nice? They are hammers you know. Not that JD is ungrateful. JD likes the hammers. JD has five kids. He loves all the presents that his kids get him all the presents. Karyn remembers a present that she made for her dad back when she was eight or nine. I had these two pieces of wood. I chopped them up into little squares. They were not really good squares. And then I painted little dots on them and made them into dice. Are you sure he was disappointed in them or did you just feel like it was a crappy present? It was a crappy present. He could not just throw it away. I think that he was trying not to hurt my feelings. Well now years have passed. She is almost twice as old. Like do you want to say what you honestly felt about those dice? Very unique. Very unique. Is not it crappy though? Oh no. It is not. They are handmade. I will never let go of them OK? Where are they? In my library in a display case. OK. This sounds like it cannot possibly be true. But both kids insist that yes he is not being sarcastic. He saves everything has big display cases with old presents and toys in them. But you know if your parents are fine with any crappy gift that poses another problem. We got some stuff for our parents. My mom she got lotion. My dad he got some lanyard for his keys and some bottle openers. Gage and William Ross are at the mall on this particular Sunday before Christmas. They are brothers and their parents went to the casino that is part of the mall-- yes there is a casino-- and threw them out here Gage says with 60 and instructions to buy them Christmas presents. We spent about 20 on their stuff and then the rest was ours. Key chains. Candy. Lanyard. Chewing gum. Like the twins like a dozen other teenagers that I interviewed at the mall they said that it is just really hard buying for your parents. Because they never tell you what they really want. They just want you to be there and want you to be happy on Christmas morning. They really-- they do not want anything. That seems kind of bad but it is true. I could take that 60 and put it in pennies and they would be the happiest people in the world. And then they do not care either way. You can get them anything. Anything at all. I can get them a bag of chew toys and they would like it. I dare you. It is already done. I have done it before. Her birthday I got her a bag full of dog chew toys yeah and Milk Bones. And what'd she say? She was like is this for the dog or for me? And I said it is for you. And she was like OK thank you. I could not reach his mom to get her side of the story. But I think come on any parent tearing off the wrapping paper and seeing that gift like I just think that they just think like huh? In this season of gift giving if it is the thought that counts OK what exactly are the thoughts behind most presents? Well they are complicated. Sometimes they are really really complicated. And today on our radio show we have stories of people giving gifts and we have stories especially of people receiving gifts some of these quite spectacular and trying to divine the motives of the people who gave them. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International a special holiday show. Stay with us. Act One Replacement Clause. So we begin today's show about giving gifts with the gift givingest person that there is. Of course Santa Claus is that person a man who wants for nothing that is until some things change for him. Jonathan Goldstein explains. Each life was a lonely tumble down a cold dark chimney falling falling then blackness. These were Santa's thoughts as he prepared snickerdoodles in the kitchen. In the other room the elves performed Christmas tunes and do-si-doed. Carefully he carried the tray of sweets into the living room. His wife Martha had been dead five years now and he was alone alone in a house full of elves. Jesus had dignity apostles. All he had was high blood pressure and a communal toilet the size of a cereal bowl. He sat down on the couch and watched the elves dance to Feliz Navidad. Jingles broke from the group of dancing elves and approached him. You are killing yourself with the doodles Jingle said slamming down his Gin Rickey. And lately he would been on Santa's case to stop overeating to get out of the house and to get himself a girlfriend. Glenda the good witch of the north lived only a few miles away and had just been left by her boyfriend a walrus hunter who looked somewhat like a walrus himself. Glenda's into the Wilford Brimley type said Jingles so you have totally got a chance. Glenda said Santa but she is so sparkly. I miss Martha Santa said quietly. He knew this was true though not the entire truth. There was missing of course but there was also fear. Look I miss Martha too said Jingles. But it is time to move on. She was the only gal for me said Santa. Jingles put his tiny hand on Santa's knee. To be frank Jingles said I always thought your relationship a little narcissistic. Mrs. Claus was like your twin but with bosoms. Did you plan your outfits together? We just had the same taste Santa sobbed. Jingle Bell Rock started up on the squeeze box and Santa took that as his cue to head to bed. He never could stand rock and roll Christmas songs. He liked Christmas songs and he liked rock and roll. He just did not like them together. Martha had felt the exact same way. On their first year anniversary Martha presented him with a pen the fancy kind that came in a box. Oh for the love of Saint Nicholas Santa had said what good is a pen? I will just end up losing it. Save your money and buy yourself something nice or let me buy for you. That would make me most happy of all. For a man famous for his giving Santa was terrible at receiving. Martha took the pen back and apologized. And that was the end of the gifts. After she had died and Santa was cleaning out her stuff in a jewelry box filled with the old love letters he would sent during their courtship he found the pen. He clutched it on the edge of the bed and wept. Jingles took it upon himself to just go ahead and arrange a date for Santa unbidden. Glenda's expecting you at eight said Jingles sidling up to him in the reindeer stable one morning. And do me a favor. Trim your whiskers and put on your spanx. As instructed Santa appeared at Glenda's doorstep that evening a paper bag of roasted chestnuts in his hand. Come on in Mr. Claus said Glenda with a sweep of her arm. She was dressed all in white and the house smelled of fresh gingerbread. Santa observed with a smile that there were several magic wands gold and sparkly in the umbrella rack. For most of the evening they sat by the hearth and made clumsy conversation about the loneliness of living at the North Pole mostly. Unless I absolutely have to I do not even bother going outside said Glenda. And when the cable goes out it is out said Santa. After a beat of silence Glenda looked at him a smile across her face. Is this a good conversation? she asked. Santa laughed and assured her it was. They played cribbage drank eggnog and watched the snow outside the window fall. And in the vestibule before leaving Glenda placed her hand on Santa's shoulder and kissed him right beneath his eye. As she did Santa felt as though his chest were a chimney and inside a sleeping dove was stirring awake. They made a date for the following weekend. And just before he left Glenda gave him a container of cranberry mini muffins she would baked. Santa told her he could not accept such a gift at which point she thrust it into this chest with surprising force. Take it she said. On the sleigh ride home Santa realized with mixed feelings that he would hardly thought of Martha the whole night. When he showed up the following Saturday Glenda was all apologies. Change of plans she said stopping him in the vestibule. Sheila's here flew in this afternoon from Tampa. Sheila? asked Santa. AKA the wicked witch of the east she said quickly My old college roommate. College? asked Santa. For witches? She is always showing up like this Glenda went on. Every time there is trouble in Tampa I get a knock at the door. In the den Sheila was lying on the couch in a kittenish tangle all in black and smoking what smelled like European cigarettes. She studied Santa while playing with her hair. Hey chubs she said. I told you to smoke outside said Glenda with exasperation. She went into the kitchen to get some fruitcake as Santa made his way over to the couch. Sheila did not move. So he squeezed into the corner her black stocking toes touching his thigh. So what do you do fatso? Santa began to stammer. Oh I-- Relax . I know you are. You are famous she said taking the last cookie from the serving tray. So how do you know Glenda? Oh we are neighbors said Santa. And you buy this good witch ? she asked in a whisper. A downward turn in the black arts and all of a sudden she is moved to the North Pole and rebranded herself a good witch. Whoever heard of a good witch am I right? It is an oxymoron like baby grand or jolly fat man. Everyone knows fat men are sad. Look at you totally depressed. Am I right? I mean maybe a little Santa said. My wife recently died. And what is with this Glenda ? interrupted Sheila. Her name's Linda. Often when Santa did not know what else to say he would break into a jolly sounding chuckle. He tried it just then but the chuckle got caught in his throat and came out sounding sweaty and choked. Sheila stared at him. You have this weird crap in your beard she said. She reached in to pull it out and as she did she brought her face in close enough for Santa to smell her. Whereas Glenda smelled like baby powder and cinnamon Sheila smelled of something he could not quite put his finger on. Cigarettes of course but something else too. It set the chimney in his chest ablaze ashy black doves trying to flap out their flaming wings. As Sheila rummaged through his beard the look on her face was all little girl concentration. You have nice bone structure she said. You should try wearing black. It would have a slimming effect. Withdrawing a tiny shriveled raisin from Santa's beard Sheila crinkled up her face and flicked it on the carpet. Eww gross she said. Glenda walked back into the room with drinks. And when Santa reached for one he realized his hand was shaking. He excused himself to use the bathroom where he thought he might hum a few carols to calm himself down. Everything inside the bathroom was glittery and white white glittery soaps shampoos curtains. But there hanging from the white shower curtain rod was something black. Strung there for all the world to see were a pair of silky black stockings Sheila's black stockings. For years Santa had dealt intimately with stockings stuffing them with coal or presents and never thought about it twice. But just then seeing those black stockings of hers being alone with them something came over him. And suddenly he was on his toes biting the tips like a playful pup like a fat old playful pup. Returning to the living room Santa sat back down on the couch and listened enraptured as Sheila encouraged him to revise his policy on naughtiness. Santa nodded his head as though giving her suggestion some thought. In bed that night Santa replayed each of Sheila's words and gestures. Sheila said whatever she felt like touching and smelling everything like an animal. She was not afraid to take avail herself of the world drinks cigarettes hospitality. Without so much as asking she would even plunged her hand into Santa's Shirley Temple plucking the maraschino cherry right out and using his hat to wipe her hands. For Santa one so in love with giving he could not help but see before him a kind of black hole a sexy and sublime black hole into which he could deliver forth his greatest gift. In Sheila he saw an insatiable hunger for life. With such a woman to give to to give himself to it would feel as though every day was Christmas. When they had made plans for the following weekend Glenda had asked if Santa could bring along a friend for Sheila. And so he showed up with Jingles. Anything to help a brother out Jingles had said. Strolling into Glenda's living room Jingles did that thing where he jumped onto the couch while crossing his legs in midair. He landed right beside Sheila. You are just too cute for words exclaimed Sheila. Try anyway said Jingles snipping the tip of his cigar. It was the length of his forearm. I would prefer to keep the house smoke free said Glenda. More like fun free said Sheila. Say what do you call people who live around here anyway? North Pollack's? We call ourselves Cold Poles said Jingles. Ever put your tongue on a cold pole honey? Tends to get stuck there. Sheila slapped him on the head. Dork she said laughing. Sheila and Jingles had a million things to talk about. All the while Glenda and Santa just sort of sat there smiling awkwardly and watching the snowfall. It is an uninhabitable wasteland Santa heard Sheila say. Tampa sounds awesome said Jingles. If only I could convince El Jefe over there to move the operation south. Jingles looked over at Santa and seeing his bro struggling with his date decided to kick things into gear. Come on you all said the elf addressing the group. Gather around for a little spin o' the bottle. I have got just the one said Sheila downing the last of the red wine straight from the bottle. Spin the what? asked Glenda. Sheila rolled her eyes placed the bottle down on the carpet and spun. Santa watched the bottle spin with an anxiety that bordered on mania. What if the bottle dictated that he was to kiss Sheila? He would almost certainly die. But he did not have to ponder such a kiss for very long for soon the bottle slowed to a halt pointing directly at Jingles. And when Sheila licked her lips and leaned her face downward Jingles grabbed her head in his small hands and planted his tiny mouth on hers. Santa felt the chimney fire in his chest snuff out. He and Glenda watched them kiss. Then after a while they watched the snowfall. Then they went back to watching them kiss. Eventually Jingles led Sheila into the vestibule where he said he wanted to show her the secret to getting the tips of his shoes so curly. Left alone and at somewhat of a loss Glenda got up and fished around in a cabinet drawer beside the couch. Santa thought she might be looking for a game of some sort. But then she said I have something for you. She held out a glistening package. No way Jose Santa said. I am the gift giver around here. And it is not even Christmas yet. Santa was about to really kick up a fuss. But then as a downright witchy look fell across Glenda' face he trailed off. It is nothing that big she insisted thrusting the present at his chest. Besides it was fun trying to find the perfect something for you. And then to actually find it there is no greater feeling in the world. But look who I am telling this to. Hearing her words and seeing the look of excitement on her face Santa had a puzzling thought. Perhaps he would somehow misjudged things. Perhaps he would somehow gotten it wrong. By refusing the gifts people wished to bestow on him he would consistently failed to give the experience of giving. He would hogged that particular pleasure all to himself. And so he took the package. It was flat and square. Tearing the wrapping paper open he saw it was a record Rocking Christmas Party Songs Volume One. He absolutely hated it. Not just because the thought of listening to it made him feel like one of those old white haired hippies who had to make everything from getting their prostate checked to celebrating Christmas not just a good time but a rocking good time. But it was also one of those gifts that said something about the recipient something that was hard to swallow like the gift of a back scratcher that says you are alone in this world and must fend for yourself or the gift of a warm house coat that says your days of party dresses are over. The gift of a perfectly awful Christmas album being handed to you by a woman who liked you said loud and clear you must learn to compromise. For after all his years of giving Santa knew better than anyone that we do not always receive what we want nor even what we deserve. We receive what life brings us. And when it comes to life we have not a choice but to open our arms. I love it said Santa with a half smile. Unpeeling the plastic they placed the album on the record player. Santa held out his arms and Glenda entered his embrace. And together they danced about the room as Chuck Berry belted out Run Rudolph Run. And it was almost enough to drown out the sounds in the vestibule.  So do you know what you are getting your parents for Christmas? Not yet. I have never been good at this kind of thing. As I am getting older it is like I am supposed to have some money so I can actually buy them a nice enough gift where it is not just you know. Do you remember what you got them last year? I believe I got my dad a Sons of Anarchy t-shirt. This is Larry Daniels 19 years old goes to community college does not have a job. He got his mom Cowboys memorabilia last year. I believe it was lounging pants. That is like sweatpants? Yes kind of. They are like sweatpants only made of a thinner material I believe. And you have seen her in them? Yes I have. She loves to lounge. Did you see him in the Sons of Anarchy t-shirt? I do not believe I have ever seen him wear it. But he may have worn it-- as I am getting older I am starting to realize my memory's fading as it goes on. But they were generally happy with the present that I got them because-- yep. You have no idea what you are going to get them at all. No I do not. I feel like I may never find something in time you know? I am just so lost. Could you just ask them what they want? I could. But it sounds like-- it is funny talking to you. It sounds like it is never occurred to you just to ask them. That is true. I am not a question asking person. I am just usually-- I get nervous. So you have never asked them what do you want for Christmas? No I do not think I have. I do not know. It just feels like if ask them they will tell me. And like OK they will expect to get it you know? Because a lot of times when you watch like TV shows or movies where a kid-- their birthday is coming up. And they are like oh I want this. I want this. I am probably going to get it because I have said I want this. But then they do not get it. They are disappointed. I am like OK maybe they will be the same way. But I do not know. But wait. But you could get them what they want. I could. Yes I could. Actually yeah I probably could. Maybe. Yeah maybe. Do you think that they would ask you for something that you would not be able to get them? I do not know. They might actually. But I have never been in that situation. Or I may have been. Maybe once or twice I have been in that situation and I got them something else like say a mug like a coffee mug or one of those kind of mugs that you see in a bar almost only plastic like a freezable mug I guess. You mean like a mug for beer? Yes. So wait. So this is a present you actually got them. Yes I did get my mom a mug one year. How did that go? She loved it. I mean I just thought this is cool. I will get her this you know? That is usually what I do when I see a present. I am like this is cool. I will get them this. That is kind of how I go through things you know? So you are here at the mall. You are going to wander around until something hits you? Yes. It is worked well so far. Usually. But hopefully it will work this time again. Coming up over 600 boxes gifts from decades ago opened one by one. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose a theme. Today's show The Thought That Counts. For this holiday season we have stories of gifts and what people intend when they send them which can be very very complicated. We have arrived at Act Two of our program. Act Two Your Junk in a Box. So people of course are opening up packages full of treasures all year round not just at Christmas. And you know when it is not members of your family or your friends or anybody who you have ever met who packed the boxes it can be confusing. Starlee Kine has this story. When I was in fifth grade my class buried a time capsule in the grass that jutted against the school parking lot. We did not feel like being generous with our gift giving towards future generations. Why should they get our best toys? So we only tossed in the Garbage Pail Kid cards that we had doubles of or jelly bracelets a 10-year-old's most disposable possession. I can picture the people who will one day stumble upon our capsule. They will turn our junk over in their hands. It will be easy to figure out it was buried by children in a spot where there once was a school. But why we chose this crap what we could have possibly meant by it that will be the stumper. In a museum in Pittsburgh there is a group of people who spend their days opening time capsules and trying to piece together the original thinking behind each one. These time capsules were all left by one person Andy Warhol. There are 621 of them. He did not bury them and they were not capsule shaped. There were just cardboard boxes filled with his stuff. And what makes them so different than the regular archives left behind by famous artists when they die-- because he also has those-- were that these time capsules and he did call them time capsules were deemed one big piece of art. All 621 go together as a set. The contents have to stay together too. Warhol started the project in 1974. He would fill boxes up with various objects. Each one is packed to the brim and they take longer to open and go through than you may think. The first capsule was opened in 1991. And two decades later there are still ones that have not been gotten to yet. The day I visit the museum has three full-time cataloguers whose jobs are just to open and sort through the boxes five days a week eight hours a day Elaina Erin and Marie. All three look like they stepped out of a '40s screwball comedy pencil skirts black glasses soft curls. When I arrive they just opened a new capsule. There is this long conference room table completely covered with the items they found inside. We have some items signed by Nick Rhodes Duran Duran lead singer? Guitarist? Somebody in Duran Duran. Letters from Liza Minnelli. There is also her wedding invitation. There is an invitation to President Reagan's inauguration which is next to an ashtray that has some Keith Haring artwork I believe on it. There is a Christmas card from John Waters with a dollar bill in it. There is a note from Bianca Jagger signed with a lipstick kiss. It is so close to what I would imagine Andy Warhol's house being filled with that it feels set up. It is as though his friends just walked from room to room drawing on or pressing their lips against anything that was the least bit ordinary. There is also two small drawings by Basquiat just lying there on the table with everything else. One is a portrait he did of Andy while he slept. The girls say that this just happened sometimes. All of a sudden they will stumble upon some priceless art that has never been seen or pieces of Warhol's that were believed to have been lost forever. And then there are the wild cards. This is the museum's director Eric Shiner. Did you see this yet? No what is it? I believe that would be Rob Lowe naked wrapped in a huge stuffed animal snake. Is there anything on the back? Yeah there is a note. Let us see. Oh it is actually signed Rob Lowe. Andy thanks so much for all the fun. Do not forget I would love something from you. This is a trade. Thanks again. Call me in LA with Rob Lowe's phone number. And he is sending this photograph in hopes of getting something from Warhol as a gift in exchange. I cannot put into words how badly I wanted that Rob Lowe photo. The degree of willpower it took to not slowly over the course of the afternoon slide it more and more off the table until it fell to the ground where I would then stand on it until I was able to drop something else something less valuable-- my scarf the microphone-- so as to then be able to stoop down and transfer the photo from the floor to my bag. It was not because it seemed worth a lot of money. I wanted it for like my house to hang on my fridge. I could not understand how we were not calling the number. When you come across a wallet-size photo of a naked Rob Lowe wrapped in a giant toy snake which you can tell was done in complete sincerity because of the look on his face a look that no one but me and the other people in this room would ever see you do as the photo says and call the number. I had questions that needed answering such as did he take the photo himself with a timer or did he have a friend do it? But like everything else the photo was just put down on the table. And once it was catalogued back into the box it would go. Andy Warhol was a major hoarder known for it. For every original Keith Haring or Basquiat or Rob Lowe the girls will find piles and piles of junk mail. There was a box full of Eddie Bauer catalogs. And they found actual garbage like finger nail clippings and rotten sandwiches. I found some hair and underpants. Whose? I do not know. But they were dirty. They were horrible yeah. They were like Jockey small briefs. How do you know they were dirty? It was visible.  They were stained. All of this makes more sense because of how the boxes started. The story goes that in 1974 Warhol was moving his studio from one building in New York to another. The problem was he was notoriously tight with his money loved buying stuff hated paying people. And so he did not hire a moving company. Warhol told his assistant do not worry about it. He would just pack everything up himself. But the assistant fearing that he and the other members of the staff would end up having to do it all themselves came up with an idea. He suggested to Andy that rather than viewing the boring old cardboard packing boxes as just ways to transport his stuff from one place to the next he should think of them as time capsules. It was exactly the kind of trick you resort to when your kids will not eat their vegetables by making a chore into a game. And it worked. Big time. Even after the move Andy kept making the capsules. He kept open cardboard boxes on his desk in his studio in his house filling some up right away taking years to fill others. He was hooked. He would found the perfect outlet for his hoarding impulses. Instead of having to throw anything away ever again he could just stick that thing into a box and call it art. We get a lot of confetti and potpourri because the time capsules happened partly in the '80s and people were fond of mailing invitations with potpourri or confetti. Confetti and glitter just line the streets in the '80s. Yeah. I feel like once a week one of us opens something with confetti in it and we are like oh crap. Then you have to go and like pick up all the individual pieces of confetti? Oh yeah. You do? Really? Yeah yeah yeah. Every piece of every object is part of the art and has to be officially catalogued. So glitter gets scooped up and put into a container like a film's party scene being rewound. Plastic bags go into other plastic bags. Cassette tapes go unplayed so as not to damage the physical audiotape. A sealed deck of cards from Penn and Teller with the secret to a magic trick concealed inside is not opened so as to preserve the plastic wrapping. The museum's chief archivist Matt Wrbican says normally archivists will throw out staples and paper clips. Not here. The paper clips get numbered. Really? Really. Do you guys ever feel like suckers for doing it for buying into it? Matt once-- he recently said that this was Andy's joke on the art world. And the three of us were like that is our job. So this is typical. We have a few boxes that are like this that just have vitamin bottles that he was taking at the time just like the empty packaging 20 or 30 of them in here. In this room that is so antiseptic where the procedures are so set and paperclips become museum objects we are still dealing with a man's stuff. It is very personal. The girls know that Andy's dry cleaner's name was Danielle and that she was always sending him bills which he ignored. He did the same with the surgeon who saved his life after he was shot who they found a note from that read pay up you blow hard. But they also know that along with unpaid bills he would send art donations to charities. They know there were letters from fans asking him to sign an enclosed photo and the photo will never be there which means he sent it back to them signed. They know what he looked like without his wig on that he had a comb over. They know that there is a whole box he made devoted to his mom and how that one felt extra personal because some of her clothing was inside and that can connect you to a person more than anything else. They found Andy's clothing in the capsules too. They know there are certain things you cannot learn about a person just through reading like the actual size of their waist. None of the girls say they knew much about Warhol before this job. They are young. One of them says um I knew his name. And so watching them feels like watching three really nice people tenderly unpack a stranger's house. And there is more gift wrap. It is cute. There is a lot of gift wrap. Do you want to open that? Under the gift wrap the girls discover some photos of Andy taken outside. . Oh these are-- Oh nice. Oh neat. It is a photo of Andy on a wood pile. The pictures are just casual snapshots. The girls lean in closer touching shoulders. For Andy from-- John? John oh. From John Gould? Who was John Gould in his life? He was his boyfriend. And-- oh. I am swooning. Are you? Yeah little bit. Those are actual dreamy sighs you are hea