From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. My name is Ken Hegan and I am a travel writer. How tall are you? I am 6'2. So I am on a flight to Minneapolis sitting next to Ken Hegan 6'2 travel writer. And Ken is trying to pull off a scheme that is not at all friendly though to his credit he feels bad about what he is doing. So explain what just happened here. Well I can tell you I have only had about four hours sleep chiefly because I was a little nervous about trying something new. What I just did was I clamped these two pieces of plastic that look like the monsters from Alien-- like those little alien heads-- and they are clamps. You basically slide these clamps onto your tray table and it prevents the person in front of you from tilting back and slamming into your knees if you are a tall man like I am. He would read about these clamps on the internet and thought that is simultaneously the most inventive and the most passive aggressive gadget he would ever heard of. It is called the Knee Defender. And as a tall guy who flies two or three times a month for his job he decided he had to try them. Attaching the clamps to the arms of his tray table was simple but next came the part that kept Ken awake the night before. The makers of Knee Defender have something called a courtesy card that you are supposed to then hand to the person in front of you to let them know you are deploying the Knee Defender clamps. So I just tapped the woman's shoulder in front of me said this message is for you. The card says This is a Knee Defender courtesy card TM-- trademark. I am using Knee Defender TM. Knee Defender TM is a small plastic device that helps me protect myself by limiting how much the seat in front of me can recline. I wanted to let you know about this. And then underneath Ken checked the box that said that her seat would be able to recline two inches. Ken had been scared that handling this to somebody he was going to end up in some horrible argument with a stranger on a plane. He is Canadian-- not to put too fine a point on that. He just does not like confrontation. We discuss what happens next. And remember as we discuss this we are sitting in the row directly behind the woman that he handed the card to hoping that she cannot hear us because of the noise of the plane which is louder than you might think. So I hand her the card and then my hands were sweaty and shaky. So for about a minute I just sort of was paralyzed. Eventually she handed me the card back and slight nodded her head did not say a word. Then I asked her hey are you OK with this? And then her tone changed. She sounded very cranky and said yeah you do not see me move my seat back do you? And then you and I are sitting next to each other. You wrote a little note on a piece of paper. Do you want to just read what it said? Yeah I wrote a little note to you because I could not really talk. And yeah my note said I feel like a total dick right now. I mean how would you feel? Would you feel comfortable doing this? Me no. No. Yeah if somebody did this to me I would think man you are just being a bully. And I would immediately start looking for cues in their behavior beyond the card that they are a dick. I would be like-- I would be looking for extra reasons to hate them. So yeah I am conflicted right now because hey I got some space here. My knees feel good. I am still being a dick. Yeah. And I am getting away with it. Well you are getting away with it in the sense that her chair is up. Like you are not getting away with it in a sense of she probably thinks you are a dick. Absolutely true. Yeah. This is not the kind of getting away with it that most of us want. Most of us want total getting away with it which means we do not just get our way. In addition nobody thinks badly of us. You know? Nobody judges. That is what we want. That is just as true for grown men as for little boys. Do you think you are going to use the courtesy card and the Knee Defender again? I will absolutely use the Knee Defender again. The card I do not think I am ever going to use this again. No I feel too bad. So basically your hope is going to be that the people when they try to push their seat back they are just going to think oh the seat's broken. Yep. Yeah basically I am going to be a sneak. Be tricky. Let them believe the seat's broken. I totally relate to that choice. I think lots of us are like this-- sneaks on a plane. If we can get away with something completely with no one ever knowing nobody judging us and-- just as important-- nobody really hurt we give it a shot. Today on our program we have stories of people sneaking their way through putting one over getting away with it. Some people justifying it by saying they are doing it for others for the greater good. Some not bothering with that-- they just do not care. We have a dad hauling marijuana for the sake of his family. We have you our listeners setting things on fire and cheating in school. We have politicians lying in a wholesale and utterly effective way for the sake of four-year-olds. Stay with us.  Act One Take Your Kid to Work Day. Of course the most important thing if you want to get away with some kind of wrongdoing is that you have a plan-- a foolproof well thought out plan with safeguards and contingencies along the way to guard against everything you could think of that could possibly possibly go wrong. Domingo Martinez has this story about his parents and a plan of theirs years and years ago. By 1986 Dad had become a truck driver with nothing left to haul but marijuana. Through his early 30s he could do little with the trucking business he would inherited from Grandpa except watch as it crumbled around him. Back then he began his days by throwing open the door to the bedroom I shared with my brother Dan. He would stand there in his underwear looking like a tall diapered child and say you two get up. He would end the day drinking a lot of 1.50 Budweisers at the shanty bars that littered the port of Brownsville. At home Mom kept the bookkeeping. She watched the flow of money slow to a trickle and then stop outright when I was in middle school. My brother sisters and I knew things were dire when our mother stopped shopping at El Centro Supermarket-- the nice grocery store as she would always told us-- and started bringing home bags from Lopez Supermarket the poor people grocery store. One morning Mom surprises me by showing up at my seventh grade algebra class and removing me getting us on the road out of Brownsville headed north. There is no explanation. Sientte y lla callete she snaps at me. Sit down and shut up. I do not know why I did not guess what we were doing that morning-- that Mom and I were lookouts for Dad who was on the road somewhere behind us in one of his flat-nosed tractor trailers carrying a large load of marijuana and headed north. I had heard the stories knew some of the tactics of smuggling by this point but I did not make the connection-- that Mom and I were driving ahead of Dad to make sure the customs station was closed and if it happened to be open we were supposed to turn back and warn him. This was back in the 1980s before the Patriot Act when there were two US customs checkpoints blocking the migration of drugs fruit people reptiles and parrots on the roads between the United States and Mexico both about 100 miles north of the Mexican border at highway choke points. The station on Highway 77 in Sarita was the busier and the better financed. The checkpoint in Hebbronville though was an airstream trailer with an attached carport to protect the agents from the sun. And it would often close for breakfast or lunch. So we were headed towards that one this morning going north on Highway 281 driving through the scenery of asthmatic plants and stunted trees. The car is hot no air conditioning. My mom and I are saying nothing to one another. We have each decided that the other is unworthy of conversation. We stare out the windows and think very different things. Mom is thinking about the 100 she and Dad had spent before 6 oclock that morning-- 100 that would help them make 2000 if things went right because their first stop on this felony excursion was to Dad's crandera whom we knew as La Seora Dad's personal witchdoctor for an emergency session. They were let right through at 500 in the morning and they had only one burning question-- will the checkpoint be open? After years of sitting through these sessions with my grandmother I did not have to be there to know exactly how it went in the crandera's office. La Seora is older matronly dresses in a thin frock with her hair pulled back in a bun. She has my parents sit across from her desk in a black leather love seat with chrome handles. A panorama of photos hang around her office some wallet-sized others larger and in portrait. A pencil sketch of a Camaro by one of her grandsons hangs next to a window. She listens closely to their question nodding sleepily at their preoccupation sympathizing understanding. They have reached a decision and they cannot turn back they tell her. They need to do it. No other choice anymore. She stands up abruptly and walks behind her desk which is cluttered with sheets of notebook paper crawling with ink-- illegible notes names of people sets of cryptic numbers home addresses of saints. She closes her eyes and scribbles something on her yellow legal pad-- nonsense to anyone else reading it. On her desk are two cheap leaded crystal bottles each filled with a clear liquid. She gently reaches for a matching shot glass and lifts it to the light making it sparkle. She places the glass on the surface before her and pours from one bottle then the other. When the two clear liquids mix they turn a deep crimson and thicken like plasma. She nods her head as if her suspicions have been confirmed. She produces a glass orb filled with water sitting on a black plastic ring. She sits up straight closes her eyes and regulates her breathing into a loud rhythmic inhalation exhalation that unconsciously forces Mom and Dad to do the same. After a few seconds she opens her eyes suddenly and strikes the glass orb with a metal wand making it ring in the clear morning air. Then she lifts the orb between her two pudgy hands and stares deeply into the inverted image of the room around it. Sitting opposite this chicanery and watching everything she does you are drawn to the ritual and you cannot help but try to figure it out too. No she says with certainty. The checkpoint will not be open this morning. Go in peace. God be with you. When Mom and I reach the checkpoint at 1145 that morning it is very much open for business. A line of cars five deep stretches back from the underbudgeted airstream trailer. Our job now is to go through and then turn back around and report to Dad that his doom was indeed imminent. Mom is visibly shaken. She turns off the radio with a hard click and considers this-- considers her options. From the car we can see a skinny middle-aged white guy in green Border Patrol garb sitting on a reclining chair in the open doorway of the Airstream trailer. He is facing the cars as they pass under the tin roof. It must have been 110 degrees inside the trailer 100 in the shade. From his position never bothering to get up the agent sits fanning himself with the newspaper and sleepily peers into the cars asking if everyone is an American citizen waiting for an accented answer smiling and then waving them through like a sympathetic priest granting absolution. Hi where you all going to today asks the skinny little man. Mom's window is now only halfway open and in her nervousness she rolls it all the way up. Hi sorry. I mean San Antonio as she opens the window. You all American citizens? Yes she says as she leans back so he could get a clear look at me nodding my head. I do not say anything except the quiet yep when I nod but he has not heard me. There is an uncomfortable pause I think because they are supposed to hear your accent. There is an anxious beat and he still has not let us go when I say yes I am a bit too enthusiastically. Mom laughs nervously. She had been hoping our light skin would exonerate us without a problem. You all have a nice day he says like he has not noticed anything awkward. We drive through and I feel her seethe for the next few miles. That was about noon. Somewhere behind us at a roadside rest stop Dad and my older brother Dan are waiting in Dad's tractor trailer which is attached to the trailer with the marijuana. The two center I beams that run the length of the trailer make perfect housing once you weld metal plates all along the underside and at the tail end. It creates a long rectangular box sealed at the rear end with the axle of the rig where 20 40-pound blocks of marijuana can be hidden. This is what Dad and Dan are carrying. I wondered dimly if Dan has figured out what he is doing out here on the road north when he should be in high school. But Dan has always been more streetwise much savvier than me. I figure that if I figured it out he would have figured it out long before. Mom and I drive on to Hebbronville. I am dehydrated. I want to stop at a store. We cannot she says to me. We have to turn back. I think we are behind. Still I am hungry and really thirsty so I persist. Certainly we have time to go to a convenience store. They cannot have scheduled this thing to hinge on a few minutes. Certainly they have devised this more cleverly than that. Please I plead. Just stop at the 7-Eleven. Grudgingly she pilots the noisy car around the small town and finds a convenience store. I get out with a couple of dollars and come up short when I try paying for some donuts and a chocolate milk. I return to the car for more money. Just get in she yells. And I do leaving the food at the counter. Mom whips the car around and I am in trouble used to it by now. We travel like that for a few minutes. And when the checkpoint is back in sight we hold our breath so the guy will not see us. And right then we see Dad and Dan and the trailer heading right for the checkpoint. Dad had become nervous or maybe brave or maybe he was blinded by his 100 faith in his crandera and had charged forth without waiting for Mom's report. Oh god my mother says. And all the blood drains from my face from just the tone in her voice. I had never heard her voice so charged with fear. Oh god she says again. With her left hand she grabs the knob that controls the headlights and flashes at Dad who is only a few hundred feet from the checkpoint. She flashes four times in clear view of anyone who is paying attention. I wonder if that is her signal that the checkpoint is open but question the wisdom of doing it while he is next in line in full view of the guy at the checkpoint where he would look over his shoulder and see the noisy southbound car that just drove through not 30 minutes before. She slows down slows terrifically down going less than 20 miles per hour on the highway. And for a moment I can see Dad is driving. I can see that the blood is drained from his face too making his eyebrows stand out a rich black on his pallid deathly white forehead a mask of someone pretending desperately that everything is A-OK but doing it horrifically badly. I see Dan in the passenger seat holding onto the handrail above the door as a means to steady himself through this craziness through this stupid unnecessary risk. And he looks calm collected uncaring like he is not there. There are no cars ahead of them now. The trailer is next in line. It slows to a crawl and I could see Dad desperately trying to ignore the crazy flashing noisy Bonneville rattling through the southbound lane keeping his eyes fixed to the road pretending like he is not smuggling anything in the empty trailer behind him this empty useless trailer with the I beams all sealed up with the two Mexican men driving it with no obvious destination no paperwork no affiliation with any hauling or trucking company. No sir not trafficking in drugs. Just driving through to Houston probably looking for work. Oh yes we are American citizens. That is not why we are nervous. We could prove that. That is nothing. We are nervous because of the pot we are hiding and because we are only getting 2000 for risking upwards of 10 years in prison. Is not that funny? Is not that just hysterical? But the skinny white guy is having lunch and cannot be bothered. In one of the weirder moments of this whole debacle the Bonneville the Airstream and dad's tractor are all lined up like some cosmic event and we see the skinny Border Patrol agent with a white napkin tucked under his chin and Dad's bloodless face up in the trailer through the window of the Airstream as the agent waves him through with a fork like he is conducting an orchestra. Go on through. Go on through. Mom continues driving south stunned by what has just happened. And I am careful not to say a word. We almost reach Raymondville and stop at a Whataburger to get a quick wordless lunch then spend some time sitting in a parking lot waiting. When she feels it is safe to return she turns the car around and heads back north back through the same checkpoint. Are you sure this is safe I ask. She does not answer. When we pull up again to the checkpoint headed back to Hebbronville around 3 oclock there was a different Border Patrol agent at the Airstream. He is a small clean cut militant Mexican with a Southern drawl. You all American citizens he demands instantly leaning into the car through the window clearly smelling for marijuana smoke. Oh yes says my mother who is probably quite relieved the hard part is over and it looks like we are getting away with it. How about you son? You American citizen? He gives me a direct glare through reflective sunglasses. There is nothing more potentially hostile than the indigenous ego interpreting the laws of his conquerer upon his own people. Yes sir I say careful not to move or fidget or look away like I have learned. He looks back at my mother then at me like he smells the nervousness of earlier. Something tugs at his intuition. Where are you all headed the sunglasses finally ask. This catches Mom off guard. Her subterfuge had ended when Dad had driven through the checkpoint. She left all her answers back in Raymondville. We are going to Hebbronville she says unconvincingly. Had he asked one more question had he pressed it we would have been in some sort of trouble. But he does not and he backs off and motions us through. Mom drives the noisy car through Hebbronville and we are about to hit the open highway again when we noticed Dad's trailer in the parking lot of a cheap motel by the side of the road. My brother is lodged between the rearmost tires working on the brake lights that ridiculously are not working. Mom is as alarmed to find them there as I am. This confirms my suspicion that there had been no planning beyond the consultation at the crandera's. This whole debacle had been based on nothing more than 100 worth of faith. Mom pulls up next to the trailer and I think she expects a victorious reunion. When he sees her Dad suddenly looks like he is about to punch her. Stupid  woman he yells at her in Spanish. Mom stops cold. What the  were you thinking? If they would have just turned around for a moment it would all be over and it would all be your fault he spits at her in Spanish. We realize what he is upset about-- the flashing headlights. His words continue to snap and hiss around her like bullets in a firefight and she follows him forward to the cab of the truck kowtowing to her punishment. Lucky for us la Senora was right Dad says walking back with Mom now excited and seemingly over his anger. She made him blind and we were let through like they were closed. When we left them later that evening Dan was doing the driving. They pulled out of the parking lot and headed off to Houston and their payoff the brake lights temporarily fixed in loops of black electrical tape. I watch as the truck disappears. It looks like every other piece of now broken down equipment we have ever owned-- rusting miserable and totally criminal. Mom and I turn south back to Brownsville. Mom is her usual quiet self except this time she plays the radio louder. This means she is thinking. It is getting dark and I am sleepy so I sleep. She will get us home. She knows the way. For that I could trust her. Domingo Martinez reading a story from his collection The Boy Kings of Texas which is a memoir and a finalist for the National Book Award.  Act Two Get Away With It After the Beep. So today's show is a rerun. And a couple weeks before it originally was broadcast we invited listeners to call into a special phone number that we set up here at the radio show and tell us what things you have gotten away with. Over 1000 of you called. Our intern back then Tarek listened to those messages and he said that he came away from the experience seeing you all very very differently than he had before. He said that if these messages are any indicator at all most of you have either cheated in school or committed some small act of arson at some point in your lives. So good to know. I know we should try to capitalize on that during the pledge drive. I have no idea how but anyway here's a small selection of the messages that we received. We found new ways of cheating on tests homework. We are not proud of it or at least I am not proud of it. But it is what we did. We learned Morse Code would tap during class. I by all rights should not have graduated. And I should not have gone to college which is what wound up happening. I got away with graduating high school by lying to my dean and telling her that I had HIV. In my sophomore year of high school I turned in a stick for my final project. And I am embarrassed to tell you that I got away with a little bit of extortion. I suggested to him that if I could pass his class with a much better grade that what I saw in the Super 8 would stay just between us. Entering the church we saw a giant earthworm on the ground in the parking lot. I picked it up and put it in my pocket. And before the service started my brother and I were playing with it by ourselves. My brother dared me to put it in the hair of a girl in front of us and I decided to do it. And so I put it in her hair but because her hair was so frizzy-- it was the '80s-- the worm disappeared and she did not feel anything. I got away with being the featured speaker in a seminar to which I was not even invited. I would like to tell you how I got away with posing as the president's cousin to get health care at a hospital in Tajikistan. It is this incredible rush because it had worked. I was able to act my way out of being murdered. I was parked at a stoplight next to a girl I was trying to impress and I decided to race her from stoplight to stoplight. So I slammed on the accelerator and just as I was flying past her a cop was going the other way. So he does a U-turn. I make a quick right down a side street hoping he will chase that girl but of course he did not. He came after me. So I made another quick right up an alleyway. He was still coming after me so I swooped in behind a garage jumped out of my car ran through some people's yards crossed the main street of Sherman Avenue and wondering what I am going to do. I am now without a car and the police are looking for me. So I saw another cop car parked at a parking lot of the professional building and I ran over and I said oh my god somebody just stole my car. We thought it would be fun to try to make flamethrowers with WD-40 and a lighter. I did not want to tell them or anybody else because at the time I was 19 and could get in trouble for arson. So I kept that story to myself. I knew it was us because I went back to the spot where I had smoked that cigarette with a friend. And sure enough that part of the ground was black. And then I was like yep that is definitely us. I feel horrible about this now but I ended up getting away with it. I kept it to myself and it is the first time I am revealing that secret. I got away with it and spent the rest of the night just giggling and eating junk food like you do. OK we have one final story from a listener-- kind of a long one. I went to an acting conservatory in New York City for two years and they told me about a month before graduation that it would not be happening for me. I was like a credit and a half or two credits shy. And I was like this is not a problem. I figured I would find a way to work it out. I actually think I thought I would Ferris Bueller it somehow and actually be able to get my diploma. I just kept telling my parents everything was fine and they made plans to come to New York and go to the graduation. And they were going to make a whole weekend trip of the thing. And they came to town and I knew I was not going to be able to walk and my name was not going to be called so I sort of just planted things in their mind all weekend. Like you know I hear graduation's four hours long. I hear a lot of people are not going and made sure they got extremely drunk the night before and would be hung over the next day. The graduation was at 100. We were all dressed up and ready to go. I was like you know what? Let us just skip it. Let us have a good day in New York and go do something fun instead. So they bought it. And we just went out in New York and I told my parents that I ended up getting a diploma in the mail to my apartment months later. And to this day they still think I graduated from college when I did not. Interesting side note-- the only person I ever told that to in my family was my brother after he came out of the closet and told me he was gay. And I figured I would tell him my big secret too. And he went right and told my sister because that way if I ever outed him he would be able to say I was a huge liar. So there you go. Thanks to everybody who took the time to call. See you all in hell. Well coming up 12-year-old ballerina con artist. You know I have one thing written here to make you want to listen to this story but that should be enough right? That is enough right there. I am just going to say it again-- 12-year-old ballerina con artist. Come on. You cannot turn away without hearing that. That is coming up in just a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues.  It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show Getting Away With It. We have stories of people doing just that and usually not feeling so bad about it. We have arrived at Act Three of our program. Act Three Crime and Tutus. OK parents I would actually warn you not to let your kids hear this next story except the thing that the children in this next story accomplish would be impossible for any kids to do today. Basically they go to the airport and they try to hop on a plane to go to another city. The comedian Molly Shannon told what happened to Marc Maron on his podcast WTF which is a great podcast. They did this in front of a live audience in November 2011. I hopped a plane when I was 12. We told my dad-- me and my friend Anna were like we are going to hop a plane to New York. And he was like-- he dared us. So we went to the-- How old were you? We were like 12. Oh good. That is good. So we went to the airport and we had ballet outfits on. And we put our hair in buns and we wanted to look really innocent. And this was again when flying was really easy. You did not need your ticket to get through. And we told my dad and we were just like we saw there were two flights. We were either going to go to San Francisco or New York. And we thought oh let us go to New York. It is leaving early. So we went. We said to the stewardess we just want to say goodbye to my sister. Could we go on the plane? She was like sure. And then she let us on and it was a really empty flight because it was out of Cleveland Ohio. And we sat back there and then all of a sudden you just hear like vroom. The plane takes off and we were like-- and we had little ballet outfits and buns. And I was like hail Mary full of grace. The Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou amongst women and blessed is the fruit of thy womb Jesus. Holy Mary mother of God pray for us sinners now and at the hour of our death. Amen. And then the stewardess had given us permission to go say good bye to my sister came by to ask if we wanted snacks or beverages. And she was like can I get you ladies something to eat? She looked like she was like oh mother . So we wondered if we were going to get in trouble but she ended up not telling anyone. And then when we landed in New York City she was like bye ladies. Have a nice trip. It is such an exciting story but the irresponsibility of all the adults in this story is somehow undermining my appreciation of it. You were 12-year-old girls in ballet outfits and everybody's sort of like have a good time. What world was that? It was crazy. It was a crazy world. What did you do in New York? Well again because I had a crazy childhood we call my dad. We were like we did it! And he was like oh god! Molly! Oh jeez well try to-- so basically he could not-- Try to what? He did not know what to do. He said try to see if you could stay-- go find a hotel that you could stay in. Oh my god. Me and Mary my sister will come meet you. We will drive there. So basically we were like all right we will try to find a hotel. But he was kind of excited because he liked crazy stuff. But basically we did not have that much. We just had our ballet bags and a little bit of cash that we went to a diner and we dined and dashed. And we stole things. We were like little con artists. Wait did you actually make it to the city? We made it to the city. I was like how do you get to Rockefeller Center? Because I had just seen TV scenes-- And nobody said are you girls lost? Nothing like that? No nothing. So we did try to go to hotels and my dad would call and ask could they just stay there until we get there? And none of the hotels wanted to be responsible. Oh my god. So he was like all right you got to come home. And he was like but I am not paying for it so try to hop on one on the way back. So we tried to hop on many planes but it was the flights were all so crowded. Right. So we ended up having to have him pay for it and he made us pay it all back with our babysitting money. Oh. The end. So that was the big punishment? Yeah that was-- there was no punishment. No I know. I mean clearly-- He loved that kind of stuff. Like I said he was wild. He used to-- I love the sort of strange nostalgic excitement you have for this borderline child abuse. Molly Shannon talking to Marc Maron on the WTF podcast which I recommend and which you can find on iTunes or through an internet search. We spoke with the other girl in that story who has not talked with Molly Shannon in a while-- did not know that she was telling that story publicly-- who confirmed all the crazy details in the story. She says they held hands and prayed while the plane took off.    Act Four Pre K-O. To understand this next story which is definitely a story about getting away with it in a big big way I first need to give you some background about preschool. In recent years there've been more and more studies showing that preschool is one of the best investments a country can make in children's education. Probably the most famous piece of research on this is an old one called the Perry Preschool Project. This study began in the 1960s. They took a bunch of poor kids from Ypsilanti Michigan put half of them into a preschool program and then the other half just led their normal lives. And then after a year of that both of those groups went back into the same public school system. And then every so often researchers would follow up with these kids to see how they were doing from the two groups. They are following them still even now and the results have been amazing. At age 27 the kids who got preschool were half as likely to have gotten arrested. They earned an average of 50 more per month. They were 50 more likely to have a savings account 20 more likely to have a car. Preschool kids got sick less often were unemployed less often sentenced to incarceration less often. Other studies show similar results not just for poor kids but for other kids too. They do better if they have preschool. And the very first state to choose to make free high quality preschool available to almost every four-year-old in the state and then actually delivered on that promise turns out to be a surprising one. In fact only a handful of stat