It is a school trying to do the right thing a school trying something new trying to keep its students safe. So they bought handguns seven of them Glock 9mm to use if a shooter comes into their building. And a week and a half before school started after a bunch of training they were running their first drill in the school building with their guns fresh out of the boxes. Here look at them make sure they are all loading. Look at them. They all should be. The building's mostly empty no kids around. It is a district in rural Ohio that let us record on the condition that we not say their name on the air. It is eight people on this team. Only two teachers volunteered for it. The rest are a guidance counselor two custodians and the three administrators who run the school. One of them is the only woman on the team. Producer Lisa Pollak watched them doing this. Lisa so explain how this works exactly. OK so the seven guns are locked in these small safes that have been installed in locations all over the school. I saw them run a bunch of drills. And in all of them the goal was to run to the nearest safe get the gun out of the safe and then get to where the shooter is as soon as possible. And they time each drill. OK. We are going to play a tape of this. I just want to warn listeners there are loud gunshots from blanks that they fired during these drills. So the first little glitch they came to was that some of the team members actually had trouble getting into the safes. You have to put your finger on the sensor. It is like a fingerprint thing? Right. And it is a little tricky.  It is not working.     There is a sheriff's deputy. He is playing the shooter.   I am following a guy named John. He is the principal for grade six through 12. He is running from his office darts by the cafeteria. He is got a gun. He is wearing a bulletproof vest. He is holding a walkie talkie very focused very aware the clock is ticking. He is told me that every few seconds in of one of these shootings another kid can be killed. Nothing this way nothing this way.   Elementary wing it is in the elementary wing. Elementary wing the body from . The shooter's in the elementary wing. Elementary wing-- the building also has middle school and high school. Right. So the principal's running down the hallway and he is just about to get to the area where the elementary kids are. But there is a door there and it is locked. This happens automatically when the school goes into lockdown. So he and the two guys with him are stuck. He fumbles for his keys and he is trying to find the right one. Yeah. . He is trying to unlock the door. Here we go.  Jesus. Behind you. All right. Here we go. There we go. Door opens. They are on the elementary school side. And they find the shooter right there. So that is the goal of the exercise. They got there. And they do not pretend to shoot him or anything. They are just timing the response. And it was not great. That was an eternity compared to the first time. Yeah. Oh yeah it was because you got to get through the doors. All clear. Thank you for your cooperation. Lisa it is so controversial to put guns into a school. Like why did they choose to do it here? Like why did that seem like the best option to them? Well I talked to John the principal about this. Yeah. For a long time he agreed with people who think guns in schools is a bad idea. And even now he does not think it is something that is right for every school. He says he is not a gun guy did not grow up with guns had never used one. Then he came to this school. And this school is pretty remote in an area that does not even have its own police force. So if a shooter got in the building they could be waiting a long time for help. I do not know that I was necessarily sold that this was the right thing to do but what are we going to do? We are 15 minutes away from an ambulance being here. We are 15 minutes away from a sheriff department being here. We are 15 minutes away-- you worry. You worry because you realize that you are on your own. And so I wanted to learn. And so I went out and started learning how to shoot a gun and how to handle a gun and-- which is different. The first time you shoot a gun that is pretty scary. It was scary to me. After that he went through a lot of training including one class where he was really forced to think through what it would mean in a very literal way to have to shoot someone in school. In one exercise the instructor said-- You need to walk up to the target till as close as you can. And he says and in your mind you have to envision this as a shooter in your cafeteria and there is students all around. How close do you have to get before you are confident you are going to hit that target? You have got to shoot that target and you cannot miss. I cannot miss. Because if I miss there is a possibility of somebody else getting hurt. All right? And I cannot let that happen. I cannot let it be me who hurts a student in my school. Though of course he might have to shoot one of his students. In a lot of these shootings that is who the shooter is. If you had told me years ago that this is what I would be advocating or thinking I would not have believed you. But these things do not stop happening. They just continue to happen. These shootings do just continue to happen. Today on our program we have all kinds of people trying to figure out what to do to prepare like the staff at this school. In general it seems to plan for disaster school administrators and others look at previous shootings. They look to the past to anticipate the future knowing full well the whole time there is a limit to what any planning can accomplish. If a shooter gets into a school the sad fact is you cannot stop every tragic possibility. You cannot stop everything. Act one of our show today we have people who are trying to learn from the past. They are trying to put in measures. They are trying to be as thoughtful and thorough as they possibly can and it is still not enough. Act two we have people who have invented something that actually seems to work and help. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act one Ready As You will Never Be. For any school that is trying to figure out the best ways to prepare for a gunman there is an example out there that might be really helpful and that is Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland Florida. Just a month before the shooting that killed 17 people in that school the teachers trained their students on new procedures they should follow in that exact situation. This came after a total overhaul of the school's emergency response planning. And the day of the shooting in a television interview one of the teachers reflected on the effectiveness of that training. But I do not think we could have been more prepared than we were today. And I mean they knew what to do and we knew what to do. And even still even with that we still have 17 casualties 17 people that are not going to return to their families.  And to me that is totally unacceptable. Did the training they received save lives that day or did not it? It is actually an open question. One of our producers Robyn Semien went to Parkland to talk to the teachers about what was actually in the training and how well it did or did not prepare them for what they went through. The training they did at Stoneman Douglas High School was an attempt to be as prepared as possible for a wide range of emergencies-- bomb threats hurricane warnings a bank robber nearby an active shooter. Douglas is a school with 11 buildings and over 3000 students so upgrading all their emergency procedures took months to plan and coordinate with faculty and district officers police and fire departments. Melissa Falkowski teaches journalism at the high school. She is the teacher in that news clip you just heard. And the training was on her mind that night because she was on the committee that set it up. She is an enthusiastic teacher a planner. She believes in a good hard think and being proactive. Once she and the other teachers had been trained they ran their students through all the new drills. The whole school did this over two days in January. Teachers were told-- We want you to go back to every single class. We know it is going to be annoying. We know the kids are going to get tired of hearing it by the time you get to the eighth period class because they are going to have heard it from every teacher but they wanted us to go stand in front of the kids and go through all the emergency procedures. This is what we do for a fire. For every period? For every-- this is what a code black is. This is what we do-- For two days? For two days we went over the procedures with the kids. Why did you have to do it with each and every class? Because they wanted to make sure that the kids knew the procedures that it was ingrained in their mind and that they knew. So if they were absent on a silver day they would get it on a burgundy day. School colors silver and burgundy. They are on an alternating schedule. Melissa says her kids took the drill seriously. On a scale of 1 to 10-- I would say we were totally prepared like a 10. The school told every teacher to cover the tall rectangular windows on their classroom doors with paper and leave the paper up all year. Just in case if there were one it would make it harder for an active shooter to see in. That is a lesson from previous shootings. Get out of sight. Before Columbine very few schools did active shooter drills. Now nearly 20 years later most of them do. Ashley Kurth teaches culinary at Douglas. She is levelheaded pragmatic like a person who is spent years working in busy restaurant kitchens not losing her cool which she did. Ashley remembers being trained with the other teachers on the new procedures last year. It started with them listening to 911 audio from Sandy Hook. The audio is of I believe if I remember correctly it is of the front office and one of the ladies that called in when the shooter is outside the door. And you can hear her like-- her voice drops when she is like he is right outside he is right outside. And you can hear the dispatch officer telling her you know do not move and be quiet. Hide lock down. It is probably the most common response in schools all across the country. But out of Sandy Hook another lesson. Schools told teachers keep your classrooms locked all day every day. Again Melissa. That is kind of what they told us as they told us about Sandy Hook how he went to the first classroom the door was locked. He went to the second classroom the door was locked. He went to the third classroom the door was unlocked. And he stepped into that classroom and he took advantage of that opportunity. And that is what I told my kids when we were preparing. I told them I know it is going to be really annoying that the door's always going to be locked and you are going to have to knock. But I told them what they had told us in the training. And I said I will not be the third door. Like I will not be that third door. The details of this are not exactly right. At Sandy Hook it was the front door and bathrooms that were locked. The classrooms were not. But the lesson is the same keep your door locked at all times. Other details got hammered home like what to do if a fire alarm goes off during a code red. The thinking on this is a lesson from the Jonesboro Middle School shooting in Arkansas 20 years ago. There were two shooters both kids. One of them pulled a fire alarm to get the school to evacuate to a field where from the woods the boys shot at them. Five people died. In the training at Douglas they addressed this exact thing. If a fire alarm and a code red happen to coincide ignore the fire alarm mind the code red. Ashley told her students-- The code red drill trumps all. If you hear a fire alarm go off you stay put. The main question from students both Melissa and Ashley told me what if I am in the bathroom and I hear gunshots? What do I do then? We told them to run. If you are out in the hallway and there is a code red you have to find a place to hide yourself. So you either find a place to hide or you run and you keep running and you do not look back. You run. You run as far away as you can and as fast as you can away from the sound. Unlike Melissa Ashley had been through this kind of training before at a school she taught at before Douglas. That school had a drill that really freaked Ashley out with very loud realistic sounds of gunfire. Ashley says there were blanks. The officer would walk around with blanks and they would shoot. If the door was open they would go into the room and say you are all dead in here. Surprise drills with blanks while not the norm appeal to some schools who say there are benefits to learning how you will act under pressure. But surprise drills with blanks are controversial. For one thing they are disturbing. There have even been lawsuits about them. In one a teacher claims she got PTSD after a man in a black hoodie came into her class pointed a gun to her face fired and said you are dead. The teacher heard a pop. She smelled smoke. She really thought she would been shot. She had no idea it was a drill. I talked to several school safety experts about these drills with blanks these surprise drills that are hyperrealistic. None of them thought they are a good idea. One guy who trains teachers using video simulations told me that teachers who have been through one of these surprise drills perform worse on his simulations than teachers who have no training at all. They forget crucial steps like calling the police and commit more dangerous mistakes. Some find the blanks so upsetting they cannot even finish the simulations. And there is a more basic problem with these surprise drills. If you know one is coming and you hear shots how can you tell if it is a drill or the real thing? At Douglas Ashley and Melissa both thought this was the kind of drill they would have unannounced with a fake shooter firing blanks. Ashley told her students that is what they should expect. Oh yes 100. I told them I said it can happen at any point in time. So just be prepared that no matter which classroom you are in or where you are at this could take place. They said it was going to sound real and feel real. I now have another faculty member who was at another high school in the district and they did the active shooter training at her school and they used blanks. It was simulated and it felt real. And so that is why a lot of people were like is this the drill? Is this not the drill? But when you look at the time that it occurred they do not run a drill at 225 in the afternoon 15 minutes before we dismiss and all these buses have to run kids all over the district. Was that a question in your mind right away like it is too late for a drill? Yes. Which brings us to the day of the shooting. At 220 in the afternoon on Valentine's Day a former student with an AR-15 began down the hallway of the first floor of the building that everyone calls the freshmen building. In an adjacent building Ashley's culinary class had just finished their shrimp scampi lab. They were plating and cleaning up. I am standing next to my door pulling my doorstop out. I hear two pops. It was not rapid fire. It was just like a pop pop. I am not startled by it because I mean it is Valentine's Day. And you do not know if it is like a balloon popping or what. And then the fire alarm went off very quickly. The fire alarm. Dust set it off dust from acoustical tiles hit by a round of gunshots. No one knew that at the time. Melissa in a building farther out than Ashley's did not hear any pops just a fire alarm. She went into action running that drill the fire drill. The fire alarm goes off and I counted the kids as they left the room. I was the last one to leave. I closed the door. It was already locked because I leave it locked. Out the door with my phone my keys and my folder. Those are like the three most important things-- my phone my keys and my folder. Her emergency folder. That is the training. I went out the doors. The security person who is posted outside my hallway she is there. And I said oh what is going on? Because they have walkie talkies. I do not. The security personnel have walkie talkies. So she said someone set off a firecracker in the 1200 building. And I said OK. And I turned to two other teachers and I told them. And then as soon as I finished saying that to them she yelled out no go back. It is a code red. Go back. It is a code red. And so we called to the kids and I turned around and went back to my room which was right there opened up the door and kids start streaming in. But was this a real code red? Melissa did not know. She knew a fire alarm could go off during a code red but the whole thing was confusing. Well it was weird because we would actually had an actual fire drill earlier in the day like our planned scheduled monthly drill had occurred that morning. So it was weird that it was going off again because they do not do them in the last period of the day. And so I knew it was something but I did not think it was a serious something. I thought it was like-- the culinary was cooking with oil that day. So who knows. Because that will sometimes set off the fire drill. Of course will set it off if they burn something or whatever so. Are there other things that set a fire drill? Oh well kids sometimes probably pull it. Yeah sometimes kids will pull it. Sometimes there could be a faulty-- that is why our system gets inspected all the time. It just depends. But most-- I do not want to say mostly it is culinary because Ashley Kurth will kill me but a lot of times it is culinary. One time we went outside three times in one day because of the culinary class-- three times. Yeah. I mean we have three smoke detectors in my room. So if you walk underneath it with a pot of boiling water you will set the fire alarm off. That is kind of like the joke of our school. Teachers at Douglas knew that code red trumps a fire drill. They even had a plan for how to straighten that confusion out-- make an announcement clarify the code red. On that day an assistant principal Mr. Porter did that. Was there an announcement? There was but a lot of people were already out of their room so they did not hear it. In culinary Ashley heard the code red. She is not sure about it but she is going through the motions. She goes to her door to pull it shut. And as she does-- Two boys come running around the corner and they are-- just they look terrified and they are screaming it is a shooter it is a shooter. She pulls them into her classroom tells them to get in the storage closet with her students. But she is still thinking drill right? It must be. It must be for practice. Even seconds later when she hears-- Pop pop pop pop pop pop pop pop pop. And to me I am like OK that is not what I experienced in the first drill just because of the rapid succession that was happening. At the time I was like maybe they are uppin' their game on that. It is unclear how many teachers thought like Ashley and Melissa did that this was not a real code red but the promised code red drill and if this cost anyone their life. I spoke to the Broward County chief of staff in charge of organizing the district's safety upgrades where Douglas is. He said he did not know any teachers at Douglas came out of that training expecting an unannounced drill with blanks. But eight of 14 teachers I spoke to said they were anticipating what Melissa and Ashley were a surprise active shooter drill using blanks. After those two boys tore around the corner yelling it is a shooter it is a shooter Ashley stood for another second in her doorway still confused. Then she glanced to her left all the way down the hall to a set of open doors the face of the freshmen building. I see like hundreds of kids running out of the freshmen building looking terrified. When you see terrified kids running like that and they are not-- there is no rhyme or reason. It was chaos. And then you hear-- you can hear the gunshots. And it is just-- that is not what the drill was. She knew it was real. For like the next 90 seconds as kids are running by me I am just screaming at them keep running. Do not stop. She shouted back to her kids stay put and get down. She is still in her doorway when she realized there is another group a smaller group. Kids that are running towards the freshmen building. Oh really? Yes. I was grabbing them and just pulling them into my room. They were following instructions. Remember if you are not in a classroom run. Keep running away from the sound. How is it that kids are running towards kids running the other way? Because the way that the gunshot sounds were ricocheting off the media center area the quad it sounded like there was shooting coming from that direction as well which is why kids were running in the opposite direction. Wow. To give you an idea I had 29 students that were present that day with myself. And by the time we were finished there were 65 total bodies in my room. Was not the drill to shut the door and not let people in? Yes it was.  Yes it was. Then what happened? There were terrified people running and I just-- I could not in all consciousness leave them be like that. Ashley was not the only teacher to stand in the doorway and say to hell with what she had been taught. You can choose to follow the protocol or follow your instinct. For some teachers it was not a choice at all. In her classroom Melissa got her attendance sheet out of her emergency folder. She counted 17 of her 25 students and two from a different class she would pulled in from the hallway. The group was small enough to fit in a supply closet so Melissa told them to leave their backpacks out of sight as she would been taught and move there. In the closet it was hot and dark except students' faces lit by their cell phones. Melissa had her phone out too. There is a group text between me and three other teachers in the English department because we are friends outside of school. And my friend Stacey who is on the third floor of the freshman building she texts-- she sent a text to us that says there is a shooter. There is a shooter in my floor. And so my friend Sarah says drill or actual? And she says actual my window is blown out. And then she told us she had been grazed by a bullet. She was grazed in her arm by a bullet. Oh my god. And I did not hear from her for a while. An hour went by. We heard noises in the hallway. We got really quiet. I had the flashlight part of my phone on so that we could kind of like illuminate the closet without having the light on. And when I heard the door open-- but it sounded like it was opened with a key. And so then I could hear movement in the room. And then somebody-- And that is comforting or not? I mean not because you do not know what the hell is happening. And the police-- and then the police officer said this is the police. Is anyone in here? And then there was kind of like a pause. And then they are like this is the police. Is anyone in here? And I was like guys I am going to open the door because-- Someone says this is the police is anyone in here? And your first thought is it really is the police or still you are not sure? I am still not sure. The first time they said it I am not sure what I should do. Am I supposed to open the door? They did not cover that in training. Very slowly the handle and I opened it really slow because even if it is the police they have weapons too and they are looking for the shooter. So I know they have their weapons drawn. She really just had to guess about whether to trust this was a cop and not a group of shooters saying they were cops. And so I just very slowly opened pulled on the handle pushed it open and said we are in here. We are in the closet. And then they started giving us instructions. Come out with your hands up. Melissa told me that Ashley was one of five people she knew who had broken protocol that day by holding their doors open longer than they were supposed to. And they even did that on the third floor when they knew something was wrong. And my friend Stacey held her door open until she was like locked eyes with the shooter and yells to Scott Beigel to close his door and grabs the handle with two hands and pulls it closed. So her door was open up to the moment he started like shooting bullets down the hallway. Stacey is the teacher whose arm was grazed. She survived. Scott Beigel in the room next to Stacey's did the same thing Stacey did waited a little with the door open. He is one of the 17 who died that day standing in his doorway. There is very little evidence about whether school shooting drills of any kind actually work. The data does not exist. School shootings for how much we think and talk about them are still statistically rare. But now Melissa and Ashley have been in that rare situation the one that is hard to study. And they both told me that having a playbook for what to do helped. Now I lock my door. Now I count the kids in my class. Now I move us all to a closet. But they also both had ideas coming out of this about ways they could have been better prepared. Melissa for instance wanted trauma kits with gauze in every classroom and training on how to treat bullet wounds with it. Gauze actually has saved lives in mass shootings. I really wanted to find some expert to weigh in on Douglas to tell me did the teachers' training help? Did more kids survive because of it? What might have worked better? Cheryl Jonson researches what is effective in these drills at Xavier University and is a training instructor for ALICE one of two big companies in the US that train schools how to respond to active shooters. ALICE has its own way of doing things just like the other big outfit Safe Havens International has its own way of doing things. There is no one single way no agreement on what is best. Cheryl Jonson did not want to get into the specifics of what happened at Douglas partly because it is still too soon. The investigation is not done. But she did talk to me more generally about some of things I knew they would done at Douglas like papering over windows. Cheryl does not think it helps much. It is 2 oclock on a Tuesday. The shooter knows you are in your classrooms. Also code red all the codes their colors and meanings. The consultants I talked to said no to this too. I am a big advocate for not using codes at all. How come? If I say code red it takes a split second for your brain to go OK code red means bad means active shooter means I have to do this versus if I say there is a gunman in the school. Keeping classroom doors locked resounding yes. But the idea that this is all you do that you lock the door and put every kid under a desk all the consultants I talked to said that is outdated. Cheryl says people need many more options many more ways to respond to a shooting. Sometimes you stay in your room. Sometimes you evacuate like if you are far enough away from the shooter or in an open space with more exits like a cafeteria or a gym. As a last resort you fight. Basically trust your ability to make a decision. I told her about Ashley Kurth how she had stood in her doorway grabbing up dozens of scared students. Remember it was a break from her school's protocol. Cheryl's such an advocate for thinking on your feet. I wondered if she maybe believed Ashley did the right thing pulling in kids. The problem with this-- unless you are there you do not know what exactly happened. Now did she probably save lives? Probably. And in that situation did it work with the gunman being in a different building? Yes. One thing that was part of the training at Douglas was barricading your door basically pushing lots of furniture up against your classroom door. But Melissa and Ashley did not do it. Seems like very few teachers did. Though if Ashley had done it if she would followed the protocol locked and barricaded her door right away it would have been way harder to pull all those kids into her room from the hallway. She would have to unbarricade herself first. Fewer kids would have made it in. Reporting on this for several months I knew what I was looking for something concrete to tell my daughter's school. My daughter's nine fourth grade. Last year she did a traditional lockdown at her school squat and hide. But when I asked her what the drill was for she said I do not know exactly. They did not say. It is not great. I keep thinking about this one shooting the Red Lake Indian Reservation shooting and how in that one a classroom of students did a traditional lockdown squat and hide because they practiced it and how an investigator on that case told me that drill did not help them at all. They would have been better off without it. And the researcher who told me we should not do drills in school period. It is too traumatizing for kids. We do not pretend to crash on an airplane. We just deal with the possibility of crashing by hearing some instructions. Where I come down on this-- I do not agree with no drills at all. I want my daughter to know everything. I want her to know about barricading and I want her to know about running and fighting back. I want her to know about active shooters because it is a thing to reckon with. I want her to know there is nothing that can keep her completely safe because it is the truth. One more thing I would say to my daughter's school Cheryl's point about do not say codes. Call it like it is. I do not want someone to come over an intercom and tell my daughter code red. I want someone to say listen up there is a person with a gun in our school. Of course I never want someone to say that at all. This year at Douglas there are new gates new fences new cameras gym bag searches key card entry for staff gauze-filled trauma kits in every room 15 campus monitors compared to five last year three school resource officers instead of one. And they already did a code red drill only this time there was no confusion about when it would be. The school called parents told all the students and teachers in advance. When it started the principal came on the PA and told everyone OK here we go. And this is our code red. And try to breathe. Keep breathing. Only real surprise since school started if you can call it that the fire alarm. It is gone off seven times so far this year-- malfunctions maintenance a special ed kid pulled it twice. Two times it happened right before school got out. Melissa said the first time it happened a week in she cursed. Students cried. One student Julia froze. Julia Melissa said you are OK. Am I? Julia said. What the school does not do during the fire alarms evacuate like they are supposed to. No one goes outside to the parking lot. No one jokes about culinary. No one moves. Not a single class evacuates. Melissa says it is too scary to be out there standing in the parking lot like that vulnerable. What if there is a sniper? It is what they know now. Drills have blind spots. Robyn Semien is one of the producers of our show. Coming up a couple returns to the worst thing that ever happened to them over and over again. Why? In a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show Before the Next One. Now the mass shootings have become the new normal in our country. We have stories of people preparing for the next one in various ways. We have arrived at act two of our program act two. Keep breathing. So there is a whole infrastructure that springs into action every time a mass shooting occurs. There is Red Cross fire and police departments SWAT teams therapy dogs the Billy Graham prayer truck. But now there is also a group of people who show up in the immediate aftermath for more personal reasons. These are the parents of kids who have died in other mass shootings. And what they do at these shootings is so simple and kind of amazing to hear. Producer Miki Meek talked with two of these parents. It is a couple named Sandy and Lonnie Phillips. Their daughter Jessi died when a gunman opened fire in a movie theater in Aurora Colorado back in 2012. And since then they have organized their lives to be able to reach out to other parents like themselves. Here's Miki. Sandy and Lonnie Phillips have traveled to eight mass shootings since Aurora. It started with Sandy Hook and Isla Vista San Bernardino Orlando Las Vegas Sutherland Springs Parkland and then Santa Fe Texas which is where I met up w