OK here's a question that I was not sure if it was appropriate to ask a priest. But I had a priest in the studio and I asked the question. And the priest Father Tom Santa from St. Michael's Church in Old Town in Chicago was kind enough to humor me. My question was in confession do people ever confess things to you that it is hard not to roll your eyes at?  In front of them no. But yes. I had one person-- and I will not tell you what city because he might be listening-- who would come in and every single confession would confess that he laughed in church. And I asked him why do you laugh in church? He said because Father tells jokes.  And I said Father wants you to laugh in church. Well you are not allowed to laugh in church. If you are not allowed to laugh in church then Father would not be telling you jokes. I know. That is his problem not mine.   Well today we have a whole program about confessions. We have a story about somebody who does confess and a story about somebody who refuses to confess. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life by the way distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. And we called Father Santa to start the show because Father Santa is an expert in something called scrupulosity which takes a number of different kinds of forms. But among Catholics it results in people confessing to things they do not need to confess. Scrupulosity is when somebody obsesses over whether he is doing things that are sinful. It causes anxiety. The person cannot stop thinking about it. It is something that the Catholic church has been noting and dealing with for hundreds of years. A number of saints suffered from this. Father Santa says that it can be paralyzing for people. It can make the smallest decisions impossible. He remembers one woman that he spoke to when he was just starting out as a priest. She called the rectory. I answered the phone and she identified who she was. And she says Father I am trying to decide if I should make tomato soup or chicken noodle soup for my husband for dinner. Which one is not a sin? It is because she felt that if she prepared the wrong soup she would disappoint her husband or her children or her guest. And that is what is displeasing to God. Because God would be displeased if her family were upset. That is right. Right. Yeah. There must therefore be a sin. How did you respond? I responded by I think I told her to pick the tomato soup. . I just made the decision. And I was young. I was newly ordained. I did not realize anything. I did not realize anything more than that she seemingly was asking me a question. It was not until later when I was talking to other priests that I realized that I had encountered my first scrupulous person and that my answer was in fact not very pastoral but pretty flippant. So I have tried to outgrow being flippant. It is funny. You are saying it is a bad answer. But at another level it is a perfectly helpful and good answer because it took her out of her pain. Until the next time she opened the cabinet yes. Oh good. You see that is why you are a priest.   Father Santa has written a book for sufferers. He leads retreats. He edits a newsletter which people send questions to. Like for instance you are supposed to fast for an hour before taking Communion which Father Santa says is pretty easy. Anybody who goes to church it is about an hour before you receive communion. But anyways if they have scrupulosity they will be concerned that for instance as they are sitting there in church they discovered that they had a seed left in their mouth and they swallowed it. Does that break their fast? Or does lipstick break your fast? Or things like that. Yeah. Another one I get commonly is we are going to go on a cruise and there is no guarantee that we will have Sunday Mass. So am I committing a mortal sin by skipping Sunday Mass? I said no you are on a boat and that is what you do. Enjoy your trip. Have a great time. Do not worry about it. Somebody wrote your newsletter I sometimes get frustrated with my dog. Is this a serious sin? Right. See and what that is is what they are really saying it is not the dog. What they are really saying is I felt an emotion. And is that emotion acceptable or unacceptable? Somebody wrote your newsletter is it a sin to exaggerate a little when telling a story to friends? I only mean to add a little color. Right. It is called a skill.  There is a lot of people who make lots of money with that ability. Father Santa says that there are two different kinds of scrupulosity. There are the people who are just not sure what is a sin and what is not a sin and they are getting very stressed out about that. That is pretty straightforward to deal with he says. A priest just needs to patiently talk these people through what counts as a sin. And usually over the course of months the anxieties fade. Much more difficult are the people who have an actual psychological disorder whose scrupulosity is tied up with what priests have come to understand in the last three or four decades is obsessive compulsive disorder. Like for instance a man who felt that he could not get out of bed in the morning until he believed that he was doing it in a pure way that would not offend God. Or people who believe that they are constantly blaspheming God. Or a woman who thought that if she left her house unlocked it would put her whole family in danger which she believed was a sin. So she would check the lock over and over and over and over. Father Santa says that in confession these people describe their sins without feeling. They do it almost mechanically. They ask the same questions over and over not accepting the answers that they are given. He calls this the scrupulous ritual. He says that the only thing that can help these people is therapy behavior modification drugs. And Father Santa says that unfortunately these are not people who usually go for that. On a retreat with 20 people he will maybe be able to convince one or two of them to seek that kind of professional help. The ones who refuse sometimes tell him that he is just trying to let them off too easy for their sins. They are convinced that it is God's will for them that they suffer this way. Accept it as their personal cross. And somehow they have to live like this. Now you have an example in your book about you got a letter in a box and it was 150 pages. Is that what it was? Yes it was. It was the most incredible-- And just explain what this was. Yeah. At the time I was publisher of our publishing house Liguori Publications in St. Louis. And I thought it was a manuscript that had appeared on my desk for publication so I started reading it. And it was the most unbelievable 150 pages describing this person's struggle with sin with sexuality everything that you could possibly imagine. 150 pages in the most unbelievable amount of details all summarized by chapters with questions that would go with it. And the closing paragraph said I have two questions for you. One would you be willing to hear my confession? And the second one is do you think I am scrupulous? Was it surprising to you that this person was even asking the question? No. It was not surprising to me. What was surprising to me was the level of commitment first of all that was required in order to write that and the level of suffering that it expressed. Every page was filled with suffering. And that is what hit me more than anything else. And it certainly is not God's will for us. There is no way that is God's will. Confession Father Santa says can be such a satisfying part of a priest's job. To help somebody heal and cope and get closer to God it is at the heart of why some people become priests in the first place. It can be very intense. And I cannot remember many weddings and baptisms clearly. But there are confessions over the years that I can remember very very clearly as if they happened yesterday. Yeah. It is also frustrating when you cannot do it. When you just cannot do it. There is no word that you can say that will bring healing. There is nothing that you can say that will bring people to a sense of peace. That is frustrating because you want it so bad for them. And that is what can be so hard with a scrupulous confession. That is the hard part about it. Especially if you are sitting in the confessional and you have already been in the confessional for an hour an hour and a half. And you are extremely vulnerable when you are in the confessional. You never know what the person is that is going to come in what they are going to talk about. You never know if it is something that is relatively unimportant or it is the deepest darkest secret. You never know. And it is very draining to give individual energy to each person that comes in to listen to them with a patient loving heart. And so after an hour and a half for instance and you end up with a scrupulous person that comes in and all they are doing is engaging in this scrupulous ritual that has got to be one of the most difficult things I have ever done as a priest to sit there and be patient and loving. Because all I really want to do is just slam the door and forget it. But you cannot. You cannot. You have to wait and be patient and give them the love that they really really desire and need. These people really test you. Yes. Our own saint Alphonsus Liguori who was scrupulous said he exhausted the confessors in Naples the city he was from. Because whenever they saw Alphonsus enter into the city they would all run because he would exhaust them.  And he even admitted that he would do that. Father Tom Santa. His book is Understanding Scrupulosity Questions Helps and Encouragement. His newsletter you can find online is Scrupulous Anonymous. Act One Kim Possible. So this is the story of a criminal investigation that hinges entirely on a confession. And I am not going to pretend that this goes well. The case falls apart for some really interesting reasons. Here's Saul Elbein with the story. OK I am going to walk you through the evidence of this case see if you can tell where it goes wrong. Here's the crime. It was 1994. A man was found dead by the Anacostia River in Washington DC. He would been tied up and savagely beaten. Someone had taken his wallet and used his credit card at a liquor store a drug store and a Chinese restaurant. Police also had a surveillance photo from an ATM that looked like this woman named Kim. From public documents they saw that her handwriting matched the signatures on the credit card slips. Jim Trainum was the lead detective on this case. It was one of his first major homicide investigations. And when he started interrogating Kim she just denied everything. She told him she did not know the dead man. She would never signed any credit card slips. So they sat there for hours going back and forth. Then early that afternoon Kim started to crack. She tells us that you are right I signed the credit card slips. But I found the credit cards. And I did not steal them. I found them and I went out and used them. Bingo. She admitted she was involved somehow. Now Jim figured it was only a matter of time until she told him everything. Oh my god! Here we are. We are doing good. We got to this stage. So we decided at that point that we would take what we got and put that on videotape. So Jim turned on a video recorder to catch Kim confessing about the credit cards. Is that your signature there? . OK. Let us see if we can refresh your memory here. In the video Jim is showing her credit card receipts. And even though she admitted signing them she is suspiciously vague about the actual items she bought. And that made Jim think she was hiding something or covering for someone. She was petite 19 years old. Not the sort of person who could beat a man to death by herself. Jim figured she must have had accomplices. So he pressed her for details. And finally they got to a credit card charge made at the Chinese restaurant. He asked about her order and she told them I do not eat that much seafood but I did have some shrimp. I do not eat that much seafood but I did have some shrimp. There was a shrimp dish within the Chinese food. And so at the time I am right there watching it through two-way glass. And when she says a shrimp dish I am jumping up and down. Because how would she know about the shrimp dish? Over the next several hours she gave other details. The names of other stores that the credit card was used at. People's Drugstore Golden Star Restaurant and Chat's Liquor. She knew what streets they were on and how much was spent there. Eventually Kim also admitted to knowing the dead man. She told them that he had been sexually harassing her and she would wanted him to stop. And then at about one oclock in the morning 17 hours into the interrogation she caved. Spilled the whole thing. Kim said she and two friends waited for the man to get out of work and pulled him into their truck. They tried talking to him but he would not listen. He started to yell. So they decided to teach him a lesson. On the confession tape Kim fidgeted idly in her seat as she described beating him. She said we started hitting him punching him in the face at first. I got in a lick or two probably more. Starting hitting him punching him in the face at first. I got a lick in or two. Probably more. Kim said her friends kept hitting and punching him. She told them to stop that it was not necessary but they would not listen. So she sat in the car and cried while they beat him to death. Started hitting him and hitting him and hitting him and punching him and kicking him. And I kept telling them just stop. Just stop. It is not necessary. It is not really necessary. The damage was already done in the first place. So I just turned back in the truck and just started crying. In her confession Kim came across as cold and unrepentant. At the end one of the interrogators asked her if she is sorry for what happened. I mean are you sorry what happened to the guy? She said yeah I am. But he should not have done what he did to me. He should have left me alone. Yeah I am. But he should not have did what he did to me. He should have left me alone. The next day Jim brought Kim to an arraignment hearing where she was charged with felony murder and held without bond. So great. Full confession. Perfect cop show ending. Roll credits. But then after a few months in jail Kim recanted the whole thing. She said Jim and the other interrogators had told her what to say. Again here's Jim. She said look I do not want to cooperate anymore. I was not there. I had nothing to do with it. So we told her attorney well look if she is saying this let her come in and have a full-blown polygraph test. And she did. She came in she had a full-blown polygraph test and she failed miserably. Kim decided to cooperate again. But the cops felt they needed to strengthen their case against her just in case she flaked on them again. And so what I needed to do was I needed to come up with possible things that we could show that she was out there that night. Anything whatsoever. And one of the things that we knew about was at the homeless shelter where she was living at the time there was this log where you could sign and in sign out. And so I got a subpoena went to the homeless shelter and got the log. And I was bringing it back to the office and I flipped to the pages that had the entries for the night of the murder. And I looked down and I about wrecked the car. She was not out during the critical times that we needed her out. And in fact according to that book there was no way that she could have participated in the murder. And this is not like OK wait stop? Yeah. We were trying to figure out OK well first off it cannot be her handwriting right? Because she is confessed. We know that she was out. So this log cannot be right. Somebody else had to sign it. By now Kim had been in jail for a few months. Ideally Jim should have checked the shelter's logs when they first picked her up. But Kim had confessed so he did not think it was necessary. Jim though was getting uncomfortable. So he decided to recheck the basis of the case the handwriting evidence. He went to a handwriting expert from the Secret Service to compare Kim's signature to the credit card slips. They sat me down and they said Jim absolutely positively in no way did she sign these credit card slips. And I am just going holy! I feel bad but I feel confused. And all why would she have confessed? How did she know all these details? And yet how could our forensic ev-- the very foundation of our case be so wrong? An expert trained by the FBI checked it out too and said nope no way it was her. The handwriting expert Jim had first used had just gotten it wrong. So Jim took this new evidence back to the prosecutor. At this point nine months had passed since her arrest and the court had to either indict Kim or let her go. Without any hard proof to take her to trial the court dismissed Kim's case and she was released from jail. The police never found another suspect. The murder remains unsolved. Jim was still sure Kim had been involved somehow. Even if she had not signed the credit card slips she confessed. She knew all these details that only someone who had been there would know. It was not just the stores and what was bought there. Kim knew how the dead man's hands had been tied up. She pointed out the ATM machine that his card had been used at. And then of course she knew about the shrimp. Jim felt that she had just gotten away with murder. I mean I would play this through my mind over and over again trying to figure out how she could have known these things without having been there or having been told these things by somebody who was. So quick break here. Did you catch it the humongous mistake that derailed Jim's entire investigation? Jim for his part had no idea. He knew he would missed something but he just could not figure out what. For years he turned it over and over in his mind. And then around 2002 he got assigned to review cold cases for his department. And one of the cases he pulled? That murder by the Anacostia River. So Jim got the videotapes of Kim's confession. He thought maybe time and distance would reveal something in those tapes something that would give him a reason to reopen the case. I am just sitting back with my feet up on the table. The TV's up there the tape's running. And I just had an oh my god moment. Oh my god look! Look at what I have done! What is this point? Best my memory is the point where I am telling her let me refresh your memory. That your signature there? . OK. Let us see if we can refresh your memory here. At the exact moment when Jim heard let me refresh your memory he watched himself pushing copies of the credit card slips in front of Kim. It was this sinking feeling. My heart's not stopping but it is definitely not acting right. Watching the tape he suddenly understood how she seemed to know so much. She is looking at the credit card slips. She is sitting there staring at them. Think about what you can get off a credit card slip. You can get the name of the store the location of the store. And it is like how did we not see that? It just started all to become so obvious to me. And the more I looked at it the more instances I could pick up. And I realized fairly quickly that what we had here was a false confession and that she was totally innocent.  What are we working on right now? A murder right? No a forgery. OK. The lieutenant told me forgery. All those details Jim had been fixated on all those years? He was the one who gave them to her. Do you remember any of the items that you bought at People's? No. Like most of us Jim had an image of the sort of cops who force false confessions. Bad apples. Cops who knowingly railroad some innocent to get the DA off their backs or because they just do not care enough to do their jobs right. But now suddenly Jim realized he was a bad apple. And he wondered how many other cases had he messed up? How many more confessions had he unknowingly coerced? Kim's interrogation was the only one he would ever recorded. I just felt bad. I mean I thought I was a very conscientious very methodical very detail-oriented detective. And I would never ever want to feed information or contaminate a suspect. And here I am doing it plain as day. Over the years Jim has watched these tapes dozens of times and has catalogued all the different ways that he and the other interrogators inadvertently led her into a false confession. At some point Kim had heard as she was facing 30 years in prison how she might never get her kids back and decided to give them what they wanted. So she stitched together the little pieces Jim and the other interrogators slipped her to make up a story they would believe. Now when I say slipped we are not talking about a little bit of information. We are talking about a lot. Kim's interrogation started around 800 AM and went until 100 AM the next day. And as the day wore on the interrogators started to get tired and sloppy. Sometimes they just came out and told her actual details. At one point one of the interrogators got so frustrated trying to convince Kim that they knew what she did that he told her. He said to her we know what you ate. Kim responded huh? What did I eat? The interrogator said Chinese food. We know what you ate. Huh? We know what you ate! What? What did I eat? Chinese food! And later on Kim parroted that back to them. But most of what Jim saw was more subtle than that. Watching the interrogation he saw that it had gone down like a long game of 20 Questions. She would tell him something that did not fit his theory and he would say no that is not right. What really happened? And she would offer something else. And if that worked Jim would be really approving and then that is the detail that he would write down. And they would move on until she would given him a confession that totally fit his pre-existing theory of the crime. That is how Kim got the name of the drugstore called People's where the credit card was also used. Jim asked her if she would been there and Kim said she did not remember. He then said you do not remember? And if you listen just for an instant you hear his tone turn disapproving. Did you go a People's? I do not remember. You do not remember? Kim picked up on that and changed her answer. She said oh yeah. Yes I did. I had to get something. Oh yeah. Yes I did. What'd you buy from-- I had to get something. There is only one piece they did not give Kim. The bit about the shrimp dish. That seems to have been just an extremely unlucky guess. Jim and the other interrogators messed up in other ways too. In addition to feeding her information they ignored some really important information she was giving them. There are a few places on the tape where Kim said things that should have raised sudden immediate doubts as to her guilt. Like this one scene in the video. An interrogator had crime scene pictures of the victim's hands. He let Kim take the photos from him and hold them up to her face. Her reaction was not quite what you would expect from someone who was there. She immediately said they tied him up! They tied him. They tied him up! They tied him up! Now that is a pretty significant statement. I mean because she is surprised about the bindings and all of that. But I mean we never picked up on that that she was surprised at that. And later on when she is talking to us about what happened she talks about how he was tied up with this wire-like thing about how they did not take his wedding ring. All things that she could have picked up from the pictures. But the most outrageous thing Jim missed when she told him I was pregnant. I was seven months pregnant the night of the murder. This was important because the woman they were looking for who had showed up in the ATM photo and had been seen by liquor store clerks was clearly not pregnant. I was pregnant.  I was seven months pregnant then. Wait. How did you not hear that? Where that went was right over top of my head. I mean that was an alibi. And we just did not pick up on it. Why? Because we were not looking for it. We were only looking for confirmation of what we thought was true rather than seeking out what the truth really is. There was no record of the pregnancy anywhere in Jim's notes. This was in spite of the fact that when he arrested her she had been holding a three-week-old baby meaning she was definitely very pregnant at the time of the murder. But no one at the DC police did the math. They did not feel like they had to. Kim had confessed. Here's what is really troubling. Jim learned all this stuff by accident. At the time the overwhelming majority of interrogations in this country were not videotaped. Usually the police only turned on a recorder when they were ready to tape the final confession. But luckily in Kim's interrogation Jim and his partners messed up. After they took her confession for credit card fraud Jim forgot to turn the recorder off. He just kept interviewing her while the video ran which later gave him a very rare look at the way his interrogation had actually happened. And by the end of it Jim saw why Kim's confession had sounded so completely convincing. They had inadvertently rehearsed for almost 17 hours. Kim appeared so cold blooded and unrepentant because she was just exhausted. If the case had not fallen apart and had gone to trial her final confession is all a jury would have seen not the interrogation videos from much earlier where she was denying everything and getting help on the facts from the police. Jim is convinced she would have been convicted. Once he figured all this out Jim did not go around telling everyone he knew that he would gotten a false confession. At least not at first. I mean I will be honest with you. Who would I have told? My bosses were old school. I mean they were the dinosaur's dinosaurs. And they would have a problem believing me if I told them that I thought it was a false confession. They would have thought what is wrong with you? You are crazy. Instead he quietly pulled up her case file on the police's computer system and typed in that Kim's confession was false. If anybody who came behind me-- let us say that I retired I dropped dead or whatever and somebody came behind me-- I did not want them bothering Kimberly at all. But later on her name came up with another detective who came to me and said look I pulled up Kim's name in the computer and she was a murder suspect? And I said oh yeah. But did not you read the last part? I ruled her out whatever and all that. He said yeah I read that. But she confessed. So I said listen to what I am saying. It is a false confession. But it is like it could not penetrate. For a very long time it is pretty much been gospel among law enforcement that a confession is a confession is a confession. When Jim went through interrogation training he was taught that a person would never ever confess to something they did not do unless they would been physically tortured or were mentally ill. We have been talking about false confessions for 20 years now and some people still do not believe in them. There have been cases where suspects falsely confessed then recanted backed up their innocence with DNA evidence and were convicted anyway. Meanwhile out in the police world there is still some resistance to the one thing that most experts agree could help prevent wrongful convictions-- videotaping entire interrogations rather than just confessions. Only 17 states plus the District of Columbia have statutes or court rules on recording police interrogations in cases involving serious crimes. When Jim retired from the DC Police in 2010 he would basically become an evangelist for I got a false confession and here's how. He started giving presentations about Kim's case to law schools and police conferences where he pointed out all the ways he would coached her. But what is interesting is that when he gives those talks to police he calls the class something like Avoiding Investigative Pitfalls and then only at the very end slips in a bit about false confession. He said if he led with it people would walk out. Though Jim has been talking about Kim's case for years now to all sorts of audiences he has no idea whatever happened to her. I found her in another state far away from Washington DC. The only way she would meet me was in a hotel an hour away from where she lives. She was worried she said. Kim lives in a small town and people are nosy. She is spent a long time trying to put the past behind her. She told me that when Jim first knocked on her door she thought he had the wrong person. She tried telling him that but Jim really had no interest in hearing her denials. So I asked her what she was thinking in that interrogation room 19 years ago. First thing that popped in my head was my kids. I just had a newborn. And that is when I started crying. I was starting to get more agitated. It is like I did not do this. I do not know what you guys are trying to do. I just want to get the process over with. I was tired. I just figured I would give them something and maybe they would just let me go home. I do not know. I was 20 years old. That is what I thought was the best thing for me to do at that time. The fact that she felt that way was not an accident. Jim said they implied they would let her see her kids if she talked. At one point I asked Kim if it ever surprised her that she was talked into giving a false confession. She looked at me like I was crazy. She told me she had not confessed at all. A confession she explained means admitting to something you did. But she did not do anything. Basically Jim asked her to play a game and she played it. It was just something that I just made up by what I saw. I did not really confess to anything. So I do not totally understand the difference. But it seems like it is an important one and I want to make sure I get it. You are saying you did not make a confession. You told them something. I mean if you put a bunch of pictures in front of a child and you tell them what comes first and what comes next? Nine times out of ten they are going to make up their own thing. I know I was not a child. But things were put in front of me and I just told a story. Even Kim's court-appointed attorney had wanted her to plead guilty. Some of her family thought she would done it. So even after she was released from jail Kim found it impossible to get back on her feet. Child Protective Services took her kids. And without her kids she lost her spot in the family shelter. Without any place to live she says she was never stable enough to get her kids back. Kim says she spent almost a year and a half on the street at one point sleeping in a tool shed in a DC Park. She never regained custody of her children. Kim's case had been dismissed without prejudice meaning if prosecutors ever found new evidence they could bring her back in. Kim believes although I could not verify this that this prevented her from getting jobs that the charge showed up on background checks that people judged her for it. Even though I was not locked up and I was released I still felt like I was still in jail but on the outside world. I mean I was still treated like I was a criminal. I lost my kids. I was homeless on the street could not get a job. And I really tried my best to turn my life around. I really tried. And soon as they did that background check it was a no-go. I even tried to join the military and it came back. I am haunted. I do not know if anything's going to come about. Is this going to be brought back up again? I do not know. Keep in mind that Kim by the standards of people who confess falsely was extremely lucky. She was innocent and she was released. In her case in a way the system worked. She does not feel lucky though. She feels like her life has been ruined. While Jim has spent most of the last decade using Kim's story as a cautionary tale Kim herself had no idea until I talked to her that he would ever thought about it again let alone that he thought she was innocent or that he blamed himself. So when she found out about this she stood up and walked slowly out of the room sobbing. He could have really if he really wanted to make things right. He knows how to. He is a former detective or whatever he is now. I do not know. He knows how to get a hold of me and that is the thing that bugs me the most.   I cannot change my past. I do not have any of my kids because of it. It is still on my record.  Hello? Kim? This is Jim Trainum. When I interviewed Kim she surprised me by asking for 