From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am going to take your mind to a state of enhanced mental imagery. You will clearly remember everything I tell you and you will do everything that I tell you to do. I want you to imagine being on a beautiful deserted beach. I want you to picture yourself lying on a beach chair staring out at the ocean. You are watching the waves gently rolling into the shore. Wave after wave gently rolling into the shore. And with each wave you are becoming more and more relaxed calm and at peace. You can feel yourself relaxing now. You are watching wave after wave gently rolling into the shore. And you are now totally relaxed calm and at peace. I am now going to count from one to five. And when I get to the count of five you will remember to do what you have been trained to do and you will be awake alert and absolutely confident that you will pass your polygraph test. One. Two. Three. Four. Five. This is Douglas Williams and this is part of a story created by the podcast Love  Radio a story put together by Jacob McClelland Ana Adlerstein Steven Jackson and Nick van der Kolk. If you do not know about Love  Radio they are masters at doing these stories that unfold and slowly reveal what they are about over time with no narration. And this story does that beautifully. And we are just going to jump in and start our show with this. Quick warning that we have unbeeped some curse words in this internet version of the program. If you prefer a beeped version-- maybe you are listening with kids-- it is at our website. The story begins when the guy at the center of it Douglas Williams is in his 20s and joins the police force in Oklahoma City.  I actually could not believe they actually paid me to do it. I loved it so much especially the first year. They sent me to New York City for polygraph school at the National Training Center of Lie Detection in New York City. And in 1972 I became a certified polygraph expert. So after that I just was running polygraph examinations for criminal suspects police applicants and all internal affairs investigations. When you are working in internal affairs you have narrowed your circle of friends down to a big fat zero because the police officers are all frightened of you too because they have seen you come into their little break room prior to their shift change. And I walk out then walked in there quite a few times and they would be in there shooting pool and having fun talking to one another and I would walk in and it would get dead silent. Everybody would look at me. I would run two or three tests a day. Some days I did not have any at all to run. But that is all I did was run polygraph tests. I became very cognizant of the fact that fear has a very distinct smell. I have heard it described as a mixture of shit and spinach and that is a pretty close description. It truly does have a very distinct odor. The smell lingered in my office. I smelled it every day. It was there when I closed up the office at night. It was there when I opened up the office in the morning almost like a fog or something. I got really good at doing what I did. I mean I could literally scare the hell out of people with that thing. For instance one of the props they told you to use was a little plastic heart like the doctors have in their office that comes apart and shows the left ventricle and the right ventricle and the cutaways and what-have-you. And it gets you that and leave that sitting on your desk. When you get into your interrogation you tell everybody that comes in you tell them OK now when you lie you will not be able to control yourself. And you reach over there and you get that little heart and you take it apart and you put one part in your left hand and one part in your right hand. And you start getting them and you say OK now you know when you lie-- when you lie your heart's going to start beating faster and faster and faster and faster and faster. And you slam those pieces of heart back and forth back and forth back and forth faster and faster and faster and you will not be able to control it. You will not be able to lie to me without your heart going bam! Bam! Bam! Bam! Bam! Bam! Bam! It was just so dramatic but I tried it a few times. It actually worked pretty good. It got people's attention. I do not know if it was because of the demonstration or because they just thought man I am talking to a crazy man here. It is a damn good interrogation technique. Since we cannot beat the hell out of people physically let us just beat the hell out of them psychologically and coerce them into a confession. So that is what the polygraph is. It is a psychological billy club that will coerce a person into a confession. It is not a lie detector and we are stupid if we use it as such but there are occasions when it is real good to put pressure to bear on a criminal to get a confession. So I see you have some gear here. Yeah. Let me just-- so basically what we have here is a very antiquated very crude instrument. It was invented in 1922 and it has not changed significantly since it was invented in 1922. The polygraph test itself-- poly meaning many and graphos meaning tracings is what the polygraph stands for. So the many tracings that the polygraph records are your blood pressure your pulse rate sweat activity on your hand and your breathing. Next thing we are pulling out here is GSR electrodes. They record what is known as the galvanic skin response which is basically just increase or decrease in the sweat activity in your hand. This here is just a cardio cuff similar to what the doctor uses to test your blood pressure in a doctor's office. So what we have here is a machine that can watch you breathe watch two fingers on your right hand sweat and watch your heartbeat. So the more heinous the crime under investigation the more likely an innocent person is going to fail. Jake if you are accused of molesting the 11-year-old neighbor girl Sally you are already in a state of shock because just the accusation alone's enough to ruin you. You are sitting there thinking oh Lord what will happen to me? I mean what about my job my neighbors my friends my family? This is just unbelievable. So you are stressed to the max already. You are already starting to sweat just thinking about it. I am already sweating. Exactly. Just thinking about this situation has already got you stressed out and it is just an imaginary situation. Imagine if it were real. When did your doubts in the polygraph first begin to manifest? I would been at it for a while. And of course I knew I could control my breathing but I never could figure out for sure how to control the cardio and blood pressure and the GSR until a friend of mine came in talking about the pucker factor and tighten up the anal sphincter muscle when he was under stress. And so after he left I just hooked myself up to the polygraph and pumped up the air in the cuff and tightened up my anal sphincter muscle like I was trying to stop a bowel movement and lo and behold there was a most gigantic wonderful naturally-occurring cardio rise accompanied by a GSR rise. So just by simply tightening up your anal sphincter muscle you can cause a reaction at will. Then all you had to do was figure out the appropriate time to do it. It takes an a-hole with a little training to beat an a-hole with a little training. Shortly thereafter I quit. I wrote a letter of resignation. I was a cryptographer in the military studying cryptography so I started each sentence with a different letter just as my own little private joke. If you looked at the first letter of each sentence in my resignation letter it spells out bullshit. And I commenced my crusade. I bought a polygraph instrument. I got an old 1967 Chevy Panel Truck. I rigged it up where I could live in it and made me a little fold-down bed porta-potty. Put me in some water supply. Put me in a little Coleman camp stove and a little homemade desk that I could fold my bed out and put my little homemade desk up there and put my typewriter on there. So I would just live in my little '67 Chevy Panel Truck and work construction jobs enough to keep body and soul together. And I would just moved from city to city. Started down in Houston and then Dallas and Fort Worth and Indianapolis then Chicago and various other places. Every city had their own talk show host. And then back then out in front of every convenience store there used to be a whole bank of payphones. I conducted hundreds of radio talk shows standing in a phone booth outside 7-Eleven clerks swatting off mosquitoes and what-have-you. Every time I went on a radio talk show I was a great success. I would light up the phones like crazy. Everybody had a horror story about a polygraph test. Then I would put on seminars. The seminars would be very simple. I would done them in union halls churches people's living rooms. I have had as low as five people and as high as close to 5000. I have a polygraph up there. I would say OK here's the deal. I am going to teach you in five minutes or less how to control every tracing on this polygraph chart. Then I would look around the audience and I would find the one who had the most skeptical look on their face and I would point to them and I would say you do not believe a damn word I am saying do you? They would kind of shrug or something. And then I would say come up here. Come up here. Then OK here how the photograph works. OK. Come over here and get you hooked up to this machine. Just lean forward and raise both arms. Let me get finished hooking up here and we will-- so what we are going to do today is I am going to set you down here on this little chair and I am going to hook you up to this so-called lie detector. And in just a matter of a few minutes I will teach you how to control every tracing on the polygraph chart by simply using what I call mental imagery. So we will explain more about that here in a minute. Let me get around here and hook up this-- In order for you to pass this test you have got to-- telling the truth has nothing to do with it. You have got to produce for the polygraph examiner what he expects to see from a truthful person on this chart. The premise behind the polygraph is that if you are lying you will have a reaction on the relevant questions and no reaction on the control questions. Now what are the relevant questions? Well the relevant questions are obviously those that pertain to the pointed issue. For instance if the test is about whether you leaked the information to The Washington Post then the questions would be pertaining to that leak. Did you tell The Washington Post reporter about the president's speech? Do you know anyone who had access to the president's speech that may have given it to The Washington Post? On and on. They will then intersperse questions called control questions. The control questions are innocuous questions that have nothing to do with the pointed issue. They are completely irrelevant. Have you ever lied to anyone in authority to keep from getting in trouble? Have you ever stolen anything? All those types of irrelevant control questions. And then what I want you to do is just basically relax on the relevant questions and then show me a nice little reaction-- think of something frightening-- on the control questions. So here we go. I want you just to close your eyes and relax. I want you to picture yourself lying on a beach chair staring out at the ocean. You are watching the waves gently rolling into the shore. Wave after wave gently rolling into the shore. Now I instruct you to do this. When you hear the relevant questions and label the relevant questions and answer the relevant questions you will only picture yourself lying on this beautiful beach and you will only see the waves gently rolling into the shore. Relevant questions wave after wave. Relevant questions gently rolling into the shore. Relevant questions totally relaxed calm and at peace. Open your eyes. You know that relaxed feeling you have got right now? Yes. The way to trigger that is to simply label the questions as relevant questions in your mind before you answer them. And then you have got to be able to manipulate a reaction on the control question. So in order to manipulate a reaction on a control question I want you to live through your most frightening experience or your worst fear on the control questions OK? What kind of frightening scenario are you going to run through your mind? Going spelunking and losing my flashlight. Oh that would do it. I would absolutely-- there would be claw marks. My fingernails would be gone and I would be stark raving mad in a matter of about five minutes. OK so that is what you are going to do. Now what we are going to do instead of asking you actual questions I am just going to say relevant and you will think relevant in your mind and answer yes. And then I am going to say control and you will think control in your mind and answer no on the control questions OK? OK. Now we are going to put some air in the cuff here. And then we are going to get this show on the road. Relevant. Yes. Relevant. Yes. Control. No. Control. No. Above all else the devil hates to be mocked and I am mocking him. I am showing them for the frauds and the con men that they are and they despise me for it. The things that motivated me to stop using this and start fighting it were in part my guilt for having done it and trying to make restitution for all that I would done but also the knowledge that people were being absolutely destroyed by this in so many ways. I used to hear them brag in their polygraph meetings that well I hit the local drugstore for 50 tests to fail two openings. What that means is they have called 48 other people liars when they may or may not have been lying just so that they can continue to run polygraph tests at 250 a whack. Polygraph operators were just ripping people off and destroying people's lives just so that they could unjustly enrich themselves. In 1985 I was finally invited to go testify in Congress. For the consideration of the bill HR 1212 which the clerk will report by title. A bill to prevent the denial of employment opportunities by prohibiting the use of lie detectors by employers-- There was a big gallery. A lot of news people and stuff back there and a lot of spectators and stuff. And during the first two or three testimonies there was a hubbub in the back kind of like a murmuring and people talking to one another like they were not paying attention because they were all spouting the same old company line and everything. This is a rights vote and what separates us from the Soviet Union is a debate that is going on in this House today. And so I start. And I still remember how I started. I said my name is Douglas Gene Williams and I plead guilty to crimes against humanity. I was a right-wing terrorist. I tortured thousands of people documented more confessions than most Gestapo agents violated countless constitutional rights and had absolutely no regard for human dignity. I was a well-trained terrorist. And my weapon of choice was the polygraph. And I noticed as I was going through that the murmuring stopped. It became dead silent. And then I started with the rest of my testimony. And I sat there and waxed eloquent for quite some time. Now I remember when I finished testifying there was a horrific uproar from the crowd. Flashbulbs going off people saying we want to interview you blah blah blah blah blah. It was amazing. And then here comes Chairman Martinez wading through the crowd. Then he said we have never had a polygraph operator come up and testify to the truth of the problems with the polygraph. And he said I really think this is the missing element that will enable us to get this bill passed into law. It was just unbelievable. That testimony there led to me going on CBS Night Watch and just a few months after that going on CBS 60 Minutes and radio talk shows. It was an unbelievable response. Just how easy is it to lie and get away with it? And is it possible to beat a lie detector test? It is a sad sick joke this antiquated last vestige of witchcraft. Doug Williams a former police sergeant and polygrapher has performed more than 6000 tests. He knows as much about lie detector tests as anyone. And he says they do not work. Well Jack it would be unethical to tell you exactly how to beat it. But the bottom line is that you can control it with breathing and the tightening of certain muscles. And after that--  It sounds like we are about to run out but I felt like there was finally a very real chance of destroying this terribly abusive evil industry. And I was successful in doing that to a large part in 1988. The Employee Polygraph Protection Act was passed. And it put hundreds and hundreds of polygraph examiners out of business.  Where were you when you heard that that was going to become law? I was laying on the couch and I was watching the news. Lie detectors. They have been around for a long time now 75 years. And it said-- But a majority of states do not allow-- --the Senate passed into law in the Employee Polygraph Protection Act which prohibits the use of the polygraph in the private sector. It is now a federal crime if an employer requires an employee to submit to a polygraph examination. It was almost like I was picked up off of that couch and just raised above the heads of these millions of people who no longer had to be subjected to this trauma and that I was just being held up there and now I could live. It was a physical sensation as well as an emotional and mental sensation. I could feel myself literally physically being lifted up off of that couch. It was almost as though I could hear the cheers and the laughter and the joy coming from all these people. It was an amazing experience. If you will look back in history anybody that is ever done anything-- and I am not putting myself in their shoes or elevating myself to their status at all-- but like Solzhenitsyn or Mandela or some of the other ones who had spent their life in protesting and dissidence-- and I am reminded of that picture of the Chinese man in Tiananmen Square a number of years ago. There he stood hand up stop hand up in front of the tank whole line of tanks. Now he knew that was not going to end well for him. He knew that was not a rational act. But something inside of him compelled him to stand up in front of that tank and raise his hand in protest and I can totally relate to that. I was charging windmills. I mean Don Quixote was mentally healthy compared to me. I really did. I looked at myself as a guerrilla soldier waging a one-man war against what I saw and still see as an oppressive abusive industry. And I vowed to myself that I would do whatever it took for as long as it took to destroy that oppressive industry. In 1996 the internet was just beginning to get started and I registered the domain name polygraph.com. I am the first one to ever put what they call an ebook on the internet. I charged 47.45 each and I sold in excess of 200000 worth of books every year for about-- This call is from a federal prison. My name is Doug Williams and I am the only licensed polygraph examiner to ever tell the truth about the so-called lie detector. Before you take a polygraph test you must get properly prepared. Remember failing to prepare is simply preparing to fail. So go to the store page of this website get my manual and online video or DVD look them over a few times-- And then I guess by popular demand people kept calling me and writing me and emailing me and saying man I understand what you are saying in the manual but I need to know for sure that I can pass this test. This is the only hurdle I have to pass. I said well I have got my own polygraph. I will just set up my own little deal and bring them in and let them practice on it and make sure they know what they are doing. It worked out real good for everybody. I was making a lot of money and they were getting their jobs that they went for. So yeah I did that for about 14 years all the way up to the time I was thrown in prison.  But by this point the Employee Polygraph Protection Act was already in place. Why continue with that fight? It was not a fight. It was a service at that point because people had to take a polygraph test to get every kind of job with the police department intelligence agencies the Secret Service on and on and on and they knew that it was a joke. So yeah it was a service. And it was still somewhat of a crusade because I would love to see and I have advocated that we expand the Employee Polygraph Protection Act to protect all employees not just private employees.  Would folks come here to Norman to come to your training or would you go to them? Both. Most of them by far came here because I hate to fly so I would charge an exorbitant amount of money if I had to go somewhere else so most of them came here. How much would you charge per session? 1000 if they would come to me 5000 if I have to go to them. Was there anybody-- did you ever have a client who could never figure it out? Who could never learn the techniques? No. Well you just saw. What is to learn? What is to learn here? Can you think of losing your flashlight when you are spelunking? Can you think about laying on the beach? Can you do those two things Jacob? Oh whoa I do not know. That is pretty hard there. Let me see. Think I will be able to do that? Yeah. The United States of America versus Douglas G. Williams a dramatic reading. First Undercover Operation. On or about October 15 2012 Undercover A placed a telephone call to Williams' telephone number listed on the Williams' website which connected Williams to his personal cellular telephone. It was a series of calls actually over a period of days. Undercover A told Williams that he was an inspector at an airport and was under investigation for allowing a friend to pass through customs with contraband. Williams promised to assist Undercover A to get ready and told Undercover A 'There is not going to be one problem at all.' Undercover A informed Williams that he intended to lie to investigators about his involvement in illegal smuggling. And he just kept calling and kept calling. He was the first-- the only-- the first one-- only one that had ever come out and said to me that he intended to lie. Nobody else had ever said anything like that. Williams chastised Undercover A saying 'What the fuck do you think you are doing dumbass? Do you think you have like a lawyer confidentiality with me?' Williams continued 'I have not lived this long and fucked with the government this long and done such controversial shit and got away with it by being a dumbass.' Williams then threatened not to conduct the training for Undercover A stating 'I do not know if you have got sense enough to keep your damn mouth shut.' He was so pathetic his pleading voice. And he kept calling me back and kept pleading and kept pleading and kept pleading. After Undercover A asked if there was any way Williams would train him Williams stated 'I am just working on the assumption that you are telling the truth.' See that protects me. You do not have to turn around and say yeah like I told you I am a lying son of a bitch. What the fuck was the reason for that unless you wanted it on the record that I was knowingly teaching someone how to lie and cheat? About three hours later I called him back and I said you are a believer right? He said yes. And I said well I will tell you what. I will help you out here because I just do not want to see you have to suffer for one mistake and be accused of things that you did not do. And so-- On or about October 27 2012 Williams met Undercover A at a hotel in Arlington Virginia for private in-person training. Williams stated 'Now that we are alone in private tell me what this is all about. First thing's first. You got my money? God Steven I hope you make me a good documentary because this is such bullshit and I am so fucking sick of reading it I cannot even begin to tell you. You can leave that in the tape if you like. You know at that point in time there was not any-- he had not told me all this other stuff. They got me in there under false pretenses saying I already knew about this. There was not anything else. Then when I get in there he said I have been doing this for quite a few times and I have been making money doing this blah blah blah. And it is just off-the-wall stuff. I was confused upset and like I said I felt obligated to follow through with the training that he had contracted me to do. During the training Williams instructed Undercover A 'Do not change your story. Do not tell on yourself. And do not admit to ever seeing me or talking to me or anything else.' And when it was all over he gave me a big ol' hug and thanked me for helping him. I even put on my Twitter that I helped another person withstand another traumatic polygraph experience. I did not think there was anything wrong with anything I did. Pause for dramatic effect. Second Undercover Operation. Man is this the biggest pile of bullshit I ever saw in my life. On or about February 5 2013 Undercover B placed a telephone call to Williams' personal cellular telephone. Undercover B told Williams that he was employed as at county sheriff and he was applying for a job with the border patrol. During a conversation Undercover B told Williams that he was worried about answering questions the CBP might ask relating to sex and drugs. Williams told Undercover B 'I will get you ready. Do not tell me anything that will disqualify you and I can train you how to pass if you are lying your ass off so do not worry about that fucking bullshit. Yeah. He arrived at the appointed time knocked on the door and I told him to come in. And then I go through my little exercise and have him close his eyes and read off the little script. I said OK think of something frightening on the controls. And that is when he would said that he had got sexual favors from a 14-year-old girl when he was driving her home and that he had smuggled cocaine into the jail. Undercover B tried to further explain his concerns but was interrupted by Williams saying Oh god please help me. Shut the fuck up. Quit worrying about all that stuff. Listen I am fixing to put it all positive OK?' Williams added 'I do not give a damn if you are the biggest heroin dealer in the fucking United States.' Why are you saying this? Why are you talking like this? And I just lost it. I went crazy in front of him. If you come in here and make these stupid confessions to me I am going to give you absolution you son of a bitch. I am going to lick my finger and I will put the sign of the cross on his forehead and I was like . Go in peace my son.  doing my best imitation of a priest speaking in Latin. He was sitting there wide-eyed and he was getting more pink by the minute. And then finally I just got right down in front of his face and put my nose right next to his and I said you about ready to stop this crap and go catch your airplane? Yes sir. Yes sir I am. And he grabs his backpack and runs out the door and then here comes five federal agents in bulletproof vests. They had this long drawn-out search warrant all printed up. And they told me well this could all be over today if you just cooperate. And I said man I do not know what you mean by cooperating. I do not know what I have done. Well will you talk to us about this? And I said no I do not-- I am not talking to you at all. You call my attorney. Up front at 930 tonight a federal investigation has targeted Doug Williams' work. Williams says the federal government alone spends 150 million on polygraph screenings for people working with classified information but points to the recent cases of Bradley Manning and Edward Snowden as proof the polygraph is far from a foolproof way to stop intelligence leaks. Williams and another anti-polygraph crusader are under federal investigation for their role in teaching techniques to pass the so-called lie detector. I do not and will not knowingly assist anyone to lie or train anyone to lie. But by far the majority of people who are called liars are innocent truthful people that are falsely branded as liars simply because they are nervous. Williams says he refuses to teach people who tell him they want to lie and will not stop working to end the use of the machine he believes is based on faulty science. They went ahead and indicted me. And the rest of the story you know. They were threatening all sorts of stuff like OK well this guy-- bear in mind he really was not applying for a job. He was already a customs and border patrol agent but he was claiming that he was trying for a job. They were saying OK well you are helping this guy get a job that he was not qualified for and this job pays 60000 a year and he will be working there for 30 years so you are going to have to forfeit to the government 30 times 60000. Boy that can bring pressure to bear on you. And so it was one of those deals where I said OK shoot up here amongst us. One of us has got to have some relief. I had pled guilty trying to save myself from being in debt to the government for like 17 million. You were a trained interrogator for many years in the police department. This was your job. You were a professional. Could not you tell if a client was unscrupulous? Boy you name me one person on the face of this earth that is not unscrupulous in one degree or another. So how am I going to determine the degree of unscruples? Give me a dying break. You are a trained interviewer. Can you tell at what point I am BSing you and what point I am not? No you cannot and nobody can in spite of what they say. OK. So Doug I just want to go back and when you first started out training people did you have any ground rules you drew from? No I had no ground rules because I never saw the necessity of having any ground rules because no one ever came in and told me they were going to lie and I never told anyone I was going to teach them how to lie. And you did not ask any questions? OK. You are going to paint me in whatever corner you want to paint me. You just go ahead and paint me. But I never told anyone to lie nor did anyone tell me they were going to lie and the government knows that very well because they have interviewed 5000 people that I trained. Not one of them ever told me they were going to lie. So-- Doug-- OK god. I am not mounting a federal investigation against you. Well you certainly are. You are sitting there saying that it was incumbent upon me to inquire as to whether or not a person is guilty of a crime when they come in and learn about how to pass a polygraph test. It is not incumbent upon me to do that. That is not my job nor is it my responsibility. I am neither ethically or legally required to do that. But were there lines to yourself that you were uncomfortable with crossing? I never crossed any lines. What lines did I ever cross? None. Hello. Hey Doug. How you doing? Well I am 71 years old and I am in federal prison. How the hell do you think I am doing? I was sentenced to two years. I got about another four or five months before I finish my sentence. You hear all the racket in here? 250 guys crammed into a 2-story building about the size of a small apartment complex living in 12 by 9 rooms two men to a room. So it is always in the background a constant uproar. I am in here with a bunch of nonviolent drug offenders or crooked bankers tax cheats. This is a work prison. All I have to do is clean the windows in the visiting room of the administration building. It takes me about 15 minutes and then I am done. Then I go out and work out. I work out twice a day. My goal is to leave here in better shape physically emotionally spiritually than I was when I came in here if for no other reason than to show them they cannot beat me. But I stay pretty busy. I do a lot of reading. Just parenthetically prisoners are probably the best reviewers of literature that there is because that is all they do is read. They spend hours and hours and hours reading. Have you given any trainings? Oh yeah. I have trained quite a few people yeah including some of the officers here because it turns out they are subjected to polygraph examinations on occasion themselves. And you just do it without a polygraph machine? You just do the mental imagery stuff? I can teach them without a polygraph. I have done it for years . You do it in the cafeteria or in your room or? Wherever. I have beat them everywhere. Do you feel that if you have indirectly helped someone actually deceive a polygraph operator that that is a small price to 