When I was in my 20s I worked as a temp typist on the overnight shift. And it was one of my favorite jobs I ever had. I showed up at work at midnight. Downtown was completely dark. Nobody on the streets at all. And I would take the elevator to the you know 20th floor or whatever it was. And it would be all lit up and bustling with activity dozens of people rushing around. Usually we were hustling out some kind of legal brief or exhibit for court the next day. I loved being up when the rest of the world was asleep. And the next morning when I would walk to the subway as the sun was coming up I loved knowing that everybody else on the street was dragging themselves to their jobs and I was done for the day. It was like I was part of a secret society that is alive in the middle of the night. OK. Everybody go home. We are about to start this. It is a regular thing for Austin and his high school friends at night. The pile into a Honda Odyssey minivan. They remove the backseats and drive around the Northern California suburbs fake-kidnapping their buddies. 15 of them. Open the door! Open the door! Did you get him? Get in the back. Everybody in? Opa! The fake kidnapping is all part of a tradition that they have made up. They call it going out living or living a little. It is not the weekend. The whole point of this is do this on a boring Monday or Tuesday or Thursday night. A school night when other people are not out having fun. There is no destination. It is basically just glorified cruising. They drive around for hours talking about whatever singing along to the music.  They bring their minivan to the top of a hill and put it in neutral and then they all rock back and forth inside the van in unison until finally it rolls down the hill. Whoa! And then sometime after 1 AM Ian the driver pulls out the soundtrack to the Disneyland ride Space Mountain. He is worked out a way to drive in sync with the soundtrack to simulate the actual ride. Yeah. We are in the car driving very slowly up this dark hill. This is Austin. The headlights are very low. This kind of eerie music. Everyone's a little bit nervous because you are about to do something-- probably the most dangerous thing we do. Launch control LV. Go ahead. All video recorders off. Roger. At this point he flips on his emergency lights and starts speeding up a little bit up the hill turns the car around. Lets the car roll down the hill accelerating all the way. His lights are turning on and off on and off on and off. Driving very very quickly at this point around turns. So basically you are going down a hill? Yeah. We are going down a very steep windy hill. It is remote enough by the way that in a year of doing this they have never even seen another car. None of this would be fun during the daytime Austin says. At night nobody sees you. You can do anything. Late at night is kind of the whole fun of the event. People do not really pay attention to who is doing what at night.  From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Today on our show we spend an hour with the secret society that is up in the middle of the night. All the people doing things that they would never do during the daytime and the people doing things that they might be during the day that just feel different when you do them at night. Moving products and hauling across a war zone and caring for sick kids and just wandering the streets to get out of the house. Everything is different at night. We witness how in five acts. Stay with us. Act One. Orange You Glad I Did not Say Banana? To get to the Hunts Point Market you drive through this industrial part of the South Bronx and at night it is abandoned. For miles you pass all these closed auto repair lots and plumbing supply stores. And then you go through a fence pass some pretty intense security drive a bit more and suddenly boom. You are in the Hunts Point Terminal Market. And it is like a busy city at rush hour. Bright and loud. Forklifts whipping around carrying pallets to trucks. Warehouses in long rows several city blocks long. 60 acres of produce. When people arrive here at 10 PM to work what they say to each other is good morning because the middle of the night is when the most of the business gets done. Two members of the team of economics reporters at Planet Money Adam Davidson and Chana Joffe-Walt usually report on financial markets and derivative markets and currency markets so they were pleased to get a chance to actually visit a market what people buy and sell stuff that you can see and touch and smell. Here they are. Eddie One-Way needs some pears. His name is actually Edward Joseph. They call him Eddie One-Way because he wants prices to go one way-- down. He is a buyer one of thousands of guys who show up here every night. And they are buying for pretty much every grocery store restaurant corner market in the northeast. If you have ever bought a Golden Delicious apple or ate a salad in a restaurant between Philly and Boston chances are it came through here. And it is nothing like when you or I buy a salad at a restaurant. There are no posted prices. It us pure supply and demand. And right now demand-- that is Eddie One-Way the buyer-- is looking for supply. Let us see here where is my salesman? Oh Mr. Timmy? Timmy is a salesman at one of the wholesalers here to Rigo Brothers. He is close by. I think he is in one of these refrigerators. This place here is a stadium. I think you need GPS to get around here. It would help. Eventually Eddie One-Way finds Timmy and they enter into a ritual that will happen thousands of times throughout the night. They try to negotiate a price. Eddie thinks 15 for a box of pears seems fair. Timmy does not. No way. We could do it-- I told you 20 yesterday. Yesterday's gone. Today's a new day. 20 yesterday 18 today. That is it. Stay close Timmy. Timmy offers Eddie a different kind of pear for 15 which to me looked exactly the same. 15 on these 18 on them. But Eddie One-Way knows things about pears that I will never know and he ignores that ridiculous offer. Why do you want to pay 15? Why is 18--? I would like to pay 13 but I am being generous. All right. That is it brother. That is it man. 18 is the right number. You know it is what they are worth. The night's still young. Eventually Eddie One-Way walks away. The night is still young. At this hour the sellers guys like Timmy feel like they are in control. They do not want to give anything away too cheap yet. There is lots more buyers still to come. But Eddie the buyer is hoping that if he comes back later in the night Timmy will not have sold that much. He will be desperate to get rid of his pears and will accept a lower price. But Eddie's really taking a risk here. I know. I actually saw this risk play out with carrots and it was really stressful. Jeff Steinberg is a buyer like Eddie and he was looking for this one particular kind of carrot. A fancy one. Loose California. And I followed him around walking the aisles one seller to another. And at first everyone has the carrots but Jeff is offended-- or at least acts offended-- by the high prices. And then an hour passes. And now nobody has Loose Californias anymore. Jeff cannot find the carrots he needs at any price. So he is thinking he may have to settle for something inferior-- Loose Canadians. Eugh. Jeff asks a seller named Carlos how much for the Loose Canadians. Carlos tells him eight bucks a box. I will be right back then. What is he doing now? Going to look at something that he is going to come back and tell me he does not like. What does it mean that he is not going to like it? Probably because they are not good enough for his customers. He is fairly picky so you have to give the right people the right stuff. And sure enough Jeff comes out of the warehouse shaking his head. No good. No good? And where are you going to look for carrots next? That is a good question because I have pretty much looked all over the place. So it is 1130 at night and carrots are your problem at the moment. At the moment. It is coming down to that hour where I am probably going to have to pay what they wanted what I do not want to pay. Around midnight it starts to get hectic. Buyers fill the streets. Sellers wave their arms and yell into faces and cell phones. There is a lot of sweating. And as the minutes pass all these little stories emerge. Midnight the big story-- tomatoes. They are on fire. Yesterday they were selling for 15. Now they are 25. Everyone is buying. Also breaking this hour-- leafy greens from California. They are huge because as everyone says they have weather out there. There is not enough leafy greens coming to satisfy the demand. It is around this time that we meet Angela Poricelli. Angela is the only woman we see the entire night. She says she knows of only one other woman who works here alongside something like 7000 men. Her booth is decorated with pictures. She has a big cross. She brings in fresh flowers every week. She offered me candy. And hanging out with her we learned that it is not all business here in the middle of the night. We keep seeing her next door neighbor Henry Polio stopping by on all sorts of dubious missions. Right now he is looking for a fork. Hello. Do you have a fork? Yes I do. She is the loveliest woman in the market. Believe me she is the most wonderful person in the world. I know who her family is. Our family grandfathers know grandfathers fathers knew fathers. Wonderful woman. Thank you Henry. All right. Bye. When you buy a few hundred pounds of fruit or vegetables there is so much you do not know. What is the quality? How long has it been on the truck? Is the price reasonable? And it is true-- sellers and buyers who do not know each other that well they lie to each other all the time. So with all this uncertainty there is tremendous economic value in long-term trusting relationships. Hey Adam? You are overthinking it it is so much simpler than that. I followed Henry from Angela's back to his booth. You kind of have a crush on Angela? No I do since I am a kid. But she always said no. Really? Yeah. I want to take her upstairs and she do not to. Have you ever asked her out? No no no. Does she know that you are interested? Oh she knows. I tell her. You have worked next door to her for all these years and you are never been out with her? No! And I as not going to. Why? Because It is not the right thing to do. She is my sister. She is not your sister. Well she is close to it. You are not with anybody. Who me? Yeah I got a wife. Actually I followed up. Henry does not have a wife. He did but his marriage fell apart. And he blames the night shift for that. They never saw each other. He says all these guys here have wives they never see kids never see. So I go back to Angela's and turns out she is also divorced. She raised two boys on her own. And she says yeah. The night shift definitely gets in the way of life. I remember my father. There is a lot of things he could not make it. On Sundays if there was a wedding he could not go. Sundays work. My graduation too was on a Friday and he could not come. Really? Yeah. But that is OK. I understood. So Henry he said you will never go out with them because you think of him as a brother. Yes. I agree with him there. That I do. Plus I am engaged to someone right now. His name is Wayne. He is a Green Bay Packer fan. Does he work in the market? No. Does he work days? Days yes. How is it? It is hard to start a relationship. Very hard very hard. It is just Friday and Saturday really that we see each other. Can I check back in with you? Yeah go ahead. It is one oclock in the morning and I am with Henry again. He is taking a quick break. I ordered lunch I have got Guido here and that makes tonight. It is one oclock in the morning and you just ordered lunch. Yes yes. So everything is going smooth. Tomatoes are on fire. Still? Yeah. We are sold out and they did not come off the truck. This is the point in the night where the market really changes. There are none of those people buying fancy stuff for high-end restaurants and specialty Manhattan stores. They are all gone. There is no more high-end guys like Jeff inspecting every carrot. A whole new group of buyers enters the market now. And they are buying for not-so-fancy places-- bodegas and grocery stores in working class neighborhoods pushcart vendors. They are not quite as concerned with getting the best possible quality. They want a good price. It is in this second phase that the dynamic between sellers and buyers starts to shift. Remember early in the night when Eddie One-Way had to go searching for someone to sell him pears? Over the next couple hours it is the reverse. The sellers are looking for the buyers. And this says a warehouse man named Thomas Kilgaren-- Nickname Killer-- Is the time to see who is a great salesman and who is not. There is some guys down here that could not sell life insurance to the Kennedys. Know what I mean? But there is some that are pretty good. If you could sell something that somebody does not want that is a good salesman. I come down here looking for lettuce you sell me lettuce-- any moron could do that. Sell me something that I do not want-- you know what? That is a salesman. Selling something that no one wants? That is exactly what a guy named Mike Sack Big Mike is trying to do right now. We catch up with him toward the end of the night. Earlier in the night buyers were begging Big Mike to lower his prices and he did not. He refused. And it worked out pretty well for him. He sold a lot of Red Globe grapes and mangoes and he made a killing in persimmons. But now that daylight's approaching he is got piles and piles of oranges from Chile and he is the one begging. He is pleading with one of his regular carports a guy named Amerigo Perrera to buy some of those oranges. Amerigo is pretty clear about his wishes. No oranges. You have got to give in Amerigo today. You have got to be nice. What part of no oranges do not you understand? I will give you one pallet. No! Stop playing. Be nice today. Be nice in front of the camera. There is a lady present. Shut up already. Can I give you one for 18? No Mike no. Just be nice. No. Why? I do not need it today. One skid only. Stop it stop it stop it. This stuff is being recorded you understand? Yeah but they just want to see you know and I have give you one skid. Be nice for the microphone Amerigo. Amerigo one skid. How about a 56. Why do not you stop playing around already? No. How about a 56? Amerigo! No! At around 4 AM all of the sellers in the market find themselves pretty much in the same situation as Big Mike. Tired and with too many oranges. Listen to Henry-- so tired. Oranges. Oranges are moving slow so you know you try to give everybody some oranges. Even if they do not want it they are taking them. You know what I mean? Poor couple. This is like what time do you go to bed at night? What time I go to bed? Probably like 11. So this is like your nine oclock. You know? I hate the day. Wait you hate the day? Oh I hate it. What do you hate about the day? I do not know. The sun everything. I get a headache. How are you my friend? I just do not like the sun. I do not like it. I mean I like it but you know like now if the sun came up I hate it. The morning I as not into. I like the dark. At 5 AM Henry heads home. He rakes some leaves in the front yard and then heads to sleep just as the sun comes out. And later that day a fancy grocery store in Greenwich Connecticut might have some very nice but kind of pricey tomatoes. A high-end restaurant in Manhattan may be offering the chef's tomato bisque. But further out in poorer neighborhoods in South Boston Brooklyn Queens tomatoes will be very hard to come by. Oranges though will be very cheap. And there will be lots of them. Chana Joffe-Walt and Adam Davidson of Planet Money which is a co-production of our radio show and NPR news. You can hear them three times a week speaking in language anybody can understand about the human drama that is part of all kinds of economic systems at their podcast at www.npr.orgmoney. Act Two. It Was a Dark and Smoky Night. Jenifer Hixson told this story about the random kinds of things that can happen in the middle of the night at The Moth where people get on stage and tell personal stories in front of an audience. I reached over and secretly undid my seatbelt. And when his foot hit the break at the red light I flung open the door and I ran. I had no shoes on. I was crying. I had no wallet. But I was OK because I had my cigarettes. When you live with someone who has a temper a very bad temper a very very bad temper you learn to play around that. You learn this time I will play possum and next time I will just be real nice or I will say yes to everything or you make yourself scarce or you run. And this was one of the times when you just run. And as I was running I thought this was a great place to jump out. Because there were big lawns and there were cul-de-sacs and sometimes he would come after me and drive and yell stuff at me to get back in get back in and I was like no. I am out of here. This is great. And I went and hid behind a cabana and he left. And I started to walk in this beautiful neighborhood. It was 1030 at night. And there was no sound except for sprinklers. Ch ch ch ch brrrrr. Ch ch ch ch brrrr. And I was enjoying myself and enjoying the absence of anger and enjoying these few hours I knew I would have of freedom. And just to perfect it I thought I will have a smoke. And then it occurred to me with horrifying speed I do not have a light! Just then as if in answer I see a figure up ahead. Who is that? It is not him OK. They do not have a dog. Who is that? What are they doing out on this suburban street? And the person comes closer and I can see it is a woman. And then I can see she has her hands in her face. Oh she is crying. And then she sees me and she composes herself and she gets closer and I see she has no shoes on. And just as she passes me she says you got a cigarette? And I say you got a light? And she says damn I hope so. And then first she digs into our cutoffs in the front-- nothing. And then digs in the back and then she has this vest on that has 50 million little pockets on it. She is checking and checking and it is looking bad. She digs back in the front again-- deep deep-- and she pulls out a pack of matches that have been laundered at least once. We open it up and there is one match inside. OK. Oh my god. This takes on-- it is like Nassau. Now we have got to like how are we going to do it? OK. And we hunker down. We crouch on the ground. And where is the wind coming from? We are stopping. I take out my cigarettes. Let us get the cigarettes ready. Oh my brand she says. And we both have our cigarettes at the ready. She strikes once nothing. She strikes again-- yes fire! Puff inhale. Mm sweet kiss of that cigarette. And we sit there and we are loving the nicotine and we both need this right now. Immediately we start to reminisce about our 30 second relationship. I did not think that was going to happen! Me neither! Oh man that was close! Oh I am so lucky I saw you! Yeah!' Then she surprises me by saying What was the fight about? And I say What are they all about? And she said I know what you mean. She said Was it a bad one? And I said You know like medium. She said Oh. And we start to trade stories about our lives. We are both from up north. We are both kind of newish to the neighborhood. This is in Florida. We both went to college. Not great colleges but man we graduated. And I am actually finding myself a little jealous of her because she has this really cool job washing dogs. She had horses back home and she really loved animals and she wants to be a vet and I am like man you are halfway there! I am a waitress at an ice cream parlor. So I do not know where I want to be but I know it is not that. And then it gets a little deeper and we share some other stuff about what our lives are like. Things that I cannot ever tell people at home. This girl-- I can tell her the really ugly stuff and she still understands how it can still be pretty. She understands like how nice he is going to be when I get home and how sweet that'ill be. We are chain smoking off each other. Oh that is almost out come on! And we go through this entire pack until it is gone and then I say You know what? This is a little funny but you are going to have to show me the way to get home. Because although I am 23 years old I do not have my driver's license yet and I just jumped out right when I needed to. And she says Well why do not you come back to my house and I will give you a ride? I say OK great and we start walking. And we get to this-- lots of lights. And the roads are getting wider and wider and there is more cars and I see lots of stores. You know laundromats and dollar stores and EmergiCenters. Then we cross over U.S. 1 and she leads me to someplace and I think no! But yes. Carl's Efficiency Apartments. This girl lives there. And it is horrible and it is lit up so bright just to illuminate the horribleness of it. It is the kind of place where you drive your car right up and the door's right there and there is 50 million cigarette butts outside and there is like doors one through seven and you know behind every single door there is some horrible misery going on. There is someone crying or drunk or lonely or cruel. And I think oh God. She lives here. How awful. We go to the door door number four and she very very quietly keys in. As soon as the door opens I hear the blare of television come out and on the blue light of the television the smoke of a hundred cigarettes in that little crack of light. And I hear the man and he says Where were you? And she says Never mind I am back. And he says You all right? And she says Yeah I am all right. And then she turns me and says You want a beer? And he says Who the  is that? And she pulls me over and he sees me and he says Oh hey. I am not a threat. Just then he takes a drag of his cigarette and I follow the cigarette down. And I am surprised when I see int he crook of his arm a little boy sleeping. A toddler. And I think . And just then the girl reaches underneath the bed and takes out a carton and she taps out the last pack of cigarettes in there. And on the way up she kisses the little boy and then she kisses the man. And the man says again You all right? And she says Yeah. I am just going to go out and smoke with her. And so we go outside and sit amongst the cigarette butts and smoke. And I say Wow that is your little boy? And she says Yeah is not he beautiful? And I say Yeah he is. He is beautiful. He is my light. He keeps me going she says. We finish our cigarettes. She finishes her beer. I do not have a beer because I cannot go home with beer on my breath. And she goes inside to get the keys. She takes too long in there getting the keys and I think something must be wrong. And she comes out and she says Look I am really sorry. But um like we do not have any gas in the car it is already on E and he needs to get to work in the morning and um you know I am going to walk to work as it is. So what I did was though here look I drew out this map for you. And you really you are like a mile and a half from home and um if you walk three streets over you will be back on that pretty street and you just take that and you will be fine. And she also has wrapped up in toilet paper seven cigarettes for me. A third of her pack I note. And a new pack of matches. And she tells me Goodbye! and That was great to meet you and How lucky and That was fun and you know Let us be friends. And I say Yeah OK! and I walk away. But I kind of know we are not going to be friends. I might not ever see her again. And I kind of know I do not think she is ever going to be a vet. And I cross and I walk away. And maybe this would have seemed like a visit from my possible future and scary but it kind of does the opposite. On the walk home I am like man. That was really grim over there. And I am going home now to my nice boyfriend and he is going to be so extra happy to see me. And we have a one-bedroom apartment and we have two trees and there is a yard. And we have this jar in the kitchen where there is like loose money that we can use for anything. Like we would never ever run out of gas. And I do not have a baby you know? So I can leave whenever I want. I smoked all seven cigarettes on the way home. And people who have never smoked cigarettes just think ick disgusting and poison. But unless you have had them and held them dear you do not know how great they can be and what friends and comfort and kinship they can bring. It took me a long time to quit that the boyfriend and then to quit smoking. And sometimes I still miss the smoking. Jenifer Hixson at The Moth. You can here more stories like this on The Moth's free weekly podcast at themoth.org. They also have a new weekly radio show The Moth Radio Hour that is on many public radio stations around the country. Coming up the time of night in Iraq when you can fool yourself into thinking that you are not in Iraq at all. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our show of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show The Middle of the Night. Stories that happen when most of us are already asleep. We have arrived at Act Three of our show. Act Three. The Early Bird Catches the Chicken Now a story about that people staying up all night hoping for nothing more than a chicken sandwich. When the change Chick-Fil-A opens a new store they encourage people to line up 24 hours ahead of time at 6 AM the day before. And for 100 people who do that Chick-Fil-A gives away coupons for a year of Chick-Fil-A. One combo meal per week. 52 coupons which is worth if you add it up 260 bucks. Well Dave Hill and Shaina Feinberg were curious about who comes out for that because a lot of people do. Neither of them is real reporter. Shaina is a very funny writer. Dave is a musician and a comedian. But when a new Chick-Fil-A store opened in Orlando Florida recently they went down to stay up all night and see what happens. OK. It is about nine oclock. Shaina's trying to set up the tent right now. I would totally help her but I am busy reporting. How is it going Shaina? Good. I think we put this into here and then we can-- this is where I do not get-- how does this bend? Again I would help if I could but I cannot. I am busy reporting. Can we interview you? What do you want to know about? Do you know how to set up tents? Yeah actually I set that tent up. Do you know how to set up our tent? Yeah I can set up your tent. That would be awesome. The DJ will be shutting down about 1130. At that time most of the folks will sleep and at roughly 430 in the morning the DJ comes back and we wake them up. It becomes a family-friendly event. Especially in the summer you will see whole families out here. So you will see a whole list of rules about you know no drinking and certain behavior. There is lots of dance contests. It is 1123. We are sitting here in the parking lot across from Chick-Fil-A just to see it from afar I guess. I am going to sit closer to you if you are comfortable with that. Yeah that is fine. I think we should describe what we see. Well we are pretty much in like a regular strip mall parking lot. There is a Blockbuster. There is that that rib place that we ate earlier that I am kind of regretting. Yeah. And basically there is a lot of tents up. Easily the most tents I have ever seen in a fast food restaurant parking lot in my lifetime. It is weird with radio. You have got to fill in the blanks. The visuals. We should we should go get some celery and break it like old time radio. So people will be like what is that noise? Oh. I just broke my arm in two for no apparent reason. Hello? Hello? Hi. I am Dave. I am Ken Perkins. I am Ann. But I call her Hanusha. Hanusha? Hanusha in Ukrainian is Ann. Oh I like that. How long have you guys been married? We are not married. We were married to somebody else. But he died and she died. I think he gave her mushrooms or something. No! Poison mushrooms. No. My wife died of Alzheimer's just a little over a year ago. And then and her husband died two years ago. Three. She was lonesome and I was lonesome so we got our lonesomes together. Was it love at first sight for you guys? For me it was. But he did not-- Not for me not for me. I learned to love her. It took me a while. Why why? This one I am going wild for this one and I have only been been here like three minutes. Are you married? Well we are like no. We are not married. How would you say as long as we are on the topic how do you think we are doing as a couple? Like just from vibes just work off of vibes. Go with your gut. You are a lovely couple. I think you are charming Really? Just me charming or together charming? You should have beautiful children together. That is why we brought the tent. No I am just kidding. I am going to play it slow. Oh we are not really a couple. Taco Bell? That is my favorite. Taco Bell's your favorite? I am going to pretend I did not hear that. What is your name? John. No not that name. The cool one. Veggie Oil Man Clearwater Florida. That is a pretty long nickname. Veggie OIl Man Clearwater-- Florida. What about such Vegman300? U.S.A. Do you love Chick-Fil-A? I kind of do Been to about 32 grand openings. 32? Now would not the thing to do rather than spend the money on all that travelling is just save that money and put that money towards the chicken? Travel's free. I got a Mercedes that runs on used cooking oil for free. You have a what? I got a Mercedes a diesel Mercedes. An '83 station wagon that runs on used cooking oil for free. That is what you drove here tonight in? Yeah. That is what I go to the grand openings in. Do you think anything crazy's going to happen in the middle of the night? I do not know. This is a bad neighborhood. Is it? Yeah. As long as you stay in the parking lot you would be OK. But I would not go out walking around outside. Is there a lot of riffraff around here? Yeah. Is there a lot of riffraff here? They said the hood is right across the street a couple blocks. The hood? Yeah. What do you mean the hood? You know. And across the street over the other way is the redneck trailer park. What what goes on over there? I do not know but we have seen a lot of people over there earlier today. Oh you went over to the redneck trailer park? No we seen them when we got our food at the drive-through. They were hanging out over there drinking beer on the porch. I am going to sleep. Hello? OK. What is your name? My name's Cole Naismith. And what time is it? Do you know what time it is? It is probably about 115. Is it like what you expected? I did not know what to expect. I looked around and I thought there is definitely a type here. And you are probably going to ask follow up questions about what that means. Because I feel like-- I feel like I do not want to be the type. What is the type? I feel like most of the people that I have seen here seem to be a little bit twiddling their thumbs in life not just for 24 hours? Something as ridiculous as sitting out in front of a Chick-Fil-A makes you ask questions about am I wasting my life? I do not want to look around and seem like I am judging others' actions. But it definitely has caused me to be introspective about my own. Oh hey. This is Dave. It is about 415 AM and there is not much action going on right now. Shaina's back in the tent. Not sure what she is doing. Probably thinking about me I guess. Tension's been-- not a bad tension. Just excitement I guess between us. It is been pretty incredible. It is now 415 and everybody is sleeping for the most part. I think it is going pretty well. I like Dave. He is so nice. Wish I could figure out if he was straight or gay. I cannot really figure it out. But if I figured out if he was straight or gay then I would totally set him up with someone. Just have to figure out what his type is you know? OK. Check this out. Have you ever looked with love in your heart? This guy it is like five in the morning. And this guy just came from out of nowhere and is screaming and preaching. Have you ever stolen anything? Yes! Well the Bible says that all thieves will end up in hell. I am going to hell. Now folks have you ever used God's name in a curse word? I want you to think about it like that. You do not curse Hitler's name. Yo