 Summer is a season for festivals and today we are taking you to one in southern West Virginia. It is an annual festival of old-time music. People from around the country and world come to participate. NPR's Noah Adams takes us there.  There is a formal title for this gathering but the players singers dancers the old-time music people call it Clifftop. And that name floats around the world. My first morning there I got a cup of the best coffee sat down at a picnic table across from a young woman. She was just minutes out of her tent waking up with the best coffee. Turns out she is from France.  A friend of mine told me that I should come to discover Clifftop. I had no idea about old-time music. I play mostly Irish music. And he said just come to Clifftop. It is the best thing ever.  Virginie Winzer brought her fiddle from France and also plays four-string tenor banjo. Old-time music is not bluegrass. Bluegrass music pushes forward. Old-Time music listens farther back to deep Appalachia.   In the pines in the pines where the sun never shines. And you shiver when the cold wind blows.  Beautiful.   Ooh...  These identical twin boys are 9 years old. We will give each a second to introduce themselves.  My name is Joey Webb. And I am from Frankfurt Ky.  My name is Jamie Webb. I am from Frankfurt Ky.  One plays fiddle the other banjo. Their dad James Webb plays a lot of guitar. They are practicing for competition. The news of the day does not matter.  Well fortunately I have not heard any political things up here. The only talk I have done has been about banjos fiddles and picking. And you know I just prefer it that way actually you know it?  It is a whole lot better than what is happening out there right now anyway. I have kind of turned my Facebook on my phone off to nothing other than jam at Tommy's tent at 7 tonight at Clifftop. And so I am trying to concentrate on those things right now .   If you walk down among all the tents and the camping trailers and you carry a dozen eggs you will soon have breakfast. If you carry a fiddle take a seat for a jam maybe starting on the outside edge. As to what happens at a jam? Here's Melanie Murray Fiddle Florida.  You trade songs because different regions of the United States play their songs slightly different. And you might hear five or six songs in a jam that you have never heard before. And it makes you a stronger player. And it is so much fun.   I also spent morning time in the company of a long-standing Clifftop group 15 or so regulars getting together on the same site where they take pride in their cooking and they play up close to midnight. They had just spent two hours talking with no mention of politics. And Jim Maxwell wanted to make this point about the age of the mountains all around.  They are a lot older than our country is and they are certainly older than politics. And it is real good to get that kind of perspective and realize boy there is a world out here that is going to keep on going no matter what happens in our short lifetimes.  And here's Jim Maxwell's friends playing some.   The Clifftop festival in West Virginia is three days underway. It ends Sunday morning with a group hymn singing. Noah Adams NPR News.  