 Fifty years ago Carlos Santana and his band walked onstage at the legendary Woodstock music festival. Unlike almost everyone else playing there Santana had not yet released a full-length album.  We had the element of surprise because nobody knew us. But one thing we knew a year later after we played was that the Rolling Stones Miles Davis Jimi Hendrix everybody had congas all of a sudden. So I said hm something's working.  Half a century later after 10 Grammy awards a star on Hollywood Boulevard and a spot in the Rock  Roll Hall of Fame Carlos Santana is still creating new music with new collaborators.  I am 71. But I swear to you if you come and see our band you could not believe and you would not believe just how much energy is flowing out of our bodies.   His latest album is called Africa Speaks. I asked Carlos Santana which sounds of Africa provided his way into this music.  I turned to the wa . I learned a long time ago when I went to Ghana - the women showed me where the wa was. They said Santana and I turned around and there was you know maybe five women and they go - heya na na na na na na heya na na na wha - wha - heya  - and while they were doing that they were opening their hands like they have something. And they show me that every music in the world must have the wa. Without the wa it does not - see music has the capacity to transport you beyond time and outside of gravity if you visit the wa correctly.  Wow. I love that so much. Which track can you point us to where we will hear that wa?  Every single one. The main one on the end Candombe is the ritual ritual.  Let us listen to this track. It is called Candombe Cumbele.  Condombe - yes exactly.   .  Where do we hear the wa in that?  Wa - tchk tchk ding ka - wa . There.   .  Some of these tracks are in Yoruba others are in Spanish. How did you make those decisions? Or was that the decision of Buika your vocalist?  It was the decision of Buika. And Spanish and Yoruba they are the same.  What do you mean when you say that?  Well Spain music comes from the Moors where the - because the Moors conquered Spain. And so that is why you have flamenco because flamenco comes from brothers and sisters singing to Allah three or four or five times a day. It is the same frequency.   .  Did you think about playing the guitar in a different way that would reflect the rhythms and sounds of the African traditions you were tapping into?  No. You know I was so busy. We recorded 49 songs in 10 days. So I was more concerned with the tempo the feel and the groove of each musician in each song. So I just played. And I would - what do you call it? -  Can you take me into the head space of creating nearly 50 songs in 10 days. I am just having a hard time imagining that.  I will tell you the secret. I ask Tommy Anthony our rhythm guitar player listen - before you go to bed I want you to take those five songs that we are going to record tomorrow and map them out like directions to your house. We start the song I will crystallize the tempo the feel and the groove . So he was what I called GPS.  Wow. So were some of these tracks like a single take in the studio?  Most of them other than two.   .  Buika is a vocalist who you have not worked with before. She is from Mallorca the Spanish island which has its own roots and connections to Africa. Why were you sure that she was the right vocalist for this particular project?  Her impeccable integrity to being true. For example when I hear Nina Simone and Etta James and Tina Turner Buika is that frequency yet she does not sound like them. But she is got the same raw sincerity and honesty.  That growl that...  Trueness .   .  Tell us about the track Los Invisibles which is in Yoruba the language that is spoken in Nigeria.   .  Yeah it is in the language of New Guinea because I think she has ties with this particular DNA in her family. So when I heard it I needed to make it like funky. I asked Benny the bass player please play it like the way you play when you were playing with Miles Davis. Like - make that bass snap.   .  Everything that we played on this album is pretty much like creating nutrients and ingredients of a divine spell a divine conjuring and manifesting - divine voodoo.  Divine voodoo.  Yeah.  What kind of a spell are you trying to cast on the listener? When somebody listens to this album what do you hope it creates in them?  It is the same thing when people get really really passionate and they make love and when they get to that point they say oh my God - same thing.   .  Do you feel like this album explores something new within your identity - focusing on Africa songs that are in Spanish and Yoruba kind of free of the expectations of radio play.  Yes. Thank you for saying that. A long time ago I heard someone said that in the Bible it said that nothing was new under the sun. And I said whoever wrote that has a crooked and twisted mind. Everything's new to me with purity and innocence every second. It is all in how your heart perceives things to create fresh new. But you must have a consistent thirst to remain with innocence.  Is it hard for you to keep everything new and innocent when you are playing Oye Como Va for the 5000th time?  I learned a long time ago that I have the capacity to every time I play Oye Como Va or Black Magic Woman - for example Black Magic Woman - the first time we played it was in a parking lot in Fresno.    Got a black magic woman got a black magic woman.  And Gregg Rolie said hey man I have this song that I think we should do. So he started playing it and then I immediately in my mind said why do not you try a couple of Wes Montgomery here and some Otis Rush here and everything. And so every time I play a Black Magic Woman I go to Fresno the parking lot the first thing that we did it. Thank God my imagination is very very solid.  That is incredible - what a great story.   Carlos Santana thank you so much for talking with us today. This has been a real pleasure.  Thank you for sharing me with the folks. Stay precious and know that you can create miracles and blessings. Peace.   Carlos Santana's new album is called Africa Speaks.   . 