 News of the debt talks breaking down has raised tensions between President Obama and congressional Republicans to a new height. Musician and commentator David Was has an idea of how to get talks back on track.  There is much disharmony in the air in Washington D.C. these days what with the rhetorical battle over raising the debt ceiling. My suggestion to simply lower the floor instead has gone largely ignored so I have come up with a musical strategy that might just bring all this contentious posturing to a standstill. It is called mood music in some circles disparaged as elevator music elsewhere. Allow me to explain my ingenious plan.   Back in the Eisenhower '50s when men were men and mortgages were not traded like nickel-packs of baseball cards our parents unwound after a hard day with two martinis and a side of Mantovani. That jittery swing music that accompanied the rat-a-tat of wartime had given way to the sound of luxury and easy living. Demon rock and roll had not quite reared its greasy pompadour leaving soft-sell artists like Lawrence Welk and Percy Faith to step to the gentle fore.   What I am suggesting is that a return to such soporific sounds might just restore a measure of calm to our clamorous capitol. Oh and do not forget those martinis.   Oddly enough one of the early commercial successes with that silky sultry sound was by comedian Jackie Gleason better known as fictional Brooklyn bus driver Ralph Kramden. His 1952 album Music for Lovers Only sold half a million copies.   Hulking low-slung stereo consoles soon became the rage in affluent American living rooms. Popular music had left the concert hall and become a species of aural wallpaper. Thus relegated to the background it became the sound to eat your Swanson TV dinners by. If Mom and Dad were worried about the future they did not show it. It must have been the music.    I am in the mood for love simply because you are near me...  So how is this plan sound? The master chefs at the White House microwave a dozen of those delicious Salisbury steak suppers one night this weekend while I don a satin smoking jacket and deejay yet another debt ceiling summit between the opposing parties. I may not raise the roof playing such soft and mellow music but maybe these grizzled Washington warriors might chillax long enough to come to some kind of an agreement in which case I will reward them with a little Tony Bennett to close the set. As not life grand?  Mr.   Oh the good life...  Musician David Was lives a long long way from Washington D.C. in Los Angeles.  Mr.   ...the good life lets you hide all the sadness you feel. You will not really fall in love fore you cannot take a chance. So please be honest with yourself do not try to fake romance... 