 For more than four decades Hamiet Bluiett has worked to redefine the role of the baritone saxophone in jazz. He also co-founded one of the most influential bands of modern jazz. This week Bluiett celebrates his 70th birthday. From New York Tom Vitale has his story.  In 1976 when the World Saxophone Quartet played its first concert  no bass no drums no piano just four saxophones.   The late Julius Hemphill playing alto with Oliver Lake on alto and soprano David Murray tenor and Hamiet Bluiett on clarinet and baritone sax. Free jazz was flourishing in downtown lofts throughout New York but Bluiett says he argued for accessibility. Mr.  I think melody is very important. We should play stuff that children like old people the whole works. What is wrong with all that? And I told you I said man look we need to play some ballads now. Come on you are all playing outside and you are running people away. And I do not want to run folks away. We should play more music for women.   Bluiett says in the beginning all of the musicians in the World Saxophone Quartet were improvising at the same time with no one playing a unifying melody or rhythm. Mr.  I said wait this as not making sense. I do not like this because we play a tune let me stick to what is on the paper. So I would take what was on the paper and make a bass line out of it make up some kind of line using the tunes.  Thirty-one years ago at a World Saxophone Quartet rehearsal in a Brooklyn loft Bluiett walked the band through the tune RB.   The quartet recorded the tune for its second album.   Hamiet Bluiett is one of the few musicians in jazz to give the baritone saxophone a leading role. He was born on September 16th 1940 in Lovejoy Illinois. As a child he studied piano trumpet and clarinet. Mr.  Let me try this and see how it works for you. I do not know.   At the University of Southern Illinois Bluiett picked up the baritone. His notion of what the instrument could do was changed forever when he heard Harry Carney with Duke Ellington's band.  Mr.  I was sitting not too far from Harry. He was on one side of the band. Duke Ellington was on the other side. And this man's sound was bigger than Duke's whole band including the drums.  Mr.  The sound was big beautiful. That went deep down inside of me. And I never forgot it and I never will.  Today Hamiet Bluiett is widely regarded as the most prominent baritone saxophonist of his generation.  Mr.  You can know Bluiett right away bam you know the texture and the density of his sound. It cannot be nobody else.  Trombonist Craig Harris has played in a variety of bands with Hamiet Bluiett over the past three decades. Harris will perform with his friend this weekend at his 70th-birthday concert in Washington D.C. Mr.  Bluiett has an incredible range but it is not about range because youve got people who play high and low. But he has incredible feel to his playing. He pushes the thought of the instrument because he is much bigger than the instrument.   Bluiett' He is been struggling with cancer since 2002. He says he just wants to be here and to keep playing music for people. Mr.  We were playing in the Brooklyn Botanical Garden and this guy came he was in a wheelchair. So he was in the wheelchair section which was right near the band. And he was sitting there and he was kind of you know like crying. He grabbed me and pulled me down.  Man I have been in this chair for so long I got to the point I relegated myself to be into the chair. And I was satisfied. You made me want to go back up and dance. That was the biggest compliment I have ever had in my life.  Hamiet Bluiett says he never planned his career. It all happened because he was open enough to let it keep happening. For NPR News I am Tom Vitale in New York.  