 Somi is an American jazz singer and songwriter. Her new release takes us to Lagos Nigeria where she spent 18 months living and composing. Banning Eyre has this review of the Lagos Music Salon which begins where Somi's journey began.  The Lagos Music Salon is partly about storytelling. Right at the start we hear Somi going through immigration at the airport in Lagos at the start of her extended-stay.  Somi.  Somi - music or fashion or?  Music.  Music?  Somi was born in Illinois to Rwandan and Ugandan parents. So Africa has always been part of her creative mix. After her father died a few years back she decided to honor him by living for a time on the continent. The place she chose was Lagos Nigeria and urban crush of some 21 million people. She said it felt a bit like New York a place where all sorts of cultures produced and the energy never lets up.    Oh African man do not you know with your fists your love do not show? Take my hand. Let us leave this valley. Use your strength and love to guide me. I am your lady. I will be your queen. Try to harm me you will hear me scream. I will say - I will say I believe in you.  Somi is an elegant natural jazz vocalist. And she never loses her American identity even as she absorbs Nigerian influences as on this adaptation of Fela Kuti's classic Lady. Listen the way Somi brings the essence of the percussion-driven music known as Juju into her song Juju Love.    Hey man you cast your spell. Will not look - will not ask - will not tell - will not deny this is my dream. I can hear your heartbeat slow shake it and blindfolds - the termite would be tragic. This must be Juju.  Somi kept a journal of her experiences and the stories she tells in these song touch on the lives of Nigerians - women under duress e-mail fraud scammers and domestic workers in this song Two Dollar Day.    There is a woman on the road. She is got mouths to feed. Her man died last year. Now she works to the bone.  Drawing songs from a challenging and meaningful life experience Somi shows herself to be an ambitious artist. There is nothing contrived about this album. It is determined real - though one has to note it is going to be a tough act to follow.    Two dollar day - two dollar day. She gave it all.  Banning Eyre is senior editor at Afropop.org. The new album by Somi is called the Lagos Music Salon.    Two dollar day - two dollar day. She gave it all. Two dollar day - two dollar day - cannot get home. 