 Last night in Fort Worth Texas the Van Cliburn International Piano Competition announced its six finalists. The competition began 50 years ago. And this week for the first time since its inception it is taking place without its namesake. Cliburn died in February from cancer. As we hear from Bill Zeeble of member station KERA the competition is dealing with other changes as well.  Cliburn did not play publicly in these competitions but for decades he attended performances met the players and happily handed out the medals every four years. But in a 2008 interview he explained that no one - not even his mother - expected it to last. HARVEY LAVAN ttle did we realize that in September of 1962 would be the first competition. To which she said do not worry Van. There will only be one and that will be all.  The event has grown into a year round organization with 15 full-time staff and some 1200 volunteers. Louise Canafax participated in every competition first as a Fort Worth Symphony violist accompanying the pianists then as the much-loved backstage mother who helped calm competitors with candy aspirin or thread and a safety pin to repair that broken strap as she said four years ago.  It is just a matter of making sure that they are comfortable whether they are giving me their wallets their coats. Some of them have a routine and I try to write down what their routine is. I take my cues from them.  Canafax died of cancer a month after Cliburn. Her friend since the 4th grade Kathie Cummins is the new backstage mother who knows she has some big shoes to fill.  We just encourage them and tell them that you know they are wonderful they will play their best they are human. Do not worry. If something crazy happens you will be fine.  Cliburn managers say they will be fine too despite other changes. There is a new board chair. Cliburn's past director stepped down after the last contest to run Moscow's Tchaikovsky Competition. The new director is French Canadian Jacques Marquis who says he will try to follow Van Cliburn's lead.  We decided to do this competition under his vision and legacy. And for me I had the chance to talk with him. First excellence. Second passion. Third sharing the music he loved.   Marquis believes the Cliburn will be around 50 years from now. And so does Italian pianist Alessandro Deljavan.   He competed here four years ago and met Van Cliburn. He competed again this year but failed to make the final cut. He says the death of the event's namesake will not harm the competition.  You know the other big competitions in the world are the Chopin the Brussels Queen Elisabeth. You know every name of competition people died many many years ago. So it was the only one the Cliburn where the name from a live person. You know I think his presence was very important. But you know the high standards will be always the same I am sure of that.  Other aspects of this 14th Cliburn competition have changed. Pianists are now competing for a top prize of 50000 up from 20000. And the gold medallist gets a professionally produced studio recording in addition to the release of live competition performances. Winners receive three years of worth of commission-free professional management with bookings that can and have changed careers. For NPR News I am Bill Zeeble in Dallas. 