 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Michele Norris. For our series The Spin we have been discovering summer songs from different parts of the world. In India the country's biggest songs are often drawn from its biggest films. And one of the summer's hit films is an epic political saga called Rajneeti.   And to hear how this film's soundtrack has created the summer soundtrack for the city of Mumbai we turn to Anand Giridharadas. He is a New York Times columnist and a travel writer. He joins me now from Mumbai. Welcome to the program. Mr.  Great to be here Michele.  Can you tell us a little bit more about this film and its soundtrack? Mr.  It is a big epic film loosely based on the Mahabharat the Indian-Hindu religious epic and it was a summer blockbuster full of violence and political intrigue and corruption. And it had one of those soundtracks that has Indians singing and humming the entire summer.  So you must tell me about the song that you have chosen. Mr.  I was interested in a song called Mora Piya.  Mr.  Which is not the most typical Bollywood song. This is a beautiful song that captures the kind of cultural remixing that is going on in Bollywood.  Mr.  There is a kind of hip-hop bass line. There is some Western piano. There is kind of sampling techniques all drawn from the West. But there is a kind of Sufi which is the mystical strain of Islam in there. So it is a wonderful mix of old and new East and West.   Anand I had a chance to actually look at the video for the song and it seems like this is really about a love triangle. A tall handsome bespectacled man seems to be drawn to two women and is he trying to decide who he is going to make his life with? Mr.  He is. And he is torn - as the song is in a way - between East and West. One woman is American and from his life there and another is Indian. And in a way that love triangle is a metaphor for the song and the song is the metaphor for the love triangle.  Sounds like trouble.  Mr.  Always.  Mr.  It is also a kind of the less happy-go-lucky upbeat song. In many ways it reveals the kind of anxiety that is pulsing in India right now. There is a lot of optimism a lot of hope. There is a lot of people breaking destiny and we have all read about that. I think there is also a lot of anxiety in a society that is becoming - where a lot of the old certainties are slipping away and families are breaking and people are migrating from the village to the city at the rate of 31 Indians per minute. And I think there is a little bit of the anxiety of this moment in the song. It is actually an amazing thing that a song like this became a smash summer hit but it did.   Tell me where I would hear this song. Is this the kind of thing that people would listen to in their cars in restaurants? Do they sing along in the shower? Mr.  It is interesting. There is an interesting geography of music in Bombay. You would hear it in a number of places. First of all Bollywood has a power over the society that Hollywood could only dream of. So the radio stations are playing the music. The nightclubs are playing the same music. The phone companies are providing ring tunes. So when you call people you hear these songs. This kind of 247 360-degree reinforcement. But it is not the only thing you would hear. There is also a thumping techno sound that is slowly trying to crack its way into India and become the dominant sound. In a lot of places that are very self-consciously globalized spaces like gelato parlors - Bombay is now the gelato capital of the world as far as I can tell -they will all play this kind of very techno global music.  Mr.  And then if you walk in the quiet back lanes of Bombay you would hear this kind of very old filmy stuff that is coming out of the back of taxis of small little speaker that people actually carry around just playing these songs.   It does have that kind of tinny sound does not it? Is that an old Bollywood song? Mr.  It is an old Bollywood song. And it is funny if you compare the techno stuff to this. The techno stuff is kind of very soulless in a way and anonymous and this old Bollywood stuff is so emotional overemotional designed to make even the hardest person cry. I think in a way it is kind of interesting to think about a battle for the ambient sound of Bombay. Is it the techno gelato sound or is it this tinny thing that wafts through the air of slums and the darker parts of the city?  Or is it something that would include all of that? Mr.  That is the most exciting possibility. I think it is still an open question but there is a growing realization not just in music but in art and food that with globalization comes not just a deeper appreciation of foreigner's culture but a more heady confident blending of foreigner's culture with the best that you have produced over a long millennia.   Anand Giridharadas great to talk to you. Thank you very much. Mr.  Thank you.  Anand Giridharadas is a New York Times columnist and a travel writer. 