 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am David Greene.  Mr.   She thinks my tractor's sexy. It really turns her on.  In the world of country music today Kenny Chesney is a megastar. He has sold more than 25 million albums. He has no trouble packing an NFL stadium for a concert. Chesney's always made music you would play at a party on the beach not the stuff you are listening to driving a lonely Texas road. Mr.  I have never been the one to sing about gun racks and truck stops. You know I have not. Those things were not a big part of my life growing up. I sing about what I know about.  Whether he likes it or not Chesney is known outside the country world for his brief marriage to actress Renee Zellweger. The couple was splashed across the tabloids as their marriage crumbled. When I talked to the star recently he sounded like he is at a crossroads and still trying to move on from that relationship also looking for a new sound.  football.  Mr.  Growing up in East Tennessee I grew up in an area of the country that I also think reflects a lot of small towns that lean on a football team. And that was kind of my truth you know growing up. I mean we had church we had friends we had family and school and sports and mainly football.  Mr.   When I feel that chill smell that fresh-cut grass I am back in my helmet cleats and shoulder pads.  This is a quieter album that takes you on a journey from small-town football stadiums to romance on the beach to Chesney's favorite author. The album and one of its songs are called Hemingway's Whiskey.  Mr.  I' If you could sit and pick the brain of one person and if you could sit and have maybe a cold beer with one person living or dead who would it be? Ernest Hemingway would be one of those guys because he had such a wonderful tragic creative life. I would love to sit down and pick his brain a little bit about love and the loss of it and living with regret and depression.  Mr.   Hemingway's whiskey warm smooth and mean. Even when it burns it will always finish clean. He did not like it watered down took it straight up and neat. It was bad enough for him you know it is bad enough for me. Hemingway's whiskey... Mr.  And I do not know if I could have recorded this song and made it be believable a couple years ago or even you know four or five years ago. But it just seemed to fit now.  Mr.   oh it is tough out there. A good muse is hard to find. Living one word to the next one line at a time.  Kenny Chesney you talk about Hemingway's tragic life battles with depression and you say four or five years ago you could not have brought truth to this song but now you can. What is changed in your life? Mr.  Well I just think that as an artist and you do it like I do it and present your show the way you present it a lot goes into it and you sacrifice a lot to be able to do it that way. And I think that in the last four or five years I have you know constantly now struggled with the balance in my life. And that is  you know still is that struggle. But I am just - I feel like a different artist. I feel like a different person. Things that would make me happy five six years ago does not really make me happy anymore. You know I feel like I want to spend more time with my family. I feel like that I need more balance in my life. And so it is just an overall feeling as a person I think how I want to go from here.   Can I ask you about drinking? Mr.  Sure.   Okay. It is another Kenny Chesney album and we have you know we have some whiskey. We have some tequila.  Mr.   You and tequila make me crazy. You are like poison in my blood.  You like singing about drinking and fun but I was struck on this album I mean the drinking songs they strike me as gentle. I mean this is not a song that I would be sitting there listening to and pounding shots of tequila. Mr.  No this is more of a - one of my  it is a struggle song.  Mr.   One more is never enough. Mr.  There are some very commonalities with being able to get somebody out of your mind and drinking and trying to quit. And this song was  took me to driving down the Pacific Coast Highway. I spent a lot of time up there and I would go down with some friends down in Santa Monica and at about sunset I would drive back up to the house and I had the windows down. It was a little chilly. And I would listen to a lot of Eagles songs and some Tom Petty and all kinds of stuff. And when I heard this song it put me in that place. And this song kind of made me believe in the art of making music again.  Mr.   One and one too many one more is never enough.  I do not mean to dig into your archives but I read one story about when you were younger on the road with George Strait and you were accused of stealing a horse from the sheriff's department. I do not think that has anything to do with alcohol totally unrelated but tell me about that. Mr.  Well it might a little.   I mean that just had me laughing at my computer last night. Mr.  Yeah you know that did happen. I was accused of it. But we did not really do that. I actually did get on a horse but I did not know it was a police horse - did not have anything on it saying that it was a police horse at all not on the saddle not on anything.  So a horse in Buffalo not clearly labeled Mr.  Yeah so  it was a big deal at the time you know but it is funny to look back on it now. It was not funny at the time really you know but yeah. That was an interesting night outside of Buffalo I promise you.   You said that you know at this point making this new album Hemingway's Whiskey it comes after some tough and maturing years for you. And one of the songs that I really enjoyed listening to was Seven Days. And as I read about that song it was an important time that you had on the islands and some of it was unforgettable. Let us bring up that song and just tell me where that song came from.  Mr.   Saturday downpour carved out rivers in the sand. She said it was the first time to see the sea. Mr.  Well I think everybody in their life has that one person that they cannot really mentally get rid of. Maybe we were with someone romantically and emotionally even for a short time. And the character of this time it was seven days of his life. It was a week.  Mr.   By Thursday I knew everything about her. By the last day I did not want to leave without her. Mr.  I think we all have those people and at the time that we are with them we have no idea the impact they are going to have on our lives . And I have that person. I have that person for sure and I think that a lot of people do.  Can I ask who that person is? Mr.  No you may not.   Enough said.  Mr.  Yeah you can ask but I as not going to answer.   Well there you go.   Kenny Chesney you have sold millions of albums. You are going to surely be selling millions more and we really appreciate you being with us and good luck with the new album. Mr.  Oh man thanks for having me. I really appreciate it.  Mr.   The sidewalks the streets were soaked the sky was gray but you should have seen her face...  Kenny Chesney's new album is called Hemmingway's Whiskey and if that stuff about lost love's got you down let us go back to football. At npr.org you can watch Kenny Chesney's video for his song The Boys of Fall. You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 