 It is the time of the season when love for pop music runs high. Summer is officially here and an unofficial competition is under way to crown 2013's song of the summer. Now we are talking about those unavoidable pop anthems that are played over and over again on the radio at the beach and out the window of passing cars.      You cannot escape them. You can only hope to enjoy them. NPR Music's Otis Hart has curated a list featuring more than 100 of these hits from the last 50-plus years and he joins me now to talk about them. Hey there Otis.  Hey Audie.  So what exactly makes a song of the summer? I mean what is in the DNA of a song like that?  Well I think it is got to have that melody that you cannot get out of your head whether you like it or not. And the song of the summer is something that just rises to the top and becomes ubiquitous. And we try to actually go back look at the singles' chart from 1962 on look at what was popular what peaked during June through August of each year. So this was not really us saying hey this is our favorite song of the summer. It was these were the songs that actually dominated every summer from 1962 through now.   All right. Give us some examples because I see 1962. It is The Locomotion.   So I have got to know from then on where do we go? What is a good song that fits the bill?  Well you know I always equate the summer to high temperatures you know and bikinis and beachwear. And one song that really pops when you sort of take that into consideration is Nelly's Hot in Here from 2002. I personally ...  A classic in some circles.   It is the kind of song that you cannot help but sort of nod your head a little like at first you are just nodding your head then your shoulders and then maybe you are dancing appropriately.  Maybe your derriere.  Yeah. Exactly.    Now are all the songs on the list light and pop-py? I mean are there any summer songs that were political?  I wish that there were more but there is one that stands out. It is Edwin Starr's 1970 hit War which goes to show you just how much the Vietnam War was dominating the American experience at that time.   And it is somehow catchy a song even though it is fairly intense right? Like you cannot get that that punchy war out of your mind once that song starts playing. All right. So we got to get to the songs of this summer. And I am probably getting a sense from the charts that it is possibly Robin Thicke's Blurred Lines or Daft Punk's Get Lucky. Or maybe there is something we have not heard yet. I mean it is only the beginning of July.  Yeah. And especially with the way the Internet works these days pop stars love to drop stuff without any you know warning whatsoever. But at this point I think Robin Thicke's Blurred Lines seems like the front-runner.   You know Otis I feel like I have a love-hate relationship with like 90 percent of the songs on your list. And some of these songs are really dated. I mean do people still want to listen to them?  I would not blame them if they do not want to. There is some really really bad songs on this list. But as a music nerd myself I love to hear how popular music has shifted over the last 50 years. You know there were some really some cheesy hits in the '80s including Peter Cetera's Glory of Love.   It is actually the theme song to Karate Kid part two. It is the product of the Hollywood machine. You know there are some other songs on here - actually two Brian Adams - Everything I Do I Do It for You. That was a hit because of the Robin Hood film with Kevin Costner. And it just goes to show you how much a great movie can brainwash us into loving a terrible song.  And that makes a lot of sense too like Eye of the Tiger is on here.  Exactly.  Do not talk smack about Eye of the Tiger though.  Well I was going to say do not talk smack about Flash Dance.  Oh. You have raised me a Flash Dance.    Otis Hart at NPR Music thanks so much for talking with us.  Thank you Audie.  And if you want to listen to the entire stream of NPR's songs of the summer go to nprmusic.org.  Stay cool.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 