 We are about to talk with one of the biggest rock bands of the last decade.   .  Arcade Fire started out as an indie band from Montreal. In 2004 their debut album became the soundtrack of a moment soaring anthems with a message. In 2011 they won album of the year at the Grammys. Arcade Fire did not come across as cool ironic rock stars. Instead they filled stadiums with songs that felt urgent and sincere.    We know a place where no planes go.  Two members of Arcade Fire joined me to talk about their newest album called Everything Now. The album explores human connections in the age of connectivity. Win and Will Butler are brothers and this has always been a family band. Win's wife Regine Chassagne is one of the lead singers. I asked the brothers what their relationship was like as kids.  We were living in Texas and I went to boarding school in New Hampshire. And like leaving the house I think I really got a really deep appreciation for how close Will and I were. Like the second I left I was like oh crap. Like maybe I did not appreciate what a good thing we had going. We connected a lot on a musical level. Like oh we are kind of born from the same fire.  But our mom was actually a musician. She grew up on a variety show on ABC with 40 of her cousins and her parents and six aunts and uncles and great-aunts and uncles.    Oh we are going to have a ball and really do it right and you are invited every Saturday night.  OK as long as we are talking about family the spark for the song Peter Pan on this album came from your father.    In my dreams you are dying. It wakes me up. I cannot stop crying. I just want to live forever keep my promises keep it together.  You know like both of my grandfathers were 96 when they passed away so we got a lot of really good time with our grandparents. And I have a son now. And you start to realize that your parents are getting older - and kind of like the realization that they are not always going to be there. It is like a different way of facing mortality.    Be my Wendy. I will be your Peter Pan. Come on baby. Take my hand. We can walk if we do not feel like flying. We can live. I do not feel like dying.  But I think Peter Pan in a lot of ways - you can kind of - is like kind of emblematic of the modern man. I mean it is like kind of like the dream of being young forever and always dressing like a teenager and always feeling young. But it was like trying to get like a more direct less ironic take on the desire to not have the people you love die .  So much of this album is about stuff. It seems like a real contrast to that.  I do not agree. I mean I do not - even Everything Now is really super emotional. I mean...  Tell me about that. To me it feels like inundation.  I mean like the lyric of every inch of road's got a town Daddy how come you are never around? I miss you...    Every inch of road's got a town. Daddy how come you are never around? I miss you like everything now. Mama leave the food on the stove. Leave your car in the middle of the road. This happy family with everything now...  ...Is not really about stuff. It is about longing for connection and longing for love. And I do not know. I think that a conceptual framework around the record is trying to come to some sort of understanding about the moment we are in and trying to like have some peace with it. But the actual record is really about people. And it is really I would say very direct and heartfelt.    And then you are black again - cannot make it back again from everything now.  So I guess that makes me wonder when you are creating a thing that you care about a piece of music and you have no choice but to do it from within this big old machine do you have any small rituals or practices or something that helps you as people trying to create art connect with a big invisible audience out there that wants to appreciate your art in the middle of this machine?  In high school I took a class on cathedral architecture. And there is all these anonymous medieval stonemasons carving gargoyles that go on the roof of the cathedral that nobody will ever see for 500 years until tourists start  going up onto the roof of the cathedral to take pictures of it. And there is a part of making art that I relate to as a medieval stonemason where I am just carving this gargoyle for God or question mark. And whatever happens the next 500 years is up to everybody else.  But then you have to make money and go to the Grammys and win awards and things like that.  Well you do not have to go to the Grammys .   The album ends with a ballad that sounds different from a lot of other songs on the album We Do not Deserve Love. Will you tell me about how you built this?  There is a synthesizer called a hymnotron...   ...That I got for Regine for her birthday. It was a really good birthday gift. It is a really beautiful like...   If you do say so yourself.  It is a really cool synth that you do not really play it like a normal synth. It is just like these weird buttons and knobs. And it was me just turning it on and trying to figure out how it worked. And our engineer at the time our friend Korey - he left you know like in this really like teary goodbye. Like I am going. I have to go take this other job. And I was like well I am really going to miss you. And he is like well like that thing you were playing the other day is like - I wish - I hope one day in my life I make something as beautiful as that. And I was like what thing?   And he was like - he is like the thing you played on the synth the other day. And then I pulled it up. And I was like oh this is really cool. You know like the...  Just you figuring out how to use the instrument.  Yeah. And like Korey was sitting in the corner like almost crying. He was like wow this is so beautiful.   I was just like how does this thing work? And then afterwards when he pointed it out then I was like oh right. And then it was - that was the song pretty much.    Been hiding my scars in broad daylight bars behind laugh tracks on TV. If you cannot see the forest for the trees just burn it all down.  The vocal is the first time I ever sang it. And everyone in the band just went in the studio and like put on a layer. And then that was the song.  No and then at the end of the record we pulled up the song. We are like oh what are we doing on this? And everything was there. And it was like oh I guess we have already done this song. This song is done.  It also just feels like such a different and yet totally appropriate way to end the album after you have been talking about everything now and infinite content to come down to a sentiment as intimate as this. We do not deserve love.  Yeah. It is a heartbreaker that one.    And you say maybe we do not deserve love. Maybe we do not deserve love. Maybe we do not deserve love.  Win and Will Butler of the band Arcade Fire. Their latest album is Everything Now. Thanks so much you guys.  Yeah thank you so much. Like - and hi to our parents who are I am sure listening in.  Whose 45th wedding anniversary was today.  Yeah they just had their 45th.  Oh happy anniversary to your parents.  Yeah yeah not bad - 45 45 years.    Roll away the stone. The men you love always leave you alone. You hear your mother screaming. 