 Zoe also asked the group to take a listen to this song by a new young rapper named Asher Roth.  Mr.   Could not hide the fact that I wanted to rap. Bought Jay-Z CD with my own pension. And that was back around '98 with the Langley sniffilin Money as not a thing. And even though I really could not relate I kept studyin and listenin and stuffin my face. And now... Ms.  I kind of like that song. I am going to give that boy a big hug. It is rap but it is good. It is like a nice soft rap. You could hear the lyrics and he was not controversial. Mr.  The only thing I wish was the drummer would be a little more subdued so I could hear the lyrics better but it was just another rap song to me.  That song Fallen by Asher Roth may have failed to excite Joe Walker but Roth is exciting plenty of other critics with his fresh freestyle form but more on that in a moment. The first thing you need to know about Asher Roth is he is white a 23-year-old kid from the middle-class suburb of Morrisville outside Philadelphia. And not only does he not hide this biographical detail he celebrates it. Mr.  Being proud of where I am from has been much more beneficial than trying to hide it and just blending with the crowd.  Earlier this year Roth scored a hit. He is now sold more than a million copies of his frat boy party anthem called I Love College.  Mr.   That party last night was awfully crazy I wish we taped it. I danced my ass off and had this one girl completely naked. Drink my beer and smoke my weed but my good friends is all I need. Pass out at 3 wake up at 10 go out to eat then do it again. I wanna go to college for the rest of my life.  The thing about Asher Roth is he desperately wants to be taken seriously but I Love College is Asher Roth's biggest hit his calling card and possibly he admits his biggest liability. Mr.  That is just a dumb song. It is true. It is the least thought-provoking song you could probably come up with. But in the same respect it is kind of a good starting point and a good reference point for us to start a broader topic of conversation.  What is that topic of conversation? I mean you say the song is a dumb song. I mean it is about smoking weed getting a girl naked drinking a lot. A friend of yours gets sick. I mean what is the conversation you are trying to provoke? Mr.  Well that is the thing. It is not - the conversation is not based off of that. That is the lifestyle in which I can talk to these people. Hey I come from that same world as you do and that is - you know that is why it sold a million copies plus just because people are relating to it.  Mr.   Man I love college.   Hey.  Hip-hop is a phenomenal commercial success and it is been estimated that anywhere from 60 to 80 percent of hip-hop music in America is consumed by young white kids like Asher Roth. And yet the suburbs have not really produced a commercially viable or for that matter a respected white rapper that is until Asher Roth according to New York Times critic Jon Caramanica. Mr.  There is a certain set of skill that hip-hop classicists really cling to a certain rigidity of rhyme structure tricky internal rhyme schemes rhyming syllables throughout the lines of different verses. These are all things that Asher does incredibly well.  Mr.   Poor metaphor pedicure get your feet fixed. Walk in my shoes for a few you gonna need it. Yeah get your Wii Fit to practice your fris with. Need a few weeks before you can compete with. Razor Ramon flow oh so sharp. You can take Kapowski. I am gonna a take lark on my go-kart go-kart go-kart... Mr.  Caramanica predicts that Asher Roth will be the most successful white rapper since Eminem and while he is best known for a somewhat puerile college anthem Asher Roth is betting that his other works will get more attention lyrics that touch on the Barack Obama-inspired activism that marks his generation. On the track Sour Patch Kids Roth makes an earnest pitch for volunteerism.  Mr.   Donate your dollars. Raise a dollar help a mother save a father 'ecause poverty is probably our biggest problem and it as not gonna stop with Obama. To save the world we must start at the bottom. The last thing I want is people to be like hey that is that I Love College kid and that might be a stigma that I am forced to live with for a very long time. I personally want people to think to ask why and why not and not just through my music just genuinely in life.  But to get to that point Asher Roth will first have to navigate past the graveyard of one-hit wonders who preceded him in the world of hip-hop.  You can catch Asher Roth on tour this summer and you can hear more of his songs at npr.orgmusic.  Mr.   I do not hear you. I do not hear you. 