  The group Mumford and Sons - four guys from London - made their name and sold well over 10 million albums with their propulsive rootsy acoustic music.    And I will wait. I will wait for you.  Now on their new album they are blasting out with a new sound.   Goodbye banjo. Goodbye accordion and double bass. Mumford and Sons have plugged in.    Wide-eyed with a heart made full of fright your eyes follow like tracers in the night.  Marcus Mumford and band mate Winston Marshall join me from our New York...  Colleague madam - colleague.  .  Colleague.  Mate sort of implies friendship.  Welcome to the program to you both.  Hello Melissa. How're you doing?  All right.  Doing great thanks. You know I have been looking at tweets from some of your fans who sound kind of disenchanted with the new sound. They are tweeting with the hash tag bring back the banjo. And I wonder if that bugs you Marcus.  No it does not bug me. I think we definitely feel like playing live is going to be a really important way for people to connect the dots between the first two albums and this third album. But we could not afford to do the same thing again. We just did not want to. We wanted to change our sound a bit and our songwriting is still obviously the same 'ecause it comes from the same place. And we just wanted to be honest at the time that we made Wilder Mind. You know our taste was more aligned with this kind of instrumentation.   Winston let me ask you this 'ecause you were - you are the banjo guy. And I read an interview with you from last year where you sounded kind of fed up. You suggested just what people could do with the banjo in an obscene way. Did you feel trapped by that sound and those instruments?  If you read the interview...  Yeah.  You might notice it was at an after show for something in New York and it was about 1 in the morning. I was pretty wasted.  .  You did not mean it is what you are saying.  No I meant it every word.  .  But I do not know. You kind of go like in and out of different tastes and change. I mean some people like the same thing forever but I do not know. We kind of like listen to loads of different stuff and our attention spans are not good enough. So there was a bit of frustration when you are like having to play the same thing all the time because we play all like loads of different instruments.  I think it could feel sort of like a straitjacket if people are just expecting you to sound the same way all the time. Did it feel that way to you?  Not internally. It did feel it a little bit now that the new album's come out but inside we always felt like we could do what we want.  We have been surprised how much people have latched onto and really projected I think onto us that kind of instrumentation. I think there is been a lot of talk about like one instrument when actually the main thing about Wilder Mind I think is that we have added the drum kit which we never had before so that changes the way you can write songs. You can suddenly write to a groove and not have to worry about providing the percussion from like the right hand of the banjo player and the acoustic-guitar player. So that totally changes your approach to songwriting and frees you up massively. I think that is kind of a bigger deal than the lack of banjo on this new record.  What does that do for a song like say Tompkins Square Park?  Well it basically means that like as a singer for example you can sit back play it one guitar chord every four bars and really concentrate on singing.    Oh babe meet me in Tompkins Square Park. I want to hold you in the dark one last time. I do not have to be playing drums with my feet like a kick drum and tambourine. I do not have to be hammering away with my right hand providing a lot of the percussion. You know I get to really just kind of sing which is a real joy for me. I am loving it you know? And you get to enjoy this groove going on behind you. So there is a lot of energy coming from the back that you do not have to provide yourself when you are you know providing the percussion track basically.  And from a writing point of view that is song's a good example where the groove means that melodically you can have more space. That song has a lot of space in it where there is not singing at all where even within the melody there is a lot more space between the parts and the melody and it kind of can be stretched out. And that is because you can sit behind the groove and just kind of enjoy the groove of it.    Oh babe I really wish you would not cry. I only ever told you one lie when it could have been a thousand.  Is there another song where you feel like because there is more space for the instruments to breathe in there that it came out in a really different way than it would have before?  Yeah. There is a song on the record called Monster which is basically played to a drum loop which was two drum kits me and the producer James Ford in the studio both played together at the same time and then a guitar part that I wrote when I was literally in the guitar store at the end of our tour in 2013.   Winny and I went to a great guitar shop in Chicago.  I am sorry. Who went with you?  Winston and I. Winston who is sat with me here.  Hey .  You call him Winny.  Winny yeah yeah. We call him plenty of different things. And we sat in this guitar store and I picked up this electric guitar - the first electric guitar I bought - and played it for like three hours in the store and wrote the guitar part for Monster which - that has a lot of space in it.   It was something we really enjoyed doing you know? I mean it is almost like being in a brand new band again. It is almost like being a teenager again.  Really?  You know when you first get in the garage and you are like oh cool like you know there is a drum kit let us - you know it was that - we had the same kind of enthusiasm and passion for our instruments as we would being like 16-year-olds which is really fun when we have been a hard-touring band you know? We really had a breath of fresh air and really enjoyed making this album. And it also I think means that we kind of have a free future ahead of us as a band you know? I think we could make whatever kind of music we want to make. And if we were not able to do that we would just stop. You know we would not be a band I do not think.  Do you guys get tired of talking about the new sound and people who keep harping about the banjo?  No. Let us talk more about it.   I think we feel like have a responsibility to explain a bit of what we are doing. But also there is only so much talking and we are not very good at talking anyway. So there is only so much that can sort of get you so far and eventually you have just got to play. So we are kind of at the stage now where we feel like we cannot quite explain it to people. They have just got to hear it. And the best way to hear it I think is live so...  We are gearing out to get on a bus tonight and stay on that bus basically for 18 months. So still it feels like kind of the story of this album's just starting and I feel like playing it live is at least half if not more of that story. So there is a lot more to come I think from this album for people hopefully.  Well Marcus and Winston enjoy the tour. Thanks for talking with us.  Thank you Melissa.  Thank you.  Marcus Mumford and Winston Marshall of Mumford and Sons - the new album is Wilder Mind.    But this is all I ever was and this is all you came across those years ago. Now you go too far. Do not tell me that I have changed because that is not the truth. 