 From Oklahoma! to Chicago - that is where the surviving members of the Grateful Dead played their final concerts together this weekend three nights 200000 people in the stands. NPR critic Will Hermes was one of them. He says for Deadheads the shows were a pilgrimage.  For those of us who grew up with the Dead who laughed and loved and danced and well let us just say partied hard to their music the band's farewell concerts have been like a World Wide Web-wired tent revival meeting. Fans gathered in bars and living rooms around the world to watch the simulcasts. And those of us lucky and-or crazy enough made the trip to Chicago.    Truckin' got my chips cashed in. Keep truckin'.  I came for all three shows but with trepidations. I would seen the band a dozen times back when virtuoso leader Jerry Garcia was alive mostly in theaters and field houses. And I was not sure about this ginormous over-marketed stadium deal or how well they would play with Garcia's stand-in Trey Anastasio of the band Phish also a guitar hero in his own right. Like the old days there were times when the band's music caught fire and other times when it seemed lost in the woods. But when it worked it really was like rock 'n' roll church as always. People danced all night every night. The concrete and steel deck where I stood all weekend churned like a waterbed.    Fire fire on the mountain.  I came to this show with my friend Matt who joined me at my first Dead show in 1977. But part of the magic of the weekend was befriending strangers like a Santa Monica children's book writer a Wisconsin college professor and a Los Angeles vapor pen manufacturer. When the final show ended last night I got a little teary but it did not actually feel sad. I realized it was not so much about the specific musicians - Jerry Garcia will have been dead 20 years next month - but about the pleasure and love the music communicates and the community around it. Sorry to get all sentimental but sometimes the spirit just takes you.    Let there be songs.  Critic Will Hermes is author of the book Love Goes To Buildings On Fire.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 