 Joel Rose reports.  Singer Todd Carey and his band run through a mid-afternoon soundcheck at Chicago's Lincoln Hall.  You want to hear something Paul? Let us do something with this and then we will try the acoustic for another.  Sounds like a plan.  Carey has a single on the iTunes chart and a local following that will bring fans to Lincoln Hall a few hours from now.   This upscale club attracts local bands and touring acts like Blitzen Trapper and Jimmy Webb. But lately booker Matt Rucins says he is having a tough time finding bands that can fill Lincoln Hall which holds 500 people and his smaller club Schubas.  In the summer as a whole the festivals hurt.  When bands play at Chicago's numerous summer festivals from Pitchfork to neighborhood street festivals Rucins says their contracts often prohibit them from playing club shows around the same time.  There is numerous bands that are playing any of these festivals that if it were the fall or spring or winter they would possibly be headlining at Lincoln Hall. So the number of quality bands for me to draw from both nationally and locally dwindles.  That is because of what is known in the music industry as a radius clause. They are not new or unique to rock. Most promoters insist on them including the producers of heavyweight festivals Coachella and Bonnaroo. But critics say Lollapalooza is taking the idea to extremes.  It is huge. It is by far the most egregious of any radius clause.  Jim DeRogatis is a Chicago blogger and co-host of the public radio show Sound Opinions.  Lollapalooza says you cannot play for a total of nine months in the market six months before and three months after. And they define the market as 300 miles around Chicago. That includes Indianapolis Madison Milwaukee Detroit.  Earlier this year DeRogatis broke the news that Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan opened an investigation into Lollapalooza's radius clause. Madigan's office declined to comment but DeRogatis is not so shy.  You have this festival that lasts three days and it ties up many of the acts for nine months. And its impact has been pretty devastating to the clubs and theaters that are here 365 days a year.  Not everyone in the local music scene is so quick to criticize Lollapalooza. David Viecelli is president of the ironically named Billions Corporation a booking agency that represents dozens of bands including a few on the bill at Lollapalooza. He says radius clauses may look bad on paper but promoters are often willing to make exceptions.  You can go back to the bookers of the festival and say well I have got this show I would like the band to be able to do. It is a small club. You know what do you think? And in general most people will be pretty easygoing - most people and C3 with Lollapalooza included.  Viecelli says the level of flexibility depends on the band. So while Lollapalooza is not going to let headliners Lady Gaga or Green Day play another show in Chicago this fall the promoters might look the other way for an up and coming band that is playing the festival at say one in the afternoon.   The band Wavves is playing its early afternoon set Friday at Lollapalooza and a festival-approved aftershow on Saturday night at the Empty Bottle a local rock club. Owner Bruce Finkelman is not thrilled by Lollapalooza's restrictions. But he does have some sympathy for its producers.  While I certainly do not enjoy having limitations being put on my business I certainly kind of appreciate the fact that if I was going to put up a crapload of money for a festival I think I would want to put as many restrictions as possible to make sure that that festival was successful.  Aftershows do help salvage this weekend says Matt Rucins the booker at Schubas and Lincoln Hall. But there are plenty of other nights this summer when his clubs will not even open their doors.  Sometimes it is just a safer bet to be dark and you know look on into the fall and be like everything's going to be fine then. We got shows seven nights a week they are all really strong and there will not be all this massive competition.  For NPR News I am Joel Rose.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 