 One of the biggest acts in rock and roll releases its ninth studio album this weekend and the musicians are doing it all by themselves. Pearl Jam has long held a famously anti-corporate stance. NPR's Neda Ulaby has this story on the band's new twist on do-it-yourself capitalism.   Backspacer is Pearl Jam's first major album since the band became free agents finally fulfilling a seven-record contract with Sony. In this the opening song they sound psyched.  Mr.   Do you wanna hear something sad? We are but victims of desire.  Escaping the contract with Sony took the band 15 years. Mr.  They were shockingly bad in terms of - the nature of those kind of deals are so bad because you know they have you for seven records but can drop you at any time.  Stone Gossard helped found Pearl Jam way back in 1990 when Seattle's vaunted grunge scene first became a marketable commodity. Since then the band has sold over 60 million albums. Gossard says the musicians' share was pitiful. Mr.  We have made our money touring. I mean that is how we have made our money.  They have made rather a lot of it. Now after seeing the bulk of their record sales go back to the label Pearl Jam is experimenting with self-distribution. Here's what they came up with. You can buy Backspacer on the Pearl Jam Web site at iTunes on Xbox's Rock Band game as a Verizon ringtone or at Target. Mr.  The center of it was this deal with Target. Out of the last three records I do not think we sold a million records. So they went ahead and bought a million records right off the bat. So that was pretty enticing deal.  Some fans were startled by this partnership. They remember how the band used to rail against corporate interests tearing down ad banners at concerts and fighting a losing battle with Ticketmaster over service charges. So Pearl Jam made a point of getting Target to agree that some 800 independent record stores could also sell Backspacer. Jim DeRogatis is a rock critic for the Chicago Sun-Times. Mr.  I think it is neat both for Pearl Jam and Target that they have made a deal like this that is not going to exclude the corner record store where so many of us first fell in love with music like Pearl Jam's.  Mr.   Oh to the fact that mommy did not care. King Jeremy the wicked. Oh ruled his world. Jeremy spoke in class today.  Pearl Jam says DeRogatis is in his unique place and that it is able to patch together a deal like this. Mr.   Pearl Jam Nine Inch Nails Radiohead. They can be their own corporation selling directly to the retailers that they choose to deal with. Mr.  The record companies are just sort of getting cut out is basically what is happening at this point which is great.  Stone Gossard admits that most bands could never in a million years hope for this kind of deal. For them MySpace is the best way for their music to get heard.   Backspacer is off to a strong start. Its first single was iTunes' top new song when it was released last month.  Mr.   When something's dark let me shed a little light on it. When something's cold let me put a little fire on it. If something's old I wanna put a bit of shine on it. When something's gone I wanna fight to get it back again.  It is called The Fixer. Mr.  It is a poppier more upbeat song.  Jim DeRogatis of the Chicago Sun-Times. Mr.  It is about fixing things. He is going to fix things or somebody's going to fix things and I do not think they are going to fix the record industry for sure but it is neat to see them not doing business as usual. A lot of other bands of their stature are still caving.  The experiment may not work but Pearl Jam says they hope they will learn enough to get a better sense of how to release their next album. Neda Ulaby NPR News.  Mr.   I will say your prayers I will take your side. I will find us a way to make light. I will dig your grave we will dance and sing. What is saved could be one last lifetime. Hey hey hey. 