 It is the end of an era at the New York Philharmonic this week. Violinist Glenn Dicterow is retiring. He is been the longest-serving concertmaster in the Philharmonic's history. Jeff Lunden spoke with Dicterow and some of his colleagues about his 34-year tenure.  Most people who attend orchestra concerts are somewhat aware of the concertmaster. They enter the stage before the conductor comes on and lead the tuning up. And from the first chair of the violin section if a piece calls for a violin solo the concertmaster is the one who plays it.   Glenn Dicterow is the quintessential concertmaster in my opinion.  Alan Gilbert is the music director of the New York Philharmonic.  The concertmaster more than any other individual musician in an orchestra can really affect not just sound but the whole attitude the whole approach to music. And I do not think you will ever hear anyone say a bad word about Glenn. He is loved by all his colleagues.   When Glenn Dicterow joined the New York Philharmonic in 1980 at the age of 31 he was the youngest concertmaster in the orchestra's history. Since then he is played in more than 6000 concerts with more than 200 conductors. Dicterow says a big part of his job is political.  It is how you get along with your colleagues how you solve problems be it a problem that involves two people not getting along or somebody not really doing their job as far as being part of the team. You have to sort of take care of those kind of things. And let us say we have a guest conductor who basically rubs people the wrong way it is my job to make peace and everybody needs to get along to make gorgeous music. That is the bottom line.   Dicterow came to New York from Los Angeles at the invitation of Zubin Mehta. The orchestra then was mostly made up of men and had a reputation for being somewhat cantankerous.  The old guard as they called them they said what they felt right away. And if somebody was on the podium that they did not quite like then they would tell them off. Sometimes they did not get along and there was some pushing and shoving matches.  Dicterow says there are maybe three or four people left from those days. Now it is a more diverse group. And the orchestra is more than 50 percent women. Dicterow thinks these musicians are more flexible and open and several of them including conductor Alan Gilbert are his former students.  I do not have an exact body count but I think it is - I would venture to say it is about 11.   One of those former students Lisa Kim is associate principal second violin. She says Dicterow taught her more than just musical lessons.  The positive energy that he has really affects the whole orchestra on stage. And I did not really realize it at the time - I mean you play well and that is fine that is all you need. But it is more to it than that.   Dicterow has a fondness for all four Philharmonic music directors he is played under. But he holds a special place in his heart for the late Leonard Bernstein who was the Philharmonic's music director emeritus during the 1980s.  I just heard a sound coming out of the orchestra that was magical and I do not know where it was coming from. It was like from heaven.  Dicterow has made Bernstein's Serenade one of his signature pieces over the years. He first played it with Bernstein conducting. The composer initially felt Dicterow's playing was too romantic. He thought of this work as neoclassical.  Meanwhile there is nobody who is emoting more on the podium than he. In the tutti sections he is jumping up and flailing and you know neoclassic my butt.   But Dicterow says Bernstein eventually came around. After he retires from the Philharmonic Dicterow's going to move to Los Angeles to teach at USC's Thornton School of Music while continuing to play chamber music and performance as a soloist with orchestras. But he says he will miss his colleagues.  We got to be a family. I am going to miss it. But now I am going to be coming to the concerts and not to practice.  He still has a little more practicing to do. Glenn Dicterow will be performing the Beethoven Triple Concerto with principal cellist Carter Brey and Philharmonic artist-in-residence Yefim Bronfman through this Saturday. For NPR News I am Jeff Lunden in New York.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 