 In the world of jazz most musicians try and get as good as humanly possible at one single thing - not our next guest.    I just found out about love and I like it. Yes I like it.  Camille Thurman is the rare double-threat. She sings with vocal chops that have been compared to Ella Fitzgerald and Sarah Vaughan. But she is also mastered a highly technical instrument the tenor saxophone as both an improviser and a composer.   Both of her talents are on full display in her new album Waiting For The Sunrise. It is a collection of songs by other artists reimagined in Thurman's own way. There are songs from a bunch of different genres and styles from pop to Brazilian to soul and jazz. She assembled a band of seasoned musicians people who had played with everyone from Ray Charles to Miles Davis. And she told me that they recorded the album in a unique way.  You have this object that is shaped like a human dummy . It is like the torso of a mannequin and it has a head like a human. And there is one single microphone and there is a receiver going through the ears.  There was no mixing no dubbing extra tracks later just Thurman and the band gathered around that one human-shaped microphone which captured the sound in 360 degrees.  If you were there you would have been laughing because I am positioned directly in front of the microphone. And to sing I have to be right in front of it. To play I literally have to run to the other side .  Wow.  There are some tracks where you can actually hear me walking to the other side of the band to play the horn and picking it up and then putting it back down and walking back in time to sing again .   So that is you playing the sax.  And that is me running and walking.    The leaves are brown came tumbling down. Oh remember that September yeah in the rain. And you have to make sure you get back in the perfect spot to sing too.   .  I want to understand how someone takes on two different realms of jazz simultaneously like sax and singing because with either of those it is incredibly hard to set yourself apart. How old were you when you picked up your first saxophone?   Well I was about 15 years old when I picked up my first saxophone and actually the horn that I ended up getting - it was kind of fate and God because my aunt's mother-in-law who I call my aunt - she saw me one day and I was kind of really down. And I was like you know I got this scholarship but I have to play tenor and tenor is a big instrument.  Yeah.  And it is ugly and it is low. And I am a girl and they are going to make fun of me.  .  And she was like oh I got one upstairs.  Really?  Yeah. I mean it was like a story you would dream of. Like I call it The Lion The Witch And The Wardrobe the jazz version 'ecause like she literally said let us go just upstairs. And I went upstairs. The house is all dark. The stairs are rickety. You open the door and it is like . And you like see all these papers on the floor. It looked like the room had not been touched in 30 years. And in the closet was a 1967 Selmer Mark VI tenor saxophone untouched.  Behind all these heavy coats. Now I am sort of imagining the book in my head now .  Yeah.   Yeah it was like that .  So when did you begin to sing?  Well I had been singing since I was 4 years old but once I started picking up the saxophone I would learn the solos by singing it.    I am on your side . And I did not realize that I was scatting. And I remember one day I went to a Jazz in July camp. And I was in the shower and I thought everybody was gone so I started practicing my scatting . And one of the ladies later on in the class asked Sheila Jordan like hey is it possible for instrumentalists to sing and scat - because we think we have one amongst us.   This rare specimen.  Yeah .   But then as I started getting deeper and deeper into it I also started realizing the realities of you know society. Like I would go to school every day and people would ask me all the time can you really play that? Show me. I want to know right now. Do you really play that thing? And as a young girl I was like OK society's making me feel like there is something wrong with me playing an instrument that maybe...  Is big.  ...Is big or it maybe is not normally seen with a woman. But then you are like well but I want to prove that I could be the best that I can be.   Is there pressure in jazz specifically for women to be vocalists first and instrumentalists second?  You know what? I think it is even outside jazz. I think as society in general - because it is what is - how can I say it? Like I remember when I first found out that Sarah Vaughan was a pianist. And it blew my mind away because...  You had no idea.  I had no idea when I was younger. And then it dawned on me. I was like wow. So wait a minute. The majority of her career was promoted being a singer. And then I found out she was a composer too. But like most of the stuff you hear was the American Songbook. And I was like wait a minute. How can you just put one part of a person or an artist's gift out there when there is a whole person? But then even today like I have had many people talk to me. Like we will talk and automatically they will assume you are a vocalist. Like well yeah but I also play an instrument too. And sometimes it kind of I guess throws people off guard. Like oh women actually play instruments too. It is like well yeah if you read - crack open a history book you will see. So I think it is getting that awareness to people to see and to hear that this exists and that there is a high level of it too that is really really good and that you should consider opening your - or expanding your mind to include that into what you think of a musician to be.    You would be oh so easy to love so easy to idolize all others above.  I love the story of how you got into scat singing...  .  ...Because you were just imitating the sounds of instruments in your head. And...  Yeah.  You know scat singing - it is this dying art. And when I listen to you do it it blows my mind away.  .  And I hate to sound like such a fan girl right now but I am just going to do it. Can you do a little bit for us? Can you give us a little demonstration of some scat?  Sure.  Yes yes.   .  Saxophonist and singer Camille Thurman - her new album is called Waiting For The Sunrise.  . 