 And finally today we are going to hear from a band - 311. They have never been easy to peg and they sort of like it that way. Their concoction of rock reggae metal funk hip-hop and ska has been the undercurrent of 311's distinct sound for 27 years.    Whoa amber is the color of your energy. Whoa shades of gold display naturally.  Billboard has called them one of the biggest cult bands in America. And to the delight of legions of diehard fans 311 is out with a new album called Mosaic. 311's vocalist and guitarist Nick Hexum joins us from Hampton Beach N.H. one of the many stops on 311's summer tour across the U.S. Thanks for spending some time with us Nick.  My pleasure. Thanks for having me.  For those who are not quite as familiar with 311 or sort of need a little reminder I want to go back to the mid-1990s to 311's breakout hit Down. Let us play a little of it.    We have changed a lot and then some some. Know that we have always been down down. If I did not ever thank you you then just let me do it now.  Nick tell us what it was like to have Down come out at that particular moment in the alternative music scene.  Well writing The Blue Album that Down was on was kind of the culmination of a lot of hard work of building it up through a grassroots means because we really did not have press or radio support at all. So we just said we are going to go out and live on the road. And we put our meager possessions in a storage unit and just lived on the road and just built it up through word of mouth. It was I guess viral before that was what it means today. And then it just started a kind of a whirlwind where first we got an MTV Buzz Clip. And that really changed everything. And then just things started happening. We felt like we had already made it because we were packing clubs just through our grassroots following. And then it just really blew up. And it was fairly overwhelming.  This was at a time in the 1990s when bands like Pearl Jam and Nirvana helped define that decade. While some artists were tapping into the youth angst I guess your music seemed to sway in a different direction. Tell me about that.  Yeah. I addressed it on that same Blue Album in a song called Misdirected Hostility where I just felt that I did not really relate with all the anger. I felt it was a time of prosperity. And we did not have the Soviets getting ready to blow us up like we did in the '80s that everyone was worried about. And these were a lot of suburban kids that were pretty angry about something. And so we felt we were going to be the antidote for that. And you know we just did not relate with the anger.    Or else please I cannot handle all the negative vibe merchants. Is that all you have in you per chance? So much angst and pain it is so whack. You should take a tip from the one...  And that is I guess the kind of - the seeds of what turned us into a bit of a cult band because we had our own unique attitude. And people see it as a way of looking at the world a lifestyle. So it just kind of took a life of its own from there.    Misdirected hostility that is what you got to see. Misdirected hostility that is what you got to see. Misdirected hostility that is what you got.  Mosaic is the 12th album for 311. You had said I believe that there is always a risk of repeating yourself when you get to album 12. What did it take to keep that from happening?  Really it was just keeping an eye towards anything that was weird is good. Anything that is new anything that is fresh those are the ideas that we pursued. And also just mixing up the process where instead of being in our own little bubble we asked other people into the room with us to record. And I think that is the biggest block that an artist of our age can have is when you do not - you do not reach out. You do not keep mixing it up and bringing new people in. That to me is like the psychological thing is - of trying to keep keep grounded and open-minded to new styles and new people.  Everything you have just told me makes me think of one particular track on that album which is Wildfire.    Just let them all burn in the wildfire.  Wildfire was the first song written for Mosiac. And that just kind of - because it is so - such a weird song that goes through so many different movements that kind of shows how we were really placing an emphasis on being different and being being weird and being - having some new styles in our music. And over the years there is usually been like one what we call an epic on each record where it is a five-minute-plus song that goes through a lot of different movements does not have much repetition. It usually ends with a big finish. But for this one I wanted something that started big and had this real trip in the middle. And it goes through this sort of cinematic thing where there is even like beach sounds and waves and seagulls and stuff because it represents what I am talking about in the song and the calmness of knowing that you have people that will be there for you. So it is a very emotional song.    One thing you should not fear whatever things that come through the rain and the sunshine and the pain. We will look back and smile.  And then it ends in a big guitar-shredding-almost-kind-of-classic-rock kind of thing because at some point there is no words that it can express. And you just need to express through music. It is a fun one to play for sure.   Nick you decide 311 decide to end Mosaic with a song called On A Roll.    What a trip this has been what a change in my friend. Instead of just skipping time we had a stop and no end. We are still here. It is so clear written down on our skin for a long long time now. Here's an ode to the road. We are together as one.  It seems to be an intimate message to fans. What are you telling them?  You know it is about our longevity. It is a nod to the fans of gratitude. And it is just - there was a certain momentum that we we felt the fact that we were able to have 10 top-10 albums without necessarily any radio support and sporadic radio support made us just feel really really grateful. And the song On A Roll is kind of about that feeling of like we do not have to have anxiety because we have this support of the band mates of our fans. And you know we are on a roll.    On a roll. Here we go. All as one. Here we go. On a roll. Here we go. All as one. Here we go.  We cannot ignore though that you know on social media some fans have wondered if this was sort of a goodbye letter. So we got to ask what is going on here? Is this it for 311?  No I do not see that at all. I am saying on a roll here we go we. We keep going. This feels good. We have got momentum. I have said before this - we could be at our halfway point of our career. All we know is that we are going to do our best today and keep it going and take good care of what we have been so fortunate to find.  Nick Hexum frontman for 311 speaking to us from Hampton Beach N.H. They have just released their 12th album Mosaic. Nick thanks so much for joining us.  I really enjoyed it. Thanks for having me.    On a roll. Here we go. All as one. Here we go. On a roll. Here we go. All as one. Here we go. 