 Two big pop albums from two very different artists come out today. Carly Rae Jepsen dominated the summer with her viral hit Call Me Maybe. She follows up with the full-length album Kiss. Meanwhile rapper and producer Kanye West releases Cruel Summer a compilation of artists from his label. Reviewer Oliver Wang says both albums arrive with plenty of promise but fail to make good on it.    I threw a wish in the well. Do not ask me. I will never tell. I looked to you as it fell and now you are in my way. I trade my soul for a wish.  The inescapable summer anthem of 2012 came from a 26-year-old British Columbia singer who ruled the radio the club and most of all the YouTube screen. Call Me Maybe is a perfect piece of pop confection and I mean that as high compliment.    Hey I just met you and this is crazy but here's my number so call me maybe? It is hard to look right at you baby but here's my number so call me maybe?  It is not easy to craft a song that goes over as well at a bar mitzvah as it would at your parents' silver anniversary party. You could call the song's success magical but you would also have to acknowledge how difficult it is to pull off the same trick more than once. So there is surprisingly little thematic or musical range on Jepsen's full-length album despite employing over a dozen producers and songwriters. Kiss seems content to churn out 11 more songs about teen romantic drama set over fist-pumping dance tracks.    This kiss is something I cannot resist. Your lips are undeniable. This kiss is something I cannot risk. Your heart is unreliable. Something so sentimental you make so detrimental. And I wish it did not feel like this because I do not want to miss this kiss. I do not want to miss this kiss.  Even though she is about the same age as the last two queens of summer - Adele and Katy Perry - Jepsen somehow seems far younger and less versatile. Perhaps she needs another album or so to mature lest she risk joining a long line of one-hit wonders whose hot summers faded into a cold fall.    Well it is a weeping and a moaning and a gnashing of teeth. It is a weeping and a mourning and a gnashing of teeth. It is a - when it comes to my sound which is the champion sound. Believe believe.   OK Lamborghini Mercy.  The temperature may also be dropping on Kanye West's Cruel Summer his third album project in as many years. This is not a solo effort though. It is a compilation featuring the roster of his label Good Music. It features over two dozen artists and producers including Pusha T formerly of The Clipse.    Oh ooh ooh.   Situation delicate.   Some claim God body blame Illuminati. All because his pockets now knotty as his hair. Yeah. All Sonny no Cher only solitaires.  With so many cooks in the kitchen it is hard for Cruel Summer  technically proficient but lacking cohesion. Kanye West began his career as a producer but increasingly he is ceded musical control to others. As a result much of Cruel Summer sounds like it could have been lifted from elsewhere maybe a Frank Ocean or a DJ Khaled record. In one literal case of borrowing the album ends by barely remixing a Chief Keef song from the spring.    Nah jean jacket with the sleeves cut. Put the pressure on them just when they think that I eased up. Thirty for the Cuban another 30 for the Jesus. Believe in ourselves when nobody else believed us.  If Carly Rae Jepsen's album suffers from a monolithic sound backing too limited a voice Kanye's Cruel Summer  an excess of voices and not enough of a sonic thread to tie it all together. I used to joke that with West's outsized ego a little goes a long way but now I ruefully realize too little West does not go nearly far enough.    Hold up I as not trying to stunt man but these Yeezys jumped over the Jumpman. Went from most hated...  Our reviewer Oliver Wang is an associate professor of sociology at California State University Long Beach. He also writes the audioblog Soul-Sides.com.    ...because we cannot get along no resolution till we drown all these haters rest in peace to Whitney Houston. Cars money... 