 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Noah Adams.  I am Robert Siegel. And I want to introduce you now to a piece of music. A few weeks ago a new CD by the violist Kim Kashkashian arrived in the mail. She plays pieces by Armenian and Israeli composers on it. And after popping it into the CD player I was amazed to find myself blown away by the title track. It is about war and grief. It is called Neharot Neharot that is Hebrew for rivers rivers. Ms.  The piece Neharot refers specifically to the weeping and mourning of women before during and after war.   Kim Kashkashian says it was not originally intended to be about that. Israeli composer Betty Olivero was writing a piece for Kashkashian to play when war broke out across Israel's northern border. Rockets were flying. People were dying and grieving. And those events forced themselves into Olivero's composition. It is scored for two string ensembles that often play against each other. Also an accordion percussion and of course Kim Kashkashian's viola. The music quotes liberally from Middle Eastern melodies and songs of mourning as well as the music of the Italian baroque composer Claudio Monteverdi. Ms.  The piece starts very very dark. I am - she uses Monteverdi madrigal and also some melodies from Orfeo. And if I may I would like to read the text of the madrigal that she is using because it tells you a lot about the piece - or I will read a part of it. War is my state - full of wrath and grief. And only by thinking of her do I find some peace. So from one clear and lively source flows the sweet and the bitter on which I feed. One hand alone both heals and wounds me. And so that my suffering may not reach the shore 1000 times each day I die 1000 I am born. So far am I from my salvation. So that is how the piece opens.  The Monteverdi madrigal sounds just out of reach just beneath - and on the partially penetrable dark surface. And then the music becomes more conflicted.  Ms.  The piece is divided in two orchestras playing a dissonance to that - a dissonance both harmonically and rhythmically. And the accordion is joining the second orchestra. So what you have got is a picture that is already distorted from the very beginning.   And soon comes the mournful lament of violas. Not Kashkashian's but those of the ensemble.  Ms.  What she is done is to darken the picture. Soundbite of music Ms.  Make us confused a little bit.  Ms.  Now it is me - for the viola.   And then it is a duet viola and accordion. Ms.  We were inspiring each other and disturbing each other as I see it.   After some nine minutes of these musical allusions to war and grief the piece turns explicit.  Ms.  It is shocking is not it? Totally shocking.   These are the recorded voices of women mourning and your viola among it. Ms.  Yes. Me trying to match them.   Kim Kashkashian says the challenge for her in this piece is not to play like a classical violist to let the bow vibrate or crescendo in a way that she describes as more vocal than instrumental. Within a few minutes there is some resolution some familiar intervals. I found that the memory of those voices stayed with me. They are actually laments that professional mourners sing in Arabic and in Kurdish. And for me they demonstrated a paradox about recording. It is great that I can listen to them over again. I can read liner notes that describe how the composer came by this idea. But nothing substitutes for the first hearing when it is new powerful disorienting and painful. Ms.  It is a paradox. For me I mean for all of us interpreters we face daily the paradox of having a given text which stays the same. And it is our job to be true to it and yet when we get on stage we have to make it new every time. And I choose to see the recording as it is a moment in time which gets captured and therefore it is for the listener. The paradox becomes a double paradox. But it is the same one that we as interpreters face daily. It is always a moving target. And we always have to stay flexible. And we have the challenge of the changing environment and the audience - always different.  You could take it easy and say I will start with that last point. The audience is always different. So hey for them you know for them it is a new show every time. Ms.  That is true but I cannot take it easy.   And frankly so long as she continues to feel pushed to record powerful new music like this I am glad that she cannot.   Violist Kim Kashkashian's new album is called Neharot Neharot. And you can hear more from her CD at our Web site npr.org. 