 Music can bring people together. And for the group we are about to learn about next this moment of division in America presents an opportunity. It is a four-man string band an Argentinean bluegrass band. They have been touring in the American South this summer getting noticed by people from all sorts of backgrounds. Sandy Hausman of Virginia Public Radio has more.  In the mountains of Appalachia farming and forestry are big and the region relies heavily on immigrants from Mexico and Latin America to trim and harvest its vines and fruit trees. In Harrisonburg Va. for example nearly 20 percent of the population identifies as Hispanic. In Winchester it is just over 17 percent. They do not mix much with longtime locals which is why some people are intrigued by a band called Che Apalache.  Che is ubiquitous in Argentina. It is a way of saying buddy or pal. It is what you would use to grab someone's attention like hey che. And Apalache means Appalachian.  Joe Troop is an American who is been playing bluegrass since he was 15.    Well I make me a trip each and every single year though quite a many tell me I am insane. I pitch a tent before it is dark along the fence at old Felt's Park knee-deep in mud or in the sun or in the rain.  He took the music with him to Spain during two years of study abroad met many Argentinian musicians and artists there and eventually joined them in Buenos Aires where he now teaches banjo. That is how he met Martin Bobrik.  I have seen banjos and bluegrass music in cartoons when I was a little kid. Bugs Bunny played a banjo. Also thanks to Internet and YouTube I found out that the name of the style was bluegrass.  Bobrik signed up for lessons and so did Pau Barjau. They were already playing American rock and were ready for a new musical adventure.  We are all globalized people. We got to the banjo because of this globalization. But there is nothing like sitting down and seeing a bluegrass jam live you know?  As Che Apalachee Barjau Bobrik Troop and the fourth member of the group Franco Martino play a fusion of traditional Latin songs and bluegrass. Here for example they use banjo and mandolin to present a tango.    Maria Maria del agua Maria del cielo que linda Maria.  At other times they perform mountain tunes without a hint of their Hispanic roots.   Take that man away.  So far though Barjau says bluegrass has not caught fire in Argentina's capital.  The people that come to see us in Buenos Aires - we are like something exotic. It is almost like going to a museum some cultural thingy that is like classy and stuff which - bluegrass is not that. You know that is not the real spirit of bluegrass.  Are you saying bluegrass is not classic?   No it is. It can be. But we wish that people would like get a little bit drunk and start dancing. But they are all like sitting with their hand on their jeans and doing like oh listen to that. That is really interesting.   .  Here in the states however their sound was a hit with audience members Harlin Fields Lauren Wasman and Edwin Soto.  It is bluegrass but it is definitely a Latino slant to it. I think it is great.  I loved it.  The first time I heard these guys like I almost hit the ground. They are like super innovative. I mean I have never heard anything like it.  The lyrics and their music have some kind of story or background that come from the Latino culture. And I love the mixture of kind of the Appalachian style. The combination of the cultures - it is part of the story. It is part of the U.S. right now. So I am happy it is happening.    Come friends come friends. Come gather round for to sing sing we joyfully. Let us sing about a better world where different paths have been unfurled.  And this song called The Wall won an enthusiastic response from a largely Appalachian crowd.    There is all kinds of talk about building the wall down along the southern border about building a wall between me and you. Lord if such nonsense should come true then we will have to knock it down.  Che Apalache is hoping to open people's ears and minds on a tour of 18 states and the District of Columbia. For NPR News I am Sandy Hausman.    To love thy neighbor as thyself is a righteous law to live by but leaders sing a different song. They break us up so they stay strong and ignorantly we are strung along until we meet our doom. Yes our leaders are so ripe with sin. They feed us chants to rope us in. Someday soon we will find my friends that we are pinned against the wall. Come friends come friends. Come gather round for to sing sing we joyfully. Let us sing about a better world where different paths will soon unfurl where no man's blood shall stain the soil of a land where... 