 Singer Googoosh has been called the voice of Iran. But in 1979 her voice was silenced by the Islamic Revolution. This year she is celebrating 21 years since she broke that silence with a new record and a tour of North America. Betto Arcos spoke to the singer and has this profile.  A few days before the start of her North American tour Googoosh says there is one reason she wants to continue singing in Farsi for the young generation.  Because I love my country.  For Iranians forced to leave their country she is a symbol of home.  And children are growing up as non-Iranian but I am trying to remind them.  Googoosh says the younger generation of Iranians whose parents were forced to live outside of Iran are forgetting their language. She says her songs can help them regain it.   .  Born Faegheh Atashin in Tehran in 1950 Googoosh started performing when she was 3 years old with her father who was an acrobat working in a nightclub. She began singing by imitating songs of famous artists.  And when my father noticed that I have this talent - I mean he found my talent and he made me sing in front of people.  At age 9 Googoosh made her debut in the 1959 film Fear And Hope.   In this scene she strumming a toy instrument singing Peggy Lee's Johnny Guitar.    Johnny Guitar play it again. Play it again Johnny Guitar.  As a teen growing up in Tehran Googoosh absorbed all the pop music coming from the West. In the late 1960s she covered one of Aretha Franklin's hits Respect.    What you want baby I got it. What you need you know I got it. All I am asking is for a little respect when you get home baby when you get home.  She says Western music had a major influence on her career path.  That is why I chose the way I wanted to sing. It was not traditional. It was not old songs - the style I mean. I knew that I want to be different.  Her career took off in the early 1970s with songs such as Gharibe Ashena or Familiar Stranger. The lyrics say familiar stranger I love you. Come take me with you to the city of fairy tales. Hold my hand in your hands.   .  In the mid-1970s Googoosh recorded the theme song of a popular Iranian TV series called Divorce. The lyrics say hear me my travelling companion. Together we traveled on the road to agony. Together we cried through this journey. We suffered in the silence of our crying. We made a story out of the bitter passage of time.   .  But her career came to a halt in 1979 when the revolution overthrew the Shah of Iran and the new government declared the country an Islamic Republic. During that time  After a few months. I had to go back to my country because I could not stay here. I did not have anything and I could not work.  Googoosh went back to Iran where the government forced her to stop singing. She was forbidden from participating in any type of public gathering.  They tried hard to erase me - I mean erase my name erase my position erase my songs erase my face erase the memory of me. But they could not.  At the peak of her career she was forced to live in silence for 21 years. Then in July of 2000 the government granted her permission to visit her family in Los Angeles and she left.   .  Her first stop was in Toronto. At the Air Canada Centre Arena 18000 fans waited for her return with open arms. Reminiscing about that auspicious day when she returned to the stage Googoosh tears up.  I was I mean speechless. And I had fear. I did not know if I can take care of these people you know? But it happened.  So in the world there are these singers - people like Fairuz Edith Piaf Chavela Vargas in this country Billie Holiday or Nina Simone - who represent and are the voice of the people. They transcend politics. They transcend religion. They transcend all of these constructs.  Pianist Thomas Lauderdale is the founder and artistic director of the band Pink Martini. Lauderdale is collaborating with Googoosh on a forthcoming album. He says for the people of Iran wherever they live the voice of Googoosh is everything.  So when my friend Fahti Yamin from Portland Ore. who I met 30 years ago and introduced me to the music of Ms. Googoosh - when I brought Fahti to meet Ms. Googoosh here in Los Angeles she broke down in tears because it was just such an overwhelming emotional experience to meet the voice of Iran.   .  At her first concert of the Twenty-One World Tour in San Jose Calif. more than 2000 fans listened and sang along to dozens of her hits.   .  Thirty-year-old Sheyda lives in Cupertino. She says she is been listening to Googoosh since the day she was born.  When I miss home I listen to Googoosh because it reminds me of my parents and the time we have together you know? Not only my parents - my friends the whole country.  When asked if she hopes things will change in Iran Googoosh turns to the recent events in Afghanistan.  With this position America made in Afghanistan make difficult for us.  Googoosh says what is happening right now in Afghanistan is what happened to Iran in 1979. She says it is heartbreaking and she is worried how it might affect the people of Iran. Still Googoosh says she will continue to sing and give hope to Iranians around the world. For NPR News I am Betto Arcos.   . 