 There is such a thing as waiting too long to drop a new album. Just ask Brian Wilson and The Beach Boys about Smile or Axl Rose about Chinese Democracy. For a while it seemed like Grammy winner Frank Ocean was headed down the same path until last night when this happened.    When I feel what I feel sometimes it is hard to tell you so.  Ocean released a visual album called Endless. In the 45-minute video instead of singing he is a solitary figure in work gloves carefully constructing a stairway in the middle of a warehouse room where his music plays in the background. Frank Ocean broke into the mainstream in 2012 with the almost universally acclaimed album Channel Orange. And for more we are bringing back NPR's Jason King. Hey there Jason.  Hey Audie.  So this album was teased for ages with a bunch of different dates - released pushed back. What is with all the pressure? Was there a sense that he would not be able to pull it off?  Yeah I mean it was four years since his last release. There was a great anticipation for whatever he was going to do after Channel Orange. But we kept waiting and waiting and there were all these announcements of when it was going to come out. But every time there was an announced deadline there was no record. Even as late as last week there was an announced deadline and the record did not show up. And so finally today here's Endless. And people are really happy but trying to also process and digest what it actually is.  I know there is an Isley Brothers cover here. Can you talk about Frank Ocean's sound? Is he in that lineage in terms of his approach modern day?  Sure. So the cover that he does on Endless of At Your Best  which is an Isley Brothers classic is something he had released a little while earlier. It is beautiful because it actually showcases Frank Ocean's falsetto which is one of the best aspects of his voice.    But at your best you are love. You are a positive motivating force within my life. Should you ever feel the need to wonder why let me know.  Frank Ocean himself is a really interesting character. He came out of this hip-hop collective called Odd Future but he instantly stood out as this more kind of solidly musical artist. And he would marry the sort of confessional eccentric pop of somebody like Beck with the sensual quiet storm of Maxwell. And you really hear that on this track.  And we should say that we do not know if this is the album the awaited album. That could still come in the next few days but we have this music for now. What are your impressions of it?  It is a lot to process. There is a lot of different moods and ideas. The sonics are very complicated. There is a couple of songs that I think are interesting. U-N-I-T-Y or unity is one of the most impressive moments on the record because it is Frank Ocean doing this sort of stream-of-consciousness rap. And it reminds you that not only can he sing really well but he can also rap. And you know he is referencing all kinds of different things - Palestine and all these concepts that come through his mind. So that is one of the things that really got my attention.    It forever seem like time's up or we swerved in a Honda. It forever seems like no time will mean time flies when you have some. Both  weigh two pounds all on your  like futons. My crew saved your crew like  came through with the Groupons.  Now this is being called a visual album. In doing the release in this way it seems like there is a rejection of the big album release schedule right? Like the publicity and the kind of singles march and all this business and trying to innovate using streaming and the Internet.  Yeah that is absolutely what is going on. In the Internet era the release of albums has become very haphazard. A lot of albums get leaked too early or bootlegged. There is so many ways to access an album as opposed to in the past where you would sort of wait for the release date and the album would come and the single would come a month before the album. All of that has been upended. And so now in order to get people's attention the - one of the ways to do that is to release it as a visual album where it is so compelling and it seems like such an event that people have to stop what they are doing and listen.    He came up in Dallas had no hazel in his eyes had them sailors on his thighs when these ladies show them.  That is NPR's Jason King. Jason thanks for talking with us.  Thanks so much Audie. Appreciate it. 