 Tennessee is also home to The SteelDrivers a bluegrass band from Nashville. In 10 years together the group is racked up Grammy nominations and weathered lineup changes. Their new album pays homage to a different state. It is titled The Muscle Shoals Recordings and it is named after the part of Alabama where they recorded it. The area's been a musical hotbed since the 1960s that attracted artists like Aretha Franklin and Wilson Pickett. Meredith Ochs has this review.   Shades Of Muscle Shoals have been part of The SteelDrivers' sound ever since front-man Gary Nichols joined the band five years ago.    Too much sugar too much caffeine too much violence on my TV.  Nichols grew up there in one of the most fertile grounds for American music and its imprint is on his singing. You can hear it every time his voice ascends. It is not the sort of high lonesome stretch you might hear in bluegrass. It is a soul shout straight off some of the classic rhythm and blues that the region is known for.    Too much taxes everybody get a cut. I do not worry - do not worry about it too much. I do not worry - I do not worry about it too much. I do not worry - I do not worry about it too much.  Just as Gary Nichols' voice goes to unexpected places The SteelDrivers do the same in their lyrics shifting from contemporary refrains to historical themes.    Thirty-first day of December 3000 dressed in blue and gray.  In this Civil War story-song they whisk you back to the present at the very end. It is sad beautiful and chilling all at once when you realize they have taken you to a haunted place.    Now the water looks clean and untainted but Stones River will never run clear because the river runs red. The river runs red. No winners or losers when you count the dead. We watch it roll by. We all bow our heads. The guns have gone silent but the river runs red.  While Gary Nichols' singing is a big part of what makes The SteelDrivers different from straightforward bluegrass there is even more to love on their new album. They are playing is magnetic circling around Tammy Rogers' lyrical fiddle. During concerts they joke about not playing any gospel tunes so when an angel shows up in this song it is not a classic sacred-meets-profane moment but rather a heartbreaker bound for hell.    I have thought that you were sent from heaven. You had me floatin' on a cloud. But tonight my sky has fallen and it is a long way down. It is a long way down.  The SteelDrivers have always made acoustic music with an edge. Muscle Shoals just makes it a little swampier and it suits them.    So far down that it as not got a bottom. Thought you had wings but I guess you as not got 'em. Fallen angel do not look down. Oh oh oh it is a long way down.  The SteelDrivers' new album is The Muscle Shoals Recordings. Our reviewer is Meredith Ochs. 