 Another country music controversy is brewing far from Nashville.    'ecause I got friends in low places where the whiskey drowns and the beer chases my blues away.  Country megastar Garth Brooks has canceled five sold-out concerts in Dublin Ireland. The shows at the end of this month were to be the kickoff to an expected world tour - his first in many years. But now the Ireland shows are off after residents complained to the city council about potential noise traffic and antisocial behavior. And 400000 ticket holders are scrambling for refunds.  Rachel Flaherty with The Irish Times in Dublin told us the problems began with the concert venue itself.  The park had permission to play three concerts. It is actually a sports bar called Croke Park. And what happened was One Direction - I am sure you have heard of them they are in America as well - they had played three shows last month and they had used up the limits that they could have. So they had to apply to Dublin City Council to get the license for five more shows.  So in the end 400000 tickets were sold. Those now will be refunded. That is a really great turnout for Garth Brooks shows in Ireland. That is amazing.  Well the excitement around him coming was so big. Dublin City Council did end up granting permission for three shows. But Garth said it was five or none at all.  Yeah he made a statement saying it was five shows or nothing. He said to choose which shows to do and which shows not to do would be like asking to choose one child over another. And he did go on to say however this plays out Ireland has my heart and always will. Rachel what are you hearing from Garth Brooks fans about this?  Well initially people were understanding of Garth you know. But after Garth's first statement there was some negative commentary. A lot of people have been in limbo you know they have booked hotels. They have booked days off work. Everyone was excited to go. And the Dublin mayor here said it was in Garth's court so to say. So everyone was waiting on Garth's decision and then a couple of days ago Garth said he would not play any.  You know it does seem that the folks at the highest levels of the government there in Ireland have weighed in on this. The arts minister has called it an embarrassment for the country. What are the estimates on what the cost will be to have these shows canceled?  There is huge estimates going around at the moment. Our Taoiseach which is the prime minister he estimated 50 million. And he said that was just the start. He described it as a bitter economic lesson. And then there was an attempt in our government yesterday to protrude an emergency bill as well.  Really? A bill specifically for Garth Brooks concerts?  Exactly.   But that was impossible to happen because it has to be a public consultation with any bill so that did not work either.  Rachel there is a Garth Brooks song - a song he co-wrote called Ireland. Do you hear that song played over there?  No not so much.  Have you ever heard it before?  No I have not.  Would you like to?  Go on.    Ireland I am coming home. I can see your rolling hills of green and fences made of stone. I am reaching out. Will not you take my hand? I am coming home Ireland.  Well Rachel what do you think? Maybe he is coming home. I do not know.  Oh well I think Ireland definitely wants him to. Whether or not he will actually make it here we will have to wait and see.  Well Rachel Flaherty thanks so much for talking with us.  Thank you Melissa.    And there are no words to be spoken.  Rachel Flaherty with The Irish Times in Dublin.  This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 