 Over the course of 50 years Nonesuch Records has become a force in the music industry. What started as a tiny independent budget classical label in 1964 went on to pioneer electronic and world music. It launched the Ragtime revival and became a place where contemporary classical composers found a home. This week the label is beginning an anniversary celebration at the Brooklyn Academy of Music and Jeff Lunden has the Nonesuch story.  Tucked in a corner of the Manhattan Office Tower that houses the giant conglomerate Warner Music Group the 13 staffers who run Nonesuch Records quietly release about 25 albums a year. Robert Hurwitz has been leading the company for 30 of its 50 years. He says when he got the job he knew it was the opportunity of a lifetime.  And I recognized that if I was going to fail I wanted to fail on my own terms - which was I wanted to fail not because I took a safe way and did what people thought I should do but that I was going to fail because we actually had the courage of our convictions and people just did not by the record.  When Hurwitz released Henryk Gorecki's Third Symphony in 1992 he figured it would sell about 25000 copies.   It sold over a million.  All that did is reaffirm to me that there was a public out there that was just like me.  In many ways Hurwitz was following the philosophy of label founder Jac Holzman. When he launched Nonesuch 50 years ago Holzman had already created Elektra Records in his college dorm room. Elektra was home to such popular folk artists as Judy Collins and Phil Ochs. Holzman wanted to make classical music available to record buyers at budget prices so he licensed European recordings and sold them for the price of a paperback - about 2.50.   But he knew the licenses would run out so he took a chance on contemporary electronic music.  I believed deeply in electronic music so I decided to commission works from people like Morton Subotnick.  Holzman and his partner Teresa Sterne commissioned Subotnick to create the first completely electronic composition for records.   Silver Apples Of The Moon became a big hit says Jac Holzman.  And we did the Nonesuch Guide To Electronic Music sitting on the Billboard charts  - mid-way on the Billboard charts at 26 weeks. And then Josh Rifkin walked in one day and said you know we ought to really do an album of Joplin rags. Well that started the whole Joplin craze.  As in Scott Joplin.   Then Holzman and Sterne heard from David Lewiston who would been traveling around the world recording indigenous music.   As he told NPR in 2000.   So I came back to New York with no idea of getting involved with a record company. I just knew I had these great recordings. But then I was rifling through the stacks in Sam Goody's on Third Avenue and discovered there was this company called Nonesuch that actually put records of this sort of stuff. So I sent a brief query to Nonesuch asking you know are you interested in listening? I got a prompt response saying yes please bring them in.  The Nonesuch Explorer series introduced world music to American audiences long before it was called world music.   Jack Holzman says Nonesuch - with its distinctive logo album covers and its own bins in record stores - reversed industry trends in the 1960s.  Most large record labels like RCA and Columbia financed their serious music-making out of their pop successes. Nonesuch was so successful at the end of its first year that suddenly I had an extra half-million dollars in cash with which to finance the Butterfield Blues Band The Stooges The Doors Queen etc. So Nonesuch provided the financial kindling for the explosion that Elektra became.  In the years that followed Robert Hurwitz's Nonesuch has enjoyed huge success with the Gypsy Kings and the Buena Vista Social Club.   .  Hurwitz also signed the Kronos Quartet and composer Steve Reich and John Adams and broadened the label scope to include Emmylou Harris and songwriter Randy Newman.  Bob is a music man. He leaves it alone creatively. I mean he has things that he likes and things that he does not like and he makes his opinions known. But it is not for commercial reasons in any sense that he likes things.    Feels like home to me. Feels like home to me. It feels like I am all the way back where I come from.  It was artists like Randy Newman and Wilco who attracted a young Chris Thile to Nonesuch.  I have wanted to be on Nonesuch since I was a little kid.  Thile has since become one of the most respected mandolin players today.   He says he is always surprised to find out who is on the label.  I kept hearing just all sorts of different musical aesthetics represented you know so finely by what I would eventually find out were Nonesuch artists.  Like fellow MacArthur genius grant winner Jeremy Denk.   I love the way in which there is not this wall at Nonesuch between the classical and the other worlds - that if it is interesting then it is part of the collection.  Nonesuch continues to defy expectations. One upcoming release will feature Radiohead's Jonny Greenwood playing the music of classical composer Steve Reich. For NPR News I am Jeff Lunden in New York. 