  Ornette Coleman was an American icon and iconoclast.   The saxophonist and composer liberated jazz from conventional harmony structure and expectation. He died this morning of cardiac arrest in a New York hospital. He was 85 years old. We are going to remember the self-taught musician who was born poor in Fort Worth Texas in 1930 and became an innovator. Coleman won the Pulitzer Prize two Guggenheims a MacArthur honorary doctorates and a National Endowment for the Arts Jazz Master honor. Howard Mandel says he earned them all.  Ornette Coleman played his alto saxophone the way someone whistles to themselves walking down the street - unconcerned with rules about how a song is supposed to go.   Coleman told NPR in 1997 that he believed in the unfettered imaginative original expressive powers of melody.   It allows every musician to participate in any form of musical environment without them changing their own personality or their own tone or their way of phrasing.  And he put that belief into practice when he could. Coleman was raised by his single mother and sister. He learned music on his own and left home as a teenager to tour the deep South with a minstrel show. On the road he faced rejection and even assault for his unorthodox freestyle built on Texas blues. He wound up in Los Angeles working as an elevator operator and trying to get a hearing in jam sessions. He finally made his first recording as a leader in 1958.   Some praised Coleman for returning jazz to the kind of collective improvisation its earliest players used. Others heard only cacophony. New York Times writer Jon Pareles explained Coleman's innovations to NPR in 1985.   Jazz before Ornette Coleman people would devise solos that were designed to fit on top of the chords of a certain tune. Ornette came along and said we do not have to do it that way we can take an improvisation that tells its own kind of story. And he basically showed people a new kind of freedom. He broke them out of the maze of harmony.  Coleman himself described his system as sound grammar or harmolodics.  O.  It is the scientific form of sound based upon the human emotion of expression. That is basically what it is and what it does.   Coleman's principal idea that anyone can make music with anyone and they do not have to know much about each other to do it made him able to retain his cry of the blues even while jamming with the Master Musicians of Jajouka from the mountains of Morocco.   Musicians flocked Coleman like he was the Pied Piper and he played with them. Yoko Ono Jerry Garcia and the Grateful Dead Laurie Anderson and Lou Reed not to mention the many jazz musicians who graduated from his bands yet Coleman himself was unfailingly modest. He was shy about cameras and he might be oblique in conversation. It was not that his vocabulary was peculiar but his point of view was unique coming from all directions seeming to take in everything imagistic and fundamental. His musicians understood him as his longtime bassist Charlie Haden said in 1997.   It was very easy for me to follow. And it is always been easy for me to follow him because he is very articulate but in his own language just the way he is in his music.  In December of 1960 Haden was part of Coleman's radical experiment in collective improvisation - two quartets playing simultaneously titled Free Jazz.   The recording inspired licensed or provoked many better-established jazz musicians of the '60s but his experiments did not stop there.  O.  I never have classified music as being in different categories so I went and started writing music which consists of violins and stuff like that.  O.  I think most people classify you as what you do when they see you perform in the contents of drums and things like that everybody call that jazz. But when they see a violin or a French horn or something they call that classical music. And I really believe that any instrument can become the soloist instrument in any kind of contents.   This work Skies Of America was also scorned until 1986 when conductor John Giordano of the Fort Worth Symphony worked closely with Coleman on a revision. Performances followed by orchestras in Europe and by the New York Philharmonic. Ornette Coleman liked to tell people...  O.  I consider myself a composer that performs.  O.  Whenever I would hear a band with a guitarist and bass the melodic line sounded so full it sounded like a full orchestra. So I said well if I could expand their melodic writing I would be able to express more music.   In mid-1970s Coleman reinvented himself again forming an electric band that often included his son Denardo. In 2008 the drummer told me that his father's philosophy suffuses his art as part of his band's rehearsals and comes to fruition in performance.   I think it is beyond just scale key all that you know? Everything he is talking about is what he always talks about with us as well. And so we are bringing everything - the performance is everything.  It was Ornette Coleman's life to express feeling freely and directly in music and also to ask the big confounding questions...  O.  Do you think music has life?  Ornette Coleman's fans answer in the affirmative. For NPR News I am Howard Mandel in New York. 