 Kirchen has played music all his life from classical as a kid to folk in the '60s. He got his first national exposure as a founding member of Commander Cody and His Lost Planet Airmen.    There is a riot going on up in cell block number nine.  On his new CD Word to the Wise Kirchen is joined by some of the many musicians he is worked with over the years including Nick Lowe Elvis Costello Maria Muldaur and of course Commander Cody.    So I made it back home for the big inaugurama. I had to play my record for my man Obama. I blew right by the Secret Service. I said put that thing away man your making me nervous.  So good to have you with us.  Well it is good to be here Lynn. Thank you.  Now I understand you are called the King of Dieselbilly. What exactly is dieselbilly?  So at one point more of just as a joke if any - that I started calling what I played dieselbilly figuring if I had my own genre anything I played would be legitimate dieselbilly so...  Well there is one example from the new CD that I wanted to play called Bump Wood.  Right.  And I was listening to that song in Calvert County Maryland which I understand is where you live.  Exactly yeah.  Driving along on a country road and I have to say this was just the right thing to be listening to.  True. It is a good-to-be-alive song.    If I could stretch a dollar like I stretched that cent I would have all the money that I already spent. If I had the money I would spread it all around 'ecause it do not mean nothing when I am layin' in the ground. I am layin' in the ground when I am layin' in the ground. And I know in the morning that it is gonna be good when I stick out my elbows and they do not bump wood. They do not bump wood.  Now if you can listen to that song without bouncing your head up and down then...   Even I was bouncing up and down and I have heard it before.   So you called that a good-to-be-alive song.  Yeah.  Is that just because of the way it makes you feel or does it go beyond that or...  Well it is what it is about really. It is about writing - I wrote it with the idea of hey I like it here you know.  You like it here on Earth.  Exactly.  And you want to continue to be here.  In this neat suit that I have been issued yeah. Just fine with me.  So what are your roots? Are your roots country are they blues?  I started out being a classical musician and hearing the pop music of the day. But I really did not start playing until I got caught up in the big folk scare in the mid-'60s.  The folk scare?  The folk scare - whoa what is this? But I would hitchhike to New York City into the Newport Folk Festival...  Oh yeah.  ...in 1964 and '65 and I saw all the great bluesmen like Skip James and Son House. And that was the music that I got going on. I really did not start playing rock and roll in electric until a couple years later. And then I got a crash course in Western swing and country at that point when I started Commander Cody  His Lost Planet Airmen we started that band.  That is really where your career began is not it?  That is where my national career began absolutely.  All right tell me a little bit about that playing with Commander Cody.  Well we were - it started out almost as a - just a fun band. There was a floating membership and there were dancing girls and it was kind an art rock thing. But we were mining boogie-woogie from the '40s hard blood and guts country from the '50s Hank Williams songs and whatnot writing our own material. And so we were doing a lot of kind of things which came to be known later as roots music. But we were playing them for rock and roll audiences in the '60s and '70s.  Did you ever - did you start playing trombone before you played guitar?  Yeah. I was a classical trombone player in - through junior high and part of high school until I got seduced by the banjo and guitar.  And I know that you said that you really got into the folk music...  Yeah.  ...but did you ever think about going into pure blues or jazz? Where you headed in that direction at all or...  But I have really just been lucky enough to play the music that really struck me.  All right. I wanted to play a track from the CD. This is one that I think you wrote for Elvis Costello. It is called Man in the Bottom of the Well.    I spend my time thinking about the tales he is got to tell. There is a man in the bottom of the well. Do not go there for water you might walk away as dry as dust and bone.  So that is Elvis Costello...  Yeah.  ...singing with you. And did you write that with him in mind?  I really did not write it with him in mind but I picked it for him. I was - I wanted a song for him to really sink his teeth into and I thought somehow that reminded me of him and sort of the emotional intensity that he is capable of delivering.  So you know over the years you have earned some very lofty titles.  Oh my goodness.  Hammer of the Honky Tonk Gods.   Titan of the Telecaster.  They say.   And I understand you have been using the same Telecaster guitar since 1967?  I think I got it in '69 actually about 41 years ago. And it was at least 10 years old then. But I did. I managed just the same old guitar. I am sure it was because back in the day I had roadies to rescue it for me and put it away every night. But I have been able to take care of it myself now for the last - yeah.  Well is there something special about the sound of that guitar that makes you hold onto it or...  Yeah. Well I think any guitar has its own voice and especially the good ones and that was one of the good ones. Even if it is just a plank of wood and a stick and some wires it is still got character to it and that was one of the good ones.  Yeah. It is not the only guitar you play with.  No. As a matter of fact I do not have it with me today. It is a - I have a guitar now that I just got yesterday that is made - check this out. It is made by Carmen Street Guitars in the Village and the neck is from pine taken from the fabulous Chelsea Hotel in Greenwich Village.  Well we are going to have you play that.  All right.  But wait. Before we have you play that I understand something else...  What?  ...which is you are a good whistler.  Oh yeah. I can whistle.  Can I hear you whistle something?   That is great.  I learned how to whistle walking my dog. As a kid I would walk my dog and whistle.   What can I tell you?  Well one song that you are really well-known for is Hot Rod Lincoln and I was wondering if you could play that for us.  Sure. Why not?  Okay. Great.  First off a little back story on this. We learned this from a Johnny Bond record. And I was pretty new to learning songs off records. And I thought I pretty much nailed it exactly but I go back now and it was not even close. But I like mine better and it was originality born of incompetence.    There you have it.   Yeah there really is something about your music that makes you want to move I think. What inspires you when you are writing?  That is a good question. I do not know. Generally - I love music that is one thing. I always have. And sometimes I feel that I just want to go hey listen to this or even if it is a song like a Dylan song I love or whatnot. So for openers I was a fan and then I was lucky enough to learn how to play and make my living doing it.  Thanks so much for being here.  Thank you so much for having me. This has been a wonderful experience.  All right. Now maybe you can play something else to say goodbye?  Sure. I will play a song. Yup.   And this is Bill Kirchen playing and whistling the 1959 classic Sleepwalk.  