 Mimi Parker and Alan Sparhawk of the band Low have been making music together for nearly 30 years and they have been married to each other for even longer.  Honestly if it had not been for the marriage for the family well I do not think we ever would have...  Yeah.  We never would have survived this long as a band.  Yeah.  Low recently released their 13th album. It is called HEY WHAT.    All night you fought the adversary.  And it is not just to say that necessarily like oh the band is just horrible but we are keeping it together because we are married. But I think we were able to weather difficulties. We were able to have a certain kind of unified vision and despite being kind of very two different artists.  Parker and Sparhawk say their career and their relationship have been balancing acts and that after all these years they are still in a way trying to find their sound. A heads up to our engineers - the distortion coming up is intentional.    Told me that I never could contain. Went back and wept in the car beneath the shade.  I have been pushing towards the beauty and I know Alan sometimes focuses on...  Chaos.  ...The chaos.    Maybe that is the last thing you should say.  It is been a challenge to blend that together. And I guess that is maybe what we have been trying to do this whole time.    I gave more than what I should have lost. I paid more than what it would have cost.  Mim's  voice really is such a powerful tool to cut through noise.    I want all of what I did not have.  A humanness against the violence.    When you think you have seen everything.  I mean I think early on we knew that that is what we were bringing to it and that - you know and I was immediately - probably the overriding thought for me in the band especially when it first started was like I want to figure out a way to accommodate what you want. I think that we can figure out a way that we both do what we are wanting to happen in music.    Everybody just chased by dreams. That is why we are living in days like these again.  I mean it sounds like compromise is what you are describing but I have never felt like the music...  Oh no.  ...That we have created has been a compromise.  Yeah. I think it is always beautiful and it is always as crazy as I have ever...  Yeah.  ...Beyond my imagination.    It is not something you can choose between. It is not coming in twos and threes.  It is a sound that tows the line between harmony and dissonance and that makes their newest album HEY WHAT a particularly fitting soundtrack for these times we are living in.    That is why we are living in days like these again.  That was Alan Sparhawk and Mimi Parker of the band Low.    Again. 