 It is been 20 years since Maxwell first entered the spotlight.    Should not I realize you are the highest of the high?  His debut album Urban Hang Suite was a critical and commercial hit. It helped kick off a new movement in R and B music called neo soul and it made Maxwell into a sex symbol. Now he is 43 and a new album like the cicadas emerging or Halley's Comet passing by is a rare but spectacular phenomenon. His last album came after an eight year hiatus and he kept fans waiting another seven years for this one.   .  It is called blackSUMMERS'night with summers capitalized. It is the second album in a trilogy and it has been so long in the making that I was shocked when Maxwell told me a couple of the vocal tracks were recorded off the cuff in one take over music from his collaborator Stuart Matthewman like this song called Listen Here.    Listen here Baby. Listen close yeah 'ecause nothing here is gone. The thing is still strong.  This was one take.  Yeah I had honestly had never heard any of it. And so I was like just put something up you know? And he did and then it was just like . And I think we were like done in like 10 minutes - not even maybe five minutes.  Wait. So had you written the lyric or were you just...  I never - yeah I never wrote anything before I got there. I did not even know what it was going to be or what was going to be said or...  Hold on are you saying that what we are hearing is you hearing the instrumental track for the first time...  Yeah.  ...Making up words on the fly composing a melody as you are singing it and that was one take and that is what we are hearing?  Yeah.  That is crazy.  Yeah.    There is a hole inside something in me that tries to destroy it tries to deny the destiny that I have been given.  And that is the one of the two songs that we did like that.  Wait wait wait so if that is how you work why does an album take seven years? That is like 10 minutes per track done.   Well I mean because you got to live something to kind of be able to have something like that happen. I do like living a normal life. I think celebrity is stupid. It is stressful. I hate the idea that I cannot be how I want to be. So there are moments in Listen Here where it is like just straight-up honesty you know? And you would not get that if you have the media police on your back because everyone's trying to be so perfect that sometimes the vulnerability aspect of who they truly are is what the media has to kick out of them. And so I get to sort of like you know well you know cut to the chase and just put that on the song.  So you said this is one of two songs that you recorded one take on the fly not having written lyrics no preparation. What is the other one?  The other one is Lost.    I want to love you baby.  I mean I did not know what I was going to do. It just happened and it is funny because it ties into Pretty Wings pretty well.  Pretty Wings is the big hit from your earlier album yeah.  Yeah because it is the woman growing up and you know I am not going to blow her up because we are actually really good friends. And I love the husband and I am so happy for her because she is got like a stable person that can like be cool and is not living this crazy life where he has to be kind of screwed up to make good music. But you know it is kind of like - it is like a continuation of it.    When I see you from a distance when I see how you ignore me with resistance and I know you are happy and your children are growing up and your husband is lovin' you...  And yet as you are singing I know you are happy your children are growing up and your husband is loving you you are also kind of asking her not to leave you.  It is weird you know but not in the way where I want to break somebody up. It is just so that you know that I never really did not not love you. It is just I never felt like good enough for you.    I see you in my eyes. I see you and it haunt me yeah and you taunt me yeah.  Did you have any idea that is what this song was going to be about when you started to open your mouth at the beginning of the track?  No.  Wow.  I had no idea.  Has she heard the track?  I do not know you know? I am very respectful of relationships so I just disappear. But you know you bump into each other. You are cordial and you are grateful that they are happy. And then you cross your fingers and you hope that you are not going to be so screwed up anymore that you can actually create the same thing down the road.  And look even if you are screwed up at least you get an amazing song out of it right.  Right yeah. I get to bleed as they drink.    So lost.  Well Maxwell it is good to have you back and congratulations on the new album.  Thank you so much for calling me Bro. And I am not - it will not - I will not be 50 years old when the third installment comes out.  I will believe it when I see it.  OK.  OK .  You know what? You know what? I deserve that.    You have got to give me...  Maxwell's new album is blackSUMMERS'night. 