 Omar Banos best known by his stage name Cuco is a teen idol in the making. The singer's dreamy bedroom pop has earned him many young fans. They are drawn as much to his wistful lyrics as to the way he is embraced his Chicano roots.    I want to wake up next to you.  Now he is playing songs from his debut album Para Mi at shows across the country. Our reviewer Miguel Perez says the new record and Cuco's early success are challenging notions of what a pop heartthrob can sound and look like.  Para Mi is bathed in a wavy psychedelic haze. The album unfurls slowly with the help of a drowsy symphony of 808 drum machines guitars and swirling synths.   There is no doubt psych rock has had an influence on Cuco but the Southern California native has many sides. Growing up he taught himself how to play the trumpet bass keys and French horn so there are also brilliant shades of smooth jazz trap and even bossa nova on his debut.    They hit me up and told me that you were with my homie. How could you ever help me? I never been so lonely. Cannot take you back - oh no no. Think that it is time to go go. You left me all on my own.  That is just the music. The man behind the mic is a total heartthrob in the eyes of his fans. Cuco is unlike the perfectly coiffed and usually white teen idols of yesteryear. He sports a wispy mustache a gold chain and unruly black hair. His delivery is tender with a touch of millennial humor. And that is resonating with his teenage audience for whom love and hate ennui and euphoria sincerity and sarcasm are all constantly butting up against one another.    So lonely. Will somebody come and help? I am rotting in the image of my head.  Cuco is also keenly aware of what it means to be a young Mexican American musician on the rise. He says he wants to be a face and a voice for first-generation Chicanos. He talks often about his immigrant parents and he pays tribute to his South Bay roots in his music and in his visuals. Glossy tracks dipped in old-school RB call to mind the Chicano rappers of his childhood.    And if you need me then you will know where to find me. I am feeling lost. I just need someone to guide me. Do not want to feel left out. Please understand me now. But if you cannot then it is all right. I will always be around.  Later this year he will perform at a concert in New York that'ill benefit immigrant families at risk of deportation. He will play alongside other fresh-faced Latinx artists making waves unapologetic in their politics and their brownness. So maybe Para Mi is not exactly a big political statement on paper but in an era when young Chicanos are constantly having their sense of belonging challenged the mere idea of one of us - uno de nosotros - making it big on his own terms feels revolutionary.    Why you still with me still beats me. But I am thankful that you still see me. My brain is killing me and it eats me. I do not deserve you.  The debut album from Cuco is called Para Mi. Our reviewer Miguel Perez is a producer for KERA in Dallas.    Until my very death I will love you with my heart. And if this has to end I will have to understand. I know I have been quite dumb but baby we are quite young. 