 One of the most celebrated singers in West Africa was Sory Kandia Kouyate. His spectacular voice might have sent him to global stardom but he died suddenly in 1977 when he was 44. Now some of his finest recordings have been collected on a two-CD retrospective and Banning Eyre has this review.  With Sory Kandia Kouyate the voice is everything.   It is rich strong pure and passionate. There are not many African singers of any era who can match Sory Kandia Kouyate on technique articulation or just sheer power. This song Tara is part of a centuries-old Mande praise song tradition which Kouyate inherited through his family line. But in his heyday the 1960s and '70s that tradition was getting a jazzy big-band makeover in Guinea.   The plinking notes of the ancient wooden balafon tumble right into to the popular Latin rhythms of the day. Africa was opening to the world and nothing drove the point home better than Kouyate's sublime tenor voice.   One of the earliest recordings in this set Nina is a love song to a girl that Kouyate first sang in the mid-'50s. That might seem unremarkable except when you consider that in a world of arranged marriages artistic declarations of romantic love were rare at the time even revolutionary. Nina is a landmark that inspired a succession of popular West African love songs.   Roughly half of the tracks here are traditional performances operatic renderings of epic stories from the past. Here Kouyate is accompanied by legendary players of the kora harp and the balafon.   Sory Kandia Kouyate missed the global African music boom of the '80s and '90s. Imagining what he might have gone on to is one of those painful what-ifs in music history. The good news is thanks to this collection we can discover and savor one of the finest voices Africa has ever produced.   Banning Eyre is senior editor at afropop.org. He reviewed La Voix de la Revolution Voice of the Revolution by Sory Kandia Kouyate.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 