 Royce Davison was a freshman in college when a freestyle he would casually recorded in his dorm room started to catch fire on the Internet. A little over a year later it is been played 94 million times on the free streaming service Soundcloud. Now the rapper and producer who calls himself Ugly God has released his first full-length project. As NPR's Frannie Kelley reports the 20-year-old is now in the middle of a revolution in youth culture.   So what is your opinion on Ugly God mom?  As Ugly God's debut full-length release begins. He is being insulted.   I mean he is just not that attractive. And then all he wants to sing about is dumb stuff.  That is a mom whose kid hosts a YouTube channel that features her reacting to currently trending rap videos. Her objections have precedent. Recall Tipper Gore pushing warning stickers for records on Oprah back in 1990.   So parents would be alerted when there was graphic material.  I do not know if that helps or hurts because I think kids when they see the label they want it even more.  Oprah's not wrong. The video for Ugly God's Water has to date been watched more than 30 million times.    Water. Water. Water. Water.  Ugly God is as surprised as anybody by his popularity.  Honestly man I honestly do not know. I think it was me making the lizard videos. I used to make videos of me grabbing lizards and putting them on my nose. And I was just gaining gaining gaining gaining followers just from that. And then they just realized I made music viral music just like the videos. And then it just - everything clicked.    I drop on your  like water. I splash on your  with the water. Splash. Water. Water. Water. Water. This is not  children are supposed to be listening to but I am - at the same time I know who my audience is - children. It is been expanding but for the most part it is kids.  Teenagers and kids in their early 20s set the tone on all of the social media platforms that germinate widely shared content. They sift the torrent of media aimed their way and route the imagery and sounds that amuse them or that they relate to or whatever just gets stuck in their heads. And the way to every kid's heart is to choose a lyric or subject matter that is off limits at home.  This is what it is. Like this is freedom  I never could do really. It is part of the art.    I went to Dollar General to buy a pack of  Skittles. Then I saw a girl she looked delicious. She walked down my aisle so I turned around. Then I saw that booty from a distance.  The art of making catchy music that has the side benefit of irritating parents is something that is been making corporations money for a slick century but ugly God has a different end game and he is following in some big footsteps to get there.  Lil B in the house.  Lil B made his name in the MySpace era the mid-2000s and became the improbable hero of young people turned off by a bloated music industry they felt was taking advantage of them.  My motto has always been for that people. You can kind of compare what I do in the likeness of the gentleman who founded Wal-Mart. You know I like to respect the customer.  Lil B gave his music away for free. He invented a dance that spread from online user-made videos to the NBA. Through his social media a book and occasional university lectures Lil B spread a message of positivity and self-belief with songs that do not follow the rules.    That turned to the moment I am in because I cannot sit in jail. That was never my friend. Ask if I go back I say never again. Lil B in handcuffs living life is a sin. I am black Ken.  Lil B then and Ugly God now speak directly to their peers. Lil B put out his first song with a group called The Pack when he was 16.  You know reporting it from a teenager's perspective early yeah I think it is a powerful time to talk to the people at that age. I just think you want to speak with them you have to connect with them in some way.  His words are so inspirational bro. He is way smarter than people think.  What Ugly God does with that inspiration and what teenagers take from his songs is frequently a critique of...  How everybody just really acts the same sounds the same and look the same and think the same. It is weird how everybody wants to impress everybody so everybody looks the same acts the same trying to impress each other. That is stupid.  Both Ugly God and Lil B who is putting out an album himself later this month are encouraging kids to be themselves and build a community around that.  A community where everybody's accepted.    Just like a maverick. Watch me ball out like a maverick.  The foibles of adults are more apparent than ever these days and nobody seems to be above a vulgar joke. If the message teenagers are putting out in the world is be yourself and love your neighbor then maybe it is time we start listening to the children.  I was like one of them. And then they just pushed me up like handle your business bro for us.  For NPR News I am Frannie Kelley. 