 There is been a mini-boom on the radio this summer of songs that sound like other songs. This week it is hitmaker Katy Perry.    I used to bite my tongue and hold my breath get to rock the boat and make a mess.  Now check out this tune from earlier this year by lesser known Sara Bareilles.    You can be amazing.  There is also the huge hit Blurred Lines by Robin Thicke. It sounds an awful lot like Marvin Gaye's Gotta Give It Up. And the list goes on. NPR's Neda Ulaby says no matter what the song of the summer is the pop music word of the summer is interpolation.  Interpolation is a polite word for borrowing.   Like when Aaron Copeland interpolated the folk song Simple Gifts into his orchestral suite Appalachian Spring.  This is just how music works.  That is NPR music critic Ann Powers.  It is part of the art of pop. Songwriters have borrowed from each other played off of each other.  An art Powers notes that is been historically unfair to African-American musicians in particular. But popular music is built from other genres. What is borrowing and what is ripping off?    You cannot hurry love no you just have to wait...  You Cannot Hurry Love for example was originally borrowed from a song called You Cannot Hurry God.    You cannot hurry God oh no you just have to wait.  Ideally interpolation involves credit and compensation but the lines are well blurry.    Everybody get up.  Robin Thicke co-wrote and performed Blurred Lines partly as an homage to Marvin Gaye. He said he was inspired by this song of Gaye's Got to Give it Up.   In that case says Ann Powers the question is...  Does an artist have a right to pay tribute to a classic song in a way that echoes that song? I think they do actually.  And there is a big difference between that issue and the similarities between Katy Perry's newest hit and the song by Sara Bareilles.    .  Popular music sends to sound alike and maybe that is what we like about it.  Familiarity with just a touch of novelty.  The questioning of copying came with an upside for the lesser-known singer Sara Bareilles. In the past week digital sales for her song Brave have gone through the roof. Neda Ulaby NPR News.    . 