 Percussionist and composer Terri Lyne Carrington's resume is pretty amazing - cutting her teeth with the likes of Stan Getz and Pharaoh Sanders Grammy awards in both instrumental and vocal categories projects with superstars from Angelique Kidjo to Esperanza Spalding. I first caught her as the drummer on the old Arsenio Hall Show. Lately Terri Lyne Carrington's been working on something called The Mosaic Project.    You and I - on the rhythm we will ride dreamin' of nothing else. Just listen to your soul talk.  Her first offering back in 2011 featured an all-woman band supporting all-woman jazz singers - in this case Dee Dee Bridgewater. Fast forward to 2015.  And this time it leans a little more R and B or R-and-B-meets-jazz in my perspective. And it features a lot of amazing female singers - Ledisi Lalah Hathaway Chaka Khan Natalie Cole. And it is a different take on The Mosaic Project so they both have very different flavors.  You give peace and comfort to every troubled mind. Come Sunday - oh come Sunday - that is the day. Yeah.  There were some great all-women bands in the early days of jazz but they tended to get marketed as novelty acts. And you look at these last couple of records from you and realize that it is just no sweat to assemble an all-woman band and they are all superstars.  Well I would not say it is no sweat.   Yeah but put yourself in my shoes. This record took a year and four months or so to make. You know honestly there are so many great female musicians instrumentalists and vocalists of course but there is still less to choose from than if I were to make a CD with male musicians. But it was worth it you know to me to go the distance and really you know find the women that could teeter between jazz and R and B the way that I needed it to be for this CD.  You did that really nicely on the - it is a song - I usually think about Billie Holiday - I am A Fool To Want You - but Chaka Khan does it - does it beautifully.    I am a fool to want you to want a love that cannot be true a love that is there for others too. I am a fool to want you.  I actually wrote that arrangement with Chaka in mind. I was a little nervous you know to send it to her because I you know - I thought she might be too busy and you know I did not have a lot of money and all of those things. But she heard it and liked it. I would also been reading a book on Frank Sinatra and he actually wrote that song along with a couple of other guys. I was surprised to know that he wrote that and I associated it with Billie Holiday as well. So part of it is also you know tribute to both of them because it is their centennial this year.  We have the wonderful Valerie Simpson here. It still feels weird not to say Ashford and Simpson. It is hard to believe in a way that Nick Ashford is gone. I know it is been a few years. But that song Somebody Told A Lie - what was it like for her returning to that music with you?  She says she was shocked when she first heard it because it is so different than the original. But Valerie's a great musician and she really I think appreciates when somebody takes something that exists and changes it in a way that still respects the song. But you know I really put a completely different spin on it. You know I have - I go into seven-four at some points and I changed it to the relative minor - the chorus. So - but she liked it and she sang great on it.  Made things tricky for your singers.    You are walking down the wrong street 'ecause I found it yeah and it is deep inside.   Hey listen. Want to take you there. Want to take you there in my arms babe.  Yeah women have always been very much a part of my life. And I do not just from a sexual point of view but...  You also have on Somebody Told A Lie and another track on this album Billy Dee Williams.  I got involved with Carl Jung - Carl G. Jung - and he coined a phrase called the anima animus. And the anima is the female counterpart of the male self. The animus is the male counterpart of the female self. So...  Were those his own thoughts about Carl Jung and the feminine spirit?  Yes. I went to his house and you know I interviewed him basically. He started talking about Carl Jung and I thought that that was a great intro to Somebody Told A Lie. But the interesting thing about Billy Dee's participation is he had asked me if he could be on the CD. And I said well it is an all-female CD and he said well what better male is there to be on an all-female CD other than me? So I had to agree with him.  'ecause as he says he is in touch with his feminine side.  Yes and of course you know he was such a sex symbol for so long.   I think he is still a sex symbol is not he?  Well he is. I did not mean to put him in the past.   Yes once a sex symbol always a sex symbol.    Somebody told a lie...  That is Terri Lyne Carrington drummer and composer. Her new album is called  Love And Soul. Great speaking with you. Thank you.  Oh thank you very much for having me. My pleasure.    ... Before we go this weekend another sad farewell to someone who is made this program what it is - our executive producer Steve Lickteig. Do not let the executive title mislead you. Steve does not operate at a thousand feet. He does manage everything involving getting us on the air every weekend and that is amazing. But I think Steve's special legacy for NPR is the talent he is cultivated and nurtured - the producers who he is given the freedom to do such great work. I am certain that energy is why this show keeps adding new listeners. Steve served in the Marine Corps but he is no drill sergeant. I do not think I have ever heard the guy raise his voice in anger or frustration which for someone running a live news broadcast is almost unthinkable. Steve is going to be working on some podcasts and making documentaries on film. It is not fair but he is really great at that too. Steve for everyone who is worked on this show we will miss you more than you know and NPR will not be the same without you. And for Sunday that is it for ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. We are back next weekend. Have a great week. 