 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  I am Melissa Block. And you know what? There is no way I would ever talk over the first notes of this song.   American Girl by Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers from their debut album released in 1976 kind of makes me feel like a teenager again.   Well nearly 40 years later the band is still going strong.  Everybody's still happy to be there. It is actually kind of embarrassing now.  .  It is such a love fest you know and I do not think any of us pictured doing it at this level - at this age.  You did not?  Well how could you?    Oh yeah all right. Take it easy baby make it last all night. She was an American girl.  Tom Petty is 63 now. He and the Heartbreakers have just kicked off the tour for their new album Hypnotic Eye.    You and I are left in the wind in the wake of a rich man's sins. Now he is power drunk. Yeah look at his eyes.  Tom Petty came by NPR West recently with his wide-brim hat and wry sense of humor. He told me the new songs reflect what he sees going on in America today but he added he does not get preachy.  I do not really take a side.   I just you know I just try to kind of explore this gap between the poor and between people that get so wealthy that making more money really would not change an hour of the rest of their lives you know yet they are obsessed with making more money regardless of how that affects other people. Maybe it is a moral question of do you want something so bad that you do not need even though it will hurt others you know? 'ecause you know we are looking at a very different time in America right now where we have rubbed out the middle class which was really kind of the whole point of the thing for a long time - meaning America.  Well it is interesting because I wonder if you see yourself as part of that group of people who are on top who are securely in that one percent.  Yeah I am but I do not do anything that hurts anyone you know? . And I come from you know very humble background. But that is another thing you know is I guess I did live the American dream getting into something I loved and working really hard at it and there were financial rewards. Even to this day I do not think that is ever been the guiding light of our band. Nice really but ...    See those fault lines made out like landlines. It is hard to relax.  You know I keep coming back on the new album to the song Fault Lines which seems to me to be all about fragility of all different kinds - seismic or internal and...  Yeah.  Talk just a bit about how that song started out and what you were thinking about when you wrote it.  I was looking at a map of fault lines through Los Angeles you know.  Which is where you live we should say.  Actually outside Los Angeles in Malibu. And I thought well I have some of those . And you know emotionally you can have fault lines too where anything might break open.    I have got a few of my own fault lines running under my life running under my life.  I am talking with Tom Petty his new album is called Hypnotic Eye.   I want to talk to you about the Heartbreakers.   When you listen to Heartbreakers' songs you can tell from the very first notes what song they are. I mean those chords - those opening chords are iconic and millions of people it takes one note for them to know exactly what they are going to hear. And I do wonder what that is like for you just knowing that there is this direct tie from the very beginning of a song to what people know and remember about that song.  Well that is lovely compliment. It is a tremendous thrill. I mean if I think about it very long it frightens me.   Really? Why?  Well you know because it is kind of like well did I do that?    Listen it do not really matter to me baby. You believe what you want to believe. You see you do not have to live like a refugee do not have to live like a refugee. Somewhere somehow somebody must...  When I think about Tom Petty songs I think they are you know they are songs that you want to play with the windows open and the top rolled down and driving really fast. And I wonder when you are recording a new album if you ever do that? If you take a demo or take a rough recording and take it out for a drive see how it sounds on the highway outside the studio?  Yeah well I have done that.  Yeah?  Yeah. We used to mix records sometimes and take them right out to the car and play them in the car to see how they sounded in a car as opposed to the studio. I think it was the Wildflowers record we wanted a kind of average sound system. So we rented some kind of car not too expensive a car...    Tonight we ride right or wrong. There was a terrible moment when one of the crew returned the car and got a different one.   And there was a real panic so we had to send him back to find that same car.  But what is the idea there? I mean what are you trying - if you are listening outside the studio what are you worried about?  I am trying to hear what it really sounds like. You know in studios have really good playbacks and good speakers and things you know and tuned rooms that are made for accuracy you know sound-wise. We tend to work most of the time on really inexpensive speakers that are probably worse than most people have because...  Really?  Yeah because it does not - I am not hyping myself that way. And if I can get it to sound good there then when I bring it up to the big speakers it is pretty amazing.    You wreck me baby. Yeah you wreck me too. But you have moved me honey. Yes you do.  How do you hear the Heartbreakers growing or evolving the longer you play with them? What is changed?  Well there is a lot of things I mean like like in Hypnotic Eye one of the things that I was most pleased with and that I really wanted to make happen was what we did not play like the amount of space in the arrangements.   So the more air in the arrangement really the bigger the track sounds to me. And that is something that you learn over time you know we are not - we did not try to create walls of sound on this one. It was more like sonic textures. You know I like textures. I like to create lots of different guitar sounds and I am fascinated with how sounds go together.    Let me tell you the truth.  When you get something that works you know in a particular way it is kind of like mixing two colors together and getting a new one and it is - am I getting a little too esoteric?  In the best way .  I probably sound like a pretentious ass here but I am - that is kind of the way I see it. I just look at it like you know between the speakers when you come in there is a blank canvas. And when you go out there is actually something on it. Simple as that sounds it is a tremendous rush to this day to me to just make something happen.    Well it is all right riding around in the breeze. Well it is all right if you live the life you please. Well it is all right...  You spent quite a bit of time with the late George Harrison sang with him with The Traveling Wilburys. What did you learn from him in all the time that you knew him? What do you think his biggest influence on you was?  Well that was unusual because we got very close. It is hard you know. I do not like to bring it up that much because you know Beatles are so special that people could - might see you as boasting or something you know? But it is - he actually became my friend past being a Beatle to me you know and it was like having an older brother that had a lot of experience in the music business someone who I could go to with my troubles and questions. And I think spiritually probably was the greatest gift he gave me and he gave me a way of understanding a higher power without it being stupid you know or having tons of rules and books to read you know . I think of him quite a bit but I tell you the best thing I can say to people that are curious about that is - and George was probably everything that you thought he was and then some more.  It must have been an interesting transition I am thinking because I know you talked a lot about first seeing the Beatles on The Ed Sullivan Show in 1964 - I guess you would have been 13 - and that was basically what made you think music band that is what I want to do. So to go from that to being that close with him and that intimate with him must have been quite something.  It was unusual you know because it is not something that you ever expected to happen. And strangely enough we got along very well right away. And he was the kind of person that when he came across a good thing or the potential for a friend you know he really was aggressive about it. And he had a way of - he could get you comfortable with him very quickly you know where you were not really thinking about that all the time though I did. You know I was always you know asking Beatles questions and...   You know probably annoyed him. But I - he was pretty you know he liked The Beatles too. And he liked talking about it and remembering it.  Do you have one George Harrison memory that really...  I have thousands...  Yeah.  You know thousands and thousands. It is - we would be here all day talking about George.  I am up for that .  Well another show.  Yeah exactly.  Hypnotic Eye he would be saying promote your record man.   Do not talk about me.  You are on the radio.    Well I feel like a forgotten man. I understand the dark.  How do you gear up and get ready to go out on tour?  That is easy because just absolute fear takes over.  Really?  .  No come on.  I am in a state of shock.  Is it still thrilling or is it - does it feel so familiar that that thrill is gone?  No no.  No?  I mean it is - yeah I get a thrill. My adrenaline gets so high from a concert that after it I usually pace until sunrise . I cannot come down from it.  Seriously?  Yeah you kind of spend the whole day gearing up for it and the night getting over it. You just want to be as wonderful as everyone thinks you are and you know you are not you know . So something takes place where you reach down so deep and pulls from so far inside your soul that this music happens and you all reach the place you wanted to reach together - you and the audience. Then getting over that takes all night.  So a lot of pacing?  I pace. I mean people deal with it in different ways but I tend to walk around a lot.  Well Tom Petty it is been great to talk to you. Thank you so much.  Thank you. Nice to be here on the NPR.   The new album from Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers is called Hypnotic Eye and you can hear more from our conversation at nprmusic.org. 