 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel. Bruce Jacob had a problem. It was a musical problem. And here was his musical solution.   Jacob is an associate professor of electrical and computer engineering at the University of Maryland. And his new electric guitar just would not give him all the different sounds that he wanted. So he used his knowledge of electronics to solve his problem by building his own guitar.   Bruce Jacob developed a guitar that could be switched back and forth through a range of sounds all without any fancy pedals or add-ons.   Professor Jacob with the help of some his students like graduate student Joe Gross turned this idea and this guitar into a business.  Joe was looking over my shoulder and said you know a lot of people are going to want that. He made me realize this is actually a product.  Mr.  Yeah I mean I was coming into his office and I saw him trying to figure how to do some circuits for a guitar. And I stepped in and said you know it would be interesting to try this approach or that approach to it.  And the point here is from one guitar you would get many different tones or the possibility of many different kinds of tone. Prof.  Yes that is the whole idea.  And the key technical idea here what did you do that is the fundamental technological advance? Prof.  We are we are just using switches in a slightly different way than people have used them before.  Well we brought in our engineer Brian Jarboe who is a good guitarist.   I try.  Okay. Show us some different tones that Brian can get out of the guitar. And how it can sound like well more than one electric guitar. Prof.  All right. So what Brian's got is something with a dual switch configuration. So he is got two switches. One of them is going to put coils into different series parallel and out of phase settings. And the other switch is going to go through five different coil combinations. So we will start off with a bunch of series connections. So you are going to get five different big fat thick sounds. So this...  Prof.  ...so this is the bridge bridge humbucker basically.  Prof.  Now take...  Humbucker... Prof.  Humbucker.  ...is a term of art... Prof.  It is a term of the - exactly. It generally is - the connotation is that it is a big fat beefy sound. So the next one is going to be the inner coils.  Prof.  And the next one is going to be I think the two north coils. So two bridge coils.  Prof.  The next one will be the outer coils.  Prof.  And then the last one is going to be the neck humbucker.  Prof.  Big and fat. Now we are going to have five different parallel sounds so very Strat-ish. This is the bridge coils in parallel. So like...  Prof.  ...parallel humbucker. This is going to be the inner coils.  Prof.  The next is going to be northward coils.  Prof.  And the next will be outer coils.  Prof.  And the last will be the coils of the neck humbucker.   Cool. Prof.  And then - the three-way switch now we got on out of phase setting. So this is coils opposite each other and so they are going to cancel each other out and you are going to get something sort of nasally and funky. So this is the...  Prof.  ...two coils of the bridge humbucker out of phase.  Prof.  And the next one will be the inner coils.  Prof.  Now we got the northward coils.  Prof.  And now the next setting will be the outer coils.  Prof.  And then we got the two coils of the neck humbucker.  Prof.  That is all.  15 different... Prof.  15 different sounds.  ...settings and sounds and now for Brian to try to get all these different tones out of a normal or another electric guitar... Prof.  Mm-hmm.  ...could he do it? Could he...? Prof.  Oh yeah. Yeah yeah yeah yeah. The truth is people have done this sort of thing in the past for decades. But it is always been sort of a one-off type thing. And what we wanted to do is make it trivially simple to get. I mean you notice there are just two switches on the front of the guitar and that is it. There is not like six or seven switches and dials and things like that.  So it sounds like you have introduced the equivalent of automatic transmission... Prof.  Yeah.  Prof.  Exactly.  ...to the electric guitar.  No more no more stick shift here. Prof.  Yeah yeah yes.  Brian Jarboe you could make those sounds with a variety of different guitars.  Mm-hmm.  What do you think? Quick shifting there you could...?  Well yeah. I mean I like the fact that you can have all that in one because if I want all these different sounds then I am going to have to lug two or three guitars to a gig. It would be nice to just be able to have to take one.   So among the reviews you have gotten here are awesome cool and less heavy to carry around. Prof.  I hope we deserve all that.   You are bringing a new product to market here at an - at an inauspicious time...   ...in the history of the U.S. economy. Prof.  Yes.  The people are forgoing - they are forgoing buying new clothes right now. Buying a new electric guitar you know could be lower a little bit lower in the list. Prof.  Yeah it could be. It was not our intention to do this in the midst of an economic crisis. But you know we will see how well it flies. We are also...  Well  in these hard times why go buy five new electric guitars when you can buy one that does all... Prof.  Oh I like that. Can we use that?   Yeah. Prof.  Thank you.  I hope you will find such a consumer out there for your idea.   That was Bruce Jacob of the University of Maryland. And the guitar he created - it is being strummed here actually by NPR engineer Brian Jarboe.   We also heard from graduate student Joe Gross who helped Jacob start their new company. It is called Coil LLC. Their coil guitars start at about 1000 apiece and they are made in South Korea. 