 Country music has lost one of its best-known collaborators Norris - better known as Norro - Wilson. He was a singer songwriter producer. He did pretty much any job in the Nashville music scene that needed to be done. Norro Wilson died yesterday at age 79 and NPR's Andrew Limbong has this appreciation.   Sometimes when you are writing a song all you really need is one little phrase which is what Norro Wilson had for his first hit David Houston's Baby Baby.   I had this little guitar lick. It felt good. And we got together and cranked that little song up. And hey it worked.    Hold your lovin' body close to mine.  In 2011 the Country Music Hall of Fame honored and interviewed Norro Wilson. And if it sounds like he is underselling the difficulty of songwriting there a bit well he is modest like that throughout the whole interview always making sure to give props where props are due.   I always really really enjoyed co-writing. I think I had enough talent to write by myself. I did write a couple things by myself. I actually wrote one song called July 12 1939 that Charlie Rich put in an album.    July the 12th sure was a scorcher.   I just - I did not love doing that. And consequently you try other things.  Norro Wilson was born in 1938 in Kentucky. His dad was a barber his mom a factory worker. And he tried a bunch of different things growing up. He played piano as a kid. He sang in a barbershop quartet. In college he joined a gospel singing group which influenced his later songwriting.   I never got enough of singing gospel music. That was just something very very special if you ever do it you know especially a group. And so harmony's always had a lot to do with my music world.  Which you can hear in his Grammy-winning single Charlie Rich's A Very Special Love Song.    Especially for you. And all the words are true - a very special love song.  Some of his other hits include George Jones' A Picture Of Me Without You and Tammy Wynette's He Loves Me All The Way.    But when he loves me he really loves me. There is nothing left for me to say.  While the late-'60s and mid-'70s were Norro Wilson's most fertile period he was prolific into the 2000s. He produced Shania Twain's debut album and worked with Kenny Chesney and Reba McEntire.    Like an oak in the wind like an old familiar friend.  And this is just the stuff he did that you can hear on the radio. He was also a talent scout a song plugger a mentor an overall steward of country music. Andrew Limbong NPR News.    Darling you are always... 