 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Audie Cornish. Now an Oscar-nominated composer his brief dalliance as a music critic and his brand-new record. This spring music critics were bickering about the state of their industry. The conversation was kicked off by this Daily Beast headline - music criticism has degenerated into lifestyle reporting. The article said these days music reporting is more about gossip and clothes than talent and song structure. Amid all the debate here's a voice that stood out - composer Owen Pallett. He says he could relate to the frustration with music industry media coverage.  I do feel like it is a little bit frustrating when you read a review and nobody picks up on you know how great I placed that mic on that snare drum. You know what I am saying?  So Owen Pallett fresh off his nomination for scoring the soundtrack to the movie Her decided to write his own pop music criticism. He did three reviews for Slate from a musician's point of view. He dissected the chord structure of Daft Punk's Get Lucky and the chorus of Katy Perry's Teenage Dream. Now Pallett is out with his own new album.    Charity think no evil and charity never fail. Let me feed you with a song. I am out on the street with an open case and a mandolin. With every coin I am born again.  The music is called In Conflict so we invited Owen Pallett to chat about music-writing and about writing music. And we started with his article about Lady Gaga.  The thing is about Gaga that - a lot of people I think wondered what was a big deal about her. What distinguished her from other artists. And the charge that was constantly laid at her especially in the Fame era was just that all of her singles sounded the same.    Let us play a love game play a love game. Do you want love or you want fame?...    Luck and intuition. Play the cards with spades to start...    I am your biggest fan. I will follow you until you love me. Papa-paparazzi...  And I think that that was exactly what was so effective about Gaga and the way that she came out and why she had some new number one singles - was that all of the songs did sound the same. All in a minor key. They were all rooted around this insistence of one. They were all like that is the one chord that the song is in. They were all similar tempo. They were all were not reliant about a ton of syncopation. All these things kind of created this almost inescapable monolith of musical language if that makes any sense to you.  It does it does. Which of those songs do you think exemplifies a Gaga song in terms of music theory?  Well for me the top of the heap was really Bad Romance.    Oh-oh-oh-oh-oh...  Bad Romance in fact kind of broke a bunch of the rules. But because we were so used to Paparazzi and Love Game and Poker Face and this sort of like - this particular way that a Gaga song functions. When she broke those rules on Bad Romance it just created a much more effective and powerful song. And I think it will be regarded as the peak of her catalog 20 years from now.    Want your bad romance. Ra-ra ah-ah-ah-ah. Ro-ma ro-ma-ma. Gaga oo-la-la. Want your bad romance...  How hard was this? I do not know what it was like actually trying to sit down and write about these songs in this way and dissect them in this way.  The hard part about writing these articles was finding the right language that was going to be both examining the songs in a way that was going to be interesting on a music theoretical level but also going to be readable by anybody. And it took a lot out of me. I will be honest. Like the Gaga piece was kind of two days of just like complete mental focus. And so I knew I could not get much further than just doing three of them. And also I think too in order to really write effectively about these songs you kind of have to pick songs that are so ingrained in people's consciousness that A they are interested and B they know what you are talking about.  Were talking with Owen Pallett. His new album is called In Conflict. I want to get back to some of your music. For instance the song The Riverbed.    Heart heart in your mouth. Hand on the paper with the new work that you found. The gift of your depression weighs you down down down...  So Owen Pallett help us understand this song The Riverbed through music theory.  With this song The Riverbed I wanted to have this insistent E-flat five chord - just this E-flat and B-flat repeated over and over again. To be so insistent of this. To create this almost monomaniacal quality that the song was not really going to go anywhere. And then as the song goes on then the bass descends and violins go up. And then eventually the orchestra comes in at the end to kind of create this starting from one point and the verging outward in both directions.   It was meant to sound almost as if like you were seeing curtains open up very very slowly.  Now talk a little bit about this song On A Path.    You stand in a city that you do not know anymore spending every year bent over the from the weight of the year before.  In a way it is sort of a heavy song when you think about those lyrics. About - bent over from the weight of the year before.  Lyrically that song was inspired by existing for 15 years in the city of Toronto where I had just really spent the best years of my life and come into myself as a human being. And was entered into this beautiful music scene that would in retrospect be referred to Torontopia. But then as I approach my thirties I saw the scene kind of dissolve and it just felt as if my entire collection of memories had made it unable for me to really form new experiences in the same city. I was drawing upon my own sort of dysphoria of place but referring to anyone who kind of feels like they have spent too long in one place.    So why did not you say why did not you say so when you could see? We got to call the whole thing off get out before the drop.  I read that you have been writing music since you were a little kid - like under 10. Is a true?  Yeah. I mean nothing you would want to hear.   I have a memory of being six years old and composing little things coming out of my PC internal speaker using Basic you know. And kind of speeding up the sample rate using this thing called VMware or something to get three-voice chords coming out of the computer. I do not know. It is like really elementary stuff looking back on it.  No but this is interesting 'ecause I thought you would bring up the violin but instead you are talking about computer programs...  Computers.  ...Which kind of gives me some context about old you are.  Yeah that is the thing about you know there is a story you tell about growing up the country - that you know you milk cows or something like that. But actually no you just use a computer a lot. .  Owen Pallett - his new album is called In Conflict. Owen Pallett thanks so much for talking with us.  It was such a pleasure to be here. Thank you for having me.    Sorceress valkyrie you let you let yourself believe.  Owen Pallett drew up a playlist for us - songs he was listening to while he was composing his new album. You will find it on Spotify. Just search for NPR ATC.    There is nothing to lose. There is nothing to lose. There is nothing to lose. Hey hey hey. Remember when you told me all about your father-ghost?  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 