 These days when you hear a song on the radio there is a good chance it was made using a computer. There is also the chance it was made using Western music software. That might make sense for Western musicians. But music production has become an international effort and Western software poses real problems for some Eastern musicians. NPR's Sami Yenigun reports now on a solution.  It is called Sufi Plug Ins.   It is basically an application you can download to your computer that is designed to make Western music software friendlier for Eastern musicians. Actually it is a package of little programs that work inside a bigger program that a lot of musicians use called Ableton Live. Four of the plug-ins are synthesizers there is also a drone instrument - which you can hear in the background - a drum machine and a program called Devotion.  Five times a day when the call to prayer sounds it will lower the volume of your computer.  That is Sufi Plug Ins creator Jace Clayton also known as DJ Rupture. Devotion is the most conceptual plug-ins he says. The others have more to do with music theory things like bridging Eastern and Western scales. Clayton says he came up with the idea for Sufi Plug Ins while making music in Barcelona.  Spain has a really active community of Moroccan musicians. And so I started working with one an amazing violinist named Abdelhak Rahal. And when I would sit down and open up my program you know it defaults to a 44 beat and these structures which to me are really obvious - you know like OK 44 hip-hop - almost every pop song you are going to hear on the radio there but for him was not the default. And so that really got me started thinking about alternate paths through sound in the digital.  In addition to rhythm his software was not compatible with Eastern melodies. So Clayton developed a synthesizer that plays a maqam which Clayton says is sort of like an Eastern scale.  It is a scale insofar as it is a group of notes with a specific tuning but in a way it is more than a scale. It is almost like not only the notes you can play but then a way in which the notes relate to each other and even a history of songs that have moved though these notes and used these notes. So in a way it is a huge philosophical concept which opens up. But for the software it is had to interpret it at its most basic level. Which was OK this is the series of notes you can play.  A maqam is different from a Western 12-tone scale. Clayton has his friend Amy Zhang play a C-major scale on a keyboard running into his computer.   Then he turns on the Khomasi plug-in and Zhang plays the same set of keys.   So the difference is about two notes and those two notes are tuned to - basically a piano they would be notes in between the notes of a piano. So they are called quarter tones and you do not really hear it in Western tuning systems. But a lot of music all over the world is based on just different you know different notes different frequencies.   The synthesizer plug-ins display an array of knobs and buttons on a screen that allow user to change the timbre of the notes. All of the labels on the plug-ins are in the North African script called neo-Tifinaght. Sufi poetry pops up when you scroll your mouse over one of the knobs. Bill Bowen the programmer for Sufi Plug Ins says creating a unique user experience was as important to the project as building functional instruments.  The attraction of most software is that it appeals to a user's conventional understanding of what it should do whereas this software challenges the user to turn all the knobs and make all the weird sounds and really find out what you like and what you do not like because it is not a conventional type of interface.   Classically trained pianist Amy Zhang toys around with one of these synthesizers. She is been studying Western music since she was a kid. Using the software over the past few months has challenged the convention she learned.  I am starting to use some of the drawings and some of the poetry some of the scripts and trying to kind of remember the sort of effects that they are creating. And I am finding once I am doing this that I also begin describing it in the way that the poetry kind of evokes it.  And that is the hope for Sufi Plug Ins' creator Jace Clayton that musicians will think differently about music where it comes from and how it is supposed to sound.  The whole thing is meant to be I mean as much as it is a tool which many people are now using I want it to kind of operate more like an art piece. And which is to you know creates questions.  Clayton has a few questions of his own. Soon he plans on spending a few weeks in Cairo with young musicians to see how the next round of plug-ins might best suit their needs. Sami Yenigun NPR News. 