 If you have listened to Ray Charles Ray Price or Judy Collins among many others you have heard Buddy Emmons' fingers and feet at work. He was one of the most respected pedal-steel guitar players of all time. Buddy Emmons died yesterday in Nashville. He was 78 years old. Blake Farmer of member station WPLN reports that Emmons mastered one of modern music's more complicated instruments.   Country music would not sound like itself without the pedal steel.    I got loaded last night on a bottle of gin.  And the instrument sounds the way it does today because of Buddy Emmons. Steve Fishell who plays for Emmylou Harris calls Emmons a musical genius - even a savant.  You are talking about the ability to play fiery complex single-note solos that just would leave you staggered when you heard them coupled with really imaginative chordal work. And it just all seemed effortless.   The pedal steel has humbled many a musician who took a seat at one expecting to make a sweet sound. There are pedals knee levers sometimes two sets of strings. Fishell says it takes a special person.  It is like a Rubik's Cube of a musical instrument that is not unlike driving a stick-shift truck through a landmine. I mean it is just rife with possible accidents left and right.  And Emmons made the instrument a bit more complicated. He split one of the pedals into two and added a pair of strings to expand the tuning. During a rare appearance at the Country Music Hall of Fame last year Emmons described how he would get all of it to work in sync - by practicing in the dark.   My senses you know were a little keener as far as knowing what I was doing. It allowed me to hear what I was doing in a different way. I just liked it. I liked the feeling of what went on in my head while you know the lights were out.  Emmons displayed his abilities on numerous recordings of his own including an acclaimed jazz album from 1963.   Emmons retired from music in 2007. That is when he lost his wife. Ron Elliott a fellow pedal pro says he accepted that he would never be as good as his close friend of more than 50 years.  I loved him and I miss him. And I will continue to miss him every time I sit down to a guitar just like all the other steel players. He taught everybody to play whether it was one-on-one or whether it was just by his being.   His left-hand vibrato it is just pouring emotion. It is so vocal.  Spencer Cullum is watching an old YouTube video of Emmons. Cullum tours with Miranda Lambert. He also has his own band Steelism.  I was like we got to do Once Upon A Time In The West 'ecause I think it is the only Buddy Emmons song that I could actually tackle .  Cullum regrets that he never actually met Buddy Emmons even though he lived just across town. Emmons was known as a recluse. Still Cullum idolized the man for how he both innovated the instrument and the music so he plans to add this tribute to his repertoire.  I have only just started learning it so I guess here's the beginning. . That is all I have got .  Cullum says he will not play it as well as Buddy Emmons but nobody could. For NPR News I am Blake Farmer in Nashville. 