 Again this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR West. I am Arun Rath. Before I moved here to Los Angeles I would always known about California's diverse population but in the abstract. I really did not know about the true impact on its culture - how California looks up close how it tastes how it sounds.   And there is no better guide through the diverse sounds of California than the host of KPFK's Global Village L.A.'s own Betto Arcos. Betto glad to finally meet you.  Hey Arun. Welcome to L.A.  Thank you. It is great to be here. So I know you are excited about this band that we are listening to now. They sound great by the way. Who is this?  This is literally a band of brothers. These were six brothers. Four of them were born in the state of Zacatecas in North-Central Mexico. They moved here about 20 years ago and would not you know it they formed a band that plays Cuban music.   One of the brothers actually bought a CD of compilation of salsa music. And he was so grabbed by the sound that he said I want to do this. I want to play. And he learned how to play the instruments. And then he recruited his brothers to join him and learn the instruments in fact some of them he taught himself. And pretty soon they have a band. This is believe it or not their first record.  Wow. They are tight.   Yeah.  That is pretty tight for a first record. But it sounds like - like you said it is sort of old-school Afro-Cuban. You could almost expect Dizzy Gillespie to be coming in and play on top of that.  Absolutely. They are very very good musicians. And like I said they have been playing for about 20 years or so but they never recorded their own album. So this is it. I mean you are hearing it first right here.  This is great.   That is the band Son Mayor with a track called Aguabella. Betto there is been a lot of talk about the Latin influence in California but it is also America's gateway to Asia. And I know there is a huge Asian population here. How does that show up in the music scene? Oh jeez. There are musicians from Korea from China from Vietnam from Iran actually too. And in fact this next tune is a collaboration between an Indian musician a sitarist who is actually heir to a great family of sitarists the son of the great Ustad Vilayat Khan. His name is Shujaat Khan and he is joined here by a - an artist - she is Iranian. She does not live in Los Angeles. She lives in the East Coast. But they recorded this album here in Los Angeles. So we have some Indian-Iranian fusion.  That is right.   That is really nice. And it is - now I realize it is not going to sound unusual to a lot of our listeners. It will just sound foreign. But for me I am hearing Indian music with Farsi I think sung over it.  Exactly. That is what it is. It is a confluence of Indian music. Think of it as sort of the ragga meets poetry of Rumi recited by Katayoun Goudarzi. It is a beautiful record. I just love the sound of the two arts coming together.  The other thing this reminds me of is Indian devotional music. They are called Bhajans. They are like devotional songs to God. But here what is unusual is we are hearing the poetry of Rumi as opposed to Hindu poetry.  Which is you know what I am glad you mentioned that because this is a ghazal. A ghazal is a love poem. It is very similar to the Bhajan that you were talking about.  Right. Ghazals are these intense almost obsessive love songs.  That is right. This poem is about the pain the longing of missing somebody when that person is not with you and you are longing painfully for that person.  Classic.   Again that is the music of Shujaat Khan and Katayoun Goudarzi. That is a piece called Sanama. My guest is world music deejay Betto Arcos and he is introducing us to some of the diverse music coming out of California these days. I have got a little hint about this next one Betto. It is a take on the French composer Erik Satie's Gnossiennes No. 3.   The Satie version is a piano arrangement. I got to say I like this a lot better than the original. What is the name of this artist?  Her name is Van-Anh Vanessa Vo. She is from Vietnam. She is been living in the San Francisco Bay Area for a number of years. She is playing this monochord called the dan bau which is a one-string instrument. And this is her fantastic rendition of this as you say it is Eric Satie's Gnossiennes No. 3.   It is gorgeous. And I have to say - I do not want to offend anybody - but one of the things I like less about Satie is that I feel he sounds a little bit sentimental. And I feel like this loses that quality.  Right. And I love the way she stretches that note. It almost sounds like the slide guitar.  Yeah. Feels kind of bluesy too.   That is Van-Anh Vanessa Vo with Satie's Gnossiennes No. 3. Betto we have time for one more. What do you got for us?  The last tune is by a fantastic very soulful singer from Venezuela that lives in the East Bay up north across San Francisco. Her name is Maria Marquez and her song is called Entre Copa y Copa.   Oh that voice. Reminds me of Nina Simone.  Yeah. She has this kind of liquid approach to singing. And this is a bolero - bolero being a romantic love song from Latin America. But here it is an arrangement almost like a jazz standard with American instruments with American musicians. It is a very beautiful song by a well-known composer from Venezuela Felipe Pirela. Beautiful stuff Entre Copa y Copa.  I love it. What is she singing about?  It is a torch song. It is all about you know you have left me I am in pain. I am drinking and drinking because I have no other choice you know? If you have gone I am left behind. I am in pain.  That seems to be a theme this feeling of longing and wanting more. And Betto you are leaving us wanting more so you got to come back sometime soon and bring some more music.  I will be very happy to do that. It is a pleasure to be here with you Arun. And welcome once again to this our wonderful city of Los Angeles.  Thank you. It is so great to be here. Again that music we are hearing that is Maria Marquez with the song Entre Copa y Copa. Betto Arcos has been with me. He is the host of Global Village on KPFK here in Los Angeles. You can go to our website for a longer listen to all the music you just heard. That is at nprmusic.org.   And for Saturday that is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR West. I am Arun Rath. Check out our weekly podcast. Search for WEEKENDS on ALL THINGS CONSIDERED on iTunes or on the NPR smartphone app. Click on Programs and scroll down. And you can find us on Twitter nprwatc. Tune in tomorrow. We will have a visit to North Korea and lessons on living with wildfires. Until then thanks for listening and have a great night. 