 When Omar al-Bashir was ousted back in April there was an explosion of new culture in Sudan. In a country under Islamic law suddenly graffiti appeared on the walls music of all kinds blasted from speakers and men and women commingled openly at a protest camp in front of military headquarters. But that ended when the military junta running the country violently broke up the protest. NPR's Eyder Peralta brings us the story of a radio station that was at the center of this cultural revolution that is now fighting for survival.   Second floor.  Ahmad Hikmat takes me up some stairs and into the center of Capital FM in Khartoum.  It is a bit dark now at the moment because we have painted the walls black because of everything that is happening.  This used to be a place that was full of energy. Any musician any artist who was experimenting in Sudan was welcome.  So this is the main studio.  Hikmat who is the content director here looks around. The walls are bare. The sound panels are down. You can still see the dabs of glue that held up vinyl records that decorated the studios. They were of Keith Sweat Keni Burke Ray Charles The Roots.  It was just so beautiful. And we were just so proud that we are soulful. And you would wake up in the morning you hear a song on Capital Radio that was D'Angelo. Who would play D'Angelo in the morning you know? It is just 91.6 FM that would do that.  Pushing the envelope in an Islamist country Capital FM had become a symbol for a future modern Sudan. It started as a house music station and then became a cultural hub. They had even begun hosting parties with DJs and bands where young Sudanese could quite literally let their hair down. But ever since the government militarized Khartoum the government's censors have been taking the station off the air for hours at a time. To Hikmat that is a clear warning that soon security forces will break down doors and confiscate everything. So he has started taking this place apart.  Equipments I had to hide you know? I had my Mac production PC - everything. Everything is just - it is not here.  Hikmat says one of his main jobs was to keep this utopia of progressiveness intact. But these past few weeks it is been tough. One staffer was killed at the protest camp and many others are questioning whether a place like Capital is even possible in Sudan.  I am trying to keep hope because everybody's leaving. Everybody - I am losing my team one by one.  He looks down. His smile is gone. I ask him if there is a single song that could express what he is feeling right now. And Ahmad Hikmat does not hesitate.  Yeah I exactly know what - Marvin Gaye's Make Me Wanna Holler.  He leaves the studio and walks fast to the control room. Are you going to play it on air? Can you actually do that?  I can actually do that.  On the only computer left in the place he presses a few buttons and bam.   For me this is the song that plays in my mind when I am driving in the streets just looking at the leftovers and then I see those guys you know sitting there chilling with their big-ass guns and this song just plays in my head.   Marvin Gaye released this song in 1971. It is about being misunderstood about how hard how hopeless simply living can be in an unjust system.    Make me wanna holler - the way they do my life. Make me wanna holler - the way they do my life. This as not living. This as not living.  Hikmat says he is trying not to lose hope. And as long as he can he will keep resisting even if it is small even if it is speaking truth through the soul of Marvin Gaye. Eyder Peralta NPR News Khartoum.    Bills pile up sky-high. Send that boy off to die. Oh make me wanna holler - the way they do my life. Yeah make me wanna holler - the way they do my life. 