 A moment now to remember one of the most prolific and influential figures in the world of modern dance Paul Taylor. The movements he created onstage were inspired by everyday people doing everyday things. And that includes people doing nothing at all. His approach turned audiences away at first but he eventually turned them around with dances he created for the company he founded. These were works that were eventually adopted by other dance companies around the world. Paul Taylor died of renal failure yesterday in Manhattan at the age of 88. NPR's Andrew Limbong has this appreciation.  In Paul Taylor's Esplanade the dancers are in red oranges pinks and they are constantly moving.  They run. They fall. They slip. They slide. They tumble.  That is Douglas Sonntag the former director of dance for the National Endowment for the Arts.  Here's the thing about Paul Taylor's dances. They are very rich. There is a surface that you can look at and it is shiny and bright. But there is also can be a subtext and a subtext below that that can get very dark. Or it can get very just sort of human in the fact that you know people are complicated. And things are not necessarily straightforward.  Paul Taylor was born in 1930 just outside of Pittsburgh. He wanted to be a painter. He went to Syracuse University as a swimmer to pay for it. And then he told NPR in 2004 something changed. He was discouraged about painting and went into the library.   And I picked up a dance magazine picked up some dance books and then looked at the pictures. And I liked to move. And I thought well maybe that is it. I will just try that . So I left college and came to New York to take dance classes.  He went to Juilliard and began a career dancing at the age of 22 relatively old in the world of dance. But once in New York he embedded himself in the art scene there collaborating with the likes of artist Robert Rauschenberg and composer John Cage. He formed his own company but stopped dancing in 1974 at the age of 44 after collapsing onstage. But he went on to truly make his mark in the dance world as a choreographer. A work like Eventide showed that he was a sharp observer of the details of how people lived even something as minute as how they walked.   I happen to think it is beautiful. If it is structured well and framed it can be something to watch. If you give a dancer no steps to hide behind no dance steps and you just make them walk they become really revealed. You really can tell what kind of people they are. It is like being naked practically.  But it was still thrilling. Here's Orion Duckstein who danced for Paul Taylor talking to NPR in 2004.   Paul will ask for tremendous changes of direction. And he will ask for these things. And you will think well that is not - well all right. I will try.  Taylor got his dancers to try because of the kind of person he was.  He has an extraordinary dry sense of humor which kind of attracted me personally to him. He was amazing person.  Dancer Mikhail Baryshnikov.  I really truly believe his work will live on for a very very long time.  In 2008 Paul Taylor wrote an op-ed for The Wall Street Journal describing why he made dances. It included a lot of the usual reasons for making art - to feel less alone to offer reprieve from the world - but then he also wrote quote because I want people to know about themselves. Andrew Limbong NPR News.  