   No need to ask you heard about us. No need to ask you heard about us. Already know you know about us.  Finally today a surprise album release from pop music's royal couple Beyonce and Jay-Z. But this one is a collaboration. It is actually their first collaborative album. It is titled Everything Is Love and here tell us more about it is NPR Music's hip-hop writer Rodney Carmichael. Rodney welcome. Thanks so much for joining us.  Hey Michel. Thanks for having me.  And it is going to be a national holiday - right? - from now on - it is - their album is out.  I mean it is got to be. It is got to be.  So yeah exactly. Here it is. Well tell us about the timing. Did this catch everybody off guard?  I think this caught the whole world off guard. I mean this is - I am really thinking Beyonce and Jay-Z are like the new disrupters. It seems like so many artists - so many really major pop stars in black music - have been releasing music this month. We are in the middle of this five-album run of albums executive produced by Kanye West including his own. Nas dropped an album Friday the day before this one came out produced by Kanye. And Drake is supposed to release his new album Scorpion at the end of the month. And all of a sudden Jay-Z and Beyonce throw a monkey wrench in everybody's rollout plan. It is crazy.  So they released a video right too?  They released a video shot in the Louvre. I do not even know if I am pronouncing that right because I have never been to Paris but ...  All right I think you got it right. Let us hear it. Let us play a little bit. This one is called - I do not know - can we say the title of this one?  I do not think we can.  OK well it is - we will - it is - just listen.    Stack my money fast and go fast like a Lambo. I be jumping off the stage.  OK so Rodney we have seen the two perform together many times. In fact Beyonce's classic Crazy In Love which features Jay-Z is actually 15 years old last month - won two Grammy's you know the whole thing. And they have toured together. But this is their first album together. And I was wondering first of all was there buzz that this was coming? And why do you think this particular project? And why now?  Well I think there have definitely been rumors. You know their last two solo albums - Beyonce's 2016 album Lemonade and Jay-Z's 2017 album 44 were both albums where they kind of really opened up a new level of vulnerability. They kind of went into their marriage and revealed you know that everything was not all peaches and cream in the marriage. Jay-Z you know acknowledged and apologized for his infidelity. And so I think smart money was on the fact that these two megastars were going to get together and do a make-up album. And that is what this is.  Well the thing about both Lemonade and 44 though is that they both worked both as personal statements but also as larger messages. And does this album do the same thing in your view?  It does. It does. It is definitely about marital bliss but there is a lot more going on here. It is a communal album. It is full of summertime vibes. But there is this depth to it. I mean there is - it is about loyalty and legacy. It is about family and community. It is a celebration of black love and as is always the case with them there is a lot of black excellence being celebrated in there and just black culture in general.  All right so Rodney what conclusion shall we draw from this album - that you know all is well with Mr. and Mrs. Carter?  Well it is funny because there is actually a line in there where Beyonce alludes to Jay-Z's affair. So yeah it is not all that. But LOVEHAPPY which ends the album is really this beautiful testament to forgiveness within a relationship and how the struggles in their marriage have really made their union stronger in a lot of ways. It is definitely a big album - a lot to dig into - and I think it is going to be the album of the summer.  That is NPR's Rodney Carmichael telling us about Everything Is Love the latest offering from Beyonce and Jay-Z. Rodney thanks so much for joining us. Happy Father's Day to your father.  Thank you Michel.    You did some things to me. Boy you do some things to me. But love is deeper than your pain. And I believe you can change. Baby the ups and downs are worth it. Long way to go but we will work it. We are flawed but we are still perfect for each other. Sometimes I thought we would never seen the light. Went through hell with heaven on our side. This beach as not always been no paradise...  For Sunday that is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Michel Martin. That is our program for today. On this Father's Day we would like to celebrate you the fathers. We hope you had a great day. We would also like to remember the fathers who are no longer with us. And we would like to thank those who have stepped in as fathers for whatever reason. We love you. Thank you for listening and we hope you had a great night.    No photoshop just real life.   You did some things... 