 Angel Olsen is ready to have fun. Since her first album in 2010 she is carved out a smoky country-flavored corner of the indie rock world. Her distinctive voice delivers taut meditations on love and loneliness sometimes with a shout. And other times it is almost a whisper.    Everything is tragic. It all just falls apart. But I when I look into your eyes it pieces up my heart.  Her music earned her critical acclaim but also a reputation as a tortured soul one she was not really looking for. Her new album puts that reputation to rest. It is called My Woman and now the 29-year-old Angel Olsen says her music reflects the fact that she is aged a bit.  If I were to critically compare this record and the last one I would say that the last record is like when you first pick up Dostoyevsky or Kafka. And you are talking with all your friends and you are like I understand things now. And I am going to tell people what I understand and it is going to be important. And then this record is more like I am going to take a little bit of those things but I also want to have fun because fun is important to me.    I could take it down to the floor. You do not have to feel anymore - a love so real that it cannot be ignored. It is all over baby but I am still young. I think it is harder to perform something happy when you are in a bad mood than it is to perform a sad song over and over again. I was a cheerleader in high school for example and I quit because I was not very good at being in a good mood when I needed to be.    Shut up. Kiss me. Hold me tight. Shut up. Kiss me. Hold me tight. Stop your crying. It is all right. Shut up. Kiss me. Hold me tight. I am still a cheerleader in a lot of ways. I still am going to sing Shut Up Kiss Me Hi-Five - all these upbeat songs. I might not be having the greatest day that particular show day.    Maybe you know that it is been too long going through the motions as you sing your song - does not matter who you are or what you have done - still got to wake up and be someone. Everyone at the time when I was first getting into music was heavily focused on synth music so much that I just wanted to do the opposite and focus on like English folk music. And so I did that first. But I have played synth music before. Growing up I played piano and I - you know I had like a little Yamaha keyboard. And I would go into like the hallway or the bathroom wherever I could find really good acoustics. And then I would sing and do something really simple. And then I would listen again and record over it. I would spend hours doing that. My parents would get mad at me because I would not do my homework. I would be doing that.   So side A of this record is very much like here's the stuff that you can listen to with your friends at a party maybe. And then Side B is very clearly like OK you are probably going to want to listen to this by yourself. Or you know maybe get a glass of wine and chill.    Saw it in her eyes. Oh it was not what she said. Sister's an eight - seven-minutes-and-45-second-long song. It is definitely a new one for me. It is pretty optimistic. To me the song represents a long lasting friendship where you think you know someone and then they disappear. And they reappear when you need them - that sort of feeling or that sort of idea.    You learn to take it as it comes. You fall together fall apart. And I think with this record I wanted to explore just like being able to perform and play music and sing and use my voice as an instrument not necessarily as always trying to make a statement with words. I wanted to explore just losing myself in music and in the band that I am surrounded.    All my life I thought I would change. All my life I thought I would change. All my life I thought I would change. All my life I thought I would change. Someone asked me this question - do I feel if I have - that I have made it - the other day. And I looked around and I was like what do you do? Like how do you know that you have made it? Maybe when you play Madison Square Garden or maybe when you play for your mother and she starts crying and she is finally proud of you all of your - from you know - finally in your life. I do not know. Technically my - I have made it my whole life because my mom's been crying to my music forever. So I felt like we have made it for a while. And now the band is bigger and we are about to have more fun. So in that way I feel like we are making it.    You will never be mine. You will never be mine. You will never be mine.  Singer Angel Olsen - her latest album is My Woman.    You will never be mine but I would watch you. I would watch you turn and walk away. 