  That is guitarist John Abercrombie. He created a sound uniquely his own over a career that spanned more than half a century. It is a sound that influenced many younger jazz guitarists and it is a sound that fell silent yesterday. John Abercrombie died in a hospital near his Hudson Valley N.Y. home after a long illness. He was 72 years old. NPR's Tom Cole has this appreciation.  For John Abercrombie it was very much about the sound.   The sound of the electric guitar first caught his ear as a teenager growing up in Connecticut as he told NPR in 2007.   I just heard this sound of an electric guitar kind of drifting over to my porch where I was sitting. So I walked over and here was this guy with his feet up playing an electric guitar just strumming chords. And I was so fascinated with it that that is when I started talking to my parents. I said I really want an electric guitar.  Needless to say they got him one. And after high school he was off to what was then called the Berklee School of Music in Boston. From there he was off to help pioneer jazz rock fusion in the band Dreams.   But just a few years later his sound changed. While he grew up listening to rock guitarists Abercrombie told NPR in 2000 that he would started to hear other musicians at Berklee.   If I name my influences they all probably have a similar - you will see a strain - you know if I say Miles Davis Bill Evans Jim Hall Wes Montgomery. There is a connection between all those people. And I think it is that they played with a slightly softer sound and still projected a lot of feeling and emotion and swing. They did not have to play edgy to do that.   Abercrombie's long tones and rich harmonies almost do not sound like a guitar. He later became an early adopter of guitar synthesizer but ultimately returned to standard electric and acoustic and even dropped the pick to get a more personal sound.   It just felt better because all of a sudden the flesh of my hand was right on the string. I did not have this piece of plastic that kind of interfered you know?   John Abercrombie worked on his sound over the course of some 30 albums of his own and through collaborations with saxophonist Charles Lloyd bassist Dave Holland and drummer Jack DeJohnette among many others. And it kept evolving as he told New York University's jazz studies program three years ago.   For me a lot of it was finding an identity. And I think that is what music does. It takes a long time before that identity becomes a little more personal. I mean that is something you work your whole life to get to you know? And you do not know if you ever really get there because you are too busy trying to get there you know?  He got there. Tom Cole NPR News.  