 Finally this hour the band Spanish Gold. They take lyrical inspiration from the towns and people along the U.S.-Mexico border. Their new album is called South Of Nowhere. Here's the band's singer and guitarist Dante Schwebel.  The songs that I have been writing were kind of based on this vibe around the South Texas border. You know I grew up in Laredo Texas lived there 'til I was 18 and realized when I moved out of Laredo and into other parts of the country - realized Laredo was a very unique place. So as I was writing these songs the idea to put a band together was a lot more exciting to me than being a solo artist.   Myself I sing and play guitar and Adrian Quesada plays guitar and Patrick Hallahan plays the drums.    The sun is falling in  for you. Cannot get no daylight so what you going to do? You are running out of time. I am in no hurry. Come on over baby. T here's no need to worry.  The song we are listening to right now is called Out On The Street. I - you know - I told the band that maybe a good sonic vibe would be like what if Michael Jackson was hanging out in Miami? What would that sound like? We immediately got congas and put a big fat baseline and off we went.    That is when I am going to make my move. Out out on the street. You as not sleep with nobody sleep with nobody but me.  The song was about an experience I had where I had taken somebody down to Laredo - somebody that was from Tennessee. And you know Laredo's a great place - very warm people - but also can be a dangerous place. And as we were hanging out in the bars and out in the scene she was hanging out with some of the wrong crowd. And you really got to be safe you really got to know who you are dealing with down here - it is not you know - stick with me I will keep you safe. Another song that is loosely based on growing up in that border setting is South Of Nowhere.   I was watching this film about that stretch of land that is just around Nogales Arizona. And people risk their lives trying to make it across that desert to get into the states.    Out in the South of nowhere there sits a land of the sand  is where I am waiting the others the promise land. We are looking for trouble this time he is looking for freedom. And it takes some paper to see you in those shorts to run and get it done.  These are not bad people. These are regular everyday hard-working people and they just need to find a better situation and it is just - this case - you know maybe 150-mile stretch of desert that you have to make it through. And I think anybody would do anything for their family and that is what this song's about.    I as not ever losing you no no no. I will not say what I am going to do.  Hopefully what people can hear is that it is not just music about - hey girl I think you are pretty. The idea was let us try and maybe write some songs that tell some stories. It is under disguise we try to just make it fun. And if you pay attention maybe underneath there is a couple of cool things to talk about.  That is singer and guitarist Dante Schwebel of the band Spanish Gold. Their debut album is called South Of Nowhere.    I as not ever losing you no no no. Will not say what I am going to do. Hey hey hey I as not ever losing you.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 