 Time now for our latest conversation about summer songs. We are asking people to tell us about a song that reminds them of summer that is connected with a certain memory or place. Yesterday on the program I talked with singersongwriter Maia Sharp about her new CD Echo. And today she shares a memory that is etched in her mind from a summer day when she was 11 years old. Ms.  I was playing baseball at the Van Nuys Sherman Oaks Park in Los Angels California. I played hardball with the guys from age like five to 15. I was a total jock. And I was usually the only girl on the team. In fact I think there were only two girls in the entire league. And I remember early in the season I would show up and the eyes would roll not just from the players but from the fathers who were like oh God we got the girl.  Oh I bet. Ms.  You know like she is going to be such a liability. So very early in the season first or second game there is a man on  Ms.  there is somebody on first second and third we are down by two and I am the one who is up. It is the last innings this is our last chance. And I know that there were fathers in the stands like oh God here we go we have lost. And I creamed it over the leftfielder's head. It was such a glorious moment. And I am sure it was helped by the fact that he had moved up because you know because the girl was up.  Oh he did not expect very much. Ms.  I love it. Move up all the way to the dirt line if you want to here buddy. So we won the game and on the way over to our celebratory shake and fries. We are in the station wagon and there is a mixed tape and Kodachrome by Paul Simon is playing.  Mr.   Kodachrome. They give us those nice bright colors. They give us the greens of summers. Makes you think all the world's a sunny day oh yeah. I got a Nikon camera Ms.  It was always a favorite and it was a perfect moment for that song to play.  So that song is going to always be connected for you with complete utter triumph. Ms.  Triumph you know the coming through in the clutch the celebration the kind of I showed them. Yeah all of it. It is amazing what a song can do. It is like a smell. It brings back everything.  Mr.   Mama do not take my Kodachrome away. Ms.  My very first dream was to be the first woman in the Major Leagues.  You have got to keep working on that.  Ms.  It might be out of reach at this point.  Mr.   Mama do not take my Kodachrome. Mama do not take my Kodachrome. Mama do not take my Kodachrome away.  Singer Maia Sharp with her song of summer. We would like to hear about your musical summer memories. Just go to npr.org and click on Contact Us. 