 A few weeks ago on the program we mentioned the online poll being run by All Songs Considered asking listeners to pick their three favorite songs of the year so far. And now the results are in.   This song came in third in the listener poll and All Songs Considered host Bob Boilen is here to talk about it and the rest of the top three. Bob welcome back.  Thank you.  And we are listening to a song by the group Bon Iver. The song is Blood Bank.  It is a song that was recorded in a cabin a few years ago in Eau Claire Wisconsin. It is on a new EP that he is put out an EP of four new songs.    Well I met you at the blood bank. We were looking at the bags wondering if any of the colors matched any of the names we knew on the tags. You said see look it that is yours stacked on top with your brother's. See how they resemble one another's even in their plastic little covers. And I said I know  And tell me more about Bon Iver.  Bon Iver is an artist that came out of nowhere and had the best album of 2008 a record called For Emma Forever Ago. And it is not surprising that this is a favorite record of the year because people love his sound. It is slow it is building. It is highly emotional music.  Okay. So Bon Iver and Blood Bank coming in third. On to second place now.   And Bob this is the song Two Weeks by the band Grizzly Bear.  Grizzly Bear is a really hugely eclectic band very spacious and they have made this fantastically wonderful pop song that often sounds at times like The Beach Boys frankly.    I told you I would stay. Would you always maybe sometimes make it easy? Take your time.  Okay. Well the suspense is killing me Bob. The number one song of the year on the All Songs Considered - All Thongs Considered - that would be a poll.  That is the beach version of the show.   The number one song of the year so far according to the All Songs Considered poll is?  My Girls. It is by a group called Animal Collective. And their music is very heavy pulse-based music very tribal music very electronic base. And I know tribal and electronic could feel really opposed. But when you are in a club with 1000 people dancing to this throbbing music there is something totally dynamic and tribal about what they do.    I do not mean to seem like I care about material things like a social status. I just want four walls and adobe slabs for my girls. I do not mean to seem like I care about material things like a social status. I just want four walls and adobe slabs for my girls. Is it much that I feel  Bob when you are doing these polls putting these lists together how do you know that fans of say Grizzly Bear or Animal Collective are not organizing campaigns to push their song right up to the top?  Well it is certainly easy to tell by the spike in votes that you will get all at once. And then it is certainly all so easy just to go to the MySpace page of a band and you will see their campaign right there just like the fans will. So we really take all that into account.  Uh-huh. Thinking about these songs and looking at these groups you have got 20-something maybe barely 30-something white guys not the most diverse sample of music here. Nobody's writing in apparently saying you know Kenny Chesney or Diana Krall or Beyonce have the song of the year.  We have not gotten that. You know All Songs all year long plays all sorts of music but there is no doubt that the most vocal people the people that write to me all the time the people that I am in contact with the back and forth is between people who are often in their late teens 20's and 30's. But I have to say people who are baby boomers find often connection into the music that these 20 30-year-olds like. And that is because the people making this music are very in touch with the music of the past. It is not a disconnect. It is a straight line. It is a straight line back to music of the past that weaves in and out of a lot of music that we can find on this poll. And you can see all 30 best songs of the year so far  So far.  and best 30 albums of the year so far at npr.orgallsongs.  NPR All Songs Considered host Bob Boilen. Thanks so much.  Thanks Melissa.    I just want four walls and adobe slabs for my girls. 