 Finally today when you think of Nashville you probably think of country music - soul and jazz not so much. But our next guest shows us maybe we should think again.    A soul I am told can be both hot and hold.  That is the voice of Kandace Springs. As you can hear Springs owns that warm classic jazz sound. But in her latest album Indigo she adds some fresh contemporary flavors.    Still awake. And I am feeling your scar start to fade when you are not in my arms every day.  When Kandace Springs came into our studios recently she told me about the guidance she got from her musician father Scat Springs.  He gave me a Norah Jones CD a Roberta Flack CD and a Nina Simone CD back in the day. And those are my girls right there.  I listen to them. I was like who is this girl? That is Nina Simone baby - because she has such a raw tone. I was like so drawn to her and the way she played the piano. She plays classical and jazz to rock. And you know when you hear her you know it is her. So that drew me in. And I started developing my own sound based off the influences that he gave me.  But growing up in Nashville though did you feel - I do not know - did you ever feel kind of odd woman out because of what you love and then what is you know all around you in the musical environment? Did you ever feel like odd woman out musically?  All the time yeah - still do kind of but  I have made my place in what I do now. But you know it is mostly like rock country Americana. And here I come playing like these cluster jazz chords or classical - they coming in who is this girl? You know? Again they would be like who are you? Why are you here? You are not in New York or something like that. And eventually I did end up moving to New York later . And that was a good move to get me to where I am now.  But you are still in Nashville.  I am still in Nashville. That is my hometown girl. My whole family's there. I - see I got all country. I got my sweet tea.  Got to get my sweet tea yeah. But I put the soul on it too.   See I am feeling now you want to sing. So let us just do that. So let us hear something from the new album Indigo. I want to mention you are here in studio. You are going to be playing piano. But why do not you introduce us to the folks who are going to be playing with you?  I would love to. On my bass - my bass player is - his name is Chris Gaskell. And Connor Parks is on the drums.  So I think that you would like to play Fix Me first right?  We can do that. Sounds good.  OK. So let us play Fix Me and then we will talk about it.   Oh yeah. I got a problem. I cannot let it go. Every time I walk away I am running back for more. I need a refill just another hit. See the more I drink of you the thirstier I get knowing that I cannot quit you. I can even lie caught up in this riptide ripping me up inside. Wonder if I am present. You are the drug I am craving. Never know explain it. I am intoxicated faded. And I am so high. I could touch that whole sky when I am with you desperate. Killing me so slowly. Only you can fix me fix me fix me - fix me. Only you can fix me fix me fix me. Yeah. Four in the morning. Cannot get you out my brain. I cannot sleep. I am in too deep the sweetest kind of pain. I got it bad. I got a case of you. I cannot quit you. I cannot handle the things that we do. Oh I can' quit you. I can even lie caught up in this riptide ripping me up inside. Wonder if I am crazy. You are the drug I am craving. Never know explain it. I am intoxicated faded. And I am so high. I could touch the whole sky when I am with you desperate. Killing me so slowly. Only you can fix me fix me fix me - fix me. Only you can fix me fix me fix me. Yeah.  OK. So many things to talk about here. First of all tell me about the song. Like what - how did it come to you?  First off I love classical piano.  We can hear.   Well thank you. Appreciate it. Chopin is one of my favorite composers and this piece is Prelude In E-Minor No. 4. And we were just hanging out in the studio one day. And my producers and managers they were like hey let us write a song over that. And we put a dope hip-hop beat over it and it kind of turned into what it is now. So it is kind of a provocative song almost like you are addicted to somebody like you cannot get enough of that person.  It is but it also has like a gospel - 'ecause you know there is the famous Fix Me Jesus too you know what I mean?  Yeah. Yep. Yep.  So it has a little sense of that. And also I was hearing in the lyric you know when I miss you doves cry which made me think of Prince.  The purple one.  Right?  That was definitely a nod.  Was it a nod to him? OK.  Yes absolutely.  I understand that he took an interest in your career. Did you ever get a chance to work with him or play with him?  I did yeah. Actually man the best thing ever. He hit us up and wanted me to close his show at the Purple Rain 30th anniversary in 2014. I had just posted a video of my Sam Smith Stay With Me on YouTube. After he is like who are you? You are so beautiful. I want to make music with you.  So next thing I know I am on a plane flying out there to Paisley Park in Minneapolis.  Wow. What did you learn from him?  One of the best things he taught me and same thing my dad - between him and my dad I would say they were like huge mentors growing up you know - was to be who you are. And I really took that to heart. And one thing he would always say is like do not let the music cover up your voice too much 'ecause it is all about tone and texture. And sure you could do all the riffs and stuff in the world or have all the coolest sounds but when you can just hold it down like Roberta Flack - he is like you can be the Roberta Flack of your lifetime if you want it.  You know speaking of being true to yourself I was looking at the video for the new single Do not Need The Real Thing. You are driving in a car. I think it is a woman who is playing your love interest. I was just curious about that choice. Is that a big statement? Are you making a big statement? Or is it just like that is who was available that day? Or like her hair was cute or whatever.  We actually knew her pretty well. And she was down to do the shoot with us. So we got her. And I had my '65 Mustang. And yes I currently have a girlfriend. And if anything I want to like open up that world for other people that may be you know trapped or afraid to come out. Be who you are. Check this video out. It is OK. Love who you love. It is a human being. So love that person for who they are.  Speaking of the car OK? Excuse me. Excuse me. What is that fabulous car?   That one was a '65 Mustang.  And I understand - was that your car?  That was my car yeah - and several others.  Word is that you are in fact a legit gearhead and that you really do restore cars and that you actually do the work yourself.  I do.  So if the singing thing does not work out there is like a whole other side to Kandace Springs. OK. Well congratulations on everything.  Thank you.  Just you know just - what an interesting time in your life.  Thank you. And we appreciate you having us here with you here. We are very grateful.  What would you like to go out on?  I think we are going to do Breakdown.  OK. That is Kandace Springs talking to us about her latest album Indigo. And we are going to hear Breakdown. Kandace Springs thank you so much for talking with us. Thank you all so much for coming.  Absolutely. Thank you guys.  Do not you break down on me. Do not you break down on me. If it is my turn to suffer if it is my turn to pay more than ever you are my saving grace. Whatever it is whatever it is I do not need you now. I do not need you now. I do not need you now baby. If I am going to do this if I am going to do this - I am going to need you now. I am going to need you now. I am going to need you now baby. . You do not even know the mess I have made.  If you would like to hear more of Kandace Springs She performed a cover of Roberta Flack's The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face and you can hear it at npr.org. 