 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. When NPR began our series on what it is like to be a woman musician today we surveyed over 700 women about their experiences and inspirations. Among them was 23-year-old Piper Kaplan. Ms.  I do not know it does not seem like there is too much to look up to these days.  Kaplan is a singer and bass player and she laments an absence of female role models in pop and rock. She says she longs for the days of Joni Mitchell and Janis Joplin. And that got NPR's Neda Ulaby thinking about American music's newest female icons.  Ann Powers chief pop critic of the Los Angeles Times thinks Piper Kaplan is exactly wrong. Ms.  This era is an amazing time for young women musicians young women songwriters young women who to me seem to be very involved if not completely in charge of their own careers.    Ra ra ah ah ah roma roma-ma gaga. Ooh la la.  Look at the charts. Lady Gaga Beyonce Kesha Rihanna Taylor Swift - young women have been dominating pop. Powers says she cannot imagine why a young musician would not want a career like Gaga's or Swift's. But Piper Kaplan remains unconvinced. Ms.  You do not really know who is pulling the strings until way later right? You know until the biography comes out.  Nevertheless there are more female mainstream musicians with chart-topping careers than we have seen in a long time says critic Ann Powers even if their messages sometimes seem less self-actualized than some people would prefer. Ms.  They are not necessarily making strong overt statements about being a feminist or about standing up for anyone's liberation but their own. And I think that is where sometimes some women can feel disappointed in this younger generation of artists.  But this generation can feel that cracking the charts means treading lightly when it comes to proclaiming feminist sensibilities. Ms.  I do not want to cut anybody out - like males for example or women who are not ready to think about those kind of things.    Marina Diamandis says she is a strong feminist. She writes songs and sings as Marina and the Diamonds.  Ms.   Look like a girl but I think like a guy. Not ladylike to behave like a slime. Easy to be sleazy when you have got a filthy mind. You stick to your yogurts. I will stick to my apple pie.  Diamandis just finished a U.S. tour. Backstage she says she grew up in Wales listening to American Top 40 Christina Aguilera Britney Spears. None of it inspired her to be a musician. Ms.  That changed when I started to discover artists like P.J. Harvey and Brody Dalle - from The Distillers - because they offered me a way out.  Brody Dalle and Polly Jean Harvey are part of a long tale of powerful women in rock including Wanda Jackson in the 1950s and the Riot Grrrls of the 1990s.   Critic Ann Powers. Ms.  The fantasy was of talking back to the rock tradition talking back to the patriarchy - screaming back at the patriarchy you know? But that is not the fantasy right now.  Our cultural fantasies and aspirations are reflected in our popular music. Liberation right now might be more about making money than fomenting a movement. And Powers says the meaning of female empowerment has changed. Ms.  In a lot of ways pop's youngest divas are career women. That is what they are. Taylor Swift is a career woman. She is all about I am a songwriter I am - you know - successful behind the scenes I am not just this pretty image. And I think that is in a strange way the new version of the liberated feminist - is I have got my own thing.   Getting your own thing has never been easy for women in mainstream music. Now the industry is falling apart it is even harder. Current women rock and pop icons reflect not only the culture but the music industry itself.  Ms.  Miss Independent Miss Self-Sufficient Miss Keep Your Distance.  What is surprising about Kelly Clarkson is that she came out of the completely fabricated pop machine that is American Idol. Still over the past eight years she is managed to buck the male Svengali formula to achieve massive success on her own terms. Ms.  I am not normal. Like usually people do not weigh what I weigh. Usually people do not go against the grain as far as no I do not want this song from the most popular writer ever and it is not because I do not like the song. It is because I would rather work with people that I want to work with.  So how did Clarkson deal with mainstream pop expectations? Ms.  You know I come from a small town and people always had expectations of what you should say how you should think and what you should wear and how you should be. And I have always just kind of been like you know whatever I am happy with.  Clarkson also stands out from many of her pop star peers in her resistance to hypersexualization. That is also one of the biggest differences between icons of the '60s '70s '80s and today.    Here she comes looking pretty.  Tamar-Kali is a Brooklyn-based rocker.    Here she comes feeling fine. There was a time where we showed a little something to get people in the room or to get people to listen. And then it was like ooh look a little something-something and then you were like well here's what is really going on it is the music. And now there is no what is really going on. What is really going on is the selling of sex. Ms.  I was so aware of being sexual.  Marina Diamandis of Marina and The Diamonds thinks about this a lot. Ms.  It is really hard because on one side it is like well I am a 24-year-old woman and I am not going to be like non-sexual because that would be a lie as well.  In her videos Diamandis digs through and upends the candy box of images and values that seem to define American pop culture.  Ms.   Oh oh I am obsessed with the mess that is America oh oh oh. I am obsessed with the mess that is America oh.  Marina Diamandis does want to be a success here. But she says she is trying not to emulate the majority of other female pop stars out there. Ms.  Whether they know it or not or do it on purpose or not they are letting sex override everything else and I think that is a real shame.  There is a place to find powerful female role models and icons in rock and that is at the grassroots level - hundreds even thousands of them. They are the counselors and coaches at the rock camps for girls that have sprung up all over the country. Ms.  How is it going Atlanta?  Ms.  We are dedicating this song to our awesome band coach Emily Kay Foy.  Ms.  I am just hoping I am still around to be writing about music when those girls are running the scene.  Critic Ann Powers says those girls are coming up with a completely different sense of what they can do than any generation of female rockers before them.  Ms.   She wants something more. She wants something better. She wants something more. She wants something better. She wants something more. She wants something better. She wants something more. She wants something better.  Neda Ulaby NPR News.   You can find out more about the musicians in this story and our series Hey Ladies at nprmusic.org.  Ms.   She throws her book against the wall. Hey you never know. She slams the door runs down the hall. She wants something more. She wants something better. She wants something more. She wants something better.  You are listening to ALL PR News. 