 From NPR News it is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  I am Audie Cornish. And this is Valerie June.   This song You Cannot Be Told is big and bold and it is just a taste of Valerie June's sound. She grew up in Tennessee and her music feels like it rides the spectrum of the signature sounds of her home state from the rural roots of hill country to Nashville's country twang to foot-stomping Memphis blues. Valerie June stopped by our studios to talk about her latest album Pushin' Up Against a Stone and about her special blend of blues folk country and Gospel. Valerie June welcome to the program.  Thank you. Thanks for having me.  Now you have been quoted as describing your music as organic moonshine roots music. And clearly there is a lot there that has to do with Tennessee itself and you even have a song called Tennessee Time. And we will hear just the opening of it to get a sense.   A little ode to the place that you love right?  Very much so.  Tell us about this.  So when I first moved to New York I was still returning to Tennessee quite a bit every few months to perform. So one day I was boarding a plane to head back to Memphis and I heard this beautiful voice singing to me and it just started singing running on Tennessee time. And I was just like man that really is what I am on because New York City is moving so fast and I am just kind of taking my time with everything. And I am still on Southern time or they call it colored people's time or C.P. time or Delta time.   Whatever you want to call it it is a little bit slower than New York time. So when I received this song I just heard a voice singing that and I did not have the music to it at all. That is all I heard.   So when I got with Dan Auerbach he had some music. You know he had the peanut butter for my jelly with that song. And he did...  And he is obviously from the group The Black Keys...  Oh yeah. Mm-hmm.  ...a well-known producer.   And you say you hear the music in your head. Is it your own voice? Is it - like how does it work?  Usually it is not my own voice. It is usually many different voices and that is always a hard subject to talk about because it kind of sounds crazy you know to say hey I hear an older black male voice. Sometimes I hear a younger woman's voice. Sometimes I hear a child's voice or you know there is many many different voices either you feel connected to them and you write them down. I try to write down every song that comes to me and if you just write every song then you get to the good ones.   Every time it comes in your head you mean?  Yeah yeah. Just write them all.  But that is fascinating because your voice is so distinct and yet it feels so different with each song. And one song called Shotgun...   ...which is a murder ballad.  Mm-hmm.  And I want to know about the voice that brought you this tune.  Well I met PJ Harvey when I was in England and the first thing I want to do when I meet a songwriter I admire is to ask them how do they receive songs. And she told me I do not really hear voices but I really see images and so when I was writing Shotgun it is one of the first songs that is come to me as an image. And it was quite scary for me.    We have to balance out the murder-ballad situation.  This is a ballad. This is definitely a ballad.   I want to go back to your roots for a second. How old were you when you first started singing and when you first started writing like this?  When I first started singing I was very young. My parents took us to church every Sunday morning Sunday night Wednesday evening and that was for 18 years of my life. And the congregations that we went to were maybe about 400 people every Sunday and everybody were just lifting their voice. And so I found that if I sat beside different people then I just started to mimic what they would do with their voices. And it was just a silly playful way to learn how to use my voice as an instrument.   When you were first starting out what was the reaction of people when you would show up at the club? Because we should say that you have got these beautiful dreadlocks and all of this gorgeous sort of jewelry and you look very sort of ethereal. And I do not expect the voice that I hear coming out of here...   ...coming out of your very young-looking face.  Well the kind of reaction that I would get depended on what venue I was in. Like sometimes I would be at a more blues-related venue and they would be like what is that? That is not blues as we know it down here.   And that is what gave me the idea to start calling it something magical like moonshine roots music because I wanted people to come to the music with just an open mind and just to be like hey is it good music? Because if it is good music then I will listen to it. And I noticed that every time I played at any venue people would come up to me after the show and they would all have a different thing to say. Like some people would be like that is hillbilly music. Other people would be like that is blues if I have ever heard it. Other people would be like man that was so spiritual and so Gospel. And I am like OK well how can I really call it anything other than good music if it touched the people and broke their you know barrier and got to their heart and moved them emotionally in some way.  And made them all want a little piece of it right?  Yeah.  To claim you for whatever their tribe is.  Mm-hmm. To define it however they wish.  Valerie June thank you so much for talking with us.  Thank you. Thank you for having me.  Valerie June her new album is called Pushin' Against a Stone. You can stream songs from the album at npr.org.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 