    Welcome to the program.  It is great to be with you Lynn.  So tell me a little bit about this song that we are listening to right now.  This is a you know traditional Sufi song. It is a song that takes different chance of musical traditions of the - what is called a Sama. Sama is a Sufi tradition that is all about listening and listening to each other and responding back. As you can see in this piece you hear the sort of a main vocalist a soloist chanting these verses and then the chorus responds back to her.     Now there is an amazing part at the end where one of the women begin ululating. What is that about?    I had an opportunity to be in this audience listening to this ensemble and I tell you I have never ever felt anything so close to the real thing. It was like being part of something that you just do not get to be in ever. The ensemble is chanting and suddenly you hear in a sort of a burst of emotion women in the crowd suddenly respond back with this ululating. And it is just so powerful to be there.     Well let us hear another example of some of the music that you have heard there. What do you have for us next?  There are so many different musical traditions and this group came of age at that time when there was that sort of need to come up with something native to Morocco.   And what they do is they blend different music including Sufi music and Gnawa music which is also kind of a sacred trance-inducing music and they created their own sound.     All right. Now we have another track here cued up and this is by the Rajab Suleiman Trio.   This is one of the most sublime moments of the festival. It is the Rajab Suleiman Trio. Rajab Suleiman plays the instrument called ghanoon. It is an instrument that he puts on his lap and he plucks it and he plays it like that like a sort of a dulcimer I guess you could call it. And he is playing a song that is traditional to Zanzibar but it is also a song and a melody that is played in many parts of the Middle East. It is called Askadari.   So what you hear in this piece is really a confluence of sounds coming together in the most sublime the most beautiful way.    All right. We have time for one more track and this one is pretty different from what we have been listening to. Let us take a listen.     Now I was surprised when I first heard this piece because it did not seem to fit in with what I had been listening to up until that point. This is by someone named Dhafer Youssef. It seems a lot more Western to me. I can hear some jazz influence in there. What is the story here?  Dhafer Youssef is from a small town in Tunisia. He grew up as a muezzin as the person who calls people to prayer to the mosque. But he moved to Vienna and he instantly began to be influenced by all the music that he heard in Vienna especially jazz.   His work is really influenced by this freedom that jazz gives artists. And in this record what he is doing is a kind of homage or tribute to one of the great poets Persian Arab poets named Abu Nuwas. And he takes the poetry and he puts it to music and the result is just out of this world.     It sounds like it was an amazing musical experience for you. Was it the first time you ever attended that festival or do you go to it regularly?  Lynn I have been wanting to go to this festival for over 10 years. I have been to festivals all over. I have never been to the Fes Festival before. It was truly the most exciting experience for me to be in a beautiful city with great people and great music. It is just a fantastic time.  Thanks so much Betto. It was good talking to you.  Thank you for having me Lynn. 