 From time to time this summer we are asking people to tell us about their favorite summer song a song that is linked in their mind with a memory from summer. And today I am very happy to be joined by the great singer from New Orleans Aaron Neville. Welcome to the program Mr. Neville. Mr.  Thanks. It is nice to be here.  And what song has been going around in your mind?  Mr.  Well I had to think about a summer when I was a kid. I was maybe about 11 years old or something like that. And my brother Art who was my first inspiration to sing he was the singer of the family and he worked at a record shop and he would bring records home. And back in those days we were like sitting on the park bench singing harmony at least they were anyway - to like the doo-woppers.  Mr.  And one of our favorite groups was The Clovers. I did not know anything about love or nothing like that. You know I was still a little boy.  A little young for that. Mr.  Yeah. But this song was cool you know Ting-A-Ling by The Clovers.    Somebody said are you blowing your top? Well I am just a poor young boy and these girls about to drive me wild.  And you would be sitting on the bench in the park. Mr.  Yup right.  And singing along? Mr.  Yeah. They would run me away you know but I would come back until they let me sing with them.  Your older brothers would be saying get out of here Aaron? Mr.  Yeah. Well my brother Art he had a doo-wop group you know and they would sit on the - and this guy named Isaca Garden one of the singers he used to call me Kevin for some reason. He said come here Kevin you hit this note. And he started to let me come sing with him and he showed me how to harmonize and all.    The way they laugh the way they sing.  Now does this make you want to sing?  Mr.   Ting-A-Ling the way they laugh the way they sing. It made my heart go ting-a-ling. Yeah.  Oh I have chills.    It makes my heart go ting-a-ling ting-a-ling ting-a-ling ting-a-ling ting-a-ling.  This would be a park in New Orleans. Mr.  Yeah. We grew up in the Calliope housing project and we would sit on the - there is like a big oval park where we would play and ride bicycles and skate whatever you know. And so they started letting me sing on a lot of stuff and it is history from then. And that was the thing. You know like for me I do not care what else was happening in the world as long as I could sing along with these doo-wop guys whatever you know the cowboys or the gospel. It was like medicine to me you know it made everything all right.  Those might have been some hard times tough times in the projects. Mr.  Not really. No it was not because I mean you know if we were poor we did not know it. You know our parents made sure we had enough to eat and had clothes to wear. And even if they were not  they were cool you know? You never miss what you never had. So you know - and everybody in the project was the same. You know if we had to put a pasteboard in our shoe it was cool you know it was something hip.     Well I am young and I am free Mr.   And it is a real fine way to be. Well I am young and I am free and it is a real fine way to be. Well I am young and I am free and it is a real fine way to be with a fine young thing to give her love to me.   Wow that is great. Aaron Neville thank you so much. Mr.  Thank you.  Aaron Neville says he is working on a doo-wop CD and he figures Ting-A-Ling by The Clovers from the summer of 1952 will have to be on it. By the way Ting-A-Ling was The Clovers' last number one hit on the RB chart. We asked the only surviving original member of the group bass man Harold Winley for a little history of that tune. He told us it was penned by a songwriter who wrote many of The Clovers' hits under the name of Nugetre. That is N-U-G-E-T-R-E and it just happens to be Ertegun spelled backwards as in Ahmet Ertegun the son of the Turkish ambassador to the United States who co-founded Atlantic Records and later would write Aaron Neville's favorite summer song.    Well I am just a poor young boy and these girls are about to drive me wild.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 