 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. Get ready to hear a lot more of this voice.    You lift my heart up when the rest of me is down. You you enchant me even you are not around.  That is the British singer Sam Smith and the hit song Latch with the band Disclosure. It became an international club anthem. Sam Smith is now releasing his debut album titled In The Lonely Hour songs of love and loss powered by his moody soulful voice. He already has a sold out U.S. tour he is performed on Saturday Night Live snagged a couple of big deal British music awards is mentioned in the same breath as stars Adele and Flourence and the Machine - and did I mention he is just 22.    Guess it is true I am not good at a one-night stand. But I still need love cause' I am just a man.  Sam Smith joins me now from New York. Sam welcome to the program.  Thank you so much for having me.  You know when you listen to the songs on this album I think you hear a theme running through of unrequited love or maybe in the case of this song unrequited longing?  Yes. Yes. I have never been in a relationship before ever in my life...  Ever?  Ever in my life. And I wanted to make a statement that I do know what love is. And that is what this record's about.  Well what does love look like? Or unsatisfied love look like from your perspective?  Well for me it was not the prettiest. It was a lot of heartache and sadness. But there was amazing moments there was gorgeous moments but it just meant that the low moments were really really low if you know what I mean?  And on this song in particular on Stay With Me?  Well Stay With Me for me - it is my own personal anthem to the walk of shame.  The walk of shame.  The walk of shame that we have all gone through. It is that feeling of after a one night stand of not wanting a person to leave even if you do not love them and you do not even like them it is about having that body there next to you.    And deep down I know this never works. But you can lay with me so it does not hurt. Oh will not you stay with me. Because you are all I need.  I wanted to say it from a guy's perspective as well because I think we forget sometimes that guys are emotional.  You know you are talking about this walk of shame - a gospel choir gets woven into the song.   It is sort of an interesting contrast of message and the voices.  That is not a gospel choir that is all my voice.  That is all your voice? You are the gospel choir.  I am. Yeah. I went into the studio just laid my vocals up. But I think that kind of juxtaposes it - it contradicts the whole loneliness you know thing. I like how it sounds busy but it also sounds lonely at the same time.  Well you know it is interesting because I have seen the video for the song and there is a gospel choir in the video so no wonder I am confused.  I know I know it is my little secret that I tell a few people.   I know you have been singing since you were really young. Did you have singing icons when you are going up - people you just kept listening to over and over idolizing?  Yeah. And you know what I still listen to them now over and over again. I loved things like Destiny's Child and Amy Winehouse's first record came out when I was 11 years old. But as a young young child I was just surrounded by Stevie Wonder Whitney Houston Chaka Khan - just massive soulful voices.  Would you try to imitate each of the singers in their style could you do that?  Yeah I think especially female singers. I used to get very angry as I was getting older because my voice was breaking. This is why I have trained my voice so religiously through my teenagers years because I wanted to be able to hit the notes that those females hit. So and I can which is great.  Let us listen to a little bit of the song on your album Life Support.    I have been waiting for an answer. Because I built this bed for two. I am just hanging on your answer. I build this bed for me and you.  so that soaring falsetto Sam Smith - where does that come from?  I just train every day. I look after my voice and just do not drink too much and do not do drugs. . All of that stuff.  Yeah. Does it come naturally or do you really have to brace for it - I am going way up high here.  It does come naturally but I also work at it you know. I try and make it look like it is effortless but it is not - that is the same as anyone you know you look at runners in the Olympics and watch the way they run. You think I can do that - you cannot.    Could you see that I am yours? So will you be my life support? You are my life support.  I mentioned that you are 22-years-old. Do you think you are going to look back on these songs written when you are young and these songs of you know loneliness and longing and think - God I was so young I know so much more now?  Yes I am. I think I am going to look back and think - oh my gosh shut up about being so lonely. But you know what that is the beauty of it - when you look at pictures of yourself as a kid even me now and I look at pictures when I was 16-17 I am insanely embarrassed of some of the stuff that I have done -  but that is life that is going up. And I thought what a beautiful way to capture something that was so sad to me something I really sat last year I really sat by myself and felt sorry for myself that I had never been in a relationship before. I can only imagine how beautiful it is going to be when I have fallen in love and I can look back on this and think - you know it was not that bad.    I do not have that much to give but I do not care for gold.  Even now some of the songs meant so much to me then. The person I wrote some of the songs about meant so much to me last year and now they do not.  But you did tell him that these songs were about him I think right?  I did. Yes. I told him and that was like a weight lifted off. It was not the best response I could have asked for either I kind of -  I knew that I obviously knew that they were not going to fall for me but I also - I think the person kind of enjoy the fact that some of them were about him. Yeah.    Pack up and leave everything do not you see what I can bring? Cannot keep this beating heart at bay.  Sam when you look forward what is the future you see for yourself? Can you picture yourself 10-20 years down the road?  I am really trying not to do that in the moment because it was only two years ago I was working in a bar - I was cleaning toilets in the bar and I remind myself of that every day at the moment because I do not want to take anything for granted. So you know what I do not want to think about what I am doing 20 years all I want is a want to be happy and I hope my family are healthy and that is all really.  And maybe a little bit less lonely.  A little bit. I already am though but yeah - a little bit less lonely that would be nice.  Well Sam Smith it is been great talking to you. Thank you so much.  Thank you.  Sam Smith's new album is In The Lonely Hour.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 