 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Melissa Block.    Mountains rough this time of year. Close the highway down. They do not warn the town.   The round softness of his speech comes from his roots in rural Alabama. He has lyrics from a Bob Dylan song inked on his forearm. He had his musical start with Drive-By Truckers the hard-charging alt-country Southern-rock band and during those years Jason Isbell was drunk on stage - pretty much every time.  I had it timed where by the very end of the show I would done just about all I could do standing up you know? I knew I needed two or three before I went on and then during the show we would just pass a bottle around between the band.  How much do you think you would drink during a show?  Close to a fifth probably.  Of? What were you drinking?  Jack Daniels yup.  Jason Isbell says his drinking brought him close to the point of no return but he is sober now at age 34 and newly giddily married to singer-songwriter and fiddler Amanda Shires. We hear them together on this song from Jason's new solo album.    And I have grown tired of traveling alone. Tired of traveling alone. I have grown tired of traveling alone. Will not you ride with me?  I visited with Jason Isbell at his home on the fringe of Nashville he and Amanda sitting close on the couch finishing each other's thoughts. When they are each writing songs  They will separate - go into different rooms of the house - and force themselves to complete a song apiece.  For me the important part was we cannot do anything together until we finish this because...  And there is no cheating. You have to write a whole song.  Now we can go back and edit later for as long as we need to.  Yeah.  But if you do not come down with a whole song something with verses and choruses then you have to finish it.  So when you would come out at the end of day and show each other what you had and play it and sing it what did you end up with? Was there anything that you kept that you think is...  I think there is a lot of them.  Yeah?  Yeah. I think three made it on my record I guess.  Probably four or five on mine. Cover Me Up was interesting.  Mm-hmm.  That was a hard one for me to even get through without breaking down the first time because that one is really personal you know?    So girl leave your boots by the bed. We as not leaving this room till someone needs medical help or the magnolias bloom. It is cold in this house and I as not going out to chop wood. So cover me up and know you are enough to use me for good. It' This is how much I love you you know? It is scary to do that.  And after having to draw that out of yourself you know?  Yeah. It is visceral. I kind of have to reach and then pull stuff out.    Put your faith to the test when I tore off your dress in Richmond all night. I sobered up I swore off that stuff forever this time. And the old lovers see I would thought it would be me who helped him get home. But home was a dream one I would never seen till you came along.  You have been really public in talking about being sober. How long has it been?  Been a year and five months and about three days.  And what led up to that decision to get sober?  A lot of hard nights you know? A lot of exhaustion a lot of on my mind sort of turning in on itself telling me that I needed to that it was time. And I would usually drunkenly tell her that I needed to go to rehab and I only got to do that twice I think. The second time she said...  You are telling the wrong person.  Yeah that was it. You are telling the wrong person. If you say this again then you are going to be held to it. And sure enough I said it again and then you know the plans were made. She called a few people that I respect and...  And that was not easy to do either to call people that I do not know you know and say something like...  That seems like a hard thing it really does because we were not - we have not been together very long you know? She is like calling my mom and my manager and my friends.  I did not care if he was mad at me. I did not care if that meant that it was the end of our relationship. To me it was this person needs help.  Yeah. Then I went away to class for a couple of weeks. And then as soon as I got out we flew to New Zealand. First to Australia and then on to New Zealand. So then my first show sober was in Perth in this big concert hall beautiful place with a couple of thousand people. And I am out there with a guitar by myself. It just overwhelmed me to play a show sober. I have done one other show sober that I could recall in 10 years. It was terrifying to go up there with the whole bright world staring you in the face.  I want to ask you about the first lines of the song Live Oak. What are the lines first of all?  It is there is a man who walks beside me. He is who I used to be and I wonder if she sees him and confuses him with me.    And I wonder who she is pining for on nights I am not around. Could it be the man who did the things I am living down? That one started as a worry that I had when I cleaned my life up decide to be a grown-up you know? I worried about what parts of me would go along with the bad parts because it is not cut and dried. It is not like you make the right decision and everything's great and you are a better person for it. You are you know at least 51 percent better but there are some things that are lost forever and that is just a fact of it. You know everything is not better.    All the things that she would suspected I would expected her to fear. It was the truth that drew her to me when I landed here. There is a man who walks beside me. He is who I used to be. I wonder if she sees him and confuses him with me. And I wonder who she is pining for on nights I am not around. Could it be the man who did the things I am living down? I was concerned with that and I was concerned with my relationship not only with my wife but with a lot of people who in some way had been attracted to me or you know charmed by me or just liked me in general. I was thinking well what do they like? You know do they like that guy? Do they like - what combination of those two guys are going to make those folks stay in my life? Luckily most of the people that I really cared about were there for me. And I think at the core I still have the same values. I just actually behave according to those values now a lot more.    Ten years ago I might thought I did not have the right to say the things an outlaw would not say but those were different days.  Well Jason Isbell thank you so much.  Thank you so much for having me. It is been a pleasure.  Jason Isbell with his wife Amanda Shires. His new album is titled Southeastern.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. 