 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.   Come with me for a moment to a bar in East Nashville a hangout for local musicians. Come for 2 Tuesday at the 5 Spot.  I hope everybody is getting their 2's worth tonight.   This is obviously a 5 show man. Come on.  And very possibly the best deal in town. There is a 2 cover 2 beer and five musical guests a lineup put together by local singer and songwriter Derek Hoke.  I call it like a speed showcase. Everybody plays five songs and I tell them to play like the best of you know get up there kill and get off.   There is somebody coming up right after you and we have to you know plow through this thing but...  And if it is not working you do not get to keep trying.  Right.  There might be 200 people at the 5 Spot on any given Tuesday and here's the thing they come to hear Derek Hoke play as much as anyone else.    Nobody talks around here. They just listen hoping to hear about this thing called love. And every heart in this town...  Derek Hoke is 37 a mild-mannered guy in a cowboy hat and retro vintage eyeglasses. He grew up in South Carolina and moved to Nashville 12 years ago worked for a while as Ricky Skaggs' merch boy but he was not just selling T-shirts and CDs at those bluegrass concerts he was watching and listening learning how to be a better performer.    But tonight I will just shoot out all the lights on a lonely street.  Derek Hoke has just released a new album called Waiting All Night and it showcases the crowd-pleasing style he is come to call quietbilly.  The instrumentation of it was a rockabilly band. It is upright bass and you know rocking snare drum. But we had it all kind of toned down to where I am kind of crooning on top of it if you will instead of doing total J.D. McPherson or whatever. And it was quiet rockabilly so quietbilly.  It is funny that you mentioned J.D. McPherson because I have interviewed him for this show. And like you he told me that he you know ended up in this sort of country rockabilly-sphere but started in really loud music. He started with a love of punk and rock 'n' roll just like you.  Right. I still have a huge affinity for bands like Fugazi and things like that but I also have a huge affinity for old country music and some new country music as well. And just the correlation between the two is they are very - still very simple forms of music - punk's three chords. Hank Williams is three chords. It is just a different way of expressing yourself either through a Marshall amp or through a mandolin.  So there you go quietbilly.  Quiet.  You end up with quietbilly.  Yeah.  You have to say it quietly?  It sounds creepy though.   All right. I just want to hear it again.  Quietbilly.   You have a song called So Quiet speaking of quietbilly.    I used to hear you come home through the window and I could tell that you have been out on the town. Yeah we fuzz and we fight and wake the neighbors. But it is so quiet around here now. My father used to date a - I think he was married to her for a while a very crazy person who .  Wait a minute wait a minute. You are not sure if he was married to her?   At the time I do not know. I do not if they were engaged or married. He was in  Florence South Carolina and I was in Nashville. And I just kind of hear about it. I guess she like lit a roll of toilet paper and threw them out and then almost burned the house down. And they have soon broke up after that but that is not basically about that situation and how this tornado of a person has now left your life and how it is so quiet around here now.    I remember the night you ran me over but it is so quiet around here now.  The song does escalate to a point where there is...   ...a line that I had to go back and listen to again. I remember the night you ran me over.  Right. It may or may not be an embellishment but pretty close though.    Why I would ever let you in... Unfortunately my father passed away before this record came out but some friends and family know exactly who this person is. And it was a way to get some kind of comic relief out of some craziness.  What do you think your dad would think of this song?  I think he would laugh his butt off and shake his head like I cannot believe I ever got in that situation to begin with.  He would appreciate it.  I think so.    It is quiet around here. It is quiet around here now.    I hope we make it on love. I hope we make it on love because the money is all gone because the money is all gone. Yeah we spent every penny. Yeah we spent every dime. Always thought...  Tell me about the song Hope We Make It On Love which has this great perky up-tempo thing going on but it is all about a couple that is - they lost everything. They have got no money left.  I think I wrote it like a year and a half ago but definitely sign of the times kind of a song just recession. And I was watching Dateline NBC and there was an old couple like Palm Springs or something. They are selling their jewelry at the local pawnshop to buy food but they were so in love with each other and happy that it was just kind of part of their life now. You know they would owned the yachts and had the Mercedes and everything but they remembered the simple things in life and that this is all just stuff and love is all you need.    Yeah I miss the jing-aling-ling the jing-aling-ling that we are used to. I miss the jing-aling-ling the jing-aling-ling. Well honey do not you miss it too? We could do what we wanted and the price was never wrong. I hope we make it on love because the money is all gone.  When you are writing a song Derek do you have a favorite place to be some place that is really inspirational for you?  I am usually in the car either listening to you or...   ...with the radio completely turned off and I will kind of see if anything comes. And I do a lot of just kind of singing out loud in the car.  What do you think is it about being in a car?  I do not know because I am not really trying to write a song. If I sat on the couch with a guitar and a pen and paper I am obviously trying to write a song. But if I am driving a car I am kind of multitasking. I am not really thinking about it and so I think it comes from a more genuine place.  Maybe something about being in motion.  That might have something to do with it - moving forward I guess. I have never tried writing a song in reverse maybe I will do that next time.     Oh you are walking in circles walking in line running to another  I have been waiting all night. I have been waiting all night. If you will not come home I am going to find someone to treat me right.  Derek Hoke it is so fun to talk to you. Thank you.  You too. Thank you Melissa.  Derek Hoke's new CD is titled Waiting All Night.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 