 In 1999 neo-soul diva Macy Gray burst onto the music scene with her hit I Try.    I try to say goodbye and I choke. I try to walk away and I stumble. Though I try to hide it it is clear. My world crumbles when you are not near.  Critic Robert Christgau has our review.  But that album was launched into an expanding music market where female vocalists and black pop were growth sectors. Instead the market plummeted and her label bailed.    And I am out on a limb. I am giving in. I am selling out to the pay to the show. This is my gimmick and I want to win it. I am selling out. I will not fight you no more. Honey babe and honey boo I always pictured you by my side forever. And I cannot believe that you are gone now because I got a love to give.  So I figured that like many pop artists before her she wants to sing about her love life and her musical life at the same time. Track three Kissed It is less ambiguous.    I was going to leave you then you dipped it.   Dipped it.   Baby you fixed it.   Fixed it.   When you kissed it.   Kissed it.   I do not wanna fight baby. Kiss it.   Kiss it.   Because I miss it.   Miss it.   Make it all right.   All right.   Boy you light a fire in me.  Or maybe there is an ambiguity here. Maybe what is lighting Gray's fire is not a sexy guy but the slam-bang chorus itself delivered in this case by the post-grunge band Velvet Revolver. Although The Sellout avoids the orchestral fromage Geffen poured over Big it is got nothing against corn. You cannot get much cornier than Beauty in the World. Listen to how shamelessly the chorus fulfills the sweet promise of the verse.    When I look around I see blue skies. I see butterflies for us. Listen to the sound and lose it in sweet music and dance with me. There is beauty in the world. So much beauty in the world. Always beauty in the world. So much beauty in the world.  The album is on Concord a niche label geared to traditional tastes so nobody's expecting a full-scale comeback commercially. But spiritually it is a comeback which is why Gray closes with a big ballad called The Comeback. Once again she blends the romantic and the professional. She likes the results so much she even adds a little cheese.    And maybe if I had more money maybe if I was more pretty I am going in circles when it hits me that I do not. I do not know where I am going. Where I am going. And all you big rockers stay hot hot hot. Look at how they leave you when you are not not not.  The latest album from Macy Gray is called The Sellout. Our reviewer is Robert Christgau.    Would you take me back if I told you that I have not changed a bit? Baby would you go for it? Would you take me back if I told you that?  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 