 Before we go today we wanted to take a few minutes to introduce you to a hip-hop artist out of Queens N.Y. The borough is well-known for producing some well-known names in hip-hop - think Run DMC Q-Tip from A Tribe Called Quest and Nas. And now here's Anik Khan.    Yeah. Habibi habibi I know that you need me. I give you the feeling. They all in their feelings.  Anik Khan grew up as a child of two worlds born in Bangladesh he was raised in Queens.  Being an immigrant kid you always battle with like two worlds which is like confusing but also empowering. I would go from being in the house and smelling like curry chicken and food listening to classical Bengali music to then walking outside and being on the block with the homies and listening to Nas to DMX to Jay-Z and dressing a certain way and going to play ball and living my life that way.  Anik Khan's father brought him and the family to the United States from Bangladesh when Anik was 4.  My father is the person who left everything he had in Bangladesh. He was doing well. He owned three businesses educated man with his master's three-floor flat house a driver. And he left all that to come to America so his kids could have a better education to move to a one-bedroom apartment in Astoria and drive a cab. And I think that is the definition of unconditional love.    Now picture a man with a vision and plan to leave the country that he loves for his kids to expand.  That is the American dream to an immigrant man.  He says his father is his inspiration especially when it comes to his music.  My father is my hero. I never really grew up idolizing entertainers or anything like that because entertainers did not keep food in my fridge my father did.  In fact Khan says it is his father who sparked his interest in being an entertainer even if he did not mean to. Khan's father had served in the war to win Bangladesh's independence from Pakistan. He later received a master's degree in literature. And he would often recite classical Bengali poetry to his friends and family.  My father was the guy who always invited people over to the house no matter how little the space was. So it was I think subconsciously him entertaining people and me seeing him always be willing to recite his poetry for anyone that really influenced me.   While Anik Khan looked up to his father as a freedom fighter as well as a proud and accomplished Bengali once in America Khan says he struggled with his own cultural identity.  I always kind of ran away from my culture kind of ran away from being Bengali. And I was not too proud of it. And I think it is because in mainstream media the only figure we had was essentially Apu from The Simpsons which was not the correct stereotype because there was so many different types. And I always ask myself like Guyanese people love being Guyanese Puerto Ricans love being Puerto Rican Jamaicans love being Jamaican why do not I love being Bengali?    I am not supposed to be here but I am here though. I work hard. When I went to Bangladesh when I was 21 it was really an eye-opening experience. I started hanging out with a lot more of my cousins. I got to experience the actual land and culture in a older age and I realized how beautiful it is. And it was almost like a shattering of the glass of what I wanted to do with myself my music and everything all together.    We got the feeling. We feel  yeah. She want to feel me touch and feel me yeah. She like to squeeze me kiss and caress me yeah. I actually do not go out my way to make sure that something is Bengali in my record or something is very American in my record or something is very West Indian or Brazilian. I just grew up in Queens. I grew up in the most diverse place in the entire world. And so sometimes I hear a record and I am like you know a tabla would sound really cool on this. Or sometimes I will hear congos and I will go you know what would be cooler if we put some congos on this record. And what I started understanding was you know we are all cousins - South Asian percussion West African percussion West Indian percussion Brazilian percussion.    Africa. India. Bangladesh. Guyana. Trinidad. My actual identity is to talk about all of these cultures and mix them because that is just who I am as a person.    Oh yeah. Oh yeah. All around the world. We got the feeling. We feel  yeah. My father loves that I am doing this as a career. Obviously in the beginning my family was worried. But you know like you tell your parents hey I am about to be a rapper. And they are like really out of all jobs that is the one you chose? But as soon as he saw that - how passionate I am about it I am never going to stop. And he saw people he never knew like start talking about me he was like oh this is really working. And now he goes around and tells all his friends about everything. Hey my son did this and my son did that. So it is actually super cute to see.    Kites in the skies.  That was Anik Khan. His latest album Kites is out now.    Kites in the skies. 