 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. In downtown Los Angeles today there was a star-studded and emotional farewell for Michael Jackson. Twenty thousand ticketed fans plus Jackson's friends and family attended the memorial service at the Staples Center. Thousands more jammed the streets hoping for a glimpse of the funeral motorcade. NPR's Mandalit del Barco has our story.  Tickets and wristbands go ahead.  The crowds began gathering early this morning for the public tribute to Michael Jackson's life. William Boyce traveled from San Francisco to sit in the third row. Mr.  This is the center of the world right now. This is where all the energy is right now all the world's media all the eyes of the world are right in this spot. We are in the center of it all.  And like so many fans Cheryl Bryant said she grew up with her idol. Ms.  Michael Jackson will never die. If nothing else his music will you know always be around.  Inside Staples Center images of Michael Jackson through the years were projected above the stage and below the King of Pop had a front row seat from his gold-plated casket. Then on the very stage Michael Jackson had rehearsed his comeback concert days before dying his music began.  Mr.   See if you should ever find someone new. I know he would better be good to you. 'ecause if he does not I will be there. JACKSON 5   I will be there. Mr.   Do not you know baby yeah yeah.  Mariah Carey gave one of many tear filled performances. Singer Smokey Robinson read letters of condolences from Diana Ross and this one from Nelson Mandela. Mr.  We had great admiration for his talent and that he was able to triumph over tragedy on so many occasions in his life.  Some of the biggest names in entertainment praised Michael Jackson's life starting as a child prodigy who could out-sing Smokey Robinson.  Mr.   When I had you I treated you bad and wrong my dear.  They all remembered the innovative dancer who introduced the world to his incredible moonwalk. Motown founder Berry Gordy recalled meeting Jackson and his brothers when they were kids. And he said the words on the minds of many here. Mr.  I feel the King of Pop is not big enough for him. I think he is simply the greatest entertainer that ever lived.   Basketball stars Kobe Bryant and Magic Johnson thanked Michael Jackson for donating so much to charities around the world. And the Reverend Al Sharpton thanked Jackson for breaking down so many color barriers. Referring to Jackson's later controversies Sharpton had these words for Jackson's three children.  Was not nothing strange about your daddy it was strange what your daddy had to deal with.   The emotional high point came when Michael Jackson's young daughter Paris Michael Katherine took to the stage to say her own personal goodbye. Ms.  I just want to say Ms.  Speak up speak up. Ms.  Ever since I was born daddy has been the best father you can ever imagine.  Ms.  And I just want to say I love him so much.   And there was also the song many said expressed what was in Michael Jackson's heart when family friends and fans around the world joined hands to say goodbye.    We are the world we are the children we are the ones who make a brighter day so let us start giving.  Mandalit del Barco NPR News.    There is a choice we are making we are saving our own lives it is true we will make a better day just you and me. 