 Different cultures have different approaches to rhythm. Some beats are more easily felt than explained. Take Afro-Cuban music - to some the rhythms sound complicated to the point of intimidation. It may make you want to move but if you stop to think about what is going on your feet will not know what to do. Well in this installment of our series Rhythm Section Frannie Kelley learned it is not really that hard once you abandon a central tenant of a lot of music - the one.  In pop music songs by everybody from the Beatles to Blondie to Prince start like this.    One two - one two three huh.  The one is the downbeat. It is the first beat - the one in which a conductor drops his baton. For some types of music that one is crucial. It drives rock 'n roll gives funk it is muscle and makes disco sound like it will go on forever. But the one the downbeat is not everything everywhere.  In Cuba we do not really have that much of a love affair with one.  Cuban percussionist Dafnis Prieto grew up hearing more complex rhythms outside his window in Havana. Polyrhythms and the songs they propel are less concerned with hitting that one. An example is a Cuban polyrhythm called the guaguanco. A musician playing clave basically two sticks or wood blocks insinuates the rhythm.   .  And then the rest of the band jumps in like Double Dutch.  .  Dafnis Prieto slows it down. He plays the clave part on two drumsticks.  Bong bong - bong bong bong - bong bong - bong bong bong. It has a very specific rhythmic taste.  These rhythms have moved and involved with people from Africa to the Caribbean to the States. They can be notated but some are not - for good reason. The guaguanco in particular comes out of a secret Afro-Cuban organization that played on even though the government in Havana banned African drums from 1900 to 1940. For a time the rhythm was actually subversive. But that is another story. The effect Prieto says gets back to the idea of musicians forgetting about the one.  When you do not think about it that is when you do it. You can become just frightened by just the intellectual idea of how is it possible? And they do not even ask that question. When you ask that question to them it is like what you mean? I just dance and play.  The dancing part is key. Guaguanco is one of three rhythmic patterns that live under the umbrella of the rumba. There are different dances and dancers for each. Guaguanco is for a man and woman. The man tries to get the woman. She resists.   A good example would be the way that a rooster courts a hen.  Roman Diaz is an Afro-Cuban percussionist who lives in Newark New Jersey. He says when he is playing a guaguanco he is supporting the dancers watching their steps.   You are sketching this idyllic romance that the dancers are presenting. Everything is combined. There is one thread that goes throughout the dance the music and the singing. We are molecules in one nucleus you know? We all work together as one.   .  It is more an attitude. It is more a way of living than just the sake of keeping specific patterns.  Dafnis Prieto was joined in the studio by a pianist Vijay Iyer. And he says that attitude of comfort with different patterns or rhythms living together has taken different forms.  It is in ragtime. It is in bounce music from New Orleans. You hear it in hip-hop today. There is an inherent asymmetry to these patterns. There is a sort of downside and an upside with the beat and then there is a part that is against it right?  Right.  And it sort of moves back and forth between on and off. So it has that lift in it.  He calls it 3-D and it is no coincidence that the styles he names are all music for dancing. Polyrhythms can be felt and taught even if the listener did not grow up in Havana.   This is Roman Diaz and me playing together.   .  He says you have rhythm. So there you have the different elements of the rumba. It is very simple. He had you playing a rumba in no time.  Frannie Kelley NPR News.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 