 And it is time for some Disclosure.   In other words the music of Guy and Howard Lawrence.  Hey. This is Guy.  And this is Howard. And we are Disclosure.  Their songs are a mix of pop and house music and the songs are played in dance clubs around the world.    Eyes on the hourglass as we wink into the sand. Times up. There is nothing we can do about it. It is fine Love 'ecause I know I am going to live without it.  This song Hourglass is on Disclosure's new album. It is called Caracal. Guy and Howard Lawrence are often labeled as DJs but they told me that is not the full story. H.  We did not start DJing first. We grew up learning to play instruments that our parents kind of brought us into playing music that we were listening to which was funk and soul and jazz. So yeah we were instrumentalists long before we started even making music. G.  Yeah. I think it is important to note that like yeah we do DJ but it is not our main thing. Like - this is Guy by the way - it is - I play drums since I was about 3. Howard's played bass since he was about 7. And both of our parents are musical. Dad's played guitar and sings. Mom plays piano and sings. So there was always guitars and pianos lying around. And so we kind of stepped into those as well. And it was just something that we did for fun and well it still is. And just now it is our fulltime job as well which is great. But yeah you know we were always going to be musical I think.  There is another song on the album that you do with Gregory Porter. It is called Holding On. - think we can hear some of that.    Weight of love on my shoulders. I thought that it would be easier than this. I thought my heart had grown colder but the warmth of your kiss I cannot dismiss.  So this sounds like something we know - you know take a gospel song and put it to you know some really good beats and make it into a dance track. But you did not do that here. This is not an old gospel song right? What - how did you do this one? H.  So yeah. It was an interesting one. This is Howard by the way. A lot of those old sort of house and garage songs that were very successful were just remixes of old songs. And they have all kind of been used now - all of the ones that...  . G.  All the samples. H.  Yeah. All the samples have been done. And so we had this idea that we would just write this song with Gregory that is a ballad. It is really really slow and it is just a piano and a vocal. And we just wrote the whole song which was in a completely different key different speed but with all the same melodies and lyrics. And so we recorded that and then me and Guy then took the vocal recording away and almost well basically remixed our own song.    Shake it. Shake shake it. Shake it. Shake shake it. Shake it. H.  I think that is an advantage that we have against maybe some other DJs and - is that they come through it from a DJ background you know? They start - they get into this music from DJing whereas we got in it from you know playing the piano and instruments and writing songs.   Disclosure's also writing songs with Grammy-award-winning singer Sam Smith. It was actually a song they wrote together that helped launch Smith's career back in 2012. That song of course is Latch.    You lift my heart up when the rest of me is down. You you enchant me even when you are not around. H.  The day that we met Sam was the day that we wrote Latch.  Really? Tell me about that. How did that go? H.  It was good yeah. He turned up and we kind of you know had a chat and got to know him a little bit and then we started playing him some beats and ideas that we had. And we had this fully kind of finished club track and we played him that. And he was like I really like that. Can we write to that today? And we were like well no it is kind of done. You know it is like an instrumental track 'ecause it had all these vocal samples on it. And he was like can you just take the vocal samples off and we will just write to this today? And we were like well yeah OK. And so we took them off all except for that one that is like  na-na.    Na-na. H.  And then we started writing to it and we wrote it all in I think about a day. And then we recorded it the next day.    Now I have got you in my space. I will not let go of you. Got you shackled in my embrace. I am latching on to you.  It sounds like you were like dubious for a minute. You were like wait no no no no no we are fine we have got this. He is like no. He like pushed you a little bit. H.  Well yeah. He just really wanted to write to those chords and that beat in particular. And you know we just had not thought of it but... G.  The only time we have ever done that we always start from scratch usually like with a singer. Like we have obviously - we have got another song with Sam on our forthcoming album. And you know we started that one from scratch on the day and that is what we would usually do. So yeah. It was a rare one yeah. We do not usually show people what we have been up to.  We are going to play a little of that song. It is called Omen.    I am feeling something something different. When you left my picture changed. I was blinded. I would not envisioned the same face in a different frame. It is an omen.  You work with all these people. I mean you collaborate with a lot of these big names. But when you go on tour it is you guys. You get up there with instruments and you play your songs. People are not coming to see the name on the track. They are coming to see you. Is that - mean music is different now? G.  I do not know if that is what it means but yeah to us it is very important that - you know we wanted to get our brand out there and show people that - you know who Disclosure is. And we wanted to make it really clear that it is just me and Howard. We do bring out guests now and again like really big and special shows. You know Sam's come out and done Latch loads of times. And it does happen but like yeah - we like to keep the majority of the show just us two.  Right. So when people think of electronic music we do not think of live shows. So describe to me if you are getting up and playing Latch like what instruments are you playing? What does it look like? H.  That is the thing is not it? You know when you make dance music people just assume that you will then DJ. But there is a finite number of groups that try and recreate it. And for that reason because there is not many people doing it it is quite difficult to create a show. And for us that was the hardest part was kind of working out what we were actually going to do up there what instruments we wanted to play. So the general rule that we use is that I usually play the chords or the base like and Guy normally plays the drums. But you know we switch around a lot during the show. Like some songs I will be singing and playing chords and Guy will be drumming. Other songs Guy will be playing the guitar and I will be on bass. It changes a lot. G.  And it is like basically the two of us with two separate workstations all around us - like studios basically wrapped around us - loads of equipments. But we try and pick the parts to play that are like the most relatable to the crowd. So like say you know you have got a guy at the back of a 10000-strong crowd. If you see a guy up on stage you know twisting some knobs and pressing a button he is probably doing something. But that guy at the back's not really going to be able to relate to that you know? I mean he is not going to know what is going on. But if you saw - see a guy like playing the bass or hitting the drum for me like if I was in the crowd that just makes so much more sense to me and would give me so much more satisfaction. We look really busy up there. Like there is so much going on. And we have cameras mounted on like loads of different points of it you know? And we have these big video screens behind us so you can really see up-close what is going and who is playing what and where the sound's being made.    So get up. So get up and save it 'ecause enough is enough. You are jaded.  That is Guy and Howard Lawrence of Disclosure. Their new album Caracle is out this week. Thank you so much. H.  Thank you. Cheers. G.  Thanks Kelly. Have a nice one.    You cannot replace them. Face it or you will waste them. You cannot replace. Face it or you will waste them. 