 New York rappers The Fat Boys were best known in the 1980s for a series of crossover pop hits recorded with everyone from the Beach Boys to Chubby Checker. By the '90s the Fat Boys had faded from the spotlight. A new boxed set reissues their 1984 debut album and reviewer Oliver Wang says the big men packed more than just a gimmick.   Before there was Heavy D or Chubb Rock or the Notorious B.I.G. there were the Fat Boys - Prince Markie Dee Kool Rock-Ski and Buff Love a.k.a. the Human Beat Box.    Amazing to the eye  to the ear and if you have never seen them you wonder where his beats come from machine or man he is also cuttin' up 'ecause he is in command.  You might remember the Fat Boys as a gimmick group and there is a little truth to that. At the height of their career towards the late-1980s they cranked out a string of singles that remade old rock 'n' roll hits including Louie Louie The Twist and of course their hit collaboration with The Beach Boys on Wipeout.    ...making lots of noise when around the corner came the real Beach Boys. So we all jumped up and started to shout let us all sing the song called The Wipeout.   Wipin' out wipe out wipin' out wipe out wipin' out wipe out wipin' out wipe out...  However just a few years earlier the Fat Boys were hip-hop's most potent trio this side of Run-DMC. They first met in the early-'80s at George Gershwin Junior High in east New York and formed into a crew called The Disco 3. In the spring of 1983 they entered a talent contest at Radio City Music Hall one of the most ambitious hip-hop events of the old-school era. They won and event organizer and impresario Charlie Stettler took them under his wing and given their substantial stature renamed them the Fat Boys.    Now we may be a little chubby but do not feel  we got to tell you one thing we can surely come to the party and rock the house as we  we can turn it out. So  smooth and take it from me listen to the big sounds of the disco three ha ha.  The Fat Boys album was recorded at a time of transition between the disco-influenced styles of the old school and a new harder sparser sound that was a natural fit with the staccato flows of Fat Boy MCs Markie Dee and Rock-Ski. However no one packed more of a sonic punch on this album than Buff Love. He was one of the very first beat boxers to be recorded and the album was a veritable showcase for what he could create with little more than spitting into his fist.    So check it out party people it is the human beat box.  The album reissue comes packaged in a mini cardboard pizza box a gesture that feels both loving and kitschy. And the CD has a few bonus tracks including the crew's first single when they were still The Disco 3. The Fat Boys would eventually go on to greater fame but on this album they are still young still green and they still sound pardon the pun  hungry.   Now there was just one thing that I will never forget I got jailed for something that I will always regret it was...  Reviewer Oliver Wang is an assistant professor of sociology at California State University Long Beach and writes the audio blog FullSize.com.    I thought to myself I could almost die then an image appeared a pizza pie. So I put on Addidas headed out the door as I pictured myself... 