   And we offer security to their families if they die...  This work is the latest winner of the Pulitzer Prize for Music - Anthracite Fields by Julia Wolfe. The Pulitzer committee called it a powerful oratorio for a chorus and sextet evoking Pennsylvania coal-mining life around the turn of the 20th century.    I voice it  I proclaim it...  Thanks to the award and this brand-new recording released yesterday Anthracite Fields is sure to reach a wider audience. But Julia Wolfe has already had mainstream success as one of the co-creators of the innovative New York Concert Series and performing arts group Bang on a Can. She recently told me about finding out she would received this life-changing honor.  I was actually in a meeting at home in my loft. And I saw a call come in and it was from Washington D.C. And I thought oh I do not know who that is. I am not going to take it. And the next call that came in was from Bang on a Can. And I picked it up because I thought oh they probably need something for me and it was Kenny Savelson. He is the director there. And he said do you know what is going on out there? I was like uh what? And he said you just won a Pulitzer. So - and the whole office was screaming. It was so - it was a very very sweet moment because it really was a friend-sharing moment. And we all put so much energy into making that peace happen. So - and that call that had come in was - was NPR actually.  Oh it was? .  And I thought oh well actually I am a little bit glad that I had some preparation to absorb it. I would have been maybe a little stunned and awkward like huh? .  So let us talk about this marvelous piece Anthracite Fields. First what drew you to Pennsylvania coal country at the end of the 19th century for inspiration?  Yeah well I grew up in this little town. It was about an hour north of Philadelphia - small-town USA. And my parents were very oriented towards culture and going into the city. We would always turn right on this route this highway 309. But if you turn left you would hit Scranton and Wilkes-Barre and this whole coal country region which I really knew nothing about. So I started to look into it and I thought oh this is really fascinating - this life this industry and how dependent we were on it.  And you took a deep dive into that. Talk about your journey. You actually went into a mine right?  Yeah. Oh it was wonderful. It was just - you know to actually go out there interview people you know third-generation miner daughter of and granddaughter of miners - and got a real understanding - read a ton of books just to you know learn everything about it from disasters to just you know daily life. So I got an incredible education.  Is there anything of the sonic experience of being inside the mine that we can hear in this piece?  Oh definitely yeah. I - both guides turned the guide light off so that you could see complete darkness which is something you do not usually get to experience. And I think that is definitely in the piece especially in the first movement. In the opening I was really going for this very deep resonant cavernous sound so you have the open string of the double bass really - the bow really digging into the open string. The electric guitar is being scrubbed with the handle of a whisk - metal whisk - so you get this kind of...  A kitchen whisk?  A kitchen whisk yeah with a lot of reverb and you get this kind of  kind of wooly - deep wooly sound. The voices - the choir's using their voices in a very different way.    John Bates John Carr...  The text of this oratorio you assembled this yourself. Can you talk about how you did that where these words come from?  I came across a Pennsylvania index of miners who had been injured - they did not necessarily die but they would been injured in the mines from until about 1910 something like that. And it was a crazy long list and I could not possibly have said all the names. It is pretty sad how long that list is. But I just decided to take all of the Johns and with one-syllable last names and in alphabetical order so it had this kind of chant-like quality - John Ash John Ayers John Banes John Bates John Carr...    John Ash John Ayers John Banes John Bates John Carr...  It was very emotional. And in coaching the choir I really wanted to capture this idea that it is not just this list. There are many lists of names in the world. This is someone's uncle. It is someone's father. It is someone's brother.  If one says coal mining you know it summons very dark associations. But the music is not all gloom. There are flowers here. There is actually a movement called Flowers.   Talk about why they spring up here.  That is a good question because when I started I thought oh my God is this dark. It was like complete disasters and floods and cave-ins. It is terrifying. And at the same time there is incredible life in these communities. And you know the woman I interviewed Barbara she - her father - I am trying to remember if it was her father or grandfather now - was buried alive in the mines but was saved. She was talking about living in multi-generational homes. She grew up in a patch town which is literally - the company owns the little houses that they all live in. They own the store pretty impoverished existence. But at some point she said oh but we all had flowers and they all had gardens. And she started to name flowers.   What a great image of the women beautifying their life with these flowers.   The last movement is called Appliances which kind of brings up you know what happens with the energy - that coal is produced.  It was interesting. While I was working on the piece friends would ask me - well are you going to talk about like pollution and the mess coal has us in? And I went - I was thinking no no no. I am really looking at these people and their lives and I felt like you know I really cannot not put this in the piece. I really wanted the piece to be about us. You know we are these people. And the way I did that was just to make a list of all the things you do every day that use coal - that still use coal because probably - I think something like 50 percent of our energy is coal-fueled today - like you know bake a cake drill a hole call your girlfriend on the phone send a message...    Dreamcast dry your clothes turn on the light...  ...The list goes on. It is kind of unbelievable what we do every day and the energy that we are using. So that was my way of somehow putting that into the conversation.   That is Julia Wolfe the latest recipient of the Pulitzer Prize for Music for her composition Anthracite Fields. The first official recording of that work was just released. Julia it is been a real treat getting to talk with you. Thank you.  Thank you from all the people in coal country - Scranton Wilkes-Barre and the rest.  