 Imagine you run a rock club in a big city like Los Angeles. You' Monday nights are always dead. So you pick a young up-and-coming band and you give them Monday nights for an entire month. After all you have got nothing to lose and the bands have everything to gain. As NPR's Neda Ulaby reports these so-called rock residencies are catching on.  The Echo is a cool little club on the east side of L.A. just grimy enough with dark blue walls and a crowd that on a recent Monday night included movie stars Casey Affleck and Joaquin Phoenix bobbing their heads to an all-girl band called The Like.   The Like have a lot going for them. They are cute their music is poppy and accessible and they are extremely well-connected. One is the daughter of Elvis Costello's drummer.    .  As for that lead singer Z Berg her dad is a famous AR guy but Berg says fathers do not get you fans. That is why you need a residency. Ms.  Residencies are an extremely worthwhile thing to do particularly in this town. It just  it works. Its actually bizarre how much it works. I sort of did not expect it to you know be as effective as it was.  Effective in terms of building audiences and that is absolutely necessary in an age of dismal record sales. Financial success depends now on playing live and selling merchandise at shows. During this residency The Like picked up hundreds of new MySpace and Facebook fans at least according to Berg and her band-mate Tennessee Thomas. Ms.  Every week of this residency I think has been better than the last and it is been really fun. Ms.  Well having it be free as well is a bonus. Ms.  Yeah I like anything free really.  Free is key. One of the points of residencies is luring in audiences by not charging a cover. Clubs have always made most of their money off drinks and they can count on bands bringing thirsty friends. But no one I talked to in line outside knew The Like. Yasmine Katib and Freddy Janny came for one reason only. Mr.  Because it is free. Ms.  That is pretty much it not having to pay. Mr.  And it is free.  That last guy is Randall Roberts. Mr.  And I am pop music editor at the Los Angeles Times.  Roberts says that because rock residencies last for an entire month there is time for bands to build serious word of mouth.     Edward Sharp and the Magnetic Zeros here playing at an old downtown theater in a 2009 residency.    .  From week to week the residency grew more and more popular. Roberts says it became a game-changer for the band. Mr.  By week four they had fully established themselves as a Los Angeles band worth paying attention to.    Local Natives.    .  L.A. Times pop music editor Randall Roberts remembers when that once-obscure band moved from Orange County to take a month-long residency at a club called Spaceland. Mr.  By week three or four the lines were all the way down the block on Silver Lake Boulevard and it was the moment in which Local Natives it seems to me went from an Orange County band to a Los Angeles band and now in the last three or four months they have gone on to be a kind of a really buzz-worthy national band. Mr.  Monday night residencies especially at Spaceland at the beginning they did not choose bands that could draw. It was more them helping bands that did not draw because the crowds were going to be there.  Because it is a free residency says Brian Aubert the lead singer of Exhibit C a band called Silversun Pickups.    . Brian Aubert says lots of people came to theirs knowing club managers pick better-than-average bands for residencies. Silversun Pickups got paid only in drink tickets but the exposure helped them land a gig touring with a much bigger group Muse. Mr.  Maybe it did not get us signed or anything like that but it definitely gave us the confidence. This gave you an opportunity to play every week and to really kind of get a feel for playing on a regular basis.  In some ways  Jazz musicians used to set up shop in clubs for weeks. But now rock residencies lend credibility to bands like The Like.    .  Their Monday nights at the Echo helped establish bona fides for musicians who needed to prove they are more than just born-into-the-industry princesses. And after this residency people may actually pay to see them next time. Neda Ulaby NPR News. 