 As a bandleader pianist Robert Glasper started his recording career with a straightforward jazz trio - piano bass and drums. But lately he is expanded his sound to include well pretty much everything - RB hip-hop rock. You name a style you can pretty much find it on this series of albums called Black Radio.   I do not want to be I as not got to be I as not going to be and I do not even care.  Robert Glasper won a few Grammys and hordes of new fans with that sound. So you might be surprised to hear he stripped away the electronics the overdubs and singers and gone back to his acoustic trio for his new album.   This is the song I Do not Even Care from Robert Glasper's new album Covered. You may have noticed it is a new arrangement for that song we heard earlier from Black Radio. Just about all the tracks on Covered are cover songs.  My purpose was to make a trio album that everyone could understand. Most piano trio albums do not really cater to the average person per se.  They cater to people who want to listen to jazz-trio albums.  They cater to people who already listen to jazz they preach to the choir. There is so many facets so many different you know rooms in the house of jazz that you can visit. And that is what I do I visit the rooms.   So talk about how you picked the tunes you picked for this album because you have kind of a wider - a wider catalog than a lot of artists to pick from.  Yeah yeah yeah. I wanted to try to - I mean pretty much everything's in my iPod. So you know I wanted to call it iPod-shuffle it but there was some kind of - something wrong with that.  Copyright copyright.  Yeah there is a little thing called copyright. So I wanted to do a record yeah where I cover songs that I like that are not all the same necessarily. So you know I love Joni Mitchell. I wanted to do something by her. I love Radiohead. And I love hip-hop so I put on some Kendrick Lamar. And then I wanted to also do something from people that are like just my friends that I know really well and that whom I love writing. And that is why I put a  song on my album as well you know 'ecause standards only become standards because everybody plays your songs you know? That is what happened back in the day for jazz you know everybody's playing each other's songs. That is why they became standards. So I am like hey I am playing my friends' songs. And then you never know other jazz musicians may play those songs now because I played them.   One of my favorite cuts on this record is In Case You Forgot.   It is just a romp. You kind of go all out there. It is like 13 minutes long.  Yeah.  And it is an original but there are all sorts of quotations in there.   Yeah.  Am I crazy or am I hearing both Cyndi Lauper...  Totally .  ...And Bill Abraham?  What did I play there?   Cyndi Lauper - I Cannot Make You Love Me. Bonnie Ray - what else did I play?   Oh I played Wind Beneath My Wings. That is right. I forgot. I am so random when it comes to that stuff but I love Bette Midler.   My mother was a big Bette Midler fan so I have - I have a pretty very very hefty love for her - Bette Midler. I have watched Beaches more than I really want to tell you.  .  More than a man like me should.   You end the record with a couple of very powerful pieces that feature spoken word. The next to the last track features Harry Belafonte.  Yes.   Let me tell you who I am.  How did that come about?  Actually I am working with Harry for his foundation - his foundation called Sankofa - basically artists to stand up and you know make a difference which is what he is done his whole career.   I am one of the ones of color who got over. I am one of the ones your bullet missed.  So when I decided to do this record you know it just came with all the things happening in the world right now - with all the police shootings and you know turn on the TV see what happened in Charleston you know? It is just like you know I felt like we just need to hear something with some hope. Harry came from a horrible situation and made it through you know? So I was like man I am going to ask him to put a little something on here for that just to get people hope and some inspiration.   I am just like someone. I am the son. I have  color from an island of slaves who were . They found their way to America's Harlem ghetto. They found their work inside the Lord but with cunning they survived out . They made the rules and endured. I am one of the ones of color who got over.  And the way it sets up the last piece - because Harry Belafonte talks about you know he is one of the black men who survived...  Yes.  ...Who made it to old age.  Exactly exactly.  Your last piece is covering Kendrick Lamar's I am Dying Of Thirst.  Yes exactly. And I had my - I had my son and some of his friends recite the names of the victims that have been wrongfully killed.   Eric Garner Trayvon Martin.  I think I make more of a difference through my music versus talking.  I try to you know make certain points and document my time period you know through my music. That is the way to do it. All the greats did it - you know Aretha Franklin and Nina Simone Marvin Gaye you know on and on and on and on. You put on the record they are talking about the times they are in you know? And so that is how you mark history. That is how you make history.   I am.  That is Robert Glasper - his new album is called Covered. He joined me here at NPR West. And it was such a pleasure speaking with you. Thank you very much.  Thank you. Thank you so much. I appreciate it.  