 The singer Kelis is best known for her 2003 hit Milkshake.    My milkshake brings all the boys to the yard and they are like it is better than yours damn right it is better than yours. I could teach you but I have to charge...  After that song she had more misses than hits on the charts before dropping out of the music industry entirely. Now Kelis is back as a disco diva and new mom with her new album. It is called Flesh Tone. Our reviewer Jessica Hopper says it is an inspired return to music.  Amidst their well-publicized split Kelis headed back into the studio pregnant and determined to put herself back on the musical map. The result is her comeback album Flesh Tone.    You draw me in. Every time I think I am free you win. Just like a sin when I know it is wrong but still begin...  The album's disco-y sound is a departure for Kelis but what is more surprising is what is not there. It is not the messy breakup album you would expect given her situation. The closest she gets to addressing her own struggles is on Emancipate where she doles out Oprah-esque survivor aphorisms over driving house music.    Like a phoenix from the ashes...  Much of Flesh Tone is made up of love songs about the newest man in Kelis'  her son. When she sings about her baby she means it literally. On Acapella she mixes nautical and orchestral metaphors to describe how motherhood has taught her the true meaning of love.    I was walking was living my melody was acapella. There is a beat I was missing no tune or a scale I could play. No sound in the distance no orchestra playing together. Like a boat out to sea the silence was too deafening. So come and revive me I will give you my heartbest it is just me surviving alone. Before you my whole life was acapella...  This album bursts with love nowhere more so than the final track Song for the Baby a summer disco anthem composed as an open letter to her son. Listening it is not hard to imagine her swaying under a glittering disco ball her baby in her arms.    So I am writing this letter to you baby just like my mother told me. She always said say yes before you say no and say maybe...  The new album from Kelis is called Flesh Tone. Reviewer Jessica Hopper writes for the Chicago Reader. 