 When the artist Yola was a bump in her mother's belly she was already bopping to disco.  My mother used to DJ disco music.  Your mother was a disco DJ.  Yeah but in a mental institution.  Oh my goodness. That sounds like a story.  Yeah it is. She was a SEN registered nurse and like they had like hospital radio. And they played records. And she goes I have got loads of records. I will play. And so then she starts like deejaying. And it just - it chills everyone out.  Yola burst onto the American music scene in 2019 with a debut album that got her four Grammy nominations. At that point she had already spent 20 years in the music industry in her native England. She wrote songs for other bands and sang with groups like Massive Attack. Now she lives in Nashville and she is fully claiming her place in the spotlight. Yola told me that is what the title track on her new album is all about. It is called Stand For Myself.    It was easier to sing than stand for myself. It was easier to give in than stand for myself. To boil it down all I have been trying to do in my life in my musical journey is to have the right to have control over my own life. And that seems to become a controversial concept. Like what if I have autonomy? Then someone does not have the ability to control and to milk money from my skillset. And as is very common in Black lady life you can get nudged into servitude into being made to be thankful that you are given the opportunity to slay.  I was going to ask how much of this you feel is about being a Black woman.  Like loads .  Yeah.  Like loads because like what my voice does and what a lot of Black women's voices will do will be very blendable with about a gazillion genres. It is one of these things that - if you have a soul voice for example and you do not have the benefit of male privilege you can find yourself - like you are just being co-opted.  And do you now feel like you have left that behind? Do you feel like that chapter is now in your past even though this is a very collaborative album? A lot of other people worked on it with you.  Oh 100. But on this record I got to choose who. So it is the idea of having choice having consent. Like all of these things are the - what autonomy is. It is not about being alone. It is about having choice. It is taken quite a long time for people to be willing to hear a woman of color of my particular hue do that. It is been - it is taken longer than it has maybe some of my paler peers.   I love when the tune and beat almost sound like they are contradicting the message of a song. Do you know what I am talking about?  I do. You are talking about Diamond Studded Shoes right?  I am talking about Diamond Studded Shoes.  Yes.   It is like such a bop.  Right? And the message really is not.   The message really is not.    Watching and waiting for answers hoping we might see the light. You beat it into us like a hammer so do not you tell me it will be all right when we know it is not we know it is not we know it is not.  It is so subversive. Like you are just bopping along to this song when you suddenly realize what the lyrics are saying.   That was the trick. So many songs on this record you can experience on a surface level if you do not want to go deep. But sometimes you need something that is got a little bit more depth than just some you know super-cool exciting booty-shaking song. But also it is a good trick. Like if you are the kind of person that is resistant to messaging of could you just be nice to other people that are not like you - or are you resistant to like you know what we might not want to Frisbee every single last dime we have towards trillionaires? I do not know - seems crazy but it sounds like they already have enough.  .  Yeah. Like you know you might be resistant to that kind of message.  It will sneak in.  If you are bopping along...  Yeah.  ...It will sneak it into your brain whether you like your bloody well not mate.  .    Oh yeah. Oh yeah.  Let us listen to another song that is called Break The Bough.  Yes.    Silently break the bough. Fall into the deepest sleep. Dream of mangoes on the tree sugar cane and shoeless feet. Now I wrote this song or started writing this song in 2013.  Oh wow almost a decade ago.  Yes almost a decade ago. My mother died and I was distraught.  Oh I am so sorry.  And I was crying and riding my motorcycle which I might add - never ride a motorcycle to a funeral. It is not safe.   That is right.  Like so I am crying and riding and this bass line comes into my head - . And I am like this is a weird bass line to have in my head now. It is a bit party for the end of a funeral. I finally pulled up outside my house and the first verse arrived like at once.  Silently break the bough. Fall into the deepest sleep. And I am like wow.  This is a gift from your late disco-loving mother...  Yes.  ...Who upon her departure just blessed you with this.  Yeah that is basically - there you go. But it was like kind of - we also had a really tough relationship.  OK.  But like I was like well this is probably about right then - that this song starts coming down and I am referencing a lot of like her childhood in Barbados where she was born.  Oh I wondered because there are these lines about mangoes and sugarcane. Yeah.  Yeah. So she used to scrub mangoes. She is like - go back home from school. She would take a route by everyone that had a mango tree in their garden and she would be like I am having that. Thank you very much. And so she was a full-on like robber of mangoes and at the very kind of - the most idyllic part of her life. She was - had a backpack full of mangoes and sugar cane. And she would taken her school shoes off and she was about to go play cricket and then eat the spoils afterwards. That was the joy moment of my mother. So in her death I imagined she was back in this idyll. And that is kind of what it is. It is a kind of a send-off of a song you know?    See with eyes unclouded. Feel with arms unbound. You are free to fly. You are free my love my heart. You are free oh.  Well Yola it is been so wonderful talking with you and I love this music. Thank you for the conversation.  Oh thank you so much for having me. It is been an utter joy.  Her new album is Stand For Myself.    Now I do not know what I have lost and I do not know what I miss. I have lived without your love for so long. 