 NPR's Elizabeth Blair has this appreciation.  Honeyboy Edwards was born in 1915. He grew up in segregated Mississippi during Jim Crow. His dad was a sharecropper but the young Edwards did not work in the fields.    When I first I heard the  rode that bus from town to town.  He figured out he could make more money by playing music on the weekends. But back then a black man would be thrown in jail if he was caught not working during the day. In 2008 Honeyboy Edwards told NPR's Andrea Seabrook that he just did not go out until evening.  I did not come out until 5 00 in the evening. That is when everybody was coming out of the fields they do not know whether I been in the field or not.  What'd you do all day?  Sleep all day. Sleep cook and eat stay in the house. That sun is hot anyway. I as not out there.  So Edwards left the hot sun and tried to make a living on the road. He was a teenager when he learned from and played with older musicians who have become legends - Son House and Robert Johnson. Tom Piazza author of Devil Sent the Rain says they were the pioneers of the Delta blues a style that influenced everyone from the Rolling Stones to Bob Dylan.  The Delta blues is some of the strongest and most concentrated blues that you can find and you know life in the Mississippi Delta during the time that musical form was coming up was about as tough as you can get. And Honeyboy was probably the last living link that we have to that era.  Honeyboy Edwards made his first recording in 1942 when musicologist Alan Lomax went to Clarksdale Mississippi and recorded him for the Library of Congress.     since you went away how much I am gonna worry all night and day. But someday baby as not gonna worry my life anymore.  Edwards made a few commercial recordings in the 1950s but mostly he made a living playing in small clubs in Chicago where he eventually settled. In his memoir The World Do not Owe Me Nothing Honeyboy Edwards said he would been hustling all his life and by the 1960s he was tired. So he got jobs working construction to support his family. He got back into music in the 1970s when he met musician Michael Frank who recorded Edwards.     be just like Jesse James.  The raw simplicity of country blues is what Honeyboy Edwards said he always liked. When he was 92 years old he told Dan Bindert of WBEZ in Chicago less is more.  You do not have to play a whole lot of guitar to be a good blues player. Some people plays too much guitar.  Too many notes?  Yeah. Stack them on top of each other where it do not - you do not allow it to cook. You are working too fast. Blues not supposed to be played fast. Blues supposed to be played slow.  You could kill a man said Honeyboy Edwards with just one chord. Elizabeth Blair NPR News. 