 From The Nightmare Before Christmas to Edward Scissorhands to Beetlejuice name your favorite. It is impossible to imagine the magic of Tim Burton without the music of Danny Elfman.   Now those fantastic scores are taking on a life outside of the movie theater. Danny Elfman's Music From The Films Of Tim Burton opens the Lincoln Center Festival in New York City on Monday. It is a concert 30 years in the making. Elfman says it began with Pee-Wee's Big Adventure. That is when he and Burton first met.  There was instant chemistry in terms of like what we were into. We had a lot of common roots. I mean we both grew up as horror movie kids. And I went home from that meeting and I had a piece of music in my head from watching some scenes. I had a four-track tape player and I went and recorded a demo and sent the two of them on a cassette. And that was it.   Elfman says Tim Burton called back and offered him the job to score the film. That is how it all started.  In the beginning and over the years of working together considering that it is been 16 films we have talked very little about any of them. Tim does not like to analyze his films. Tim's never been that way. And so we usually will see a film. He will tell me how he feels a little bit about this character or that character and we do not really communicate until I have music to play.   In Beetlejuice when I first saw it the opening scene for the credits was an anomaly to the rest of the film. It was this smooth gliding sequence over these miniatures. And I do not know who - someone mentioned music that would kind of soar and glide along with this camera. And I thought oh boy I am going to get in trouble on this but my instincts were telling me launch right into exactly where we are going to be in 45 minutes because there was a pacing to the film that was odd in Beetlejuice. And you did not really know what you were in for until Beetlejuice appears which is not for a while.    Betelgeuse Betelgeuse Betelgeuse.   It is showtime.  I wrote this crazy piece that I thought - well this clearly tells us where we are going to be by the end of the film. I expected it to get tossed out but Tim heard it and he did not fortunately.   After Pee-Wee's Big Adventure Tim always brought me onto the set. And so Beetlejuice - I was on set. And on Batman he brought me out to England. I walked through the Gotham City set and the editor showed me an assembly of what they had. It was enough to really give me a sense of what the movie was.    Do not kill me man.   I am not going to kill you. I want you to do me a favor. I want you to tell all your friends about me.   What are you?   I am Batman.  And then it hit me on a 747 coming home from England. What I began doing was getting up from my seat 'ecause I had a little tape recorder. I have a tape recorder with me constantly. And I basically start singing parts. You know one part then another then another then another. And in this case I was running in the bathroom over and over again with these ideas of like the French horns of the strings of the rhythm. And it got to a point where every time I opened the door to the bathroom - first there was one then two then three flight attendants standing there going sir can we help you? Oh no no I am fine. I am fine. And then 10 minutes later I am right back in there again. The plane lands. I got home and I was sweating. I got down to my studio. I ran straight down and pulled out my cassette and I had about 20 minutes of notes. And at first they were not making any sense because all I was hearing was a lot of airplane noise and me trying to like mumble. And then it all - the first second third parts all suddenly clicked together.   You know when I hear it again it always brings me back to the process. So when I hear the score to Batman I am aware of what an arduous process that was because you know it was - a lot of personalities on that project did not want me on the project. And I really had to prove myself because I had never done a big film. On Edward Scissorhands it was the opposite. Nobody seemed to even be aware that we were doing music for it. It was a small film. It was really under the radar. And so it was really pleasant.    What did I do with my scissors? Edward would you -    Thank you.  You know to Tim - I have never heard him say anything more complementary about his own work than I think it came out OK. Pretty interesting maybe was about the highest self-compliment I have ever heard him give himself. And I think I am pretty similar with my music. I sometimes feel - and I certainly did with Edward Scissorhands - that it came out OK. It is kind of interesting.   I grew up feeling that I was from another planet. And I get the feeling that Tim also grew up similarly. And things that he finds normal and that other people might think oh that is so weird I am also likely just to find oh yeah that is - that is normal. The worlds he created did not seem that weird to me. It just seemed like OK yeah.   Composer Danny Elfman. Danny Elfman's Music From The Films Of Tim Burton opens Monday at Avery Fisher Hall in New York. Our piece was produced Daniel Hajek. 