 Recently we had some special guests here at NPR headquarters.    Today in honor of Sesame Street's 50th birthday we are doing a concert. Oh I am very excited.  That is Count von Count from Sesame Street. He came to our offices in D.C. to perform a Tiny Desk Concert for NPR Music along with Elmo Grover Big Bird and more. They did the classics like Sing.    Sing. Sing a song. Make it simple to last your whole life long.  I wanted to learn more about what goes into writing these melodies and lessons today so I sat down with some of the people behind the songs - Dr. Rosemarie Truglio senior vice president of curriculum and content and Bill Sherman the music director at Sesame Street. I started by asking Sherman about classic songs like Sing.   .  When you think of Sesame Street you think of Being Green and People In Your Neighborhood and Sing and those songs that really made the show iconic. And so at least as the current music director you are forever trying to get as close to that as you ever possibly can.  And Rosemarie can you talk about like the educational component of the songs back then? I mean they did do kind of curriculum-type work right? They did sit down with educators. But even back then I kind of think of a song like Sing or Being Green as just kind of like nice songs.  Well but think about the lyrics in Sing. It is about the importance of music in your life and that you make music with your voice. And it is about confidence right?   Sing out strong.  So sing a song and be proud of how you are singing. Do not worry about how your voice sounds. And that is a really important message especially for parents because we want parents to sing to their children talk to their children read to their children because we want them to learn words.  Bill Sherman I think when we think of that classic music it also was in line with the period in a way right? Like people were listening to folk rock music on the radio.  For sure.  And so even though we think of it as old-fashioned that was like the music of the moment.  And I think that is what Sesame Street - I like to pat myself on the back and say has done successfully is sort of at least sonically changed with the times. So I think you know we sort of defined ourselves in the early days by that what you call old-school or vaudevillian - like that sort of oompa oompa oompa  music of you know C Is For Cookie.    C is for cookie. That is good enough for me.  And since then you know and in through the '70s and through the '80s songs like Pinball Number Count you know  one two three four five six seven eight...    Six seven eight nine 10 11 12.  ...Was around during the Pointer Sisters era.  I love that song so I just dated myself.   It is OK. We all when we talk about Sesame Street date ourselves at one point or another. So yeah. And then when I took over the job some 10 years ago I wanted to keep doing that and keep pushing it further. I play all the songs that I write for my children and they are two girls aged 6 and 8 Maya  and Luna . And Maya and Luna are the best litmus tests for what is pop music and what is cool today because they whenever they are driving anywhere are listening to the you know the Top 40 stations. And so if they do not like my song within the first 10 seconds I throw it away and start again...  Wow.  ...Because their ears are so in-tune to that kind of music. And I think Rosemarie would tell you that our biggest thing is about making sure at least from the song standpoint that the kids can remember what we are trying to teach.  I want to walk through the process of writing one of these modern songs. And we are going to do it with a song called Check That Shape.    There on the floor is a shape moving towards me. What is the shape? Tell me please. Oh what can it be?  Can you talk about the season's educational goal? So the year you were writing this like what was kind of the educational component you were going for?  In this particular case we are calling out shapes which are geometric forms. And so a shape gets a shape based on its attributes. So the song is going to call out the number of sides and the number of angles.  All right. So we are going to hear this song performed by pop star Nick Jonas.    One two three four and five sides you can count on. A five-sided shape - well you know it is a pentagon. Pentagon pentagon - yeah. Pentagon pentagon. Oh.  Pentagon.   So first of all this song was kind of sexy in a way that worried me. Can you talk about how the music team picks it up from the educational part right? How do you then sit down and say OK let us figure this out?  So Rosemarie and her team of highly qualified educators send me lyrics that have been you know vetted and approved and thought through. If you can imagine what this is like on a piece of paper it says you know pentagon pentagon pentagon a five-sided shape. Well you know it is a pentagon.  .  So I was like OK. And then at that point we had booked Nick Jonas. And his voice is so specific and he is so smooth. And all of his songs are sort of about relationships. And so I made it - like what you call sexy to me is just like he is enamored with the shapes. He loves the shapes.    Check those shapes.  Rosemarie can you suggest a song that you love one that you just thought oh wow you guys nailed it?  Count Me In.    Count me in. Count me in.  Can you tell me about it?  It is about diversity and it is about inclusivity. It is about showing that we are all unique but yet we are all the same. And I think that is where the beauty comes in in that song.    Count me in. There is light and dark and freckled lots of different kinds of skin. Some folks like to sit real quiet. Others like to dance and spin.  And that is something that is really important on Sesame Street because we want all children to see themselves on Sesame Street.  And Bill Sherman for you what is a favorite?  The first song I ever wrote for Sesame Street was called What I Am. It was just like this song that we wrote with Will.i.am.  WILL.I.  There is only one me I am it. Have a dream I will follow it. It is up to me to try.  And it was about you know I am special I am this I am that. And it was just - it is one of the songs that people ask me about most of all and I am pretty proud of that. So that is cool.  What I Am - nice.  WILL.I.  And what I am is thoughtful. And what I am is musical. And what I am is smart. And what I am is brave. And what I am...  At the end of the day you guys are joining a long legacy right? What is it like to have that responsibility? I mean some of the things you inject into little minds - right? - can stay with them for a very long time.  It is a big responsibility because we take it very seriously. Our mission on Sesame Street is to create content to help kids grow smarter stronger and kinder. So it is a huge responsibility because we want to make sure that we then assess later and we see learning impact.  And Bill for you?  I personally think what we are doing is unbelievably important and we all know that. So it is an honor to be part of it and you know maybe for 50 more years.  Well Bill Sherman and Rosemarie Truglio thank you so much for explaining this all to us. This was great.  No problem.  Great. Thank you.  Thank you.   Music maestro.  And you can see the full Tiny Desk Concert at npr.org.   If what I am is what is in me then I will stay strong. That is who I will be.   And I will always be the best me that I can be. 