 Finally this hour take a guess. What year was this song released?  Ms.   I unpacked my chest for you. Do everything that you want me to. Cannot believe I gave you all my love. What in the world was I thinking of? I just...  1967 maybe? 1971? Well how about 2010? This song is from the latest album by Leela James. She is a singer whose heart is in a bygone era of American music. As NPR's Elizabeth Blair reports it is not so easy to be an old soul in a hip-hop world.  Leela James even looks like she belongs in another decade. Ms.  She looks like she will be dancing on Soul Train in 1975.   Stephanie Williams music director of the Tom Joyner Morning Show is talking about the cover of Leela James' latest CD. James has these white over-the-knee boots on and her hair is huge - bigger than Chaka Khan's ever was.  Ms.   Why are you stressing? Why are you worrying about it? When there is a will there is a way out around it. If you cannot change it just forget all about it. Let it roll. Yeah.  Leela James sounds like the kind of singers Stephanie Williams used to see in smoky clubs in Memphis when she was growing up. Ms.  Her voice has this wisdom to it. It is like her voice has lived a life that she has yet to live you know?  Ms.   Just let it roll and let it roll. Let it roll. Just let it roll.  This kind of neo-soul is not exactly the stuff radio hits are made of these days. So support from the Tom Joyner Morning Show was a major boost to Leela James' career. Tom Joyner reaches about 8 million people daily. And it is an older crowd. Stephanie Williams says their urban AC or adult contemporary format is right for artists like James. Ms.  They have to come over to the grown folks' side a lot of times to the urban AC side where they can get the exposure you know that they need. And grown people can listen to grown people's music without you know the hip-hop and the things we have out there right now...  Ms.  ...on our kids' iPods.  Leela James says most of the rest of the people in the music business have not known what to do with her. In 2005 she was signed to Warner Bros. a major label. It started out well. Her first CD was a tribute to some of the soul stars of the 1960s and '70s. In her song Music she names some of her heroes. Aretha Chaka Gladys.  Ms.   Somebody playing on the guitar strings makes me think of my favorite songs. Mmm. It reminds me of when I heard Aretha sang Gladys Tina and Chaka Khan. Mmm. We cannot go back to yesterday. But cannot we just put the thongs away?  We cannot go back to yesterday but cannot we just put the thongs away? Leela James. Ms.  You do not have to be butt-naked in your videos or whatever to sell your soul to sell the record.  For other artists being on a major label would have been a triumph. But for James it did not turn out that way. Ms.  They did not really know what to do with me you know? I am a soul singer a black artist. And Warner really was not known for that type of music.  Leela James' new CD is on Stax a smaller label that was once home to such soul icons as The Staple Singers and Otis Redding. Ms.  And Stax being that it is a legendary soul label the whole process of recording the album in itself was like smooth sailing. They get it. They get - I mean that is - they get a soul voice.  Ms.   ...all night long. 'ecause when you leave me babe I am thinkin' 'bout you always. I am ashamed to say how much I want you to stay.  Stax has been pretty much dormant since the early 1980s until the Concord Music Group bought the label in 2004 and relaunched it. A spokesperson for the company said they would like to help artists develop their careers rather than chase hit-driven radio formats. But Leela James says she would be just fine with a radio hit. And here's another challenge for a soul artist in the 21 It is hard to top those great songs from the 1960s and '70s. Ms.  You take a Al Green record like - or something by Marvin Gaye when you hear those timeless records there is not too much that can compare to that kind of stuff.  So Leela James does not mind doing covers of those songs in her concerts. No doubt she will do some tonight when she performs at the Tom Joyner Family Reunion in Orlando. Elizabeth Blair NPR News.  Ms.   It is been a long a long time comin' but I I know a change gonna come.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 