 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  Ashford died yesterday at the age of 70. NPR's Neda Ulaby has this remembrance.  Nick Ashford and Valerie Simpson wrote this hit for Marvin Gaye and Tammi Terrell.   And this hit for Diana Ross.   And this hit for themselves.   Believe it or not Nick Ashford told NPR five years ago he never expected that song to get big.  Tell you I was shocked or surprised when Solid became a hit. I was not sure that was - I loved the song but I did not think it would rise to the heights it rose. It was just interesting to me. And now it is like our...  Like ours.  We cannot leave the stage before we sing that you know.   Ashford with Valerie Simpson. When they met at a Harlem church she was a 17-year-old music student and he was a down-on-his-luck dancer the son of a construction worker from Michigan. Their first big hit began as a joke when they started working with a major music publisher.  And then we came into his office one day and he said you guys got a song for us? And we said oh yeah we wrote this great song. But it was a song we went out the door singing when we could not write any songs. We were saying oh let us go get stoned. And we would say oh let us go get stoned.   The song became a hit for Ray Charles who was then fresh from rehab.   The song got the attention of Motown where the two became star staff writers for the likes of Smokey Robinson and Aretha Franklin. Over the course of their entire career generally speaking Valerie Simpson wrote the music Nick Ashford wrote the lyrics.   You could argue that he wrote one of the most important and meaningful feminist pop anthems of all time.  Music scholar Jason King says after the two left Motown they wrote this 1978 hit for Chaka Khan.   And on a dime Ashford and Simpson could turn around and express a man's experience in a song like Is It Still Good to You with Teddy Pendergrass.   It is all about intimacy in a relationship and what happens when it starts disappearing and it is all about a man's fears about that disappeared intimacy. So it is a very touchy subject matter but it is dealt with with incredible lyrical sophistication.  Jason King says as a lyricist Nick Ashford was a master of economical storytelling. He would use just a few words to convey a huge powerful story in a four-minute song.  Which is not easy to do. There is characters presented there is drama there is suspense there is tension there is conflict. And that is his lyrical skill.  Neda Ulaby NPR News. 