 If you are just joining us this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR West. I am Arun Rath. World music DJ Betto Arcos is back with a stack of music he is been calling In Brass We Trust. Now Betto you have told me this band is called Slavic Soul Party. But so far this does not really sound like a party that I would want to hang out at.  Oh just wait a couple of minutes. And this thing starts to build and build. This is Slavic Soul Party.   There we go. That sounds like a party now.  This is an amazing band. They are based in Brooklyn New York. But their style is after the sound of the brass bands from the Balkans. As you can hear now it is an explosion of brass instruments.  Now I do not know a lot about this. But there is a great tradition of Balkan brass bands.  Absolutely. In fact there is even a film actually called Grasslands that documents all of the brass bands that come into this area of Serbia the town of Guca where they come every year to participate in a big sort of festival competition of brass bands from around the world. And this is one of these bands. Slavic Soul Party again from New York. So you have of course a mix of what New York is. Not just the Balkan sound but the funk the soul the RB. All of the stuff that makes great music just exciting.   Once again that is the band Slavic Soul Party with a track called Brasslands. Betto what next?  Next a band from Romania where there is also a big tradition of brass bands and Gypsy music Roma music. This is from a band called Fanfare Ciocarlia accompanied on guitar by a jazz musician from Canada. And they do something really interesting. Let us take a listen.   It is definitely got a kind of a Gypsy Roma dance feel to it.  That is right. It is sort of a swing tune because as you can hear you have a guitarist who plays sort of like a Django Reinhardt type of guitar the manush guiar. But he is playing it with this brass band. So it is like a big contrast between the two 'ecause he is got a little instrument so to speak and then the loudness of the swing music of the brass band that is playing with him.  So is this traditional? Or are they coming up with their own kind of thing mixing different traditions?  They play all kind of different music. But this is not a typical music that they play. They play a lot more sort of Gypsy-influenced type of music Roma music if you will. But here they - you know in order for this to work they had to kind of adapt their sound to the guitarist because it is after all a collaboration.  And you mentioned Django Reinhart the great Gypsy guitarist. And you can definitely have some of that feeling in this part.   That is music from Adrian Raso and Fanfare Ciocarlia. I am speaking with Betto Arcos. He hosts Global Village at KPFK here in Los Angeles. So our theme is brass band music. You have got an outfit called BRM. And I will let you say this.  This is a band from Oaxaca Mexico from the mountains. It is called Banda Regional Mixe which is sort of the acronym for BRM regional Mixe band if you will.   I have never been to Oaxaca. But I feel like a real sense of place in this music.  Absolutely. Oaxaca has one of the greatest traditions of brass bands anywhere. There must be anywhere between 400 to 500 brass bands in the state of Oaxaca. This is one of them. And it came to the attention of a lot more people because of an American musician named Steven Brown who many years ago was the head of the band of Tuxedomoon from San Francisco. He moved to Oaxaca 15 years ago and began to make connections with musicians there. And then he wanted to do something with a particular 'ecause he felt that they were so special. He plays with his band as well. This is a 16 piece brass band. And they sing in their native language Mixe one of 16 languages spoken in Oaxaca.  And what is he singing about here? What is the song about?  This song is all about keeping the tradition alive and they are.   This is an outfit that called BRM. And so I do not butcher it Betto can you...  Absolutely. It is called Banda Regional Mixe which translates as regional Mixe band or - Mixe is an ethnic group from Oaxaca.  Betto we have time for more. What have you got?  This next one is a really interesting mix. This is a project called the La Internacional Sonora Balkanera. Mainly one DJ producer who brings together all of these musicians from Mexico City. And they create something completely new influenced by the music of the Balkans. But in this case we are going to hear the sound of the northwestern part of Mexico the brass sound that you here in Los Angeles a lot.   This is the kind of music that gives you happy feet.  Absolutely yeah. This is club music. This is dance music. This is the kind of stuff that you know over the last five years it is taken off in Mexico. There is great interest. And bands have come up with this sort of Balkan music meets Mexican music sound.  Betto say the name of the band for me one more time.  La Internacional Sonora Balkanera which would translated as something like the international Balkan-sounding band.  That is Betto Arcos. He is the host of Global Village on KPFK here in Los Angeles. Betto it is always a pleasure.  Great to be with you.   And for Saturday that is ALL PR West. I am Arun Rath. 