 Now a very different kind of success at last for Broadway. In March The Book of Mormon a profane and painfully funny musical opened to rave reviews and sold-out houses. In June it won nine Tony Awards and the show is cast album has done something that has not happened in over 40 years. It hit the top ten in Billboard magazine's pop charts. Jeff Lunden has this mini-history.  Once upon a time original cast recordings were popular - really really popular.   Author and theater critic Peter Filichia.  For a while there My Fair Lady was the biggest-selling record of all time. I do not mean in the show category I mean of all time.  And even into the rock and roll era shows like Hello Dolly! and Funny Girl could be one and two on the Billboard pop charts. But tastes changed.    Oh yeah I tell you something I think you will understand...  So it came as a big surprise when the original cast album of The Book of Mormon showed up last June at number three right behind Adele and Lady Gaga says Keith Caulfield Billboard magazine's associate director of charts.  And it was the first time a cast album had been in the top 10 since 1969 when the cast recording of Hair was number one for 13 weeks.   Hair of course was a rock musical in rock's heyday but that might not be the only reason for that album's popularity says Peter Filichia.  The album cover did mention that it was unexpurgated so that certainly appealed to the baby boomers as well that we would be getting it raw.  Hair used some words which had not been heard in Broadway musicals before and The Book of Mormon takes that one or two or three steps further even if the words are set to almost old-fashioned theater music. Trey Parker one of the creators of the show and of the highly successful TV series South Park says they tread the line between profane and sweet.  Obviously anyone can go out there and go  whatever. And like it is not gonna do anything unless at the root of it there is this heart and this soul.   We have had no rain in several days. Hasa Diga Eebowai. And 80 percent of us have AIDS. Hasa Diga Eebowai. Many young girls here get circumcised. Their - get cut right off. And so we say up to the sky Hasa Diga Eebowai.  The album's sold over 150000 copies making it both the best-selling cast recording of the year and the most downloaded cast album ever. But Keith Caulfield at Billboard says it is gonna have to stick around a while to catch up with some of the all-time leaders.  You can see a lot of success from certain kinds of albums that have stood the test of time from you know Les Miserables to Phantom of the Opera to Rent. You know all those albums have sold hundreds and thousands and millions of copies in the U.S. So will we see that with The Book of Mormon? I do not know.  Caulfield says the album's been selling 2 or 3000 units a week just behind Wicked. For NPR News I am Jeff Lunden in New York.   I believe! A Mormon just believes. I believe! 