 If you have been listening to American pop radio in the past I do not know five months you have heard this song.    Enrique Iglesias.  Bailando and Spanish singer Enrique Iglesias debuted at number one in the Latin streaming charts. Before long Iglesias released a Spanglish version of the song. And that broke into the America pop charts. Twenty-one weeks later it is holding steady at number 15.    You look at me girl you take me to another place.  Gary Trust is Billboard's Associate Director of ChartsRadio.  Enrique himself told Billboard that even he thinks there is something - and the word he used was addictive - about this song. It is romantic. It is sensual. There is - I think addictive is actually a perfect to use for how the song totally comes together.  Of course Spanglish crossover is not new. It just does not happen very often.  They happen occasionally. Shakira has had some crossover hits with La Tortura back in 2005.    Ay amor - fue una tortura. Perderte.  La Bamba back in 1987 and that of course was Ritchie Valens.    Para bailar La Bamba se necessita una poca de gracia - una poca de gracia.  Decades before that - Macarena - 1996. As much as people might chuckle that song now - it was a number-one hit on the Billboard Hot 100 chart for 14 weeks.   Bailando crept into American markets last February by way of Latin radio stations in Miami. It got a ton of air time and it scored high on Shazam and iTunes. So Republic Records guessed that Bailando would survive the leap from the Latin market to the American market. But they added a rap by Sean Paul just to be safe.    Baby girl you are the bomb bomb the drop drop killing it with the one drop. The way you move girl let me heart beat want stop.  Bailando has rocked other Latino hubs like New York and Los Angeles. It is even taken hold in the Midwest.  For it to be working there again is another sign that the song really does not seem to have any boundaries at this point.  Of course you have to wonder if Bailando is just the latest Macarena or Rico Suave. Meaning will it be another one to six years before the next Spanglish crossover? Have things really changed? Gary Trust thinks they have.  The Latin American audience is rising. And yeah I would think as that audience grows it would make perfect sense that music targeted to that audience would cross over as well.  Today a quarter of this country's youth is Latino. Even now the market is so diverse Latino artists do not have to pick just one language - or even two. There are actually four versions of Bailando out there including a couple in Portuguese.    I want to be contigo. And live contigo. And dance contigo.  But hang on a second Enrique Iglesias - he is been on the scene for almost 20 years. How is he getting the whole nation dancing? Gary Trust says never underestimate Enrique.  I do not think it is even that surprising that Enrique is having a hit now this big 15 years into his career. The guy never ages. Apparently he must age. But he does not look like he is aged. That must be a wonderful thing to have that trait.  This week the Spanglish Bailando is number 15 Billboard's Hot 100.    I need your love. I need you closer.   Because me need it baby girl.   Keep me begging keep me hoping that the night do not stop.   Rock that body 'ecause we dont stop party. 