 Now a story about some performers who might someday be on television. For now they are still working that legacy medium known as live. They are in the national a cappella competition in California. It is called the Harmony Sweepstakes and it is been drawing vocal groups from around the country for 25 years. April Dembosky of member station KALW checked it out.  The smell of hairspray wafts from the backstage dressing rooms as 2000 people settle into their seats in the sold-out auditorium. Before the lightbulb-lined mirrors the four young women of the San Jose Love Notes primp and curl.   She is not single she is engaged.  The group's lead singer 18-year-old Mia Dessenberger says audiences are surprised to see such a young all-female barbershop quartet. Ms.  People think of the men in pinstripe suits with cute little hats singing like Goodnight Sweetheart all the time.  But these singers in tight dresses woo audiences with their complex harmonies and unconventional song choices.    Is this the real life? Is this just fantasy?  A cappella has a discreet following mostly around better-known groups like Take 6 or The Bobs. Amy Englehardt sings with that group. Including hers she counts the vocal bands that have record deals on one hand. Ms.  A cappella is still kind of considered a niche or a novelty thing.  For most groups a cappella is an after-work hobby.    Now you can  through St. Louis. We are shopping in Missouri.  Musicians write their own arrangements of popular songs.    Time's up over bloah snap back to reality oh there goes gravity.  Singers meet once or twice a week to rehearse. They earn some extra cash performing at parties or corporate gigs and selling CDs on their Web sites.     But for any group that takes themselves even half seriously the Harmony Sweepstakes is the Holy Grail. Mr.  It is the Super Bowl of a cappella.  That is Tim.  AKA Mr. Tim  Jones from the Denver Mouth Beats. Mr.  In a cappella people are geeks  And that is his band mate Matt Murphy. These guys do not sing lyrics. They create rhythms by contorting their lips and flicking their noses like thumb pianos.   Today's singers use the human voice to imitate a range of instruments. Mr.  If I wanted to sound like an electric guitar you kind of stick your lips out and buzz by your teeth and put a lot of spit and you go   Things they do with their mouths sound like a band.   Yeah.  Molly Plummer is the tenor in Maxx Factor one of eight national finalists in the Harmony Sweepstakes. Ms.  We feel like we are so out of our element. We are so in awe of these people they are so good.  The four women in this barbershop quartet from suburban Baltimore sport matching French manicures and red pedicures. The silver sequins on their shoes sparkle under the stage lights.    When you reach upon a star makes no difference who you are  They volunteered to perform first at the sweepstakes mostly so they could watch and learn from the other groups. But the judges saw things the other way around.  And the 2009 Harmony Sweepstakes a cappella festival national championship winner is Maxx Factor.   Come on out ladies.  It was Maxx Factor's first trip to the west coast. Perhaps their second will be to Hollywood this summer to audition for NBC's The Sing Off. For NPR News I am April Dembosky.    Come fly with me let us fly let us fly away up and away. If you can use some exotic booze there is a bar in far Bombay. Come fly with me let us fly let us fly away let us get away. Come fly with me let us float down to Peru. In llama land there is a one-man band and he will toot his flute for you. Come fly with me let us take off in the blue out in the blue. Once I get you up there where the air is rarefied.  ALL THINGS CONSIDERED is a production of NPR News which is solely responsible for its content. You can listen to any story from today's program or previous programs at our Web site npr.org. Just click on Archives. Find out about the music and artists you hear on NPR and discover new music by visiting npr.orgmusic. This is NPR. 