 We have reached that point in August where the heat has everyone moving a bit more slowly. Sometimes all it takes to snap out of this late summer funk is the sound of a new and electrifying voice.   That is 22-year-old British singer and songwriter Lianne La Havas. Her debut Is Your Love Big Enough? was well-received in the U.K. and it arrived here yesterday. Tom Moon has our review.   The first thing that grabbed me about Lianne La Havas was this curious moment halfway through a song called Lost and Found on her debut. The music has been moving at a stately confessional pace. She is sharing a lot maybe too much about being hurt by a lover then the tempo sort of falls away and she begins this lovely improvisation.   The interlude only lasts about 10 seconds and that is all the time Lianne La Havas needs to establish her identity to make it clear that she is not another cookie-cutter diva singing whatever is put in front of her.   Lots of her songs have clever twists in them. The very next tune on the album transforms an overused idea about self-conscious lovers as actors in a movie into something fresh and wondrous.   There are lots of different moods on this album. Just when you are appreciating the sly low-key Nina Simone dimension of her work Lianne La Havas turns around and belts like a TV talent show contestant except her material is much more substantial her melodies more arresting.   Lately more than a few female artists have been exploring this general terrain setting deep introspective lyrics to music that has elements of pop and RB. What sets Lianne La Havas apart are the emotional extremes within her songs. The album has perhaps too many songs about heartbreak but each one resonates differently - on the best she sounds almost shattered. And watch out when she rebounds because when she wants to this woman can be positively fierce.   Tom Moon reviewing the debut album from Lianne La Havas Is Your Love Big Enough? And you can hear the entire album at nprmusic.org.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 