 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. It is a tense time for many Americans living and traveling in the Middle East. Anti-American protests over a video insulting Islam turned violent in many countries including Egypt. But that is not stopping all travelers especially one group with a musical agenda. Kimberly Adams reports from Cairo on the Black Lips an American punk band on tour in the region.  It is really nice to be in Cairo. This is our first time ever in Egypt. It is awesome to be here.  Yeah thank you all for coming. Thank you.  The four members of Atlanta band the Black Lips were supposed to tour the Middle East last year but the wave of Arab Spring protests forced them to change plans. And yet even with the simmering anti-Americanism persisting through the region singer-guitarist Ian St. Pe is determined to see this through. Cairo is the band's second stop. IAN ST.  It is kind of wild coming over here at this time with all this stuff that is going on in the region. And I just want to say hey do not hate us because one person did something.  The crowd at this culture center known more for folk music and poetry readings is a mix of Egyptians European and American expats even some families with small children. Some of them climbed up on the side of the stage to watch. Many admit not knowing much about the Black Lips saying they came for the local openings acts - rock groups called Zero-50 and Faking It.   Twenty-year-old Ghada Ali says she supports the demonstrators outside the U.S. Embassy earlier this month. But Ali who wears the hijab does not see any problem with coming to an American rock concert.   When I go here it will not affect my attendance at the embassy. Some people would say that if I totally boycotted the United States I should not go to the concert but I do not see it that way.  Drummer Joe Bradley says the band is trying to keep politics out of their tour.  We want to share music and we want to learn as much from the cultures that we experience as hopefully they can learn from us. But hopefully the music will get them moving.  This is Ian. We got that rock and roll back beat. I think of the one - they might not even really know rock and roll but it makes your big toe shoot up in your boot and makes your hips go back and forth. I think they will enjoy it all.   The crowd of more than 250 seems to enjoy the show with dozens dancing in a tight group pressing close to the stage - men and women in the mixed group still keeping a respectful distance. Security is now tighter than normal. A basic metal detector and the no-smoking and no-drinking rules keep the rock concert pretty calm with some help from the band.  Hey watch your language.  The group acknowledges they sometimes tone down their shows for more conservative audiences. They learned a tough lesson in India in 2009 when nudity and same-sex kissing onstage cut short their tour and sped their exit from the country.   Twenty-three-year-old Ibrahim Abdul-Wahab has a big smile on his face after the concert.  They were especially double awesome. They were active with the people with the audience. I felt so high in the show I lost myself completely. It was mind-blowing yeah.  Abdul-Wahab hopes more American bands tour Egypt which he says sorely lacks in the rock department. Backstage Black Lips members Cole Alexander and Ian St. Pe sweaty after the show and perched atop a giant speaker say they want that too and hope a documentary being made about their trek through the region will help.  You have to build a circuit you know like when the Berlin Wall fell and the Iron Curtain was rolled back like some punk bands started touring Eastern Europe and they had to kind of like make connections and then share the connections with other people. So yeah we are going to try to pass on some of the information that we have.  The other American bands hopefully will want to come over here after they maybe see our documentary or something and it would be kind of cool. There is no reason why the world cannot be ours.  After Egypt the Black Lips head to Lebanon Iraq and the United Arab Emirates. For NPR News I am Kimberly Adams in Cairo. 