  This summer we are traveling across the globe in our quest for the perfect summer soundtrack. And this week we are heading to the Middle East. When it comes to summer in the Arab world no city does it better than Beirut. It is often called the Paris of the Middle East - for its style its cuisine and its fashionable nightlife along the Mediterranean.     Beirut is home to some of the biggest Arab pop stars but it is also home to a thriving independent music scene. And Ziad Nawfal brings those underground artists to audiences every week. He is a DJ with Radio Lebanon. He is a staple of the city's nightlife. He joins us now from Beirut to tell us about his pick for our series called The Spin. Ziad welcome to the program. Mr. ZIAD Lebanon Hello hi.  So tell me about the song that you have chosen for the series. Mr.  I have chosen a song called Embembelelah.  MASHROU'   Mr.  Which is a very strange name for a song but that is because originally it is a nursery rhyme that parents sing to their children here in Beirut. And it is sung by a young rock band called Mashrou' Leila.  Even the name sounds so lyrical. Embembelelah is that right? Mr.  Absolutely. With an H sound at the end. Embembelelah.  MASHROU'    It is a nursery rhyme. But as we listen it sounds like it could almost be a club song also. Mr.  Absolutely. They have added some sort of very harsh drumbeats on top of it which is kind of their intent. They wanted to turn this nursery rhyme around and turn it into some sort of satirical comment on materialistic tendencies in Lebanon how people are driven by greed by money - how a nursery rhyme using the same words can be turned into something quite dark and brooding rather than soothing and lyrical.  MASHROU'    You know that effect is so interesting because it is a nursery rhyme  Ssshhh be quiet. Mr.  Yeah that was his intent originally.  MASHROU'    Tell me more about the band. Mr.  The band is composed of six boys and one girl and they are all pretty young. A couple of years ago there was a musical workshop being held at the American University in Beirut and these kids basically joined and they clicked. And they decided to turn it into something more than a one-night project. The band is called Mashrou' Leila  one-night project. And so they decided - they kept the name Mashrou' Leila one-night project and they were off.   Describe for me a perfect summer day and evening in Beirut. Mr.  The thing is about Beirut in the summer because the beaches are so hectically and frantically busy what I prefer to do and what I recommend to anyone who was coming to spend some summer days here in Beirut is to actually drive along the coast and pick a cafe pick a small strip of beach that is not necessarily crowded sit there maybe have some lunch some fish. Eventually you drive back to the city and go into the Hamra district which is a very successful neighborhood of Beirut. Maybe go there to grab a drink and catch some live music in the evening.  Sounds sublime.   Ziad thanks so much. Mr.  Well thank you for being interested.  All the best to you. Have a great day there in Beirut. Mr.  Thanks.   Ziad Nawfal is DJ and host with Radio Lebanon. He is chosen a full playlist of Lebanese summer songs just for us. It is at nprmusic.org along with the rest of our series called The Spin.  