   Remember it is the higher octave on the upbeats and the bridge.  We are hearing The Beach Boys' Brian Wilson in a recording studio. It is the mid-'60s. The band is at the height of its popularity. Brian is busy working with studio musicians on the album that will eventually be considered one of the best ever recorded - the revolutionary Pet Sounds.    How does that work - two bass lines in two different keys?   It works in my head.  This window into the creative genius of Brian Wilson comes from the new feature film Love  Mercy.    I think it is going to work. Let us try it.    Hal here's how I want you to do it.  Here he is played by the actor Paul Dano.    The first beat on the last bar of the intro - bum two three four.   This early period is interwoven with scenes of Brian Wilson's struggles with mental illness 20 years later in the '80s. The older Brian is played by John Cusack and we see his life being controlled by a domineering psychotherapist. That changes when Brian falls in love with the woman who becomes his second wife Melinda.  He really has lived one of those lives if you tried to do a kind of a traditional biopic on his story it would be like a mini-series.  Bill Pohlad directed Love  Mercy.  We did not really want it to be a slave to that kind of biopic thing where you are having to hit every beat in a person's life. I wanted it to be more an intimate portrait of him. And so the idea was just to take two parts of his life and intertwine them and hope that that would paint a good enough picture of him and we could get more intimate and closer to who he is as a person.  The early phase - the Pet Sounds phase - that is in the movie we see Brian Wilson struggling with sounds in his head - voices that he is hearing. But he is also hearing ways to create music that no one's done before. He is hearing new sounds new harmonies he says I am going to make the greatest album ever made.  Yeah. I think it was Melinda who actually said that he hears these amazing things in his head you know orchestrations arrangements instrumentation that - and they are so complex that nobody else can understand them until he actually executes them. But the problem is he hears these all the time but he cannot ever turn them off. And so that it is kind of a blessing in a curse thing so that really intrigued me.  Some of the best parts of the movie I think are the studio sessions where he is creating Pet Sounds laying down tracks.    Can I have another bobby pin please Hal?  And we see Paul Dano as Brian Wilson in a piano. He is putting bobby pins on the strings.   We hear a clown horn. We hear a bicycle bell and he is very actively conducting the bark of dogs.    Cut - I think we got it. Chuck mix that...  The stories about Brian and what he did in the studio obviously are part of his legend. All those things actually happened. He really did get into the piano and was plucking the strings. He was always trying something different. You know that was again the beauty of Brian in general but particularly this period was a guy just at the height of his creative powers really. You know he is just letting it flow and there is a lot of things he is doing that nobody's ever done before.  You did have to make a choice about how to portray Brian Wilson's mental illness in this film right? And that could go in a lot of different directions.  Yeah I mean that was a big part of it too for me I think you know was certainly the music but to me what really was interesting was Brian and I really wanted it to be something where we could feel for this person as a real human being not just as a celebrity. And so certainly the mental illness or the difficulties that Brian has faced in those areas was a big part of it and trying to figure out a way to treat it authentically and not kind of go overboard on it. So you know one big part of it was trying to figure out how to represent what he hears in his head. Brian does not really suffer from visual hallucinations. He suffers from auditory hallucinations. So we brought in Atticus Ross who did the - not only the score but helped with these things that I call the mind trips. And you know Atticus took that and ran with that and really did an amazing job.  Let us listen to a scene from the movie which is at a dinner party.    Hey Van what do you and Brian have cooking?  And it starts with normal sounds - conversation clinking of dishes and glasses. And then by the end it is become this terrifying cacophony of sound.    Stop stop stop stop.  And at the end there Bill we are really in Brian Wilson's head hearing what he hears experiencing it like he experiences it.  Yeah. That was the hope there was to really try to illuminate that he gets these cues that trigger some of his creativity but in this case just the normal party sounds become almost maddening. And that is one of those parts where you can tell that he is really starting to have some more serious problems with it and struggling more and kind of crumbling.  How much did Brian Wilson collaborate on the movie or cooperate with you and give you permission to tell his story?  Brian was great about it for sure. Both Brian and Melinda his wife were great about it. I think whenever you are trying to tell that story of a living person it is difficult for that person. They really have to find a trust level with the filmmaker. You know it is a tough thing to let that go and to have that trust. You know when - before we started shooting I wanted to make sure that Brian really understood what we were doing. So we did a table read with actors kind of reading through the script and during that read Brian was sitting there and he started what I had thought was nodding off like he just you know was not into it and I thought we are in trouble here. And at the end he was like oh that was great great but just kind of walked off and said thank you. And then an hour later he called back with these amazingly insightful notes on the script and he was very with it and very insightful about his comments.  Maybe he listens best with his eyes closed.  Exactly.    I was sitting in my room when the news came on TV.  It is interesting that at the end of the movie when the credits are rolling you have the actual Brian Wilson playing piano in a concert recently I guess.  Yeah of him performing Love And Mercy. I think it was you know after everything we have gone through in the movie at that point to be able to see the real Brian performing and what he really looks like at this time. And then he came out of this you know not unscathed but he came out of it and he is the last one standing as it turns out. Unfortunately both of his brothers died and he is still there the most fragile one for some reason has survived all this and is still out there performing.    All the loneliness in this world - well it is just not fair. Hey love and mercy that' Bill Pohlad it is good to talk to. Thanks so much.  Thank you.    So love and mercy to you and your friends tonight love and mercy tonight.   Bill Pohald directed the film Love  Mercy about the life of Beach Boy Brian Wilson.   Goodnight everybody drive safely.  This is NPR. 