 It is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Melissa Block.   A jaunty start to the new album from Bob Dylan out today and wow it is his 35th studio album 50 years after his debut.    Listen to that Duquesne whistle blowing blowing like it is going to sweep my world away. I want to stop in Carbondale and keep on going. That Duquesne train going to ride me night and day.  The album is called Tempest and rock critic Tom Moon joins me to talk about it and to spin through some other new releases. Tom welcome back.  Great to be with you.  I am going to read you some of the ways that critics have described Dylan's voice on this album. Here' A wheezy rasp that proudly scrapes up against its own flaws. And here' Like he is been eating nuts and bolts for the past half century. Tom what is your metaphor? Pick one.  Well I also read today tubercular...  Oh.  ...as an adjective to describe his voice. I thought that was pretty great. Yeah. He is almost got no tone left and yet there is something about the rasp. There is something about the quality and the way it is captured that it almost does not matter. Still he is phrasing. He is slogging through. And he is really singing - actually singing beautifully I think.    You smiling through the fence at me just like you have always smiled before. Listen to that Duquesne whistle blowing blowing like she as not going to blow no more.  You know let us talk about the length of some of these songs. There are a few that clock in at over seven minutes. There is a nine-minute song and then the title tune about the sinking of the Titanic almost 14 minutes long. He is taking a real gamble on people's attention spans here.  I - oh I am one of those people who think that 46 verses on the sinking of the Titanic might be a tad too much.  A little excessive you think?  Well who is going to be Bob Dylan's editor?    The pale moon rose in its glory out on the Western town. She told a sad sad story of the great ship that went down.  What do you think Dylan fans who you know followed him for many many years will think of this new ?  It is as intense as any of the late records the records he is done since 2000. It is more uneven. And maybe that is kind of cool because you know he is talking a lot about flaws and meditating on life and the end of life. I think that people will hear the beginning of this record the first four or five songs and feel the energy of it and be as I was in awe of him. I mean the fact that he is still doing this and communicating so specifically and swinging. The band sounds great. They are having fun.  OK. So from Bob Dylan's Tempest to another album that is out today. It is called Love This Giant.  DAVID BYRNE AND ST.   Who will be my valentine? Who will lift this heavy load?  Tom this is a collaboration between St. Vincent who is real name is Annie Clark and David Byrne of Talking Heads.  Yeah. High hipster quotient here. But it is something far different from what fans of either would expect. When you think of St. Vincent you think of very moody atmospheric records. And of course David Byrne's done with the Talking Heads crazy great funk records and world music-infused records since then as a solo artist. And this is just a big rollicking brass band-fueled party record.   The feeling is very much trying to break out of the standard kind of rock . In this collaboration they found kind of a sound of their own.   We are moving on Tom now to the Brooklyn indie band Grizzly Bear. They have taken a few years off. And their new album comes out next week. It is called Shields. You say it is worth the wait.   It is thick and dense and engrossing and it is very different. You know there is like this sort of Brooklyn hipster rock thing that is kind of taken over right now. And this record feels a lot more earnest than a lot of that music. And listen to this vocal. It is loose but there is a lot of heart. There is meat behind it. He is saying something you know? And that sense comes through a lot on this record.   So that is Grizzly Bear. And Tom the last group we are going to talk about is The Avett Brothers from North Carolina and their new album The Carpenter.   And can I just say they got me with the banjo right there.  Yeah.    All it will take is just one moment and you can say goodbye to how we had it planned. Fear like a habit run like a rabbit...  And Tom The Avett Brothers got really popular a few years back right?  Yeah. They have been doing this for a long time. This is album number seven. This is a very much more of a sharpened lyrical focus. There is a lot of songs about death and mortality on this record but they are not downers. They are sort of this seizing-the-day-with-whatever-you-have-left attitude. And it took them a while to get that sort of focus but man almost every song really has a zing to it here.    You and I we are the same. Live and die we are the same. Hear my voice know my name you and I we are the same. Live like a pharaoh sing like a sparrow anyway...  Tom it is great to talk to you. Thank you.  It is great to be with you. Thanks.    ...even if there is no land or love in sight...  Music critic Tom Moon. You can listen to many of these songs and more new releases at nprmusic.org.    ...out and away through the bitter crowd to the daylight. And I want to love you and more. I want to find you and more. Can you tell that I am alive? Let me prove it to you.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 