 Jazz is the soundtrack of New Orleans. From African drums to brass marching bands hot Dixieland to cool modern jazz the history and spirit of the city lives in music. That is the idea behind singer Dee Dee Bridgewater's new album Dee Dee's Feathers.    Going to wear feathers in my hair wear them feathers . Hold on steady. Hold on steady. Hold...  So Dee Dee what are your feathers?  .  The title song here.  Well that actually represented you know the chiefs at Mardi Gras. It represented the relationship between the African-Americans after slavery and being taken in by the Native Americans in you know - all along - all around Louisiana Mississippi you know in the South. And you know I love feathers. I love feathers so it kind of encompassed all of these things.  That is one of the original songs on this album. There is also some great traditional songs...  Yes.  ...Associated with New Orleans.  Yes.  The song Big Chief...  Yes.  What does it mean for women to be singing the song Big Chief?  Well I am the first woman to ever sing that song. It is a song that is associated with Mardi Gras you know. So you know when we were doing the arrangement I said oh I am going to sing like Dr. John. He sounds like - hey .    . My whole tribe be having fun.  It is funny 'ecause the - I think for a split second oh Dr. John can sing in a higher register. No wait that is you.   What - how...  Yeah you are not the first one. Oh he thought it was funny.    Heap big fire water going to make me shout. Chief going down to get me squaw. So you know when we did it I think we recorded that one the first day. And so when I was listening back to it I said you know maybe Mac would consider singing on it you know? And that would kind of a blessing for me for this - for this whole project you know? So I called and I used my best little girl voice. I was like Mac I have done Big Chief and I really - it would really be wonderful if you would come and lay down some vocals with me and kind of give me the blessings. Oh baby I got to go to the dentist tomorrow. I said but I am going to be here for three days. Please? OK Dee Dee. You know? And so we got him to come in.    Shotgun Joe Shotgun Joe Shotgun Joe.   Yeah you know Dee Dee.   Shotgun Joe.   His big huge shotgun yes.  Another great classic song with New Orleans association - St. James Infirmary.  Oh yeah.  I always think of Louis Armstrong first. The version gave me - gave me the chills.  Yeah.  The version that you do though - it is brighter.    It was down in old Mayfield's  bar room - old jazz playhouse that is - around the corner by the square - Jackson Square. Drinks flowed all around as usual. A drunk and high crowd was there. Deep in a... Even though it is about death it is also about living. And it is - you know they have a tradition in New Orleans of celebrating the crossing over of an individual from our physical life into you know the spiritual life. So for me I chose to give it a brighter outlook you know than one would traditionally give it because I have experienced death with my stepfather who raised me so he was really my father. And I was - I was with him when he took his last breath. And I helped to prepare him to cross over because he was very afraid and he wanted to make it to 2001. And I said OK Daddy I am going to help you get there. We are going to make it. And 10 minutes after 2001 came in and the fireworks had ended - he was on hospital bed but in the house - I said Daddy it is 2001. We made it. And this smile came on his face even though he was semi-conscious and then he took his last two breaths. And so for me I always felt gosh what a blessing I had that I was the one that was given you know that duty of helping him to crossover. So when I sing let him go let him god God bless him I think of my dad.    Let him go. Let him go. God bless him wherever he could be. He can search this wide world over but never find another happy pleasing woman like me that is for sure. It was just a wonderful way to personalize it you know and make in my own.  I know this record reflects deep New Orleans history going back you know hundreds of years.  Yes. Yeah.  But it is impossible not to think of Katrina when we are talking about New Orleans these days.  Yes.  Is that trouble the turmoil of that time reflected in the music of this record?  Well what we tried to reflect is the joy and the celebration of the fact that the city has come back to a large degree. Even though there is a kind of celebratory tone there is a still a lot of pain associated with Katrina because there are a lot of people that did not come back. There are a lot of people that lost everything and we wanted this music to lift people up. We did not want people to do anything that was going to be maudlin or you know bring it down or - no no - because we wanted to be a part of the healing process of the city and of the people. I was in France when Katrina happened. I was still living in France so I could not go to help out. So for me this project is my way of giving back to the city. And I think that a listener when they put the CD on - I think from the moment it starts you get that sense of joy.   Dee Dee Bridgewater - her new record is Dee Dee's Feathers. It has been such a treat speaking with you. Thank you.  Thank you. Thank you so much Arun. I have enjoyed speaking with you. 