 The indie pop duo Mates of State has actively toured and recorded for 15 years now. But it is only now with the pair's sixth album Mountaintops that our critic Robert Christgau thinks they have figured out their right sound.  Mates of State are literally mates. Kori Gardner and Jason Hammel have been a duo since 1996 married since 2001 and parents on tour since 2004. Their basic concept is two strong voices over Kori's keyboards and Jason's drums - as on this snatcher Fluke from their 2003 album Team Boo.    We do not need to drive. Hang us out to dry. We do not need to drive. We do not need to. I saw you walking on the sidewalk. Your head was taller than the trees. The reconstruction had just started.  Although Flute kicks it is pretty spare. Over the years Mates of State have expanded their instrumental range and brought in guests for sonic color but nothing in their catalog prepared me for Palomino the opening track on their new album Mountaintops.    You know you are not in hell Palomino. We were born on the other side. We were wild and living wild and living.  Palomino's musical elements are the same as ever - organ drums vocals - but they are more expansive and ebullient drenched in echo for extra dimension always too sinewy for synth-pop even though some slotted them that way. Mates of State suffuse Mountaintops with a full old-fashioned pop sound that just happens to do without the big guitars usually associated with that aesthetic.    I am stuck in life I let it be. I see the beauty in the subtleties. A man he turns to me a passing grin. No I belong to him in my imagination. She almost did not give you the message. Where would we be if she never gave you the message.  The song we just heard Total Serendipity is one of many on Mountaintops where catchy chorus tops melodic verse. Lyrically it celebrates the beginning of Kori and Jason's relationship. Mates of State write realistically avoiding the cryptic verbiage of indie rock and the romantic generalizations of contemporary pop. But their songs seldom capitalize so explicitly on their connubial back-story. Their message of fulfillment is in the music. Still being fulfilled need not mean wanting to stay the same. That is why they made this album.    Oh change is gonna' come. Change is gonna' come. You would better welcome it. Change is gonna' come and it is gonna' set you free. Change is gonna' come. Change is gonna' come.  The new album from Mates of State is Mountaintops. Our reviewer is Robert Christgau.  