 The September 1974 cover of Rolling Stone featured a closeup of a teenage girl's face looking over her shoulder. And this was the headline. I am Tanya Tucker. I am 15. You are Gonna Hear From Me.    Delta Dawn what is that flower you have on? Could it be a faded rose from days gone by?  By that time she had already had a string of hits starting with Delta Dawn. And over the decades she kept returning to our radios. There were hit albums Grammy nominations and an exhibit at the Country Music Hall of Fame. Now Tanya Tucker is back with her first album of original music in 17 years. It is called While I am Livin'.   Bring my flowers now while I am livin'. I will not need your love when I am gone.  My co-host Ari Shapiro spoke with Tucker about the new album.  While I am Livin' was produced by Brandi Carlile and Shooter Jennings a new generation of country stars. Those fresh ears and fresh ideas helped Tucker finish a song she would been thinking about for decades Bring My Flowers Now.  It was a song that I have had an idea for - I am thinking about 40 years maybe. And it took us about 20 minutes to write it to finish it. And so I say well it took me 40 years and 20 minutes to write the song .  What was the core of this that was rattling around in your brain for 40 years?  Well I had the chorus but I just could not come up with the verses and tried many times to do it and just never was successful.    Wish I would been a better friend a better daughter to my mother. There is no going back when your back's against the wind.  The first time I heard this song it reminded me of something my father said to me while my grandmother was in her last days. And he said if you have got a choice between flying out here while she is alive and coming out for the funeral come see her now.  Exactly.  You know?  That is exactly right. Because I have always wondered even since I was a kid why they sent flowers. And people that is the only time they get together or see each other is at a funeral. That did not make sense to me. Just kind of had it back-asswards  to me.  .  And I like to share and be with someone when I can. Of course you know our schedules these days makes it difficult. But do the things and see the people that you really need to see and - 'ecause you sure all cannot do it when they are gone.    If your heart is in them flowers bring 'em home.  When you listen to these songs and then you listen to albums that you recorded in the '70s what kind of an evolution do you hear? Or do you think this is just a very clear straight throughline?  In those days we recorded all those records or those tracks - Delta Dawn on up to - probably the first MCA album was the only time the first time I ever did an overdub or ever had a set of headphones.  So you are saying you recorded them as though it was live? Everybody was in the room. They were doing a take beginning to end.  Exactly. And if somebody messed up we had to do it all over again.  .  So you know that was the way. And I thank the good Lord for that because this situation with Brandi and Shooter we did all this live.  So this is kind of like a throwback for you?  It is like going back to the beginning.  Yeah.  I do not think I could have done this album that way if I had not had that experience in the very very beginning of my career.    And if I was a white-crowned sparrow well I would float upon the southern skies of blue. But I am stuck inside the wheels of Laredo wishin' I was rollin' back to you.  I hesitate to ask you to point out your flaws but imperfections can create beauty right? So is there somewhere on this album that you can point to something that you might have wanted to smooth over but because it is a little rougher it actually works better?  Yeah. I could tell you a lot of things.  Give me one.  You know well the one is on Laredo at the very end. The one the - the very last  wish I was rollin' back to you. Wish I was rollin'. I wanted to go way up on it and I did not.  I just got goose bumps.  .    Wish I was rollin' back to you. Wish I was rollin' back to you.  You have always been associated with the country outlaw movement. Do you identify with that label? What does that mean to you?  Well I think maybe it was that in country music especially most of the gals they did not move around much. They pretty much stood there and sang. And sang great I might add. I cannot do that. I cannot stand still.    Now I am flyin' like an angel on Dead Man's Run. I got the devil ridin' on my tail. I think that might have got it started. Plus I dressed a lot different than most of the gals in country music. You know I had leather on and tight pants. And when I moved I moved because I felt it. You know? And I think they took it and kind of went to the outlaw side of things.    I as not never goin' back to Mustang Ridge.  Let me ask you about the song Hard Luck because I know it is actually an old tune but it seems almost autobiographical.    Now look at my life and all the trouble I have had. Shows what you get when you got to be bad. Hard luck. I keep truckin'. Born to a hard-luck world. Well we changed a lot of the lines 'ecause at first when I first heard the song I did not like it at all.  Really?  The lyrics - just no. It was not a really great demo in my mind . You know I try to hear through a lot of things but I could not even hear through that one. But when we started working on it we changed the lyric. And it works. And everybody's singin' on it. I mean I got my lawyer got my managers. Dennis Quaid's on it. My...  What?  ...Friend Norman Howell and Trisha. He is a stunt man that actually got me the horse for the album cover. And just so many different people were singin' on it. It was a lot of fun.    Oh my story's so sad.  I am just picturing everybody crowded into the studio around the microphone.  It was really cute.    Oh so bad. Listen up you all.  So you now have been making music professionally for almost 50 years.  Yeah.  What do you think you understand about making music now that you did not understand when you were that mega-famous teenager?  You know I just kind of let go let God. I think that is the name I choose to call my higher power. And I let him rock through me. Because you know I have - the one thing I do know after all these years is that I am not doing it by myself. It is coming through me. And there is a reason for that. I do not know what it is but I just know that it is.    Aw I have got somethin' to say.  Well Tanya Tucker it has been so great to talk with you. Thank you for joining us today.  Well thank you so much. I really enjoyed talking to you.  Her new album is called While I am Livin'.    Learnin' the hard way? It might be easier than you think. 