 Critic Robert Christgau has our review.  Serengeti is a rapper from Chicago whose government name is David Cohn. He made a small splash in 2006 by impersonating a white middle-aged Chicago sports fan who is a rabid fan of the actor Brian Dennehy and a lot of other things.   Mike Ditka got fired. Favorite actor Dennehy favorite drink O'Doul's Bears Hawks Sox Bulls. Play softball with the guys wife made curly fries. Drink about four O'Doul's grounded out two pop flies. In the Buick down Western stop and get some more brats. On sale chicken Italian sausages and orange pop. This week fishing trip gotta get some new flies...  If you think the voice we just heard did not sound much like a rapper that is the idea. More than any MC working Serengeti writes story songs about characters he makes up. Sometimes these characters recur like Kenny who is stuck in his Buick in Dennehy the song we just heard. But on Serengeti's new Family and Friends almost every song introduces a new character like the self-reinventing fool who narrates California.   Ever since I got divorced everything's been going right on course. I have been riding a horse doing a little horses fun in shorts. Relaxing texing sleeping refilling glasses of reasoning. What a great way to spend an evening. I look so good I am beaming. Ever since I lost my job I started a blog. It is been going so great it is about the ins and outs of a perfect date.  Serengeti's physical voice does not shift on Family and Friends the way it does on Dennehy. The prissy pretension of California is about as far as it gets from Serengeti's normal rapping voice which can be discursive and mumbly or clear and quick as on the only third-person song here the chronicle of a mixed martial arts fighter.   Around UFC 38 he tried to get back in shape give it another shot under hooks and learn to dirty box and  to go. He said he is too old for his body to . But in UFC 3 he chose the man with his cage If he just would hold on or avoided what ifs not everyone can win championships without knowing it is better to not even attempt.  The album title is thematic. Just about every song here concerns intimate personal relationships. Half excavate ruined marriages and the most troubling describes the return of an absentee dad.   Father and son time he moved in my apartment. Mom's jealous. Daddy always shines but I do not know. He does not always chip in with stuff. It was fine at first but I never got reimbursed. And I thought it would be romantic if we do a trust together what a beautiful peace me and dad and a padded suite. Curses him no stupid mouth to police. Dad got nabbed on warrant he had back east. Cops gone...  There is an accrued melancholy about Family and Friends that reflects both the economic downturn and the long slog of a marginal artist who just turned 35. It is poignant that way. But one reason it is poignant is that Serengeti also has a silly side as on the simplistic rhymes of the almost autobiographical A.R.P.   I skateboarded and hurt my knee. I sat by next to a willow tree. I drink DMT. In high school I have got .  The new album from Serengeti is called Family and Friends. Our reviewer is Robert Christgau.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 