 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Robert Siegel. And this is a song that is you have probably never heard. It is called Two Heads In The Moonlight. It is performed by Alex Hassan on piano. He is part of a trio. We will meet the other two later. But this is a solo piano piece from their show The Greatest Songs You have Never Heard.   And now let us introduce all the members of Three For a Song.  On the piano Alex Hassan.  I am Karin Paludan. I am originally from Lawrence Kansas.  And I am Doug Bowles. I am a tenor singer sing with these crazy people.  And the three of you perform - the whole point of the songs you are playing is these are songs often by great songwriters and songs we have probably never heard of.  That is the idea. I mean you will always hear Burton Lane's How Are Things In Glocca Morra but you will not hear an incredible torch song that he wrote for a 1935 MGM flick that never got made.    Nights are getting lonely. My life's become a blue serenade. Lost my one and only and now I am a blue serenade.  Okay.  We have a little bit of fun.  Bravo.  Blue Serenade from the unfilmed MGM extravaganza in 1935 elegance.  And we have truncated that for time. One of the other songwriters whom you have discovered some obscure songs by is Vernon Duke who someone might think of as one of the great songwriters. I Cannot Get Started April In Paris Autumn In New York Taking a Chance On Love these are really some of the best songs I think ever written and you manage to find something by Vernon Duke that did not see the light of day?  This one that we do in our show is called This Is Romance. It is a 1933 real sort of deco-type pop tune. This Is Romance exists in two different versions in 1933 one of which was a little bit too dark. It got yanked really quickly in favor of a second version and it is a little bit sunnier.  Well which of the two lyrics are we going to hear right now?  We are going to hear the one that actually got recorded at the time.  Okay.    This is romance. There is a sky to invite us and a moon to excite us yet you turn from my kiss.   This is romance. It is a moment of splendor yet you fail to surrender to a night such as this.   The dreamy magic of your eyes enchanted my heart but will the magic of your love be granted my heart. I am in a trance dear.   Let us be    This is paradise found dear.   This is paradise dear.   Sweetheart this is romance.  Very nice. Alex Hassan you know is it more likely that you will turn up a forgotten song that was written by a terrific composer Vernon Duke or Burton Lane than it is by a terrific lyricist like Ira Gershwin or Oscar Hammerstein II?  I would agree there. They are more likely probably to be overshadowed by the Lorenz Harts and the Ira Gershwins but there are a ton of tunes by thems as well.  Let us hear another gem.  Sure. This is a number that was introduced by Lillian Roth called Low Down. It is from a 1930 film called Madam Satan.  Madam Satan.  And in this film Lillian plays the female plaything of an aristocrat who is become bored with his wife. The wife realizes he is messing around. She introduces herself to Lillian Roth's character who is named Trixie of course and Trixie teaches the wife what she is doing to fascinate the husband.  Is this before the Hays Code? Is this one of the movies yes before they began censoring movies? Okay. Now I understand.  The wife redefines herself as Madam Satan and attends an orgiastic party on a blimp.  On a blimp.  On a blimp yeah.  Even before the Hays Code before the Von Hindenburg.  Yeah exactly. Oh but get this. Before the Hindenburg this party goes crazy right and the wife is wearing this very - it is very easy to see that this is the wife. Anyway she seduces her own husband back into her arms at which point yes the blimp catches fire and conveniently all of the cast members in this movie happen to have parachutes and they jump to safety and everything's happy in the end.  Doug I do not think you have to sing the song right. No go ahead. No go ahead and sing the song.  It is all over now. It is all over now.    Do not send them away. Tell them to stay. Tell them to play that sweet love melody. Do it for me. I want to be just low down low down do not tell me to slow down. I now and then get up again fall right into new sensation. Bach and Chopin cannot give me what Jess can. No new kick. I like my music low down.   Alex Hassan on piano Doug Bowles and Karin Paludan that is to say Three For A Song thanks so much for performing some of the greatest songs we have never heard.  Thank you.  Thank you so much.  Delighted.   This is James P. Johnson and Willie The Lion Smith composed this song.    Our love was just like a rhapsody. That is how I thought it would always be.  I concentrated all my love on you but little did I know my reward. Oh your love and kisses make me believe that every night would be just like a New Year's Eve. And then you brushed me right off your sleeve. How could you put me down? 