 The version of The Lion King that is out today features photo-realistic animals and celebrity voices. There is Beyonce John Oliver Donald Glover. There are also some things familiar to fans of the original Disney film. Composer Hans Zimmer won an Oscar for that score. He has returned to Pride Rock and as Tim Greiving reports he is brought along collaborators new and old.   .  That is South African musician Lebo M. singing the iconic proclamation that opened the original Lion King in 1994.  I did not even know anything about the movie. I just knew that it is something to do with conflict between a father and a brother that has a son in it - no detail.  Composer Hans Zimmer called on Lebo M. to help bring some cultural authenticity to this animated movie about lions.  I noticed the image of Mufasa. And my entire system went to what happens when a important person in my country my culture walks in? What happens when a king walks in? The musicality of my thought became  - then it translates to all hail the king. All bow down in the presence of the king.  Lebo M. fled apartheid-era South Africa in 1979 when he was 16. He eventually moved to LA in hopes of being a superstar but ended up living on skid row. A few years later he was working as a coffee gofer for a music producer which is where he met Zimmer. The Lion King felt personal.  I am the Simba at this point who grows up in exile. I do not go back home to take over the country but I go back home a professional. And Mufasa to me becomes immediately the image of Nelson Mandela.  Heavy subtext for a Disney cartoon but there is a seriousness that anchors the whole score.   Hans Zimmer who is best known for grown-up movies like Rain Man and Backdraft originally took the job for two reasons.  I did not like Disney musicals. And then they were going great that is exactly what we want. We do not want somebody who wants to do what we did before.  The other reason? His little girl.  It was not for my daughter. It was for her dad because every dad wants to show off. I thought oh no this will be good. It will be a cartoon. It will be funny. It will be harmless. It is about fuzzy animals. And I did not realize it was profoundly going to go and hit me in a really hard way because my dad died when I was 6 years old which was her age.  In The Lion King Mufasa the king of Pride Rock tragically dies saving his son Simba from a wildebeest stampede. The rest of the movie is about how Simba deals with that.  There I was and the only way I could go and write the score was to open those deep and dark boxes and let all the darkness out.   Do not ever talk down to the children they will catch you at it. Be sincere. Be absolutely genuine. Be absolutely legitimate about this. Let us not make things easier. Let us not be funny for like the wrong reasons. At the same time you know the genius of the film is that you go from death of the father to fart jokes.    Pumbaa not in front of the kids.   Oh sorry.  Zimmer won his first and only Oscar for that score. When Disney asked him to score the hyper-realistic remake he knew he wanted a fresh musical justification. That is when he saw a video online of the Re-Collective Orchestra a new all-black orchestra co-founded by Stephanie Matthews. They formed last year to record their own arrangement of the Kendrick Lamar and Sza track All The Stars from Black Panther.    All the stars are closer. All the stars are closer. All the stars are closer.  We were really inspired by Black Panther. And so when the film came out we decided to kind of do a concept piece. What would the orchestra of Wakanda look like?  Matthews as a session violinist and strings contractor and she met Hans Zimmer in 2014 when she accompanied Pharrell Williams on Saturday Night Live. But she was shocked when he emailed her saying he would seen the video and wanted Re-Collective to play on the new Lion King.  He was really really passionate about the diversity and representation of having these musicians collaborate with the LA session musicians who are extraordinary players and just elevate the level of this project.  Hans Zimmer's new Lion King score was recorded at Sony Studios in April. Many present with decades between them said it was the most diverse film-scoring session ever.     I was going for diversity. And then as soon as everybody started playing and sitting next to each other it became this amazing thing which was not diversity at all. It was a unity.  So even if you are fatigued by these endless remakes of classic Disney movies it is hard to be mad when it sounds like this. For NPR News I am Tim Greiving. 