 Justin Vernon and Aaron Dessner both have successful musical careers. Justin Vernon performs as Bon Iver...    Come on skinny love just last the year.  ...And Aaron Dessner as in the band The National.    I need my girl.  They first collaborated 10 years ago recording a song called Big Red Machine for a benefit album.    We are safe when the love would come in.  Now they have extended that collaboration into a new band and full-length album also called Big Red Machine. And this collaboration goes way beyond two successful musicians. I recently spoke with them from Berlin. And Aaron Dessner explained that this album has dozens of contributors - friends famous musicians and unknown artists all pitching in on a new platform that is designed to encourage musical collaboration.  So this is all part of something we call People which is really a large collective and community of artists that is been collaborating for a long time which is a way to sort of work together and publish music that is sort of outside of the traditional marketing bottleneck. So Big Red Machine is really a community effort. I guess it involves almost 30 musicians. And it does come out of our friendship but it is really you know something that is deeply collaborative.    Sign it. Print a new path. Mind it. Well I would have rolled past. Climb it.  Aaron Dessner and Justin Vernon explained to me that sorting out who contributed what to the songs on this album is a bit like trying to unweave a quilt. Take the song Lyla with its layers of percussion strings bleeps and scratches.   .  It started with just Aaron making a lot of like beats on his iPhone on tour. And we were just hanging out at his house. And on that song specifically there were just ideas that we had. You know we want this person to play on this section. I think they would really bring their heart and individuality to this part of the song. And usually we have them record too much stuff and then we kind of edit it down and mix it all in there.    I am already off your reservation.  It was really coming from this place of really making music from a communal standpoint where we were not trying to be the auteurs of anything. We were really kind of reaching out and embracing this process leaving the songs open to possibility and interpretation and kind of intentionally not finishing them. You know so that is why I think the record has that kind of wilder feeling or unfinished in-process feeling. And that is a lot of this People energy that we are trying to encourage.    I am already off your reservation.  Is there a tension between the desire to create something that is collaborative and the fact that everybody knows Bon Iver and The National? Some of these other musicians might not be as well-recognized and might kind of feel like they are operating in your shadow a little bit.  I can speak to that. This is Justin. It is the opposite when we are here because I am walking around just like everyone else trying to do as much music as I physically can because that is my dream. That is my love. This is about giving people a different way to think allowing them to see things in new ways where it is not about who is successful or who is the most popular or who made the most money or something. It is - none of those things really play here. It has nothing to do with why we started playing music in the first place and very much a reaction to some of the things that have frankly made me and Aaron very uncomfortable in the years we have been so-called professional musicians.  I should explain. You talk about being here. We are speaking to the two of you in Berlin where you have convened this gathering of musicians who might have collaborated virtually through this platform you have called People but now this is an in-person meeting.  Yes. Yes. And to be fair or just fact-check we helped convene some of these people but the community is so large now there is no figureheads anymore. And there is plenty of people here that I have never met or heard of. Now I am starting new friendships with them as well. So we just really feel like we are all in the mixing pot together.  But is that a luxury that the two of you have having been so successful already?  I know plenty of people who you might not be able to say that they are successful in the same way that you are seeing me and Aaron are. However they might be more satisfied on a daily basis than I ever am because they have been able to navigate pressures and stay in their own cut. And oftentimes when you are like me and Aaron like people know who we are and stuff. And frankly that is never why we - either one of us ever got into this business. And it is distracting. And people start telling you you are really cool. And you get really tired of yourself after a while. So I really would mitigate that term success almost in every way.    Holy torch my perdition. How important you will be. Why do not you lay it down right beside me? Will not you lay it all by me?  Was it difficult to decide when these songs were done?  It was a little bit difficult to decide when they were done from a point of view of not wanting to finish them and the actual sound world of them. We kind of liked the rawness of it and how it felt when we were just making stuff and not really thinking about it. So as you start to mix something and master it - and some of those finishing elements that are part of like a traditional process they felt a little alien to this record.  Just to help us understand what rawness sounds like in terms of the music we are listening to is there a moment in a song that you can point to that might have been finished in a different way in a prettier way if you had been making a different kind of album?  The song Hymnostic is kind of a gospel song. And that song is really fun to sing with as many people as possible. And anyone can sing it you know?   I think Hymnostic could have been done with like fiddles and banjos and it would almost be better for that song. But we wanted to stick the song on there so we kind of dressed it up to stand alongside its brothers and sisters if you will.    Winter cost you peace of mind now. Winter cost your valentine. Why will not you come back on the runner? Will not you come right backside? I will be singing for your health. I will be righteous you will see.  Does the fact that this was such a collective process involving so many different people make it difficult to perform live or to tour with it?  We - I think the idea is that every time we perform Big Red Machine music it should be different somehow - like different people different songs maybe definitely different versions of the songs. And we kind of want to preserve that feeling of like possibility. And it is less of a band and more of just a collection of music that can be performed. And so it makes it more exciting I think.   Aaron Dessner and Justin Vernon thank you guys so much.  Hey thanks so much for supporting People.  Yeah thank you.  Their new collaborative album is called Big Red Machine.    Well you are who you are. Well you are who you are. Well you are who you are. Well you are who you are. Well you are who you are. 