 Close your eyes and listen to this - well not if you are driving. But see if you can figure out what instruments are creating this sound.   You might think it is woodwinds brass or strings but the musicians in that piece are playing instruments made out of cans and bottle caps. It is the Recycled Orchestra from Cateura Paraguay. Young musicians are the subject of a new documentary film. NPR's Anastasia Tsioulcas has their story.  Cateura is not a town really. It is a slum alongside a landfill not far from Paraguay's capital. Every day about three million pounds of solid waste get dumped there. Many families eke out their existence by scavenging trash to resell and kids regularly get pulled out of school to help. During rainstorms the landfill floods and residents have to wade through contaminated water.   Really to be honest with you there is practically nothing in Cateura. What there was most was drugs.  That is 16-year-old violinist Noelia Rios. Her violin like many in the orchestra is made out of cans wooden spoons and bent forks.   One of the ensemble's cellos uses an oil drum for its body.   Drum heads are made from old X-ray film held in place with copious amounts of packing tape. Fifteen-year-old Tobias Armoa describes his saxophone.   It is made out of the drainpipe where the rain waterfalls melted copper coins spoon handles and cans. The Recycled Orchestra was founded 10 years ago by Favio Chavez.   I went to work in Cateura as an environmental engineer. I saw that there were a lot of children there and I had the idea to teach them music in my free time.  Chavez's classes became so popular that they soon ran out of donated instruments. So he asked local carpenter Nicholas Gomez to make new instruments for his group out of stuff from the landfill.   Several years ago the orchestra caught the attention of a team of filmmakers led by Alejandra Amarilla. She knew that most people outside Paraguay had no clue about her home country so the team went looking for a story to tell.  It was mostly to be able to create awareness on children's issues. But the uniqueness of the story that I ended up picking was that it contained a very strong emotional component and very inspiring.  Four years ago the film team made a short video for a Kickstarter campaign hoping to raise 175000 to make a full length documentary. Not only did they raise the money the video went viral. Since then the Recycled Orchestra has played Mozart Paraguayan folk music even Frank Sinatra for audiences around the world including Pope Francis. The young musicians have also backed up Stevie Wonder Metallica and Megadeth.    You take a mortal man...  These days kids from Cateura are flocking to join the orchestra. Ten-year-old Cinthia Servin plays violin.   It seemed like they liked what they were playing and I wanted to visit other countries.  The Recycled Orchestra has brought a lot of good to Cateura. Money from international touring has funded the building of new safer homes for several members of the group and their families and the orchestra's lead instrument maker. Favio Chavez says there is also been a bigger change.   What we have achieved is that in the community children are respected - and respect for the moment that they need to get an education. It is something sacred. Before it was not like this. The mom or dad would take the kid away by the hand because they had to go to work. Today that is unthinkable. And we have already achieved the most difficult thing which is to change the community.  Maybe it did not have to be music that triggered such a fundamental shift. It could have been soccer or chess or theater. But Chavez says the kids playing in the Recycled Orchestra are creating something gorgeous out of nothing.   To be a musician you have to be responsible persistent tenacious conscientious and sensitive. Without these values you cannot be a musician. But music has such a great power that it cannot be just of the musicians. Music can transform society.  Even more people will learn about that transformation as the documentary Landfill Harmonic opens in theaters around the U.S. this month and screens later on HBO Latino. Anastasia Tsioulcas NPR News New York.  You can see and hear members of the Recycled Orchestra play on a Manhattan rooftop at npr.org. 