 Rocker Ian McLagan has been singing and playing keyboards for almost half a century. He is played with Rod Stewart Bob Dylan the Rolling Stones and the Faces. Last year he was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. But he says it has not always been an easy road.  Well there was a time when I gave up music. But actually what I would given up was drugs and the people I was playing with. They were not making me happy.  McLagan credits his wife Kim with helping him to find his way back to music. On his latest solo album he is written a song called Love Letter which he says is a tribute to Kim.    I would send you a love letter but I cannot find you anywhere. You may not be hiding from me but I cannot find you. Love Letter is all about Kim. It is about my wife who died seven years ago.    Candles and your name in blue. I have all the love letters I sent her on the road - I had completely forgot about just postcards from different places around the world. She kept them. She kept them all.    I captured the light in your eyes. I met Kim in 1965. When I joined Small Faces we occasionally would bump into The Who. And Keith Moon and I became firm pals. And Keith came to one of the Small Faces gigs with his then girlfriend which was Kim. Later on my first wife and I split up and I was spending a lot of time in the nightclubs. And I bump into Keith and Kim a lot more. Invariably the girl I was with would fall asleep. Keith would fall asleep. And it would be left to Kim and me. And we would spend the night just chatting and drinking and that happened a couple of times. And the second time there was a pub at the end of the road. We had not slept. I think we might have been doing drugs. But anyway when we got back I got out of the car to open the gates for her. I had driven and she was on her bicycle. And as I went up to her I pushed her off the bicycle so I had to grab her. I mean you could not make this up. I grabbed her and kissed her. And we kissed and there was a moment of oh my God. And that is when it started and we were together 33 years.    I would send you a love letter though you may never read it - that it goes out from my heart. Yeah she was my muse. I mean she actually is my muse. I would always heard that term. And it took me a long while to realize that she was the inspiration for so many songs and continues to be. Not all the saddest songs - I mean some of the funniest songs or the lightest songs - there is little bits of her. She is always there bringing that out of me. I think it is a good thing.    I would send you a love letter. I would send you a love letter. I would send you a love letter.  That is Ian McLagan sharing the story behind the song Love Letter. It is from his new album called United States.    I would send you a love letter. I would send you a love letter. I would send you a love letter. But I cannot find you anywhere.  This is NPR News. 