 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Madeleine Brand.  And I am Melissa Block. Forty years ago half a million free-wheeling free-smoking free-loving music-loving hippies danced covered in mud surrounding a stage on a farm. At least those are the images that are conjured when talk about Woodstock. But besides the mud part how much of it is true? Karen Michel tried to find out.  I was not there. I was thousands of miles away in Barrow Alaska. And I do not think I had a clue that just after an astronaut landed on the Moon there was Woodstock which for three days and half a million people was the center of the world. Artie Kornfeld was one of the organizers of the festival. For him the torch burns bright. Mr.  That is still my whole trip keeping the spirit of Woodstock alive.  And that does not mean just a good stuff. Mr.  I did have a gun pulled on me by some guy who said I was a hippie fascist. And Crosby Stills and Nash's road manager saved my life by jumping the guy.  But for the most part Woodstock was an immense gathering of people who were into music had no idea about camping - but definitely wanted to have a good time. Parry Teasdale went to the festival in Bethel New York as a video artist. Today he publishes a local newspaper. Mr.  I think I look like a geezer.  Back in 1969 Teasdale had long hair and did not dress in the chinos and pressed shirt he wears now. Mr.  Large brown kind of Stetson cowboy hat that was punched up in the center and big motorcycle boots and dirty jeans. And a VW bus full of old video equipment.  Teasdale's black and white fuzzy videos almost look as if they are shot in a sort of slowed motion.   Have you had your oats yet? Have you had ? Mr.  No. I did not.  Is this something for the CIA or something? Was is it?  He repeatedly asks the question are you having a good time? And the kids look back incredulous as if saying do you have to ask? These tapes these documents seem to validate the Woodstock legend of all free all peaceful all love. Mr.  That is part of the sort of mythology of Woodstock is that it is free it is peaceful. And I do not buy into that.  Surprising considering that Michael Lang was one of the producers of the festival. Lang lives near the town of Woodstock on a 100-acre estate he bought in 1979. It is so big that I could not figure out which building to go to find him. But you know 40 years ago it was not about the money man. Mr.  Somebody forgot to roll the ticket booths into place in time to beat the traffic. And once we focused on that they could not be moved. There were no ticket booths. Most of the people who came were looking for a place to buy a ticket and you could not buy a ticket.  Still the bands had to be paid. Bill Thompson managed the then-hot Jefferson Airplane. Mr.  I remember saying to Michael Lang how are we going to get paid? And he said oh do not worry about it man. Is not this beautiful? Well that was the worst thing he could have said to me. So I got everybody together and I said we should just tell them we are not going to play unless we get paid. So they showed up a couple of hours later with cashier's checks for all the bands.  For their gig the Airplane got 10000. It was 6 a.m. when Grace Slick greeted the crowd. Ms.  All right friends you have seen the heavy groups. Now you will see morning maniac music believe me. Yeah. Mr.  The band had stayed up all night. And to be honest with you I think did just about every illegal drug known to man. So I think they were a little woozy at first. But then the Black Beauties kicked and Speed. And about 20 minutes into the set it was really an excellent set.    Would you like to know a secret just between you and me? I do not know where I am going next. I do not know who I am going to be.  Few people claim that the music was very good. It was the context more than anything. Still for Bob Solomon who is now in the music industry in Nashville sound was everything. Mr.  There was only one act that did a passable job and that was Carlos Santana.  Mr.  Everybody else just was three sheets to the wind. And I mean they were just out of it.  It is a soundtrack that had a stuttering start. The equipment had not arrived and organizer Michael Lang needed somebody to play acoustic. He convinced Richie Havens that he was the guy. Mr.  I hounded him.  Mr.  And so he finally agreed. That was for me you know the moment between trying to this and doing it. Mr.  And so I got it there and I sing my 40 minutes. And I walked back and they said Richie would do four more songs. Okay four more. So I went back I sang four more songs. They did this to me six times. I sang two hours and 45 minutes. And every song I know  Mr.  and the one I made up on stage. Free love freedom  Mr.   Free love freedom freedom Mr.  We were safe because we were in Bethel. Bethel means the House Of God.  And like all houses of the Lord the Woodstock story is largely a matter of faith. But for Woodstock organizer Michael Lang it was a respite from the Vietnam War the struggle for civil rights assassinations and Richard Nixon. Mr.  It was this moment of hope that we sort of looked in and said oh my god this is possible even in the darkest of time. So I think that it holds out that hope for this wonderful experience. For us that is what it was.  I guess like everything to believe it you had to be there. For NPR News I am Karen Michel. 