 A banjo...   ...And a piano.   The banjo-piano duo is unique. But we have come to expect unique from Chick Corea and Bela Fleck.   From bluegrass to new grass to all kinds of genre-bending music Bela Fleck has extended the vocabulary and influence of the banjo. And Chick Corea what is there to say? Just one of the greatest most important jazz pianists ever. They have been collaborating closely for nearly a decade and just released a live album called Two. Chick and Bela joined me at NPR West this week right before a show at the Hollywood Bowl. They sound perfect together now but Chick says he is had a lot to learn.  I mean I did not know much about banjo music at all although - although I would catch a taste of bluegrass every now and again and really dig the rhythm. But when I came in contact with Bela's music I got real interested.  I just have to preface this by saying what a hero Chick is to me that I was 17 years old when I first heard Chick play. Well before that I heard him in jazz appreciation class a song called Spain. The way he was playing was such a revelation to me because I had in my head that jazz was very back of the beat and  you know? And this was like  it was all this fast rhythm. And I was like well that is what I love about bluegrass. And here I hear it in jazz for the first time.  Bela I heard you say somewhere that you have heard Chick play things in this duo that you have not heard him play elsewhere.   I have only got three fingers on my right hand that are doing all the plucking right and I have got five strings. And so there are these rhythms that come out of the banjo based on that especially if we are playing for instance in 44 there is going to be a lot of natural groups of three in syncopation.  Yeah sure it opens up whole new ideas for me of how to integrate my phrases with you. And then when you do those rhythmic things with your 3 over 4 or 5 over 13 or whatever it is that you are doing it - there is like a - always seems like an infinite number of ways that I can just find out how to - I am always thinking about accompanying. So that is my pleasure in the duet is see how I can make the banjo sound good.  Can you tell us on the album where we can hear that - that you know the cross-rhythms playing the kind of thing you are talking about?  Bugle Call Rag.   Those recordings happened between 2008 and 2014 and I was tasked to go through the recordings and see what was there. And I went through them and I - one day I found that. And I remembered that we were on a late-night drive and I said hey do you guys want to hear some bluegrass? We were driving in a car for three hours after a show late. And Chick said sure and I played him some Flatt  Scruggs with Bill Monroe The Original Bluegrass Band.  I got a bluegrass history on that ride. It was great.  What was it like when that hit your ears?  Well you know coming from having played with Bela and having that experience and the sound of his banjo which is - really comes through all of those heroes of his then hearing the original music that came before him I had to know a whole new viewpoint on it. I really really fell in love with everything I was listening to.  Yeah 'ecause I think I remember you saying oh I did not understand that bluegrass is funky like 'ecause there is a soulfulness to it. You imagine the preconceptions that have gotten stuck on us about bluegrass wrongly are that it is a very sort yee-haw you know jump around dance be silly kind of - I do not know it is kind of looked down on in a way. You can sort of look down it because the banjos were comedians in bands before Earl Scruggs came around. And when Earl Scruggs came around it was serious business.  You know that track - the Bugle Call Rag - you know you guys talk about the nice collaboration. But I - that music's a little bit more aggressive. Does it ever kind of fall into a cutting contest with you guys - like take that - no take that?  It is like a friendly very fast-moving ping-pong game.   It is more like that. I mean I do not ever feel like it is a cutting contest...  Yeah.  ...Because once that spirit comes into it the music changes. If you are attacking it from that point of view - I do not know I would consider that an impediment to the best things happening.  Like when we are trading back and forth phrases sometimes like we do it in Bugle Call Rag a little bit. We do it in Mountain. We will trade phrases back and forth and then start to play phrases together.   It is like how long can we keep this going and stay upright without falling off the cliff? It is sort of like soaring through the air in one of those air suits. What do you call them?  The monkey suit yeah. I think you could listen to Mountain like near the end before we come back to the ground at the end and we go into that melody. You can hear us just free-forming it.   You guys - it sounds like you have - you know Bela you said that it can be scary playing with Chick. But it sounds like you guys - going off this record - have a lot of fun.  That is the success factor to me. Making music in general is something that I feel fulfilled when it has an uplift quality to it when there is a pleasure about it that the players have and that the audience experiences together. It is almost an antidote to the stresses in life. So when it is fun it is the measuring factor - how much fun did we have?  Right. And yeah we get to play some pretty out there stuff. But I think somehow the way we approach it does not put people off. They kind of embrace the journey of where we are going. And there is enough stuff in there - again the rhythmic aspects really help because if we are going to play some really crazy atonal stuff for a while it is usually got a strong interesting rhythm to it. And then we come out of it into something else. It is a journey so it is pretty cool in that way.  Yeah. Solo piano for me has always been a lonely pursuit and I can do it. I like to practice the piano. I like to play the piano. I like to make music for people but it only goes a certain way until I start missing the collaboration because for me the joy of music is making music with others.   Chick Corea and Bela Fleck they are on the road right now. Go and check them out if you have the chance. Do not miss them. They are new live duo album called Two is out right now. Gentleman it has been such a treat speaking with both of you. Thank you.  Same here. Same here Arun.  Thank you Arun.  Thank you man.  