 The harmonica is best known as a blues or folk instrument not so much for improvising jazz until Toots Thielemans came along.   Thielemans also lent his distinctive sound to film and TV scores. Millions have heard him on the Sesame Street theme and on pop songs by Billy Joel and Paul Simon. Toots Thielemans died today in the city where he was born Brussels Belgium. He was 94. NPR's Tom Cole has this appreciation.  It was not easy for Toots Thielemans to get people to take his little instrument seriously says Howard Levy another harmonica virtuoso who got to know Thielemans.  He had to really fight for some respect because people would always make jokes like if I would known you were coming I would have brought my kazoo - that kind of stuff. He really created a tremendous amount of respect for the instrument.   Harmonica was not Toots Thielemans' first instrument. That was accordion which he played as a kid in his parents' Brussels cafe. But as he told Marian McPartland on Piano Jazz in 2005...   Being a musician was not really a profession so you needed to try to get a diploma. And I was not bad not outstanding but not bad in mathematics so I was aiming for a degree in mathematics. Louis Armstrong changed all that .  He heard jazz and that was it. He picked up harmonica as a teenager and then guitar and caught the attention of Benny Goodman in 1950.   Jean Thielemans at the harmonica.   From there Thielemans was off and running. He moved to the United States and joined pianist George Shearing's popular quintet. As the 1960s dawned Thielemans added another color to his palette whistling.   Bluesette became an international hit with Thielemans' whistling and playing guitar in unison even as he seems to improvise.   This device not only caught the ears of fans but advertisers.   Wake up. Wake up with Old Spice.  Thielemans became a first-call studio musician for top arrangers like Quincy Jones. His harmonica graced the Sesame Street theme and the score for Midnight Cowboy.   But jazz was Thielemans' first love. And Howard Levy says he kept pushing himself right to the end of his career.  Toots was a transcendent musician. If he had picked up any other instrument he would have been just as great. But what was remarkable about him was that he was able to express the full range of emotional and musical ideas through the chromatic harmonica. He was really playing music through the harmonic rather than playing the harmonica.   And Toots Thielemans kept playing despite a stroke when he was in his 60s only retiring at the age of 92. Tom Cole NPR News. 