 We have a winner. Judges for this year's Tiny Desk Contest sifted through thousands of entries. They have chosen a song called Wait Up by an artist named Neffy.    Deep in the pocket of your coat there is a letter there that I wrote. We both know that this cannot work not when the river's calling - oh the river's calling.  Beautiful - and Neffy herself joins us now. Welcome and congratulations.  Hello. Thank you so much for having me. I am so grateful to be here.  What has today been like for you so far?  It has been absolutely wild and sort of in like a half stage of in - still in shock and disbelief and also in a half stage of just trying to soak it all in. My mom is bursting at the seams.  Aw great.  And my parents - and collectively are - they are really happy and that makes me happy.    Wait up. Is there one last chance to dance in the river - dance in the river? I am stuck.  So tell us about your song. When did you write it? Why'd you write it?  I wrote Wait Up about a month and a half ago. I had just come from living in New York City for a while and then I got the chance to return home to my roots in Arlington Va. And that really gave me the chance to reflect on the last five years that I had been living in New York City for college and how much that took out of me spiritually and mentally and physically. And it was something that I really needed to write.  One of the lines that you sing - I think this is the chorus. You write I am stuck and the city's got its grip on me and I have had enough.   Which I was experiencing the pandemic in a different city but it felt pretty much like the chorus of the pandemic.  .    I am stuck and the city's got its grip on me and I have - I have had enough.  What was going through your mind when you wrote that?  It is pretty self-explanatory to be like completely honest. I have had enough of all of the anxiety and the confusion and the excitement that comes along with living in a big city. And so I just needed a way out . And those were the words that I feel like encapsulated how I was feeling.  The way you structure the song feels very of the moment. It is you and your guitar that is it. The video you made is super intimate and simple. It is you sitting at this table at home. You are alone. And that felt like something that would resonate in this moment. So many of us have been sitting at a table at home alone.  Yeah. It is always just been me and my guitar. Like I have never had like a huge band play behind me. But I think it might just speak to the broader sort of more ongoing conversation of isolation. And being alone at that table reflects sort of the reality of a lot of people during this troubling time. But to be simple it just is just me and my guitar. It is always been that way.  In fact it is so just you and your guitar that you sing your own backup on this right? Did you...   Yes. Yes I do sing my own backing vocals. I just kept layering and layering and layering my vocals and that was like a really fun process for me.    Ill rejoice in my own free will in the tide where your waters run still.  You sound like you come to this with tremendous talent and self-confidence already but winning something like this when you are still so young it must be kind of an answer maybe to any voices of doubt you ever had in your head over gosh this is something I can really do and make it real.  Yes absolutely. A few weeks ago I was not sure about like you know the fate of my career and what I was going to do in the future because being an artist is quite uncertain. And this situation that I was fortunate enough to win and be put in has put some of that self-doubt away for me. So that has been really great.  I am glad. That is the winner of this year's Tiny Desk Contest. She was born Mecca Russell. She sings beautifully as Neffy and she is been talking with us about her song - her winning song - Wait Up. Thank you so much and congratulations again.  Thank you so much for having me. I am just very grateful to be here .    Held me tender as a child. 