 Here's a beautiful story. Two childhood friends go their separate ways and individually carve out stellar reputations in the music industry. One is Sam Beam the folkie known as Iron  Wine.    Will you say when I am gone away...  The other is the southern-fried front man for Band of Horses Ben Bridwell.    Going to take a trip to Laredo going to take a dip in the lake...  Now the old friends have finally combined musical forces for a collection of cover songs the jam session that should have happened a long time ago. They are calling it Sing Into My Mouth. Here's a Bonnie Raitt song they both love.    If she is a woman she will try to make it last. You are a man now. You better end it fast.  Let me introduce you Ben and then you will introduce me. This is Ben Bridwell.  Hey. This is Sam over here - Sam Beam.  And Ben and Sam go way back.  We grew up in the same town in Columbia S.C. His older brother is one of my best friends and we - Ben would come over and we - you know we would be listening to records and we sort of bonded over the types of music that we liked. And we kept in contact over the years send each other music you know like friends do sharing stuff and eventually had a lot to do with each other's early music career. Ben introduced my music to a label that I was involved with called Sub Pop early on. And then I would take him out when Band of Horses started on the road with us.  And then he thus got my band signed to Sub Pop as well. So we - in a way we each got one another signed to Sub Pop coming up from the catty-corner of the country.  So you guys are even.  I think so. I would like a little bit more actually.   I have got to tell you guys when I first listened to this record - I like to listen kind of purely. I did not even like look up the song names or any of the background...  Good.  I did not realize until I was about halfway through these are covers. My producer's saying come on you had to recognize the Talking Heads. I thought these were all original tunes until I was about halfway through.  That is great that is great.    Home is where I want to be but I guess I am already there. I come home she lifted up her wings. I guess that this must be the place.  The one I started to realize on and it was because of the words and I had to look it up later you do a cover of Sade's Bulletproof Soul.   Yeah.    I was so in love with you. Rarely see a love that true. Was not that enough for you?  It is funny because Ben and I and his dad used to like sit around and listen to Sade records ...  A little bit.  ...At his dad's house. That song in particular on the record was a fun throwback to you know our friendship from a long time - a lot of these songs are that way. They are specifically songs that we shared and some of them are songs that we found along the way and just enjoyed. It is been a fun project.    Too busy thinking. Love is a gun. Hit me like a slow bullet like a slow bullet.  So did you guys see eye-to-eye on all the selections here? Were there any songs that one of you guys had to sell to the other one?  Well...  How about you take that one Ben?  OK. No just like when we first started corresponding with mixtapes and through the mail and stuff like that - we share the same affection for a lot of different kinds of music. So if one of us had you know a particular passion about a certain song we would usually agree. I mean I do not think - I cannot imagine being like actually I think that song's terrible. If anything there is so many songs it was trying to pare them down.  It is funny I kind of feel like we are in an era where I need to say a mixtape was a thing - well we had these things called cassette tapes and we would pick our favorite songs and give them to friends.  Yeah I forget we have to explain what those are to people.  Yeah.  So you guys are about to go on tour. What is it going to be like? Do you guys set ground rules before you pile up in a tour bus together?  .  We should probably make a couple at least. I do not want to see Sam in his undies. I do not want people in their undies.  That is odd 'ecause that is my rule - I always have to be in my undies.   All right well...  That is my rule. Actually the only rule seems to be to have fun do music that you like. And we will be doing stuff from the record and covering our own material. You know I am going to do some of his songs and Ben's going to do some Iron  Wine songs.  We share the same kind of fan base as well which is girls and their reluctant boyfriends I think...   ...You know through the doors. It is good you sell two tickets instead of one. No I think there'ill be some cool surprises for the show-goers to get to hear us interpret each other's work.  What do you guys get out of playing each other songs? Like you know Ben what do you get out of the Iron  Wine songs?  Oh man. Well I have probably been Sam's biggest...  A hand cramp.   I get embarrassment when I cannot figure out his Beatles chords or whatever. Just like with any cover song you hear the narrator tell a story but you put it into your own story you know? And I think Sam has an amazing gift with phrases and painting incredible pictures with his words so it is nice. I get to actually like interpret it my own way and put my own feeling into it because these songs have lived with me for so long.  See why I like hanging out with this guy?   He is very kind. And I have got to say just the project that we are doing is really fun to interpret other people's music that you do not particularly know but just you have an affinity or a soft spot in your heart for a song. But it is even more fun when you know the person who wrote it and you can you know bring what you know about the writer to your performance of the song. It informs what you do. And you know we have been friends for so long it is a treat to be able to do his music.   Sam Beam is Iron  Wine and Ben Bridwell fronts Band of Horses. The new album together is called Sing Into My Mouth. Gentlemen it is been a real pleasure speaking with you. Thank you.  Likewise thank you for your time.  Absolutely thank you very much.    Light comes a-creeping in the morning. The curtain will rise again. I know I know because I have done this one before. 