 It can take many months even years for a composer to finish a new piece of music. Ben Wendel challenged himself to create a new piece every month this year. His inspiration goes back to 1876. That is when a St. Petersburg music magazine commissioned the Russian composer Tchaikovsky to do that to write a new piano piece for every month of that year. The series was called The Seasons and here's Tchaikovsky's June.   Ben Wendel's 2015 version of this project updates the concept.   Wendel is also a Grammy-nominated saxophonist. He is been recording a duet performance with a different musician every month this year. And he posts each video for free on his website. Commentator Michelle Mercer has been watching and listening and says Wendel composes each piece with his collaborator in mind.  As you watch the video of Ben Wendel and drummer Eric Harland joking around on their way to the studio it is clear they are headed for a loose fun session of music.   We are going to go up to this high-rise. I am going up all day.  The musicians' banter feeds right into the charged interplay of their music. There is a lot happening here in this April installment of The Seasons.   Wendel on tenor sax is covering both harmony in a lower line and the melody up high. But the main thing this collaboration brings across is a sense of camaraderie of Wendel being inspired by Harland's levity and his powerful finesse on the drums.   With this video series of duets Wendel wants to showcase the musical personalities of his friends. Here in his January interpretation with pianist Taylor Eigsti both musicians bring propulsive rock energy and jazz improvisation to a classical style.   Wendel's circle of musicians all share a genre-combining sensibility. In The Season's most recent release July we are transported to a sunny Manhattan apartment.   That of guitarist Julian Lage. The music has the tranquility of a deserted city block on a summer weekend and Wendel on the bassoon here relaxes into Lage's virtuosity so completely they might as well be the only two musicians left in town.   With The Seasons Wendel expresses the simple truth that for an artist like him the experience and shape of a year are defined by his talented friends and along the way he is giving us insight into some of the sharpest musicians around today.   Ben Wendel's final five installments of The Seasons will be released on each remaining month of the year at his website BenWendel.com. Our reviewer is Michelle Mercer. 