 The Women's March and the MeToo movement have helped raise the volume of women's voices across the country. One place where women still struggle to be heard is in America's symphony halls. NPR's Tom Huizenga looked at which composers the top U.S. orchestras are performing in the upcoming season and found some surprises.  The Chicago Symphony Orchestra will be presenting some 54 composers throughout its 2018-2019 season. Want to guess how many of those composers are women? Right - zero. Same number goes for the Philadelphia Orchestra.  Obviously zero is a very damning number.  That is Jeremy Rothman vice president of artistic planning for the Philadelphia Orchestra.  In this one year we did have that particular oversight which we are rectifying.  To be fair Philadelphia has programmed women composers in the past.   I am Jennifer Higdon and I am a composer.  Higdon is lucky. Her music gets played a lot.  This year alone I have three concertos premiering.  She is a 55-year-old Pulitzer and Grammy winner a Philadelphia resident whose music is accessible to both orchestras and audiences. Higdon's most popular work is Blue Cathedral and it will be the only work by a woman played this coming season by another one of America's top symphonies the Cleveland Orchestra.   Hidgon's success has given her some perspective. While orchestras play her music she says they seem to be deaf to hundreds of other women composers.  The way of thinking in orchestras is so built on an old tradition that they just assume that there are certain pieces they need to program or certain composers that have been done time and time again. And they just do not think about programming women.  And when they do program women it tends to be the ones who are already successful like Higdon or Julia Wolfe who won a Pulitzer in 2015 for her oratorio Anthracite Fields.    Bake a cake. Drill a hole. Go to the gym. Heat your house.  The New York Philharmonic is presenting a new work by Julia Wolfe next season. But out of 49 composers there are only two women on the upcoming schedule.  Heck you know what? Half of humanity's made up of women so why is it that orchestras - we only see 1 to 2 percent of the programming of women?  Jesse Rosen has one answer to Higdon's question. He is the president and CEO of the League of American Orchestras.  If you go back in time this was not a viable career for a woman to become a composer. And so you have a canon that by definition does not have a lot of women composers in it.  So you tend to get a lot of Mozart and Beethoven.   Rosen says another problem is that orchestras have to please a lot of constituents - audiences board members marketing departments donors. And then there is the will of the conductors and artistic directors most of them men. They are the ones who choose the music. The bottom line for orchestras Rosen says is money.  They rely to a significant degree on their box office and their subscribers. And you have got very thin financial margins that you are trying to manage. So I think it is part of life in the arts.  The real question for composers though is how to break into the club that exclusive group whose music gets performed. The question is the same for young composers composers of color and women says Philadelphia's Jeremy Rothman.  We have to be giving composers the right tools to compose successful works being able to workshop their pieces. Simply commissioning pieces and performing them once is not going to be the solution.  And for orchestras to check off the woman composer box once or twice a year is not going to cut it either says the Orchestra League's Jesse Rosen.  If you do not have a consciousness that says you know we value diversity in all its manifestations then the default is going to be you are going to end up with a lot more white men.  Among the top American orchestras programming more than one or two women next season are the Boston Symphony Orchestra and the Los Angeles Philharmonic. But they still come up pretty short. Each is presenting just six women out of a total of 45. One composer on both their rosters is Kaija Saariaho who gets played more in Europe than she does here.   Some might caution against crunching numbers for a single season that it does not provide a large enough picture. But Jennifer Higdon knows the numbers have been lousy for years. It is up to us ticket holders she says to ask for something better.  The fact is I think the scene has to change. I say give it a try. There is a lot of fantastic music going on out there. Why miss out on it?  Tom Huizenga NPR News.  