 For all the love pouring out for Michael Jackson there are also those who feel conflicted about his legacy. When it comes to complicating public adulation with a questionable private life Michael Jackson was in the class by himself. In the 1990s he paid out over 20 million to settle a claim of child molestation. Years later he was tried and acquitted of other child molestation charges. At best he enjoyed the company of children whom he invited for sleepovers. Teresa Wiltz has been weighing Michael Jackson's undeniable contribution to music against his personal failing. She is a senior culture writer for TheRoot.com. Hi welcome. Ms.  Hello.  How do you weigh this the contributions of Michael Jackson the strangeness of his personal life? Ms.  Well I think it is tricky. You know I grew up as a fan of Michael Jackson as many many many people did and became increasingly dismayed by the freak show over the years and covering them as a journalist you know his artistry became eclipsed by the increasingly bizarre behavior. I have to say sometimes I feel pretty wishy washy because we have to look at the fact that he did revolutionize pop music. He revolutionized the music video. And so I think for a lot of the fans that are grieving right now there is this kind of compartmentalization. I mean there are people who just think he is absolutely innocent and they are quite vehement about that. And then there is others who just are completely horrified by the allegations against him.  One of the questions that Michael Jackson's life and career seem to pose us with is the issue of the role model. And in recent years it is been increasing common to declare everyone who is terrifically successful at anything a role model of some sort. Here is somebody who might have been an artistic role model for people but not in the way that he led his life or somehow seem to resist becoming an adult in key respects. Ms.  Well he identified with Peter Pan. He said he was Peter Pan. He cannot be a role model. He can be a role model as you said artistically his music. He sold more records than anyone ever. But you know some of the greatest stars made by some profoundly deeply troubled people. And I think especially in this media age where it is just like 247 TMZ-style coverage we put way too much pressure on our artists to be something that they are not. And clearly this is - Michael Jackson was someone who could not handle that pressure.  Well he did not exactly shrink from publicity though. Ms.  No he courted it.  He loved being photographed and being covered everywhere. Ms.  I think he courted the controversy at the same time he would kind of decry it and you know he tried to have it both ways I think.  What do you make of Michael Jackson's unique at least a role in American race relations as somebody who first of all crossed the color line in terms of his appeal to audiences? And then oddly seemed to cross the color line in his own life. He lightened. Ms.  He did. And of course there is this you know huge debate on the Internet right now whether or it was vitiligo as he attested or something else. He is an interesting case because there are those who think that he really did not want to be black and so was trying to erase his blackness and you know there' the hair the nose the skin color. But you know when you watch his videos as I did it was so deeply rooted in his black aesthetic. I think we can look at him and see that this you know judge by his actions. And by his actions he was someone who had a very complicated feelings about being black in America.  How does one describe Michael Jackson to children? What do you say? Ms.  That is an interesting question because I have an eight-year-old niece and a 12-year-old nephew and I have been talking to them about him. You know my niece looked at she would seen the grownup Michael and then when she saw pictures of the little kids the same age as she is she was shocked and she was just kind of stunned.  She was shocked that is not the person you mean she was saying. Ms.  Yeah. Yeah. She was just stunned. So I mean I think you say I told them this is somebody who did not like himself very much - made great music.  And as a grown man would have enjoyed the company of a 12-year-old I mean would have - he would have invited your nephew perhaps over for a sleepover. Ms.  But he would not have been allowed to go.   That is the correct answer. Ms.  And I think we also have to remember he was acquitted of these charges. We will probably never know what really happened. But we can speak with authority that this someone who had a lot of troubles.  Teresa Wiltz senior culture writer for The Root thanks a lot for talking with us. Mr.  Thank you.  The Root by the way is a daily online magazine focused on African-American issues. 