  This summer we have been talking with musicians about their favorite songs of summer. We also asked you to send us your memories about the one tune that pops into your head when the days get hot and lazy. We received a ton of great stories and we have picked a few of them for the air. Here are two listeners with their memories about singing summer songs out loud.  Mr.   I seem to recognize your face. Mr.  My name's Eric Lockstine from Sun Prairie Wisconsin. And my favorite pick for my summer song is Elderly Woman Behind the Counter in a Small Town by Pearl Jam.  Mr.   Cannot find the candle of thought to light your name. Mr.  I was listening to it while mowing the lawn at my parents' property. I had a cassette tape when I was a kid. And we did not have a lot of money so this was like one of the one tapes that I had - was this album. So I would listen to the album in its entirety. And then right around the time that Elderly Woman that song came on I was just about getting finished with the lawn and that is a song that as a young teenage boy you could - it was fairly in my range. So I could attempt to sing it and nobody would overhear me over the lawn mower. If you can imagine a 13-year-old skinny little boy singing you know at the top of his lungs pushing this lawn mower - but you know hopefully you could not hear him.   Mr.   And here I am. Hearts and thoughts they fade away.  What happens when you hear the song now? Mr.  I do think of Sunday afternoons freshly cut grass you know. It is usually warm so I am ready to get my lemonade or my drink of water after I am finished with my weekly chore. So it is always that summer cut grass kind of feel.  Mr.   Hearts and thoughts they fade fade away.  Mr.   Where it began Ms.  I am Margot Bowman and I am from Hummelstown Pennsylvania. And in the '70s my family for a couple of summers took a vacation on Kelleys Island in Lake Erie.  Be back before dark and do not drown in the lake.  Mr.   And spring became the summer. Ms.  So we would go off and we would fish and bike and swim. Whenever we got a quarter we would go into that little restaurant-bar that is nearby the cottages where we would stay. And of course I mean you know there is no air-conditioning. And so the doors were open and you know you would just kind of run in there dropping sand along the way. We would walk up to that jukebox and did not even have to look for what number to push.  Mr.   Sweet Caroline. Good times never seem so good. Ms.  It was not just me. It was me and my two sisters and my two brothers. And we would all just stand there and sing Sweet Caroline and you know just belt it out for all its worth. And so I am pretty sure that by the time that week was out that bartender had heard enough of that song.   I am betting there were some dramatic arm movements reaching out. Ms.  Yeah.  Ms.  Oh absolutely. You know the hands - touching hands part it definitely demands that you do the gestures along with it you know and then hang on to whoever was next to you and sway back and forth as well.  Mr.   Reaching out touching me.  Margot did not anybody at this bar say throw this kids out I am tired of this song?  Ms.  Well you know we speculated about that over the years. And my sisters and I firmly believe that because there was a poor guy working behind the bar and listening to that song you know six eight times a day for the week that we were there today if you looked hard enough on Kelleys Island you would find somebody who hates that song.  Mr.   Oh no no.  We heard there from listener Margot Bowman of Hummelstown Pennsylvania and earlier from Eric Lockstine in Sun Prairie Wisconsin with their memories of summer songs.  Mr. DIAMOND  Sweet Caroline. Good times never seem so good. Sweet Caroline.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 