 Pianist Marc-Andre Hamelin has a reputation for embracing the toughest strangest music. Here's how he describes his new album.  Well I often tell people that it is going to be either the most aggravating thing you have ever listened to or the best migraine medicine you have ever had.  He is talking about For Bunita Marcus a piece by the late Morton Feldman. NPR's Tom Huizenga sat down with Hamelin to find out why it is worth a listen.   For Marc-Andre Hamelin it is all about the unknowable.  Be prepared for anything. This is not going to sound at all like what you are used to. But I am trying to get you into a world that I think is really really fascinating.   The world of Morton Feldman is tied to the New York School A group of experimental composers who hovered near John Cage beginning in the 1950s. But Feldman's music by design sounded like nobody else's past or present. He could not relate to Bach Mozart or even some of his fellow modernists. And he got defensive in a 1967 interview when radio host and composer Charles Shere brought up Feldman's critics who carped that his music was too soft and too slow.   I do not know what they mean.  His work Feldman said exists on its own terms. He thought his detractors simply brought personal baggage to their listening experience.   So when they say about my work there is a limited palette - and immediately they are thinking of something else.  And maybe they were. In the very opening bars of For Bunita Marcus I hear echoes of an older composer.   That is Footprints In The Snow one of Claude Debussy's preludes. Now here's the Feldman.   Well here we are in these three notes - we are exactly in the same register as the beginning of that prelude. But very quickly you realize that this is not about melody.  Right.  And in a sense it is not about harmony either.  So what is it about?  Sound time and space reduced to their bare essentials.   Fifty-five-year-old year Marc-Andre Hamelin has quietly cultivated a reputation as a thoughtful piano virtuoso with a gargantuan musical appetite. That does not mean concert presenters are busting down his door begging him to play Feldman. Especially in his late works the composer makes significant demands on the listener.  He completely exploded the framework of the piano recital because the actual concert-going audiences are not really prepared for this kind of thing.   Yet Hamelin has played For Bunita Marcus in concert twice. At one performance though someone in the front row snored.  But that was brief thankfully . Although it makes the snoring sound particularly poetic.  Morton Feldman's experiments and sounds seem to render melody harmony and rhythm as we know them irrelevant. For Hamelin every moment in the music is a window toward the infinite.  You could see it as something that is playing has been playing and will be playing for eternity. And this is just a slice of it.  Tom Huizenga NPR News.  