 No offense to Shakira but for me Colombia's most exciting musical export is Bomba Estereo.   .  Bomba instrumentalist Simon Mejia and vocalist Liliana Saumet are the forces behind Bomba Estereo. Believe it or not there are a lot of traditional sounds in this music. Do not feel bad if you cannot hear them. When Bomba Estereo started 10 years ago audiences in Colombia did not know quite what to make of them either. Here's Simon Mejia.  We were kind of the pioneers. When we started like mixing with electronics here and the people are like purists of the folk music from Colombia - they took it a little bit like you are destroying the tradition no? So there was a little bit kind of a dilemma. But then they went away no? And now people are more open-minded.  So let us talk about this new record. I want to talk about the song Fiesta.   .  And I think maybe a great way to get into it would be if you could describe for us the Carnival in Barranquilla.  The Carnival of Barranquilla is like Mardi Gras. They all come like from the same tradition - African tradition no? And it is the moment where all the traditional musical folk music Cumbia Afro-indigenous music from Colombia gathers and happens this party. We have parades and people dress up so it is a little bit talking about all the preparation and then the party and then going out in the parade and living the Carnival. But the first half of the song .   .  Yeah.  And it goes like to a party - I do not know in New York or London.  Maybe outer space even. It sounds like a wild party.  Yeah.   .  It is very straightforward to musical universe. It is not that we like to blend in general in our music that is this folkloric tropical very Colombian and Caribbean music with electronic music. And this track puts it like very clear no? It is like very elegant what happens there.   .  My kids were just dancing like mad to I mean to the whole album but that track in particular.   Yeah kids like it - mine too mine too.  So the title of this new album is Amanecer. That means sunrise right?  Yeah it is sunrise. But it is like a metaphor. We use the word as trying to describe an album that is an album of changes - like musical changes because we - it is very different from what we did before no? And musical changes is us changing into being independent signing to a major - us working with a producer and Bomba trying to explore with different sounds no - and not only traditional Cumbia and Caribbean sounds but trying to move a little bit forward.   .  I think of this song - and this being my daughter's favorite from this album. My whole family loved this album - this song Soy Yo were the line goes something like I keep singing through open doors through all these countries.  The lyrics is more or less about nowadays with all the Internet around and everything you are like - people are like very exposed to open criticism you know? Like everyone can have an opinion about something or someone. So this song is more or less like you know the thing that matters that you are yourself. And you are indivisible and that is more important than anything.   .  So do you think of yourself as a Colombian band or are you bigger than that as you have taken all of these new influences now?  I think yeah. I think we are Colombian because the music at the end it is very Colombian no? And we are singing in Spanish. But it is like a universal. It is like watching the world from Colombia. It is like our perspective of how we see the world.   .  Simon Mejia is a founding member of the Colombian band Bomba Estereo. Their new album is called Amanecer. Simon Mejia thank you so much.  Thank you very much you for inviting me.   . 