 One of the most polarizing and intriguing figures in hip-hop right now is a 23-year-old rapper and producer who goes by the name Travis Scott. He grew up as Jacques Webster in a suburb of Houston. His mentor is Kanye West and he is signed to the label imprint of hip-hop star T.I. His first official album is called Rodeo and NPR Music's Timmhotep Aku has our review.  Like Kanye West Travis Scott is a college dropout with a middle-class background who chose music over higher education. Scott has a lot in common with West when it comes to attitude too. He is passionate almost to a fault and a recent spate of controversial outbursts have earned him a reputation as an enfant terrible.    Jacques to La Flame now you rolling on an Addy - 50 on her chain another 50 on her caddy.  Travis Scott is both a musician and a master thief. On his full-length debut Rodeo he appropriates the sounds and aesthetics of forebears like Kid Cudi and contemporaries like Chief Keef to create a dark visceral sonic collage all his own.    Do not you open up that window. Do not you let out that antidote. Popping popping's all we know. In the hills is all we know. Do not go through the front door. It is low key at the night show. So do not you open up that window.  Musically Rodeo is sprawling. It blends the cinematic synths of Atlanta's trap scene the aggressive percussion of Chicago's drill music and the auto-tuned singsong rap of the city's bop music with the more-is-better maximalism that Kanye West is known for.    Thirties in city moving slow 3500 for the coat. Only only only real real keep you afloat. Only trill trill I know. Only only only trill I know. Only only only trill I know. Only trill I know. Only only only trill I know. Ladies order up the champagne a whole lot of it. Painkillers - they got back pain. Now you got to love it.  Lyrically Rodeo is debaucherous disaffected and rude. This is attitude for attitude's sake or more precisely because the words are not there to convey deep meaning as much as to accompany the music's overall mood.    Calling for Maria - lost without Maria. I dive in the marina. So trust me Baby. Trust me. Trust me Baby.  Travis Scott's musical collage is all about atmosphere. Sure some will dismiss Rodeo as derivative but that is not his concern. He knows that if you are going to be known as a thief you should be known as a thief with impeccable taste.  Timmhotep Aku of NPR Music reviewed Rodeo by Travis Scott. 