 Now a music conversation with a man whose life is tied to Sudan even though he has lived in the U.S. since he was a child. Today the news from Sudan is dark. The military has violently cracked down on protesters there. A doctors group in the country says dozens of people were killed. This comes after a coup in April overthrowing Omar al-Bashir. He had ruled Sudan for decades since another coup in 1989. That event was a key moment in the life of Ahmed Gallab. He is the lead singer and songwriter of a band called Sinkane. Here's what Gallab told ALL THINGS CONSIDERED five years ago.   My father was affiliated with the government that was overthrown. So we quickly applied for asylum in the United States and gained asylum. At that point my family had to start all over completely from the beginning.  Before today's violent crackdown I talked with Ahmed Gallab about Sinkane's new album Depayse.    Cause if I describe to full melody  she will lead me astray from my chosen path...  Gallab wrote a track called Ya Sudan during Omar al-Bashir's brutal regime. And yet the song has an optimistic sound.    Ya Sudan. Ya Sudan.  On the previous Sinkane records I have always wanted to write this song. And I just did not really know how to dig into myself. I think after the Muslim ban happened and Trump was elected I started to think about who am I? You know and what is my true identity?  Of course Sudan was one of the countries in that travel ban.  Yes. You know and being Sudanese is one of my - a part of my true identity.   My psyche. . Sudani .  And it became a little bit easier. I started to become addicted with understanding this you know? And it really sparked a lot of inspiration for me to think more about myself and to reconnect with my identity my Sudanese identity.  The title of the album is Depayse. What does the word depayse mean?  Depayse is a French word that means removed from one's habitual surroundings. It could also mean to be disoriented or a little confused. But it does not have a negative connotation.  Let us listen to a little bit of the title track.    Killed part of myself back home. Here it is under attack. Under attack. .  You wrote lyrics in two languages for this song.  Yeah. Arabic is my first language and English.  Why did you decide to do both in this song when most of the rest of the album is just in English?  I feel like since I started Sinkane I have always wanted it to be a bilingual project. Even still like when I make my demos the lyrics are predominantly in Arabic. It is easier for me to emote that way. But I think universally it is a lot easier for people to come in if they are hearing English lyrics.    I keep praying and praying for what? Depayse...  So is this song kind of a moment of you maybe moving away from - I do not know - professional industry expectations and more towards what feels to you like some kind of more authentic artistic expression?  I feel like because of what is been going on in the world artists like me are much more confident about expressing their duality.    I am singing for the day we realize that we all relate.  What do you mean when you say given what is going on in the world - what specifically?  Given the Muslim ban given things like Brexit the white supremacy uprising that is happening right now. I do not want to speak for everyone. But I can definitely speak for myself. I was very influenced to sing more in Arabic and to express my Sudanese identity much more confrontationally and much more honestly.  Almost refusing to hide refusing to be cowed.  Exactly.    I am not afraid do not need no fear. I have never met a stranger anywhere.  I could imagine some people reacting to the kind of Islamophobia and hostility to Muslims by retreating. Can you tell us about your decision to not be afraid of wearing and presenting multiple identities and being proud about your background and the you know many influences that make you who you are?    Our love's for everyone.  I have always been - and I think a lot of people who are like me have always been - a little bit insecure. I think growing up I always wanted to be like everyone else. You know I always wanted to go sleep over at my American friends' houses because I could wake up and smell bacon at their house. You know and that was so different.  .  That was so different from my experience at home you know?  Yeah.  And I was like oh I just want to be like them. But as I grew up and learned about myself more and connected with other people like me I realized how beautiful my experience is as well you know? And in respecting that and being myself unapologetically my friends accepted me as much as they accept everyone else. Or the world accepted me as much as they accept everyone else. And I did become a part of the community that I wanted to be.   I do not know whether you are observant. But we are speaking during the month of Ramadan. And the song Stranger seems to speak to Muslim religious traditions.    So I get down on my knees. I bow down face your knees. Starve myself to know you better hoping that I will find my peace. But still I feel incomplete.  You know growing up in the United States and growing up around people who are not Muslim it made me a bit confused about my religion about my spirituality. And then at the same time I would go back to Sudan or I would connect with other Sudanese or Muslim people who were a lot like me but were not necessarily good people you know? And I found that to be very very confusing.  Like this is not what I was promised. This is not what I was told.  Yeah exactly. And I think a lot of people who grew up in the United States or grew up outside of the place where they came from and were not surrounded by a lot of people like them ask these kind of questions.    Yadup . Yadup. Yadup. Yadup. Yadup . Help me through these murky waters that seem part of your master plan.  So where do you come down on this? Because at least from the song it does not sound like you have concluded that religion is nonsense and should be abandoned. But you also clearly have real questions.  Well complexity exists in the world.   Right.  And I think that I - I have found peace in not knowing.  Yeah.  But also I think that it is really important for me to be the Muslim or the Sudanese person or the African or the American or the - the Ahmed that I want to be. You know I am not going to let anybody define that other than myself.    But now I am feeling stronger. And I know I can fight for you. Stand up if you wanna. Together we can start anew. Oh...  Ahmed Gallab thanks so much for talking with us.  Thank you.  He is the lead singer and songwriter of the band Sinkane. And the new album is Depayse.    We are all gonna go. Come on it is a brand new day. 