 And we are joined by my good friend world music DJ Betto Arcos. Betto welcome back.  A pleasure to be with you Arun.  Betto you know I am a lifelong jazz fan and I am also a fan of reinventing popular music in different styles. So when I heard what you had cooked up for us today I got pretty excited. Tell us about the concept you have here.  Well I wanted to bring four artists that are what I think - reimagining old songs every one of them in their own different way and in their own different style. Let us take a listen to the first one. This is a collaboration between someone that we have talked about before Ibrahim Maalouf.  Oh trumpet man.   .  This sounds very different from the last Ibrahim Maalouf album you played for us here.  This is a collaboration between Ibrahim and the rapper-hip-hop artist Oxmo Puccino a singer who was born in Mali but at the age of two or three his parents came to Paris. And that is where he is been living so he is got a very French kind of quality to his style. And here what they do is they reimagine the work of Lewis Carroll the most famous...  Alice In Wonderland Lewis Carroll?  Exactly. That is what we are talking about. They are reimagining the entire work of Alice In Wonderland and they call it Au Pays D'Alice.   .  It kind of showcases not just chapter-by-chapter Alice In Wonderland but in a new setting in today's France all set within the political and social context going on not just in France but in Europe.  Wow .  Anti-Semitism intolerance toward immigrants racism homophobia - all of these things that are happening in Europe today. This is what it is all about.   .  And that is Ibrahim along with - who is the rapper there?  Oxmo Puccino.  Oxmo Puccino. Excellent. Their take - new take on Alice In Wonderland. So what do you got next for us Betto?  The next piece is one of my all-time favorite singers from anywhere Souad Massi who was originally from Algeria. She is based in France for the last decade or so. Here what she does is she takes a poem by an Iraqi poet Ahmad Matar who writes about what is happening in the Middle East.   .  This is a song called Ayna or The Visit. And the lyrics are all about a leader that visits a region of his country and says do not worry. Tell me your grievances. I want to hear your situation. And someone speaks up and says yeah sure where is our healthcare? Where is all the things you promised - the employment? And after the leader leaves the person that spoke was jailed. A year later he returns to the same region saying the same thing as he did before. And so his friend steps up and says sir so where is all that stuff that you promised? And also where is my friend Hassan ?   .  That is Souad Massi with a version of the Iraqi poem Ayna. We have world music DJ Betto Arcos here. Betto what else you got?  Next we are going to hear from a singer originally from Albania Elina Duni. She has a new record out called Dallendyshe. And what she is doing with this song and many others that she is recorded in the last couple of albums is she is reinventing folk songs that were originally part of the propaganda that was used by the communist regime in Albania where she grew up as a child.   .  The Balkans have given us such strong women vocalists right? So you said these are all propaganda songs. What was she singing about?  This particular song is sort of a song of someone who leaves someone who goes into exile or is an immigrant and leaves home. And the lyrics say something like this. My eyes wet with tears for you. Do not you ache for me the least? I beg you moon. Please help me find the man I love so dearly.   .  That is music from the Elina Duni Quartet - a folk song from Albania very much reimagined. We have time for one more. What you have for us?  The last piece I want to share with you is Taranta. This is a folk song from Southern Italy right around the area where the heel of the boot of Italy is. These are songs that way back centuries ago were used as sort of songs to heal people that were ill. And what we have here is a pianist who collaborates with traditional musicians from this region from Puglia in a Southern Italy. His name is Ludovico Einaudi and this is his Taranta Project.   .  Dude that sounds like bhangra. That sounds like Indian - like you know Punjabi dance music.  It is very much. This is all about dancing to this music because with dancing you heal. And this is what the music was meant to do - to heal as you are dancing as you are spinning around to get rid of that stuff that is been just messing with you.  So those are traditional drums from Southern Italy 'ecause they really sound kind of Punjabi.   Yes. Yes they are although the violinist - it is not really a violin. It is an instrument from the Gambia. It is played by this fantastic musician Juldeh Camara. But it is really a blending of different musical sort of instruments and styles to make it sound kind of this global rich tapestry.   .  Nice. That is Taranta from Ludovico.  Einaudi.  Ludovico Einaudi. That is Betto Arcos. He hosts the world music program Global Village here in Los Angeles at KPFK. Betto always a blast. Thank you so much.  My pleasure. Thank you for inviting me.   . 