   Silent is the house.  This choir is from Estonia a country that takes singing seriously. The Estonian Philharmonic Chamber Choir winner of two Grammy Awards is considered one of today's best vocal ensembles. And when the group releases a new album fans of choral music listen up. And so does our reviewer NPR's Tom Huizenga.  The Estonian Philharmonic Chamber Choir is just two dozen voices. But those voices can produce a complex blend of sounds that is luminous and supple.    My soul is day.  The choir can sing Gregorian chant Mozart or Stravinsky just fine. But throughout its three-decade history the group has earned its stripes singing new music. And for this new album the music is homegrown. The composer is Tonu Korvits one of Estonia's rising stars. He can pare the choir down to just wisps of smoke or paint with bold swirling strokes.    Watch out starry night breezy moor starry night.  Raising voices in song is central to Estonians. In the summer of '88 over 100000 gathered for five nights to sing patriotic and protest songs aimed at the Soviet Union. Those long nights of song were a key part of a movement that won Estonian independence three years later. The only protest songs on this new album however are aimed at love's misfortunes.    Watch for a bird with sable wing watch for a bird...  The words are poems by English author Emily Bronte who wrote Wuthering Heights. And like her novel these poems are haunted by shadowy windswept moors and coiled emotions. The music follows suit.  Fall leaves fall die flowers away. Lengthen night and...  Bronte's words of course propel the stories in these songs stories of love gone cold and restless moonlit nights. But the strings closely mic'd seem to form a character of their own.   .  Whether it is thousands of voices or just two dozen when they rise together in song something powerful can happen. Like on this album where the fertile imaginations of a young Estonian composer and a long-gone English author intersect to produce a few moments of pure magic.  The new album by the Estonian Philharmonic Chamber Choir is Moorland Elegies. Our reviewer is NPR's Tom Huizenga.    My soul is day. My soul is day is day. My soul is my soul is day. 