 There are a bunch of historical anniversaries in August. The Watts riots happened 53 years ago. Woodstock was 49 years ago today in fact. And then there is the 46th anniversary of Wattstax.   Brothers and sisters I Do not Know What This World Is Coming To The Soul Children.   All right so some of you are going oh yes Wattstax. And others are thinking all right wait. What - watt - what? So lucky for all of you Stretch Armstrong and Bobbito Garcia are here to lay it all out. They are the legendary deejays and hosts of the NPR podcast What is Good with Stretch  Bobbito. Hey there guys.  Hey Audie.  What is up?  What is good?  .  So 46 years is kind of an unusual milestone anniversary. What got you thinking about Wattstax this year?  If you look at what is going on in the United States we are living in unusual times. And I think if you look at the circumstances that triggered the Watts riots in 1965 which was the inspiration for the Wattstax concert many of those same conditions - I am talking police brutality housing discrimination lack of access to education et cetera - all these sort of social issues that were prevalent in the '60s I think to a large degree have not been fully resolved.  Right. At the time police had pulled over a young black man and a crowd formed. And in the end there was - what? - like six days of riots. Thirty-four people died millions in property damage. So how then all those years later does Wattstax form? Why did the concert get going?  Well in 1972 seven years later in a response to the devastation that was experienced in Watts the Stax label as well as their artists and other people who were sponsoring and being involved wanted to create an event that would be uplifting for the African-American community a gathering of positive thought and energy a moment to dance a moment to sing.   So who was there? Like who was in this lineup?  Carla Thomas.  Rufus Thomas who I am sure - you did the funky penguin and the funky chicken at some point in your life.  Of course.  Yes of course...  Probably last week.    You cannot do the penguin unless you shuffle your feet. When you do the funky penguin I know it is all real.  You had The Soul Children Albert King...  The Bar-Kays.  The Bar-Kays that is right. The Staple Singers.  Whoo.    If you do not respect yourself as not nobody going to give a good cahoot. Na na na na  brother respect yourself.  I mean it was a bunch of stars. But the real star was Isaac Hayes. And...  Shaft.  He came...  Right on.  He came out last.   Who is the black private dick that is a sex machine to all the chicks?  Shaft.  You are damn right.  One rendition of the album artwork features a very regal-looking Isaac Hayes with thousands of people behind him. He looks very kingly. I mean he is in that moment a rock star.  Also as we heard earlier Jesse Jackson was there right? So it definitely had like political overtones.  Sure. Jesse Jackson actually was the emcee of most of the event. He did more than just introduce the acts. He was really inspiring people and trying to inject a level of gravitas.   Somebody.  Somebody.  I am...  I am...  ...Somebody.  ...Somebody.  I may be poor but I am somebody.  Now the other big August musical anniversary at this time Woodstock has taken on basically mythic proportions. People do not talk about Wattstax the same way. But does Wattstax have an effect say on early hip-hop? Like does some of the mood music attitude surface later?  Oh for sure. The list of artists that have borrowed from the Stax catalogs...  Is kind of crazy.  ...Is endless.    Rhymes galore rhymes galore rhymes galore.  Busta Rhymes Dr. Dre Brand Nubian.    You got to love me or leave me alone. Got to love me or leave me alone.  Biggie Smalls Wu Tang Clan - I could go on for minutes.    Cash rules everything around me - CREAM. Get the money dollar dollar bill you all.  Do you guys see like music today that nods to the Wattstax spirit?  Childish Gambino This Is America.  Oh yeah the new album definitely...  I think...  ...Has a '70s feel.  ...Kendrick Lamar. The performances Wattstax were not explicitly political but the act of gathering was political. People of color expressing themselves having a platform - this is not something that was viable in the '40s and '50s and '60s the way that it is today. So I think Wattstax resonates in a way in 2018 and will beyond in a way that I do not know that we can always directly connect to but certainly indirectly.  That is Stretch Armstrong and Bobbito Garcia. The second season of their podcast What is Good with Stretch  Bobbito is out now. You guys thanks so much.  Peace.  Thank you Audie.    Since sobriety's been washed down the drain the way we treat each other as not even humane. So you better get a move on. You better get a move on. Hurry up. Straighten up your world. Sit back and take inventory of your stock. See if you are not cheating yourself. Time is getting... 