 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Melissa Block. The musical duo The Civil Wars is engaged in a civil war of its own. Joy Williams and John Paul White had a meteoric start with their debut album three years ago Barton Hollow. It was built around their urgent plaintive harmonies.   They won a couple of Grammys toured with Adele collaborated with Taylor Swift for The Hunger Games soundtrack. But last year in the middle of a tour The Civil Wars abruptly canceled the rest of their dates citing internal discord and irreconcilable differences of ambition. They have not appeared together since. And it is in that hostile climate that they are releasing their new second album titled The Civil Wars.    Oh I wish I would never ever seen your face. I wish you were the one. Wish you were the one that got away.  To underline the rupture John Paul White is not doing any interviews. Joy Williams is and she joins me here in the studio. Joy thanks for coming in.  Yeah. Thanks for letting me be here.  Can you talk about that internal discord and irreconcilable differences? What was going on on that tour?  Yeah. There was always so much ease involved in working with John Paul and I feel like that translated in the music and that translated in our live stage performances. And over time being on the road it can be - that can be a long haul and we you know agreed to a really breakneck pace both of us. And I think that that breakneck pace broke us a little bit.  I am thinking about that phrase irreconcilable differences of ambition which implies that one of you wanted to do maybe more or less than the other. I am not quite sure how to take that.  Yeah. I mean I will not speak for John Paul. You know I respect him and I do not want to speak for him. But I do know that he is made the decision that he wants to be at home with his family and I respect that. But that also does curb the ability to be on the road. And I think for a long time I felt like as a woman I could not say I had a lot of ambition because it would - different adjectives could come to mind when you think about that. But the reality is is I do have a lot of ambition. I have got great goals and great passion and I love music. And I know John Paul loves music as well for sure. But when it came to being in the studio I think that we definitely saw some of those ambitions clashing at times. And the beauty of it is is even though we were having some personal breakdowns I think that tension actually made for a more emotional and a visceral project.    Oh if I could go back in time when you only held me in my mind just a longing gone without a trace. Oh I wish I would never ever seen your face. I wish you were the one. I wish you were the one. Oh I wish you were the one. I wish you were the one that got away.  We should explain that you and John Paul White are both married to other people.  Yes.  You have a child.  Yes.  But your song lyrics have always been very intimate and your stage presence and your videos and the photographs that you took together all played on this notion of coupledom...  Yeah.  ...and intimacy. That was sort of part of the narrative really.  Yeah. It was. It was. And it was part of the unforeseen myth that we inadvertently created.  But also fostered really.  Yeah exactly. I mean and I think too that myth was also something that you know had to be dealt with and treated very carefully because we are you know we are happily married to other people. And I think you know that dynamic was something that a lot of people connected with which is why I think a lot of people are also feeling that so intensely right now that John Paul and I are not on the same page.  Let us listen to a little bit of the song Same Old Same Old.  Yeah.    I want to leave you. I want to lose us. I want to give up but I will not. I want to miss this. I want a heartache. I want to run away but I will not.  And I am thinking Joy that it is hard to listen to a song like this one like Same Old Same Old without thinking about what is happened between you and John Paul. I know it is a dangerous thing to be too literal about lyrics.  Yeah it is.  But do you hear the tension as you listen to this song?  I hear the tension more in the vocals and you know that song is a really emotional one for me too because you know when we were writing that the discussion was more about what I would call the ache of monogamy. So I do not necessarily think of that song in relation to John Paul. I think about that for me in terms of my relationship with my husband Nate. And we have been married almost 10 years now. And that looking back with the breakneck pace and how intense everything was I feel like I was guilty of missing the beauty and the wonder and the mystery of my husband who was inches away from me.    I am going to name names. I am going to call us out. I am going to say it if you will not. Do I love you?  What are you hearing in there that is hard to listen to now from this distance?  Well for me when I think of this song I think of being in Charlie Peacock's our producer Charlie Peacock's amazing studio that we were in. And it is an old Methodist church outside of Nashville that he gutted and made it into his homestudio. And I remember Miles my son was in a baby carrier while I was singing.  Oh wow.  He was asleep.  He was on you.  He was on me asleep. And I kept being like trying to sway so that he would stay asleep. But I remember feeling this really sweet moment with my son and then looking over to the left and feeling so very far away from my duo partner.  From John Paul who was right there.  Yeah who was right there. And that there were moments I felt like I was trying to locate him but it was like through a telescope. The ease that we had was not there as much as it was before. But even in the midst of that why it is bittersweet to me is because I still remember looking over and still feeling like there is still magic here. Like there is still magic when we sing and the way that our voices blend and the way that it came to fruition on this record is really miraculous to me.    You are like a mirror reflecting me. Takes one to know one so take it from me. You have been lonely. You have been lonely too long.  Joy Williams thanks for coming in. We appreciate it.  Thanks for having me Melissa.    We have been lonely too long.  The Civil Wars' new album is The Civil Wars.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 