 For the rapper Kemba December 16 2017 was one of the best and worst nights of his life. Here's the scene. Earlier in the night rap superstar Kendrick Lamar pulls Kemba up on stage during a concert.   Come up here.  All right.  Lived through a culture shock but died in a genocide. My city is gentrified...  He starts rapping and he just wows the crowd.   Kemba. Remember than name Kemba.  But later that night Kemba got a text on his phone.  On the train I found out that my mom passed. It was just like a emotional roller coaster you know having that kind of loss at the same time. You cannot really fully be happy. You cannot really fully be sad.    Who is that peeping through my psyche? Who is that telling me I cannot do it?  Kemba's victories have often been bittersweet. After the success of his 2016 self-released album his next one seemed poised to hit big. But as he started thinking about how he wanted that album to sound his mother died. And so he switched gears.  This album was hugely inspired by the time of her passing. Like everything is through the lens of that.    Yeah yeah. I guess I just dream. Yeah yeah yeah...  Kemba's new album is called Gilda. That was his mother's name. She was a single mom of three boys and she kept them in line.  My mother was a secretary at the school that I went to. From like prekindergarten to eighth grade I saw every single day .  As a mom I am totally into that .  It was a nightmare. I could not do anything. I could not do anything wrong.    You going to need to grow up fast. Let my moms tell it. If you cannot do it no one can. Let the wrongs tell it. My mom was my main influence. You know she was everything. She was our protector and our provider. I really learned from watching her. Like in my older years she went to and finished college and got her master's because she never could because she had kids.    I feel more pressure for my moms than from the blogs yeah. I feel... She was just incredible. She used to create her own like award ceremony events for amazing women that she knew in her life.  Like she would give them awards?  Yeah. Like she organized whole events. Like it was well attended . It was like legit award ceremonies. You know at 17 I am just like why do I got to go out ? Why do I got to go out the house on a weekend? I just want to play video games. But looking back on it this is like incredible stuff you know?    I just exhale it. So I kind of learned from watching her just like this incredible work ethic.  I was reading that as you started to make your own music and experiment with your sound doctors found a tumor on your jaw.  Yeah.  And you actually missed your high school graduation because you were in surgery.  Yeah.  Where was she in that process? Like how did you process that moment?  She was right by my side. You know she was my rock in that moment.  Did you worry that your rap career was over kind of before it started?  Yeah. They told me that I should not rap. Like they told me that my jaw was so weak that just the movement could literally rip apart the work that they did. It was rough. And that was like the first times that my mom kind of saw me in like a vulnerable way because I was always the strong one of the family. It was like a real vulnerable moment for both of us.    I feel like my family tried to be family. Offered a shoulder. Then once it was over it is like they do not know me. That could lead to pure insanity hate for humanity. I could have called them but s. My momma died. I am traumatized. I am not all right...  Why was it important for you to be vulnerable in your music and to let all of that show?  I think I did not really have a choice. That was the only thing that I could write about. Like no matter what happened no matter what production I was sent no matter what the sound was the thing that always came out was something about my family. And so I could not fight it. I had to kind of lean into it.    I found myself recently dreaming about being a kid again. Broken and beaten cut open. I am peeling my skin again. Devil been creeping increasingly thinking about ending it. All my immediate family really attempted it. I had to there. You need me. No people no witnesses. Maybe...  You know this is an interesting moment in hip hop I think because you can be like Jay-Z or Drake - right? - or Kendrick Lamar literally winning like the Pulitzer Prize. Or you can be doing Old Town Road - right? - for TikTok. And what is it like for you as somebody who is basically trying to get into this business doing it in a way the old-fashioned way - putting out an album that album being focused on music being conceptual being lyrical?  I think - it feels good. I feel like this is a good time. I feel like I am able to do exactly what I want. And I feel like there are people that will receive it. So I feel comforted that now is a time where I can be vulnerable - because that was not always super accepted - and that I can do exactly what I want you know?    I am not a finished product. Only judge me when I am done. Young and black and from the projects. Got a lot to overcome.  It feels weird to do this but I am going to back to the start which is the song Work In Progress.    I got my head in clouds. I got my feet on land. My homies fell too deep. This is the quickest sand. I know that I am not a finished product. Got a lot to overcome.  Is that where you are now?  I think Work In Progress is more so a song that I made because I knew this was going to be the introduction to me for a lot of people. And I wanted to really start it off by saying look man I know like our nature is to hear artists and be inspired and take their words as like fact. But I am just trying to figure this thing out.    I am not a finished product. Only judge me when I am done. Look do not judge me . Like I am just trying to improve along the way.  Well let me say to you look man you are doing pretty good.  .  Yeah you got a lot going on and you are surviving.  Thank you.  Do you think your mom would be proud?  I do. I do.  Kemba - his album is called Gilda. Thank you so much for speaking with us.  Of course. Thank you.    Are we still the same? Young and ducking protocol. Homies made me know the law. Momma made me know it all. Taught me I should hold the door. Rumors put me overboard. Tumor took my lower jaw. Only made me want it more. It is a miracle I am... 