 Singer Demi Lovato has been in the spotlight since she was really young.    Oh when I walk across the street oh when I walk across the street...  She got her start on the kids show Barney  Friends and spent her teenage years playing the girl next door on the Disney Channel like in the Disney TV movie Camp Rock.    This is real. This is me. I am exactly where I am supposed to be now going to let light shine on me.  But the spotlight was not always kind to her. She was bullied about her weight at a young age and struggled with eating disorders. She also struggled with drug addiction. And when she was 18 years old she went to rehab.  Rock bottom hit me in a moment where I was drinking vodka out of a Sprite bottle at 9 in the morning on my way to the airport. And I actually threw up in the back of the car service. And I had a moment where I thought to myself wow this is no longer glamorous. This is no longer a young person having fun with drinking and alcohol and experimentation.  She is been sober now for five and a half years and she says she has to work at it every day. Those experiences come through in her new album Tell Me You Love Me. When I spoke to her earlier I started by asking her about the song You Do not Do It For Me Anymore.    I see the future without you. The hell was I doing in the past?  That verse I see the future without you the hell was I doing in the past now that I have learned all about you a love just like ours would not last - who is it that you are letting go of?  I actually was singing this song about my alcohol and drug addiction. When you first hear it you think wow that is pretty harsh. You know it is for an ex-boyfriend. But for me it was about my old self. And...  You were breaking up with your old self?  Yeah I was breaking up with my old self. Definitely.    No you do not do it for me anymore.  When you were in rehab you were diagnosed with bipolar disorder. And you talk very candidly about your mental illness. You also advocate for others to be open about their mental illnesses. Why is it important to you to talk about mental health in such a public way?  There are many many mental illnesses that people struggle with on a day-to-day basis that nobody feels comfortable enough to talk about it and to get the help that they need. We could prevent so many things and so many lives that could be destroyed by a mental illness if we just talk about it and we take the stigma away from it.  You know this commitment you have to being really open and honest about yourself it is a commitment that is definitely all over this other song on your new album. It is called Sorry Not Sorry. Let us listen to it.    Now I am out here looking like revenge feeling like a 10 the best I have ever been. And yeah I know how bad it must hurt to see me like this but it gets worse. Now you are out here...  It sounds like you are totally done with apologizing. What does that - what does that feel like?  I - it feels liberating. And the song actually was written - for me it was not written for an ex-boyfriend or anything like that. I was thinking about the bullies that bullied me in school and how well I am doing in my life today and how I do not give a flying S about it.    But now... I have spent so many years apologizing for my behavior and for the person that I used to be. So now I no longer am apologizing for who I was but apologizing that I am not apologizing.  Can you tell me how you got there? I know that is a huge question but I am looking at you. You are 25. I know you have gone through so much in life. I am 41 and I wish I could say yeah I am done apologizing for myself. I am done explaining myself and looking for justification. How did you get there at 25?  I think I have lived a lot of life. What people typically go through at an older age I have just - I accelerated my life at a younger age with the struggles that I have had. And you know I have people around me that hold me accountable for it. So it is easy and sometimes difficult. But for the most part I have just lived a lot of life.    Baby I am sorry I am not sorry. Baby I am sorry I am not sorry. Feeling inspired 'ecause the tables have turned. Yeah I am on fire and I know that it burns.  This is also a really really fun album. It is playful. It is sexy. You talk about...  Thank you.   You talk about being single and dating. And there is one song I want to listen to. It is called Sexy Dirty Love.    Hitting me up late always be blowing up my phone. I am lying awake wondering why I am still alone. Lord knows I am sinning please forgive me for my lust. Sending pictures back and forth babe I am craving your touch. You are my...  So what is this song about? Who are you writing this song for?  I was writing this song for somebody that I was really interested in and somebody that I had a crush on. And this was where I was at. I was feeling confident feeling sexy and wanted to write a song about it.  What did you mean by the dirty part?   We are on NPR though so keep it clean.  Yeah I am on NPR. I think I will keep it clean.  .    Sexy dirty love. Sexy dirty love. Sexy dirty love.  Demi thank you so much. Thank you and good luck.  Thank you you too.    And I cannot help but do the same...  The documentary about Lovato called Simply Complicated comes out next month. Her new album is called Tell Me You Love Me.    My sanity. Hang up come on over let us play out this fantasy. You are my new obsession. 