 If Bohemian Rhapsody comes on while you are in a car with family or friends it is quickly apparent who can carry a tune but no one can match Freddie Mercury. Earlier this year Kelly spoke to an Austrian researcher about that distinctive voice.  You can hate Queen you can love Queen but almost everyone agrees Freddie Mercury had a set of pipes.    Mama did not mean to make you cry. If I am not back again this time tomorrow carry on carry on as if nothing really mattered.  The late frontman for the legendary group died almost 25 years ago yet he is still regarded as one of the best rock singers ever. What made him so great? Well a research team in Europe wanted to figure out the science behind his voice. Christian Herbst was part of the team who just released a study on Freddie Mercury and he joins us now via Skype from Salzburg Austria. Welcome to the show.  Hello. It is a pleasure to be here.  So whose idea was this and why did you choose Freddie Mercury?  Well it was my idea. The Austrian radio asked me to give an interview about Freddie Mercury and tell them some bits about his singing some six years ago and this kind of developed into a larger project. And the other reason of course is Freddie Mercury's a most exquisite singer with a fantastic singing technique. And as a singing teacher and biophysicist that of course intrigues me.  And so what did you discover? I mean were there any surprises?  The most important thing I think is what we found about his vibrato. Usually you can sing a straight tone but particularly opera singers - they try to modulate the fundamental frequencies. So they make the tone if you like a bit more vibrant. Now typically in opera singers this vibrato has a frequency of about 5.56 Hertz. And Freddie Mercury's is higher and it is also more irregular. And that kind of creates a very typically vocal fingerprint.  We actually have a clip of him singing We Are The Champions without the full mix just the isolated voice. Would that be something we could listen to and hear that?  Yeah.    I have paid my dues...  You heard it right there.   ...Time after time...  And again.   I have done my sentence but committed no crime.  And again very Pronounced.   And bad mistakes - I have made a few.  Oh. So like on crime and - yeah.  Yeah.   But I have come through.   We are ready to go on and on and on and on.   We are the champions - my friends...  Wow. That just gave me chills.   And we...  I mean like I feel like I am listening to it in a different way.  Exactly. And once you are tuned into that you cannot get rid of it.   No time for losers 'ecause we are the champions...   ...Of the world.  You know after all this research did Freddie Mercury know that this was what he was doing?  I did not know. From my experience most singers - most good singers - do not know what they are doing and how they do it. And I think that is the way it should be actually.    Because for them it destroys the magic.  Right.  It is just for science to mop it up and to explain it in a way and for pedagogues actually to - for singing teachers actually to understand how it is done.  Christian Herbst thank you very much.  Thank you.  Christian Herbst is an Austrian voice scientist. He is also one of the authors of a recent study analyzing Freddie Mercury's voice. It was published in the journal Logopedics Phoniatrics Vocology and here's some more of Freddie Mercury's vibrato just for you.    Somebody to love.   Find me somebody to love. Find me somebody to love.   Find somebody somebody somebody somebody to love.   Find me somebody to love. Find me somebody to love. Find me somebody to love.   Find me find me find me find me somebody to love.   Find me somebody to love. Find me somebody to love. Find me somebody to love. Find me somebody to love. Find me somebody to love.   Somebody somebody somebody somebody to love. Anybody anywhere anybody find me somebody to love love love love love love. Find me find me find me... 