 And now for a little '90s nostalgia. We are not talking about fashion or even a TV reboot.    All around the world statues crumble for me. Who knows how long I have loved you?  That is Fly by the band Sugar Ray. As some of you may remember their pop-influenced sound catapulted them to stardom in the late '90s and helped Sugar Ray shape the pop-rock sound of the time. And it is been 10 years since their last album and Sugar Ray's back with a brand-new album titled Little Yachty.    I am sitting in the highest tree 'ecause the view looks good to me. So let us sing a melody 'ecause this is the place to be. I am sitting in the...  And we are joined now by Mark McGrath the frontman of Sugar Ray. Welcome.  Ah yes - off the charts but in our hearts. It is so nice to hear like the beginning of Fly again. It brings back such great memories and it is the reason why I am talking to you all these years later. So it is fun to get creative again and put out a new record.  It is been a little bit since that. I mean I think I was driving around in my parents' car in high school when that was on the radio. And it is also been you know a decade since your last album. But you have been busy. You co-hosted Extra. You did a lot of reality TV. What made you want to get back into doing music?  Yeah I do not want to brag but after my work in the classic Sharknado 2 3 and 6...  .  I thought it was time to get back to the music. But you know Sugar Ray's always been playing. We have been a band for 30 years believe it or not last summer. And we have always been playing live. But to get a chance to be creative is something we do not get to do as much anymore because let us be honest the record business has essentially gone away. It is become a streaming business. And writing a new record was not really on the table for us. You know a band like us really trades on our nostalgia. But luckily I was on a show called Celebrity Big Brother about a year and a half ago and they wanted to do a little bit of an intro piece to me Mark McGrath what I was about. So they said let us put you in a studio and we will do what you normally do during a day. And I go well during the day I am usually driving my kids to school or to soccer practice. But we can...  The glamorous rock star life right?  There you go - picking up the dog poop in the backyard you know just like everybody else does. But my guitar player was kind enough to be part of the intro package and so was my drummer. And he came up with a little - a cool little lick he had a little song and was about a third done. And we started writing the song as Big Brother was filming this intro package. And when I came out of the house my guitar player called me and said dude remember that song we filmed for your intro package to Big Brother? I go yeah. He goes well the producer Michael Lloyd sent it to BMG and they want to do a record deal. I am like you have got to be kidding me. In this day and age in 2018 which was - that is what it was back then - a major label wants to offer Sugar Ray a record deal. What happened when I went into the Big Brother house? So it was funded. This big giant major label is taking a chance again on a little band like Sugar Ray. And so it was great to sort of just write a record for fun and that is what we did.  Yeah. And I want to talk about the name of the album OK? Little Yachty - can you tell me how you landed on that?  You know it is funny kind of - it is very garrulous and verbose like most of the things I say. But when I was thinking about the band the '90s and bands like ourselves - Smash Mouth Everclear Third Eye Blind - we were kind of almost the yacht rock of the '90s when you think about it you know? We crossed over multiple genres multiple platforms. And we almost were that yacht rock. Everybody kind of knows who we are. So when we were playing our live sets we included some fun yacht rock classics like for instance the Escape song - the pina colada song people know it best. You know  if you like pina coladas...    ...If you are not into yoga if you have half a brain. If you like making love at midnight...  And we just made a really fun record. And as I saw it take shape I go my God we are making a yacht rock record. And we have the pina colada song on there. How about Little Yachty as a title? It was fun to do. And yes I did reach out to the rapper Lil Yachty which was also inspired by - it is obviously a play on his name. And he goes oh my God. That is the greatest title ever. You guys are legends. I would love to jam sometime. So there was multi-layers to the title as is commonplace for the Sugar Ray record.  So I want to hear a little bit of one of your new songs - Make It Easy.    If we could dance the night away and never worry 'bout the bills we gotta pay it is such a hassle when your life gets in the way but we should know better.  This one reminded me so much of Sugar Ray from the '90s. It made me think a little bit of the riffs in Every Morning for example. How did you think about how much you wanted to borrow from the past versus how much to sort of develop and evolve with your sound?  Yeah. I think you evolve as human beings in terms of experiences. You know I have two kids now I am married so I am not going to be singing about beers and cars as much as I used to you know? But we did have a Sugar Ray sound and that is why we are still playing today. And if there are people that are looking for new Sugar Ray record we are going to give you what you want to hear hopefully - at least that is the fences we are aiming for. And our guitar player Rodney - it is funny you bring up Every Morning - Rodney Sheppard has wrote some of the most iconic guitar riffs of the '90s - the riff for Fly - did-a-lit-did-a-lit-did-a-lit-did-a-leer  - I mean it is such a classic riff. Every Morning...   Someday.   These are classic guitar riffs from the '90s that Rodney Sheppard came up with. And he goes when I am coming up with a riff I want to go back to what got us where we are. What was responsible for our success? It is the guitar riff. It is the multiple melodies. It is him and I singing that like maybe long extended melody with some - like a lilting chorus with lyrics that are uplifting. And I think this song really hit the bull's eye on that. And that is why it was the first single. I wanted to let people know if you are going to listen to this new record steal it download it whatever you do just know you are going to get that Sugar Ray sound for sure.    Can you see the light in front of us? All those miles and miles in front of us? Just another way just another day - goodbye.  And Sugar Ray was one of the defining sounds of the - certainly the late '90s. What do you think accounted for your success then?  Well I think one thing that was pretty obvious with us is that we do not take ourselves too seriously and we like to have fun. I mean that was our edict when we joined the band. We started as a cover band. And then we got a little bit better and we started writing original songs and they kind of were just fun light airy - more rocking songs because we did not really know how to play back then. But if you turn your Marshalls up to 11 and you have a Les Paul guitar everybody was getting signed in the early '90s because they are Nirvana. But a lot of these bands were very sort of - they were angry. There was a lot of angst in there. And we came from the opposite end of that. We were raised on the beaches of Southern California. We love reggae. We love the Beach Boys. You know we love all the dark stuff too but it was not really organic to who we were. I think America was ready to have fun again. And I have always known this about the record industry and the music business - a good melody whether it is Old Town Road or Rock Around The Clock - you know a good melody and a good lyric will always be popular and luckily we - a little bit of divine intervention and a lot of help and a village we were able to stumble upon a few hits.  Is there a particular song from this album that you would like to go out on?  You know I think there is a really cool song - there is a song called Trouble on here that I think if it was written by anybody else but Sugar Ray or performed by anybody else but Sugar Ray would be a hit especially in the country market.    I have been thinking about you. Where would I be without you? Just as close as back to your heart.  I love this song. You know I hope people find it on their own because I truly love this. And I want to play it live. I think it would be testing their patience a little bit if we threw it upon them now. But I hope people organically find it because I would love to play this one live.    I know if trouble ever finds me who cares? You remind me you will be right there beside me over and over and over and over again.  That was Mark McGrath with the band Sugar Ray. Their album Little Yachty is out now. Thanks so much.  Thank you so much for taking the time. It is an honor to be on NPR. I listen to you guys and I am like do they know it is me that is coming? So I am really honored. Thank you guys for taking the time.    But the love we have between us is happening and I never want to lose it so we would better start to use it or the trouble's going to take it away my friend. Fell asleep in the morning - hell of a way to start your day. But the nights are long with the rain and thunder and I curse myself - what spell I am under. And are you going to take a train to see me? Maybe I should ride the bus to meet you. Maybe we could find a place to hide if the timing is right. I know if trouble ever finds me who cares... 