 Finally this hour the latest from country music star Miranda Lambert. Her first two albums debuted at number one on the country chart. She is just released her third called Revolution and our critic Will Hermes says it is even better than the last two.  Let' Miranda Lambert has a thing about firearms - which is maybe understandable for a Texan raised by two private investigators. She had a Top 10 hit last year with Gunpowder and Lead a provocative song about a woman an abusive man and a shotgun. And guns figure in two songs on her new record - although only one of them gets fired.    I put a bullet in my radio. Something just hit me funny I do not know. Just pulled the trigger going down the road...  Now I am not a gun owner but I know how she feels there. More seriously I also understand the song about feeling threatened and vulnerable - which is different from saying I agree with its logic.    Mary says she is worried about her stuff and her kids. Never known anybody had a gun and her daddy never did. But I think it should be up to me 'ecause it is all said and done. Somebody's got to walk into the night and I am gonna be that one. It is time to get a gun. That is what I have been thinking.  Then there is the song about perpetual dissatisfaction and restlessness. I understand this one too.    Sometimes I wish I lived on a mountain drank from a stream instead of a fountain I would stay there on top of the world. But I was born a red dirt girl. Unbridled or tethered in tide safety of the fence or the danger of the ride I will always be unsatisfied.  I love the matter-of-fact way she sings I will always be unsatisfied which is a fine example of how great country - besides twangy hooks and snappy wordplay - often shares confidences like unguarded bar conversations. Miranda Lambert's latest batch of songs nearly all have that quality - even the simple love songs or the potentially maudlin one about revisiting a former family home.    Up those stairs in that little back bedroom where I did my homework and I learned to play guitar and I bet you did not know under that live oak my favorite dog is buried in the yard.  Miranda Lambert delivers the songs on Revolution in an impressive variety of arrangements and voices - from quiet acoustic Southern girl confessions to biker chick rock and roll hollering. They are all convincing and they make up not just her best record but my standing pick for country record of the year.    Well well that is the way that the world goes 'round.  The new album from Miranda Lambert is called Revolution. Our reviewer is Will Hermes.    ...and you think you are gonna drown that is the way that the world goes 'round. That is the way that the world goes 'round. That is the way...  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 