 K.Flay kicked off her career experimenting with rap releasing mixed tapes with titles like Suburban Rap Queen.   Ever since her releases have had titles like I Stopped Caring In '96 and Life As A Dog. Her most popular song the Grammy-nominated Blood In The Cut is a raging strutter.  K.  I need noise. I need the buzz of a sub need the crack of a whip need some blood in the cut.  Her latest album has a different feel in a way a quieter approach. K.Flay explains what drove her earlier aggressive style. K. It had this kind of like peripatetic existence. I did not live anywhere. I was on tour constantly. So there was a real sense of displacement that I felt and that I was really trying to reckon with in that period.  And it is an album kind of that makes me think of black leather jackets and smudged eye makeup . K. Yes exactly.  And boyfriends and primal screams . K. Huge amounts of primal screams many screams.  Now on that album the song Champagne references - as many of your other songs do - your family. Let us hear a little bit of it.  K.  My dead dad plus my living mama plus my other father who raised me not to be sad and my brother who says that he worries about me from my songs and my sister who is been living like a saint for so damn long.  So you are like referring to everyone right? We get the layout and your biological father passed away is that right? K. My parents split up when I was 5 6. My biological dad was a very serious alcoholic and ended up dying when I was 14. My second dad came into the picture right - pretty much right when my parents split up and took me in as his own later adopted me and I have a brother and a sister who are not my biological brother and sister but we were raised together and certainly feel like my real brother and sister.  And worried about you  it sounds like from that song. K. Yeah. You know it is funny. I am super close with my family and I think a lot about family because of the way my childhood played out. And I think it gave me time to consider like what is the role of blood and DNA? What is the role of nurture? And so I talk about it a lot in my music. And there have definitely been periods of my life where my siblings and parents have called me and been like are you OK?  Do we need to like fly to New York and make sure you are all right? But I get out all my demons through songs.  So this new album is called Solutions has a little bit of a different feel. I want to talk to you about the song Sister because it also references siblings. K. Yeah.  Let us listen to a little bit.  K.  Everything you do I want to do. Everything you know I want to know. Talk about our secrets till the morning comes then you let me try on all your clothes.  So this is a very almost sweet idealized version of a sister. How did the song come about? K. Sister originated because of this feeling I have had since being a really young kid which is this separateness from my brother and sister because they have different biological parents. And I always felt different. That difference made me feel sad and I wanted to be their real sister. So I started writing a version of this song that was like kind of complicated and really sad.  K.  Even when you are saying that you hate me I know that the feeling is not true.  Like sisterhood itself. K. .  I have a sister obviously . K. Totally. And there is an aspect of siblingdom  where there is this bizarre situation because you share so much and yet your experience of the world is still fundamentally different.  It is like your fellow travelers. K. Totally. And I began writing that kind of song but the kind of lyrical challenge I gave to myself was let me take these points of pain these points of confusion and kind of like pivot a little bit in the direction of optimism or hopefulness.  K.  I got you. Tell me that you really need a night out. I would even put a dress on too. If somebody hurts you then I am going to kill somebody for you. I got into the studio a couple months later and everything sort of just clicked where I was like you know what? The thing I want to say to my brother and sister and the thing that I did say and I have said and it is worked is I want to be your sister. Do you want to be mine?  K.  Till the end. Do you want to be mine?  Yeah. It is request. That is the bittersweet part of the song. It is not just an offer. Like it could be rejected. K. That is the fundamental nature of sisterhood and I am envisioning this concept of sisterhood as a genderless thing sisterhood as just really basic compassion-based connection. The premise of that has to be that vulnerability that potential for rejection. So to me this song is about that moment of vulnerability and that moment of family building.  K.  Do you want to be mine?  This does not have your kind of hard rapping style. It is a little lighter on its feet... K. Yeah.  ...While threatening death on  someone who breaks your sibling's heart. K.  Well I started making music in this indie rap space. The beginning point of excitement and inspiration was rhythm and cadence and wordplay and how can I manipulate that stuff? I think as I have progressed and experimented and I hope expanded what is really cool is - and in a song like Sister - is that it is not like jampacked. And therefore I feel like some of those lines like yeah if you hurt the person I love I am going to kill you I hope there is like more resonance with that sentiment.  K.  When you are lost and afraid and you crashed your car when you need a friend to dance in the dark when you call me up I will be at your door. I want to be your sister.  Which end of the phone call have you been on?  I listen to those lyrics. I was like hmm. K.  I have been on both ends. I have a hard time getting angry on behalf of myself but I have an easy time becoming enraged on behalf of somebody that I care about.  I wondered when I was listening to it about the idea of genderless sisterhood. When I was listening to the song there were a number of friends I just wanted to send this to. K. Yeah. I think that in our culture the concept of brotherhood is predicated on institutions a team or a school or a work network or something like that. I think men are not always afforded these easy ways to connect based on nothing. For me I have such a diverse group of friends in terms of gender and gender identity sisterhood just felt like the way to encapsulate that. The section of the song you just played the bridge that is the point where sisterhood true family true love is about accepting the mistakes of other people and being tolerant and open and nonjudgmental you know. So it is like you crashed your car. Like you got drunk. You married a moron. Like whatever you did I am here for you. I got your back because I understand that we are all trying to figure out how to live. And no one really knows what they are doing.  K.  I want to be your sister. I want to be your friend.  Well Kristine Flaherty K.Flay thank you so much for speaking with us. K. Thank you for having me.  K.Flay - her new album Solutions is out now.  K.  Do you want to be mine? 