  The day Margo Price walked into the studio to start recording her new album she had butterflies in her stomach - you know a mixture of excitement trepidation and morning sickness.  I definitely was not expecting to be pregnant. And you know I had planned to go into the studio regardless of what was happening in my personal life.  Her daughter Ramona was born last June. And now that album is out in the world too. It is called That is How Rumors Get Started.    Mother Mary geez Louise I was havin' a ball until I threw it too far playin' dives trying to stay alive twinkle twinkle little star twinkle twinkle little star.  When we talked the other day Price said that the two experiences making an album and having a baby had so much in common.  I think they are both kind of mysterious. And you kind of keep it to yourself at first. And it is like - it is evolving and growing and changing. You have this like feeling of protection.   You know there are times on his album that feels like you are speaking directly to your children. Like on the song Gone To Stay you sing baby when I am gone you know I think about you. You are growing up so fast and I am getting older too. I mean it sounds like there are times where you are really missing your kids. And I want to ask you about that. I mean how has being a mom redirected the way you throw yourself into your music? Has it?  You know sometimes I do feel the strain of - that motherhood puts on your career. But I think that it is really important to show your children that you have to follow your dreams no matter what. And I hope that they see that you know when I am playing music and when I am doing what I love that I am happy and that I also do it for them.    And I have been doubting it these days. The river it runs only one way.  Well your daughter Ramona entered the world and then this album was about to enter the world too. But of course a pandemic hit the album got delayed and right now there is no touring on the horizon for you. Can I just ask like how has lockdown been for you so far?  Well you know I think that comforting thing about this isolation and quarantine and lockdown is that everybody's in it together. And of course I have you know days where I feel depressed or like hopeless and I just am keeping faith that things will start to turn around. And I am also just enjoying the time that I have had with my children and that I have had in my garden this year and really being able to like reconnect to nature and you know keep my feet on the ground because that is - you know if you let things like fame or money or any of those things cloud your mind and like poison your spirit I think that your art will really suffer. So I am just you know going to be writing about unemployment and everyday struggles again. It is really just more fodder for songs.   Because as you were saying you are someone who has felt this inner conflict between being a mom and making room for your art for your music has the pandemic kind of given you some release from that struggle - at least for this time because you cannot be out and touring all the time and you can be more focused on home life right now.  Oh I know.  Has that been a relief in a way?  It really has been because you know with my son who is now just turned 10 I did miss so many little milestones with him. And it is been so wonderful to see Ramona grow and to just go through motherhood in a more relaxed state than I did with you know my son. He was he was a twin. And his brother passed - actually today is the 10-year anniversary of losing my son Ezra.  Oh.  And...  Wow.  You know I just - I did not get to have a normal chance at motherhood the first time. I was just - I was grieving so much and I had so many mistakes that I made that I wish I could do it again. And you know this time around it is been really good to just watch her develop her language and see her getting ready to be able to walk. I was worried I was going to miss her first steps. So I know for sure I am going to be home for that.    What is this life and what does it mean? Time it runs out and rips at the seams.  When I hear you reflect on you know the kind of mother you were during you know your earlier touring your earlier albums I kind of just want to visit this moment right now. I mean this is your third album. You are now a known quantity in Nashville. You have been nominated for a Grammy. But I know that it has not been easy for you to get where you are. Like money was often very tight. And you had to sell possessions to buy studio time. You spent a few days in jail during a particularly painful time you know shortly after your son Ezra had passed away. And I guess you know what I am wondering about is when you look back how would you describe where you are right now in this moment compared to back then?  I feel much more at peace with everything that is happened. I mean I still grieve the loss of my son and I still wish I would have done things differently but I am a firm believer that everything happens for a reason. And I have been trained to like take that wisdom and apply it to what is going on now because I think that - I have struggled with depression even prior to losing my son. You know it was something that I struggled with as a teenager and in my early 20s. And I know a lot of people have got to be feeling really lonely right now. And I know that a lot of people out there...  Yes.  ...Are battling depression. And you know my heart goes out to them. And I just hope that everybody out there can keep themselves in a positive state because I know it is got to be really tough.   Well I wish you the best of luck as you are sending this light out into the world during this pandemic releasing this new music. And I hope you do continue to enjoy some of the solitude with being a mom during this time and getting to focus on that too.  Thank you so much. Yeah it is been a wild few months. But you know I think that there is also something really exciting about the Black Lives Matter movement and you know just this kind of revolution that is going on. And I think that if there was not a pause then you know maybe we would not have the drastic change that we need to get back to the Earth and you know get back to taking care of the environment and our people and health care and child care and all the things that everybody needs so badly.  Margo Price's new album is called That is How Rumors Get Started. It was such a pleasure talking to you. Thank you so much.  Thank you so much.    Some go low some get high. 