 Let us hear some music now. And when you think about gospel music these days you might be thinking big - big voices big tunes big choirs. A new project from Motown Gospel just released this weekend strips the genre back to the basics focusing on the vocals and the message. The ten-track album is called 1 Mic 1 Take. It features five gospel singers who perform two songs each all recorded live. One of those appearing on the album is Brian Courtney Wilson who is with us now from WBEZ in Chicago. Brian Courtney Wilson thank you so much for joining us.  Thank you for having me Michel. It is a pleasure.  What was it about this project that appealed to you?  You know the opportunity to be a part of Capitol Studios and what they are doing there what they have done historically there was big. And to kind of strip it down to where it started which was you know just me in my home studio with a piano that was important to me.  You just mentioned just now that it was all recorded in Hollywood at the landmark Capitol Studios. For people who are not aware could you tell us what is so special about that place?  It is iconic. I mean you have seen it in movies on several occasions that big Capitol Studio sign there. And it is just - it is a huge tower of music in a place that is a capital for entertainment period. And this is the first time they have ever done gospel music in this way in that building. And so that was a special historic opportunity.  So let us listen to one of your two cuts on this album Worth Fighting For. It is the first song on the record. Let us play a little bit.    Now I am moving by faith and not by sight toward victory by the power of your might. You are straightening out my path and opening every door. I am your child and I am worth fighting for. Eyes have not seen...  So let me play the version from your 2015 album. I will just play a little bit of that so people can hear the difference. Here it is.  OK.    Eyes have not seen ears have not heard there is so much more...  Pretty big difference there...  Yeah it is different.  ...Right?  It is different.  Right?  That is big.   That is a contrast.  Yeah it is. It is.  Yeah.  So tell me about that - you know the idea - again it kind of speaks to the whole purpose of the album. What is the purpose of kind of stripping away the - all the big production and doing it that way?  I think - you know gospel music distinguishes itself with the message - the message of hope the message of inspiration that it brings. And so this particular project stripping down some of the big production and just kind of getting to the voice and the message I think that it gives another layer to what we were trying to communicate with this music. And that is that you know we have many things that are worth fighting for. And you fight by continuing to be faithful. And you have enough even if it is just a little bit to bring that to bear put that in God's hands and watch him make a miracle call out of it.  The other artists on the album include the Grammy-winner Smokie Norful and Tasha Cobbs as well as the established artists names people will know - Myron Butler and Levi and the up-and-comer Royce Lovett. Did you all get to see each other during this? Did you all get to...  Actually...  ...Be together at all?  We were all there at the same time. You know that is gospel music. It is a community. And so it is encouraging when we are able to get together and appreciate one another's gifts and talents as we go back out and share them with the rest of the world.  Did you think you learned anything from it that you will take to future projects?  You learnreminded that you are bringing a lot to the table with a voice and a song and a message. You know you just want to let that lay a foundation for what you are doing. But it starts with that. And if you have that you got a lot.    I did not know you...  That was Brian Courtney Wilson who is featured on the gospel CD 1 Mic 1 Take. 