  This is the music of Jon Cleary and as you can tell his writing is pure New Orleans. He has absorbed every last bit of sound from the delta. And here's the weird thing. Hey Jon Cleary where were you born and raised?  I was born in London .  Jon Cleary joins us now from our studios in London - and first of all welcome.  Thank you very much.  And second how did you end up falling for this music? You know every other musician your age was trying to become John Paul George or Ringo. You became Fats.  I think it was a funny combination of nature and nurture really. My uncle lived in New Orleans when I was a little kid and came back with suitcases full of funky 45s. My mum loved New Orleans jazz. We had RB soul and jazz music in the house when the extended family - everyone was into music. If they were not musicians they were big record collectors. So it would have been strange if I would come up playing anything else really.    I will get you good. I will seek you right. Got to be real strong yeah got to be all .  When you moved to New Orleans it sounds like you pretty much took up residence at the Maple Leaf Bar. That is where you got your musical education. Can you give us a sense of what it looked like? What it felt like - maybe who was there?  Well I had - all I had was a matchbox with the phone number of the Maple Leaf Bar. I did not really know where I was going or what I was doing. When you are 17-years-old you think you are indestructible. You are just going to show up and everything will fall into place. And by some miracle it did. And I took a taxi from the airport straight to the Maple Leaf that night kind of scared to death 'ecause I was only a kid really not knowing what to expect on my own. It was a combination bar laundromat and gun shop...  .  ...Those three things combined. And arguably one of the best piano players that ever came out of New Orleans played there and hung out there everyday.  Who was that?  James Booker -phenomenal. So I got to hear James Booker everyday. It was a bar across the street where The Meters used to sound check and The Neville Brothers used to play and Clifton Chenier - all these amazing artists. And I would felt like I would died and gone to heaven. It was just incredible - so funky. And coming from England which was pretty grim at that time - 1980 - it was like going from black-and-white to color.    People sometime gotta stoop so low.  Well let us get to this new album. It is called GoGo Juice. And I have to ask what is that?  I wish someone would tell me.   I have got no idea what it is. You know I collect funny words and funny expressions as a new songwriter. It is a habit you have to get into. And that particular song is comprised entirely out of nonsense lyrics that I have jotted down - I have overheard. And so I do not even know what it is. But it is kind of like a metaphor for whatever turns you on really.    Get your go-go juice.  Can you give us a few and if they need translation maybe help us with that too?  I would not do that - me. That is the kind of a think you hear some people in New Orleans say. I do not need the money just the people I owe. You do not need a license 'til you get caught. It is just full of them you know? I used to play - I was lucky. I was young enough to get to play with the old boys who invented New Orleans funk. One of them was Earl King. Earl King was a great songwriter. And he told me man whenever you hear something funny or that you can use on the song make sure you write it down 'ecause you think you can remember it but you never will. And he always had his little notebook and a pencil. Nowadays I just use my iPhone. So that song is comprised entirely of just funny things that tickled me that I have overheard people say.    As not no such thing as life if you still believe it. Do not need a license 'til you get caught. Time cut loose and then  juice.  We are coming up on the 10th anniversary of Hurricane Katrina. I wonder if you had a different perspective on that tragedy given that you grew up outside the country or had you lived there so long that it was just a travesty in your hometown?  Yeah like I said I spent most of my life in New Orleans. I am really from New Orleans at this point. That was rough. This is going to be hard - this next week - because everyone's going to be asking questions and talking about it. I think most New Orleaneans want to go and hibernate for a week until all the fuss is over. They do not want to be reminded of it. It was so horrible. I was out on tour when it happened. There is this song on the record - there is a long run-on sentence which says the heartbeat and the soul of the people of the city of New Orleans is the home of the greatest gift America gave the world.    America gave the world jazz funk rhythm and blues and soul. The point being you know the buildings were damaged but the real lifeblood of New Orleans - the jewel culturally is its people. And so many people were displaced. And so many people have not come back yet.    New Orleans blow your sailboat home like driftwood washed up on shore of a strange and foreign land. Tide broke got nowhere to turn. If nobody minds the store Lord have mercy on the Bible fold. Cold wind blowing through a song.  Well given what you said about kind of wanting to not pay attention to all the 10th anniversary coverage let us go with something positive. What is the most beautiful thing you saw after Katrina?  Boy that is a tough one. I was out on the road when the storm hit. And it was a while before any of us could get back into New Orleans to assess the damage. But something that tickled me was being in the checkout line at the grocery store and seeing people recognize one another and exchange their stories of where they would been and when they got back. And nearly everybody unanimously came around very quickly to the topic of food .  Of course.  But actually most musicians take food more seriously than music. They were saying boy I was in Texas. And the people were nice but boy I could not eat that food. I was really missing my little remoulade with my etouffee. And we had to get someone to ship out some DD sausage so we could make the beans taste right. So everyone was just talking about food. That is the happiest - they were so happy back home because they could cook some food that tasted right.    Before I make it to the bone yard I am going to have some fun.  That is Jon Cleary. His new album is called GoGo Juice and we still do not know what that means. Jon Cleary thank you. It is been a pleasure.  My pleasure. Thanks for having me.    Before I make it to the boneyard I am going to have my fun. As not ready for the boneyard as not ready for the boneyard.  And for Sunday we are dancing at ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR West. I am Tess Vigeland. You can follow us on Twitter nprwatc and I am tessvigeland - that is V-I-G-E-L-A-N-D. We are back next weekend. Thank you so much for listening. And have a fantastic week. 