 The Smithsonian Institution is bringing back the funk. The National Museum of African-American History and Culture has just reassembled the Mothership. That is the silver spaceship made famous by the legendary funk band Parliament-Funkadelic. When the museum opens in Washington next year the Mothership will anchor a larger music history exhibition. Band members and historians alike hope it will blow the minds of visitors just like it did when it landed on stage. Here's NPR's Allison Keyes.    Do you all want to fly this evening? Do you want to ride on the Mothership?  It is 1976 in Houston and a rapturous crowd is swaying back and forth to the infectious funk of Parliament-Funkadelic's Mothership Connection.   Then suddenly it is there. A sparkling silver spaceship appears on the YouTube video with flashing strobe lights lights shining from its feet and spewing smoke as it lands on the stage and out steps front man George Clinton.  It was organized chaos. That is basically all I can say. It was mayhem.  Bernie Walden was a roadie with Parliament-Funkadelic. He worked with both the original Mothership the mid-1970s and a replica that was built in the mid-1990s. He says the carbon dioxide smoke that billowed from the bottom of the ship was a bit of a problem.  It was so much on the original one that a lot of people in the front row were passing out.    Well alright star child citizens of the universe recording angels. We have returned to claim the pyramids. Partying on the Mothership.  Walden just finished helping the Smithsonian put the replica back together. The original was destroyed in the 1980's after the band went into debt. But Walden told me museum specialist Kevin Strait the replica was that George Clinton's Tallahassee Florida home studio. Strait leaped into action to acquire and was dazzled by his first sight of the ship.  Part of the ceiling was carved out so that the top of the Mothership the crown could fit.  Strait says the Mothership is the most iconic stage prop in African American musical history partly because it provides context and perspective to the evolution of black stagecraft. He also thinks George Clinton's Mothership is a manifestation of the liberating power of music.  He really developed this kind of grand idea of envisioning African Americans in space as a way to liberate one's mind from the shackles of racism or poverty or any other sort of social or societal constraint. So the Mothership was really this kind of symbolic mode of transporting the conscious self into this ethereal place which is pretty funky and pretty far out. But that represents sort of the grander scope of his thinking.  I definitely thought that we needed something to be proud of as black people.  George Clinton says when he created the Mothership he was trying to outdo everything in rock and roll including the elaborate Broadway musical Hair.  We wanted to have a funk opera.  Clinton says he sees the Mothership as a monument to black music. And he donated it to the museum because his ship will give pride to a lot of people.  It is a symbol of all - of all that music that was created from it not only from us you know Parliament-Funkadelic Bootsy and the media but the people that sampled it later which is a whole other 25 years of music.   Welcome to station WEFUNK. Better known as We Funk or deeper still the Mothership Connection.  The Mothership will be on display at the National Museum of African-American History and Culture's Musical Crossroads gallery says chief of design Brian Seiling along with rock and roll king Chuck Berry's Cadillac.  The first thing you will see is that bright red Cadillac convertible. You will see this in the distance behind it. Raised up as it was used on stage with its lights on.  Seiling says there were also be music and concert footage of the Mothership being used on state. And the display will be spectacular even if the ship has a few bumps and bruises.  In many ways it is kind of a crown jewel in the museum because just look at it it is like a jewel.  George Clinton says he is proud and happy that the Mothership will be on display at the Smithsonian. He is still touring and he says he will create another one because he definitely has to fly. Allison Keyes NPR News Washington.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 