 In this country even hard-core jazz fans may not know his name but in his native Italy he is a big deal. He is jazz pianist Stefano Bollani. He sells out major concert venues in Italy like a rock star. He is also a beloved television personality and a published author. Christopher Livesay caught up with the musician in Rome and gives us this introduction.  When he sits down to do an interview Stefano Bollani wants you to know who he is and what he is about.  Hello hello. My name is Stefano Bollani. I am a human being.  Though he does look a bit like the Cheshire Cat - with a big grin a beard and a bushy ponytail a la Frank Zappa one of his big influences. Bollani is also a natural-born entertainer. As a kid he idolized old-school showmen like Frank Sinatra and Italian pop star Renato Carosone.  He was a piano player a singer he was a funny guy. But he was also graduated in classical music so a kind of complete musician.   .  And that is what I wanted to be. And I started playing classical music as any good boy but then I discovered Jazz music when I was 11 years old. And first I fell in love with bebop - Charlie Parker Dizzy Gillespie Bud Powell - all these cats from the '50s. And then it just went on and I just started listening to everything I could started improvising.   .  And I was very lucky because I started playing professionally when I was 15 years old.  By 18 he was playing keyboards for Italy's biggest pop stars. All that changed in 1996 thanks to trumpet player Enrico Rava an Italian jazz icon.  I had this gig in Paris. I called him and he told me that he could not do it because he had this tour with this Italian kind of popular singer. And I told him listen if you do it because you like it - OK do it. But if you do it for the bread somebody that plays like you in a short time could become famous and make much more money. So he said OK let me think about it. But 15 minutes later he called me and said OK you are right. I will come to Paris. That is exactly the way it happened.  Since then Rava and Bollani have recorded and performed together numerous times.   .  . Pianist Stefano Bollani has a seeming encyclopedic knowledge of music spanning well beyond jazz. Randall Kline is the founder and artistic director of the San Francisco Jazz Festival. He is booked Bollani and seen his ability up close.  He just had the audience you know free-for-all shout out any song from any genre that they wanted to hear. And so you know it went from arias to national anthems to pop tunes to jazz songs and he just you know took like 10 requests in order and played a medley from memory. So there was just a way of seeing both his personality and his virtuosity kind of work together.  Stefano Bollani is nothing if not confident something very evident on his popular TV show. In one episode he played movie themes off the top of his head as actors improvised characters.   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  Trumpeter Enrico Rava became aware of another of Bollani's talents while on tour. Rava was driving when Italian radio called asking for an interview. So he handed his cell phone to Bollani.  And I said please do it yourself - say that you are me. So he did this whole interview talking like me saying the same things I would say because when he imitates he is so good because he does not just imitate your voice but also your way of saying things. And nobody ever found it out you know? It was incredible.  Rava worries that Bollani is getting distracted by too many different endeavors. Did I mention the pianist has just published a novel? Bollani says seeing and hearing the possibilities in many different things is what jazz is all about.  Jazz music is exactly made of the present tense. I want to go there - I go there. I want to improvise and play a chord which is a strange chord - I play the strange chord. I want to sing a song - I sing a song. I want to play a popular song from the '20s - I do it. I want to play some Brazilian music even if I am not Brazilian - yes. You know just live your own music.   And with a seemingly boundless curiosity Stefano Bollani has made a wide range of music his own. For NPR News I am Christopher Livesay.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 