 Reviewers are calling the new album from Julia Holter transcendent. The 30-year-old songwriter grew up studying classical music. Meanwhile she was listening to pop music. Her new album Have You In My Wilderness brings in elements of both genres.   My first thought was there are so many days of rain in Mexico City a good reason to go.  But these songs do not follow the rules of pop or classical. There is no verse chorus repetition no theme and variation. Julia Holter told me she broke out of those cages a long time ago.  I was in school for four years writing music to please my teachers. That was not music I liked. And when I make music that is not for something I want to make and it is to please other people it is - the outcome is really bad. So I think it is because I have already gone the route of trying to please others that I know what not to do.  Talk to me about how you use your voice on this album. For example in a song like Silhouette your voice sort of comes in as one of several instruments that are layered on top of each other and then it pops out to the front. And at other times your voice feels very heavy. It can be very light. It can be very melodic.  I do not think much about it . I do develop characters for songs and I think of everything as storytelling in a way. But I do not plan out what they are going to sound like. I just sing over what I have done.  Is there a character on this album you can describe using a particular song as an example?  So Lucette stranded on an island - she is a character - a side character from a Colette story called Chance Acquaintances.    I call my name aloud looking for what I remember. Lucette is like a - this woman whose lover carries her away on a ship but he ends up like attacking her and stealing her jewels and then leaving her on the Balearic Island. And it is really awful.    Where does she come from? I wanted to capture like the moment of someone waking up from being unconscious and their brain kind of slowly regaining consciousness and like remembering a chain of events. And that is sort of what the song is about.  Explain how that translates to the way you use your voice in this song.  I listen to the timbre of the music and I fit my voice to blend with that timbre.    Oh she is been marooned. Can anybody help her?  Is there another story from this album that you can give us a peek behind the curtain?  Yeah. There is this place Vasquez Rocks that is north of Los Angeles that is a famous state park. People hike around there and stuff. And they also shoot like Star Wars movies or - Star Wars whatever - Star Wars stuff...  Natural beauty and science fiction.  Because it looks like Mars basically. It is crazy. Anyway this place is named after Tiburcio Vasquez who was a bandit back in the 19th century. And his story is kind of cool and I am sure they will make a movie out of it someday. And somehow it just seemed like a compelling story because there is sort of this law versus outlaw. The question is is the bandit the bad guy or are the guys chasing him the bad guys?    Bandito they call me This was a time when California was - had just become part of the U.S. and like there is a lot of tension between the Mexican and the U.S. So he was kind of like representative I think of that. I think there was definitely like culturally a lot of tension and like what is exciting to me about stories that stories that - some of which already exist some of which I make up - a lot of the songs I have also made up - there is always a piece of me in it for sure.    I go out to find the one with whom I have seen the last moons.  Well Julia Holter thank you so much for speaking with us.  Thank you.  Julia Holter's new album is called Have You In My Wilderness.    Swim to you. 