 It is WEEKENDS on ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Guy Raz. A potential moment of awkwardness at the Olympics. A British athlete stands proudly on the medal's podium and beside him or her an athlete from Lichtenstein. First Britain's national anthem rings out...   ...God Save the Queen.  And then it is Lichtenstein's turn.   A mistake? No that is Lichtenstein's anthem. It is called Oben am jungen Rhein. Both songs have the same exact tune. And how could this be? Well to find out we called Alex Marshall. He recently wrote an article about the Olympics and anthems for the BBC and he is now writing a book on the history of national anthems.  The world's first national anthem was the U.K.'s God Save the Queen back in I think it is 1745. And the song was so popular it spread across Europe. And other governments and other monarchs started taking it up for their own. So the tune to God Save the Queen became this sort of symbol of nationalism. And for some reason Lichtenstein has kept it and never changed. Most other countries Russia Germany obviously wrote their own tunes. But Lichtenstein for whatever reason they have just kept God Save the Queen. So it leads to these very embarrassing situations when the English soccer team plays theirs in international tournaments.  You just hear God Save the Queen twice.  You just hear it twice. Yes indeed. And you often hear the English soccer fans sing it twice. And honestly because there is normally far more of them than there are of Lichtenstein they tend to drown out the poor Liechtensteiners' who are singing their own anthem with their own words.  Let us move on to another anthem you write about. This is a famous one as well pretty recognizable. This is France's national anthem. Let us take a listen.   And I was surprised when I read this article you wrote that there are other anthems that are completely derivative of this one including Zimbabwe's...   ...and Oman's.   That is amazing.  Le Marseillaise is a fantastic tune. You know if I was a country and I wanted to steal a tune I think I would go for it first. I would probably steal the lyrics as well because they are fantastically bloodthirsty.  What are the lyrics?  It was written at a time when France was expecting to go to war with AustriaHungary and they wanted a song to sort of inspire the army. And so most of the lyrics are about how invading soldiers are going to go and slit the throats of peoples' wives and children. And so it is basically trying to encourage people to fight by scaring them.   So I understand that the IOC they limit the length of anthems to 80 seconds. They will only play 80 seconds of an anthem. Are there any anthems that are like 12 minutes long?  The longest one's Uruguay's. which is about six minutes I think.   Uruguay you know an outstanding tune. I mean all the Latin American ones go on for a very long time sort of five six minutes. They are all basically mini-symphonies composed by failed opera composers. And they have fantastic crescendos.   They are incredibly dramatic and romantic and you know I could happily listen to most of them including Uruguay's for their full length.   Do you know if there ever - if there have ever been awkward moments at Olympic medal ceremony because of national anthems?  You know I would not be surprised if there are because there are anthem mistakes all the time. Kazakhstan that is been the most infamous example recently. At a skiing tournament earlier this year they played for some unknown reason Ricky Martin's Living La Vida Loca rather than the anthem. And there is a clip on YouTube of the Kazakhstani officials hands on chest trying to stop laughing as Ricky Martin starts up in the background.    She is into superstition black cats...  But as a sort of salutary note at the end of that the Kazakhstani government has now passed this law where anyone who desecrates the national anthem will get a year in jail. And so I am not too sure whether you are going to get many mistakes at all in the Kazakhstani anthem again.  That is journalist Alex Marshall. He is writing a book about the composers of the world's national anthems. Alex thanks so much.  Great. Thank you.    She will make you take your clothes off and go dancing in the rain... 