 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am David Greene. And we end this hour with The xx.   They are a trio out of England on a meteoric rise since the release of their one and only album last year. The group begins their U.S. tour next week but millions of Americans have actually heard The xx on television.   That is the first song on their self-titled album and you may have heard it over and over again on an ATT commercial that played during the Winter Olympics as U.S. speed skating star Apollo Ohno races around a cracking rink. Earlier this week I spoke with two of the three members of The xx - Oliver Sim and Romy Madley Croft. I asked Sim about that ATT commercial. Mr.  It is a big thing for us but I think we are a bit unaware just how giant ATT were and...  Mr.  ...kind of what we were kind of standing up to when we did it.  For such a young band The xx do have plenty of fans including some established artists. This summer at the Glastonbury Music Festival pop superstar Shakira covered one of the band's songs.  This next song is from one of my favorite bands out there -The xx. Here we go.    I do not have to leave anymore. What I have is right here.  NOTORIOUS B.I.G.   I am sewing tigers on my shirt and alligators. You want to see the inside huh? I will see you later.  The xx have also become a favorite of DJs who have been mashing up their music with that of other artists like the late rapper Notorious B.I.G. Last week The xx won one of Britain's most prestigious awards - the Barclaycard Mercury Prize - given for what critics and industry leaders consider the best album of the year - not bad for a collection of love songs written when Oliver Sim and Romy Madley Croft were just a couple of shy teenagers who even now seem a bit uncomfortable with all the attention.    I am yours now. Now I do not ever have to leave. I have been found out. Now I will never explore. I am yours now.  Romy let me ask you the two of you on a lot of your songs you are both talking to each other sometimes talking not necessarily to each other. I mean what are the lyrics about? A lot of people have written about the relationship the two of you have on stage. Ms.  Well the lyrics everything I sing I have written. Everything Oliver sings he is written. And then we are actually never addressing each other in the songs. It is two conversations basically happening in parallel because - I mean Oliver I have known since I was 3 years old and he is like my brother. So to be singing love songs to each other would be quite strange for us.  Ms.  So we just use the songs as ways of getting our own separate feelings out direct it out at other points not to each other.    Now I will never explore.  So you are sort of avoiding the awkwardness of writing and singing love songs to one another? Mr.  Yeah that is it. Ms.  Yeah that would be... Mr.  It is brother-sister relationship not Sonny and Cher. So...   And is it true you actually - you two write the lyrics on iChat not even in the same room? Ms.  Well on this album we did a lot of writing at night and - unless we were having a pajama party. It is easier to just communicate over the Internet late at night. And it sort of came to be that we just send things back and forth.    Make you feel like never before. Welcome they said welcome to the floor. Ms.  It is sort of also has that sort of slightly more removed feeling where you - we are not face to face and we do not have to explain everything to each other. So a lot of the lyrics - Oliver's lyrics I do not know exactly the situation he is trying to talk about but I interpret it in my way. And it is the same for him.    Sometimes I still need you. Sometimes I still need you. Sometimes I still need you. Sometimes I still need you. Sometimes I still need you. Sometimes I still need you. Sometimes I still need you.  And so paint us a picture if you can the two of you are literally writing lyrics like this late at night in your own homes on iChat sort of going back and forth to come up with this song? Ms.  Yeah. Mr.  I think we both - well all of us enjoy - very much enjoy our own company and I work best alone.  I do - I want to ask you about one review I read. People seem to love digging into your personalities and trying to figure you out as you have grown more popular. The New Yorker did what was an overwhelmingly positive review of your music but the beginning of the piece said that in concerts sometimes the two of you can seem lost in the folds of introversion and unable to see the people standing in front of you. Is that fair? Ms.  It definitely has been fair - we are all very - I would say that we are all very shy and none of us are actually born for the stage and really sort of revel in being on stage and being - participating with the crowd but it is something we really have sort of worked on and really have grown into.  Mr.  If you said to me I do not know like three or four years ago okay you have to go up on stage in front of 40000 people like we did at Coachella early this year I probably would have passed out. I do not know.  And Romy how do you two get through the stage fright? Do you help each other on stage? Ms.  I often think about solo artists - how terrifying it must be sometimes just having to do it all on their own. I am so grateful because it is like having your family around and it does support you.    Go slow. Go slow. Oh go slow.  I want to ask you how becoming so popular so quickly has either changed your lives your personality - or not how much you have been able to sort of keep the same. I know one of your members left the band for personal reasons. I mean how hard has this been on you to be playing these big shows and sort of brought out to the open so quickly? Mr.  It is been a haze. A lot has happened in this past year and kind of -Baria leaving was actually a choice the three of us made.  Baria Qureshi? Mr.  Baria Qureshi yeah. It is just - and I think we have not had a moment to properly stop and stay in one place for long enough time to kind of let it all soak in and just realize all that is happened. So I think when we stop after this next tour and come home it will all start to make a bit more sense.    I could not spill my heart. My eyes gleam looking in from the dark. I walk out in stormy weather. Hope my words keep us together. Steady walking but bound to trip.  Remind us how old you two are. Mr.  All three of us are 21 now.  So when you come to the U.S. for this tour coming up you are of drinking age now? Mr.  Yeah. Ms.  Finally. Mr.  It is exciting. It will be our first tour with us all being 21 - our first round of kind of shows in America. We were escorted on stage and off stage just in case we kind of grabbed a beer.  Got any bad ideas? Mr.  Yeah. I got new ideas so it should be a fun tour.  Do not go too crazy obviously.    Romy Madley Croft and Oliver Sim the two leads of the band The xx and they just won one of Britain's most prestigious music awards - the Barclaycard Mercury Prize. Thank you both for being with us and enjoy your travels across the U.S. Mr.  Thank you so much. Ms.  Thank you very much.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 