 RB star Raphael Saadiq has just released his first new album in eight years. It is called Jimmy Lee named for his late brother. And it finds Saadiq balancing personal introspection with social commentary. Oliver Wang has our review.   Play this record as frequently as possible.  Raphael Saadiq has been a pop music mainstay since debuting with Oakland Calif. Tony! Toni! Tone! in the 1980s. In the '90s Saadiq became a top-tier arranger producer and songwriter collaborating with the likes of Solange Knowles D'Angelo and others. Yet when it comes to his own solo career Saadiq's been sparing with only one previous album released this entire decade. So with his latest Jimmy Lee you get the sense that he only puts his own music out into the world when he has some things he really wants to say.    It is a world epidemic and the whole world is in it. I lost a brother to AIDS. Still he laughed every day.  Saadiq's brother Jimmy Lee Baker died of an overdose in the 1990s. He was 1 of 4 siblings Saadiq lost over the course of his life. Those passings are not always made explicit on the album but the specter of trauma both personal and social haunts these songs.    Even when I am clean I am still a dope fiend. Everyone is always trying to sell me something. I wake up. I feel things crawling. But nobody wants to see a strong man falling. I used to be everybody's hero shaking hands and kissing babies wondering what to do Lord. Oh oh. I am wondering what to do Lord.  The weightiness of Saadiq's themes - conflict loss and addiction - also carries into much of his music. Previous albums found him reworking uptempo '60s and '70s RB styles but Jimmy Lee feels anchored in a darker heavier and more contemporary sound.    I have been taking back streets just to feed my soul. You do not know me and do not want to see me cold. I do not bother nobody. I do what I do. What I do I only do it for you.  Notably the most musically uplifting song on the album is also its most direct and topical. Rikers Island is a two-part interrogation of American incarceration scored with a gorgeous gospel chorus.    Set them free.   Set them free.   The judge sits in the high chair while the family sits and prays hoping judge and jury that all 12 will vote their way.  The constant on the album is a feeling of urgency - for action for resolution for change. Raphael Saadiq may be drawing upon personal history but if Jimmy Lee is an allegory of how the past might intervene in the present we may all have a Jimmy Lee we can relate to - or maybe Jimmy Lee is us.    Something keeps calling me.  Our reviewer Oliver Wang is a professor of sociology at Cal State Long Beach. He co-hosts the music podcast Heat Rocks. 