  Yeah the sound of synthesizers the keytar's more respectable ancestor. Whew you thought those synths had gone away but actually it' Orchestral Manoeuvres in the Dark. Remember OMD? It is not just a revival. Listen to who they have got singing with them on this track.  Ms.   I promised myself after the first romance I would not give you a second chance.  Queen of Soul is in the house. Aretha Franklin with OMD? Here to explain how this came to be is Stephen Thompson of the NPR Music website. Hey Stephen.  Hey. How is it going Mike?  What is going on here?  This was the Song of the Day on the NPR website earlier this past week. And it is from the first Orchestral Manoeuvres in the Dark record in 14 years. Obviously they are sampling Aretha Franklin. It is sort of what you would call a mash-up...  Yeah.  ...of a 1967 song by Aretha Franklin with a 1980 song by OMD. And so they have sort of smashed them together to make this gigantic sort of dance floor filler.  Ms.   Save me come on save me.  I think it helps both of them a little bit do not you?  I think so. I think that it sort of takes classic Aretha Franklin and sort of gives it a little bit of a dancier vibe. And it also obviously you have the gravitas of Aretha Franklin on this kind of light and airy synthpop band.  All right Stephen. You also feature a cover song and it is a Tom Waits cover. And by the way you are not a musician until you do a Tom Waits cover right?   They give it to you with the handbook.  Right. Let us hear the original Tom Waits song Long Way Home.  Mr.   Forgive me pretty baby but I always take the long way home.  That is the gravelly Tom that we know. And here now the duo Mates of State their take.    Forgive me pretty baby but I always take the long way home. Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah.  Mates of State is upbeat. Tom Waits as not. So maybe that would be a bad pairing but it works well here. Why?  I think it works great and I know there are Tom Waits fans who - it was like chewing nails listening to Mates of State cover this song with this yeah yeah yeah yeah.  But then chewing nails is what Tom Waits sounds like.   That is true.  Spitting them gargling them yeah.  What is interesting though is if you listen to the songs together philosophically I think it is a perfect match for Mates of State just this unrelentingly cheerful band with kind of an undercurrent of melancholy that makes the cheer feel kind of hard-won.  Yeah that is it. I think we have stumbled on it. Waits is almost unrelentingly morose but with glimpses of hope.  Right.  They are the inverse.  Right. Exactly.  Yeah.  And so they are the inversion of Tom Waits and I think both are well-served.    Watch your back if I should tell you love's the only thing I have ever known. One thing's for sure sweet baby I always take the long way home.  This is a massively polarizing song.  Yeah.  You know the reader reaction on the website was either oh it is so heartfelt and uplifting or it is just people who just cannot believe that they were assaulted with the existence of this cover.  What are you doing to my Waits? I like the sea chanteys. That is Mates of State with their version of Tom Waits' Long Way Home. And my guest is Stephen Thompson. He comes in from time to time. He curates the Song of the Day feature on nprmusic.org. So what is up next?  All right. Well what is next is a hairpin turn from Mates of State. It is sort of a cranky ethnomusicologist by the name of Lloyd Miller...  Uh-huh.  ...working with an acid jazz group from the U.K. called the Heliocentrics and the song is called Spirit Jazz.   So what makes musicologist Lloyd Miller - why do you describe him as cranky?  Well he is sort of known in the jazz world as kind of a difficult guy. You know he is known for writing this fairly well-publicized screed against modern music. And he is an expert in all this world music. He is an expert in Iranian music. And so he is working with this group called the Heliocentrics that has also done these kind of fusions of jazz music and world music. And so I found this piece sort of hypnotically enveloping and I love that we featured it.   Spirit Jazz by Lloyd Miller and the Heliocentrics. And finally Stephen we have a new track from the band Blonde Redhead. Now for those of you scoring at home this is not 4 Non Blondes. This is not Blondie. This is not Concrete Blonde. I do not know why all the bands like to put blonde in their name. This is Blonde Redhead. Tell me about them and the song we are going to hear.  Okay. Blonde Redhead is kind of a downtown New York art rock band. When they started out they were very very very reminiscent of Sonic Youth. Now they have gotten a lot sweeter. And this particular song which I love is called My Plants are Dead.  Well that does sound sweet unless you are the plants.  That is right.  Let us listen.    I woke up this morning did not feel .  Why'd you choose this one as the Song of the Day?  I think it is really beautiful and very sad. I love the kind of haunting that very Cure-style rumble underneath it. It is very sweet-sounding. But you know I like the fact that as much as it is kind of this cool arty detached you know downtown band there is a lot going on in this song about loneliness and separation and alienation that I think this song captures really well. And the people who love a newer band like The xx I think would be very well-served checking out a you know a more veteran band doing a lot of the same kind of stuff.  Also people who hate plants.  Also people who hate plants.  Yeah. And that is Stephen Thompson. He is the curator of the Song of the Day feature on nprmusic.org. Check in every weekday for a new song. Stephen thank you.  Thank you so much for having me Mike.  Awesome.   And for Sunday that is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. If you missed either of this weekend's shows fear not. We are now podcasting the best stuff. Go to npr.orgweekendatc. I am Mike Pesca. Guy Raz will be back next weekend. Thanks for listening and have a great night. 