 At 25 British singer Lianne La Havas has established herself as a musical triple threat. She is a guitarist songwriter and a soulful vocalist. Her fans on this side of the Atlantic already include Stevie Wonder and Prince. Her new album is called Blood and it is almost like a reintroduction.    Six years old staring at my nose in the mirror trying to dip my toes in the mirror thinking who is that girl and does the mirror world go on forever?  La Havas draws on her heritage for inspiration. Her father is Greek her mother Jamaican. And it was a trip to Jamaica after her first tour that got her thinking about music in a new way.  I loved how acceptable it is everywhere and how it is OK to just listen music really loud.  .  You know?  It was the volume that got you.  Yeah. It is just - I was in the town center in Christiana and like a car drove by. And the whole back of the car was like a sound system. And so the window was open with the speaker pointing out.  Because of course yeah .  The whole purpose of the car is just to share the music. I do not know. It really struck me just how important it is. And it is almost like something within me switched and went well yeah obviously.  There is a little bit of the influence that you are talking about in the opening of this song called Midnight.  Yes.    A long and lonely journey to my hideaway and I know they will try to turn me with the things that they say. But no one knows where I will go when I walk away. So come now hurry hurry. Do not miss this train.  Now for people who may not be familiar with your music or maybe the first album it was kind of quiet and this song actually was one that I turned up in the car .  Yeah .  My speakers were not as big but is that the goal here?  This one was made in Jamaica. It was so loud all day you know? And when I walked into the studio the beat was playing and it was thin but with loads the body. And I was like oh I can probably play something to this.    Honey if you care to join me...  And your singing is big.  Yeah.  You really let some notes rip in this.  I know.  I was surprised.  Well so was I.    So come now hurry hurry. Do not miss this train. People think I am crazy. Lately I am...  And so the way felt there in a foreign country - you can be who you want to be. There is no former you that day I guess was the kind of peak of that.  That must be a nice feeling to have when you are on a second album - right? - especially one that was really - your first album was so well received and this one has a different sensibility really kind of bigger RB grooves. And were you worried about straying from the sound that people associated you with which was kind of little more folk maybe a little more acoustic guitar?  It is funny you say that. There is actually no acoustic guitar on the first album.  And is that a mistake people often made thinking about that first album the one I just made?  Yes . But it is easy to make I guess because I play on my own a lot on the first album with - the actual guitar is clean electric sound. But yeah I do not mind by the way. I do not mind.  No that is OK. I am just asking 'ecause like I said I associate it with kind of quiet. And on this album I was like hey Lianne OK. .  That is the thing. I think if you isolate the guitar parts on this album with just the voice it will still be the essence of what I think I do which is - I just love playing guitar and singing.  You mention that if we listen closely in this album we can still kind of hear what we maybe originally thought of your sound and I am going to - I think the song Wonderful does that.    Did the world get a little bit colder no wiser just a little bit older so slow we were bound to fall over?  I do not know if it is that kind of heartbeat-like beat underneath or your voice dancing over it. Tell us how this song came to be.  Basically I was going through a breakup. And at the same time I was sort of starting to write also about maybe trying to get back together. Wonderful kind of was the culmination of all of those feelings and so I thought I am just going to fondly remember and write a nostalgic ode to him and - just so he knew that it meant something to me. So when I listen I hear you know was not it kind of wonderful and just remember like all those lovely things.    Was not it kind of wonderful? Was not it kind of wonderful Baby? Was not it kind of wonderful wonderful?  You know you have been collecting some pretty impressive friends here in the U.S...  I guess so.  ...One of which is Prince.  Hello. Hello Prince.  He must have some impact on your music as well. I mean he is a big performer an amazing songwriter. How has that helped you change how you even look at your career?  Well from the beginning I thought you know I really want to be around for a very long time and make good stuff for a very long time. And he is like one of the great shining examples of that.  Right  yes. He is one of those people - he is one of those performers - Prince has always kind of defied whatever expectations people had around him...  Exactly.  ...And around black performers.  Exactly.  And I wonder for you coming from the U.K. and coming to the U.S. what has it been like trying to navigate that right? I mean it is a different set of expectations.  Exactly. The first time I ever was called black was when I went to America. It was completely unusual like - you know in London it was just always the norm that all kids from everywhere all hung out being mixed. It was not a thing basically. It was just you are Lianne. And I feel very lucky that the album came out the way it did you know how it sounds because that is all I really want to be judged on.    Heavy words little lies telling everything but the truth the truth.  Well Lianna La Havas Thank you so much for taking time out to talk about the album and how these songs came together. We really appreciate it.  I really appreciate you having me. Thank you so so much.    No sweet nothing could ever be turned into something new.  Singer Lianne La Havas - her new album is called Blood. 