 Peek behind the scenes of some of the biggest pop songs of the last 15 years and you will find a familiar face - Mark Ronson a music producer with an uncanny ability to create a hit. There was Amy Winehouse's album Back To Black...    They tried to make me go to rehab. I said no no no.  ...Uptown Funk with Bruno Mars...    Do not believe me just watch.  Just recently he did Lady Gaga's hit Shallow which he co-wrote. Now Ronson is out with his own album Late Night Feelings. Every track is a collaboration with a female artist - legends like Alicia Keys and newcomers like King Princess. It is also a heartbreak album. Ronson got divorced last year and he channeled his feelings into his music. And that he says was uncharted territory.  With my own records I have always been a bit like - I am a DJ. Like who wants to hear the DJ's feelings?  .  Like come on. Like you go to a club and the guy's like I had a bad day today. Like no you just want to party. So this is the first album where I just kind of had no choice but to put the emotion first.    When I get to want you and I want to call you with late night feelings.  So the direction I have read is sad bangers .  Yeah. I mean I was basically sitting with this friend of mine. And I was explaining the whole concept of my record as I was figuring it out. And I was giving him this long-winded like - and it is like sad but like - and I could just see his eyes glazing over. And he is like oh you mean like sad bangers? And I was like yeah that is much better.  .  Believe me. Like I tried sometimes to go to the studio and just make something that was a bit fun and like whatever. But it just - it did not resonate and did not stick. And then this kind of slightly more melancholy stuff was just like - had a hold on me.    Pulling in the wrong direction I am about to cross that line. Looking for the wrong affection night after night.  While I cannot tie together a big theme in all of your music in terms of sound I can tie together the idea that you are able to facilitate people's sound. Can you talk about how you developed that ability?  It is not even like a sixth sense. It is just what I imagine them sounding good over. Like I saw Miley Cyrus sing on the SNL 40th anniversary and she sung 50 Ways To Leave Your Lover in this very like Nashville arrangement. I would never heard her voice that naked like the grit and the rasp. And I just became kind of obsessed with trying to get to work with her. And we had this little seed of this idea - the little acoustic guitar part. And I just sent it to Miley on a kind of Hail Mary. And she wrote back and she dug it and then came in and finished writing it with us.    This world can hurt you. It cuts you deep and leaves a scar. Things fall apart but nothing breaks like a heart. And nothing breaks like a heart.  I ask because I - when I sat down to think about it I was not able to say to myself this is a Mark Ronson sound right? I did not know what that sound was the way that some producers are very aggressive with having a sonic signature. And do you consciously not do that? Am I missing something?  I think now what I probably try and do is make something that feels honest and a little bit timeless. But in the beginning yeah my first success was with Amy Winehouse and the Dap-Kings and that sound. And I probably like let that wear out its welcome a little bit and maybe...  In what way?  Just put horns on everything pretty much.  Oh .  So like now I think maybe it is like just being 43 or whatever. It is like I just want people to like feel something and feel some honesty and genuineness and feel the singer when they hear the music. And I guess that is what the kind of probably underlying thing of this record is a little bit more.   Artists have spoken really highly of working with you as a collaborator. And I want to play something that Lady Gaga said about the producer-singer relationship. This is from the documentary Five Foot Two. And it is - in the scene she is talking about working on a song with you in the studio.   When producers unlike Mark start to act like they are the one - you know you would be nothing without me for women especially since those men have so much power - whenever they want whatever they want - the cocaine the money the champagne the girls - the hottest girls you have ever seen. And then I walk in the room and it is like eight times out of 10 I am put in that category. And they expect from me what those girls have to offer when that is just not at all what I have to offer in any way.  You have been in this business for a long time. Does that description ring true to you?  First of all the fact is that none of us producers would be anything without these artists. It is kind of like the other way around. If you are in the room with somebody as talented as Lady Gaga Amy Winehouse like the best thing you can do is just sit and listen first and see what they want to do and just be like an open receptor to the talent. So I understand that ego comes in and I have heard like stories of this. I have never been around those producers. I try and like keep like my circle kind of like - the karma good.  Because it sounds like - and sometimes women feel somewhat trapped right? I mean the label says look you got to work with this awesome producer and then you got to do it.  Maybe. I also think that in this like slightly new social media era where like these massive artists like Ariana Grande and Selena Gomez and stuff are calling so many shots because they could just be like I feel like making this piece of music right now. I am going to put it out tomorrow. So I do feel like it is probably changed because the artists just have such a direct thing to their fans now.    Steady my breath in the wake of love heavy on down and it weighs too much. I do not want to drown but the waves keep on rolling .  So how does collaboration work when you have kind of the added issue of you bringing your own experience - right? - into to this album? On this one you talked about the sadness of your breakup. You were divorced last year. So that is like a different kind of cloud hanging over things.  I think you kind of just find the people that were slightly willing to go into that zone. I was not asking anyone to channel my personal experience but just to feel the thing that was a bit of like a shared thing.  Can we talk about a song that was a real collaboration?  Spinning the last one on the record I wrote it with this amazing songwriter Ilsey Juber. And I was in another relationship after my marriage broke up and I was kind of just like in that state where you like do not know what is going on what is up or down. And I just called Ilsey and I thought the record was done. And I was like you got time for one more like heartbreak piece or something? She was like yeah I will be there at 6. She came over and we kind of wrote this song together. And it just was about - the chorus lyric is when I am spinning you bring me back to Earth and you fix it. When nothing's making sense and I am dizzy you are the only one that I want. And it was just how I felt at the time.    You are the only one that I want.  There is a little bit of a ray of light at the end of this song. Like the songs are a bit heartbreaking on the record and this goes out on a little bit of like a slightly optimistic...  A little bit of hope.  A little bit of hope which actually did not pan out anyway.    Feeling on and on .   Well Mark Ronson thank you so much for sharing a bit of your process and talking about the music. It was really lovely.  Thank you for having me.  Mark Ronson - his new album Late Night Feelings is out Friday.    On and on on and on and on feeling on and on on and on . 