 Last Friday we asked you to tell us about the music you listened to while you or your partner gave birth - your delivery playlist - and the stories you sent in were moving and funny.    Push it.  This song seems to be a clear favorite. It is Push It by Salt-N-Pepa. Several of you wrote in with that pick.   Ow. Baby.  One birth playlist included the Star Wars theme.   And then there were the accidental soundtracks. Ann Scanlan wrote us from the Irish town of Ballingeary. She says she had planned to create a playlist during early labor but then reality stepped in. She ended up using some old playlists on her iPod.   After over an hour of pushing and with clear indications that my baby was in distress the doctor announced that it was time to get the baby out fast with the help of a vacuum. The next song to come on my iPod was the Lonely Island's I am on a Boat a hilarious rap song that is quite out of character with the rest of my musical tastes.   I am the king of the world on a boat like Leo. If you are on the shore then you are sure not me oh.   It was fitting though and served its purpose so well. It made me laugh calmed me down helped me focus and gave me the extra energy to get my son out.   Maura Welch of Manhattan Kansas remembered back to the birth of her son 27 years ago. She was listening to the opera Carmen.  The rousing and joyful overture was playing as Colin was born.  But there is more to this story.  Ms.  When Colin was about 2 years old Carmen was playing again this time in the kitchen  Mommy I do not really like that song. It always gives me a headache. Oh out of the mouths of babes.  Are you ready for this? That is from Catherine Scantlin of Boone North Carolina. Her favorite song in her playlist was Johnny Cash's Ring of Fire.    Love is a burning thing and it makes a fiery ring.  And by the way Scantlin is not the only person to mention that song. People refer to the ring of fire when they describe a certain feeling as the baby is crowning.  Scantlin writes that whenever the ring of fire was mentioned in birth class she and her husband could not stop giggling because of the song.  I do not remember much about that point of the birth because I was so exhausted but I do remember hearing that song and laughing.    Twenty-twenty-twenty-four hours to go I want to be sedated.  Finally Margot Vigeant of Lewisburg Pennsylvania told us her playlist included I Wanna Be Sedated by The Ramones and King of Pain by The Police.  At one point in the process with my second son the doctor said I would be better able to work if you would shut that noise off. I took a moment to explain to him who I thought was doing most of the work and therefore was entitled to choose the music.  Scantlin's son finally arrived not to the driving beat of The Ramones but to the jaunty bounce of The Beatles.   Life goes on from Ob-La-Di Ob-La-Da is where Simon made his appearance.    Ob-la-di ob-la-da life goes on rah. La-la-la life goes on. Ob-la-di ob-la-da life goes on rah. La-la-la life goes on.  Thanks to all of you who shared your music and your stories.    In a couple of years they have built a home sweet home with a couple of kids running in the yard of Desmond and Molly Jones. Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha. Happy ever after in the marketplace Desmond lets the children lend a hand. Molly stays at home and does her pretty face. And in the evening she still sings with the band. Yeah. Ob-la-di ob-la-da life goes on rah. La-la-la life goes on. Yeah. Ob-la-di ob-la-da life goes on rah. La-la-la life goes on. In a couple of years they have built a home sweet home...  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 