 The indie rock band The War On Drugs started out in Philadelphia's cramped dive bars more than a decade ago. Over the last few years they have been playing on bigger stages and have just released their fourth album. It is called A Deeper Understanding. Reviewer Tom Moon says it aspires to the wildly ambitious record making of '70s rock.   In certain rock circles ambition is a negative - not with The War On Drugs. You can hear it right away. These guys are swinging for the fences. The band is reverent about classic rock. This towering mix includes prominent glockenspiel...   ...An instrument not much heard on rock records since Bruce Springsteen's landmark Born To Run.    Once I was alive and I could feel. I was holding onto you.  But singer-songwriter Adam Granduciel is way too gifted to be dismissed as a student or a copycat. He writes rousing melodies that hang in the air as though suspended in time. On this one his voice is shadowed by elegant skywriting guitar.    I went down a crooked highway. I went all outside the line. I have been rejected. Now the light has turned and I am out of time.  There were hints of widescreen ambition on their previous album which came out in 2014. By then the six-piece band had graduated from clubs to be rising stars on the touring circuit. The sound was big wild and abrasive with hints of tenderness lurking underneath. The new album nudges that to the forefront.    Go to bed now. I can tell pain is on the way out now. Look away. A domino falls away. I know it is hard looking in.  Granduciel spent over two years in multiple studios working on A Deeper Understanding. He tried countless combinations of acoustic and synthesized instruments building up and tearing down the arrangements. He says his main goal was to make the songs feel alive not fussed over. This one a nighttime meditation called Knocked Down turns on a beautiful and forlorn one-word vocal hook.    I want to love you but I get knocked down. I am only shaking 'ecause I am lying in the hold. I want to shade it but I cannot break free. Anyway...  It is a fairly typical wounded lover song made engrossing by the open space that surrounds Granduciel's squinty voice. That is the secret to this whole album. There is lots going on dozens of record geek references long expansive instrumental interludes. But it never feels overloaded. The music unfolds gracefully invoking not only the sounds of classic rock but something more elusive - a journeying spirit.    Oh I am rising from within. I see it every morning. Tell me where the rhythm ends. Is it cold...  The latest from The War On Drugs is called A Deeper Understanding. Our reviewer is Tom Moon.    And there is nothing I can say or do in between. Oh it always changes. I do not understand. I keep moving to the edge and now comes a feeling I cannot stop. 