 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Audie Cornish. If you plan to tune in to any coverage of the Summer Olympics in the coming days you will probably hear some of this...   ...and this.   And oh yeah you might hear this too.    The reflex is an only child. He is waiting by the park. The reflex...  But that last song you may only hear if you catch the opening ceremonies tomorrow night. A supposed playlist of the songs intended for that extravaganza showed up in the media a few days ago. We are going to talk about that in a little bit and give you enough information about the tradition of Olympic music to wow your friends with NPR's classical music producer Tom Huizenga. Hi there Tom.  Hey Audie. How are you?  So what is the deal with all the different songs playlists? Is there an official Olympic composition every time?  Well not exactly every time but you know we might want to go back a few years. And so you know if you are among history buffs or actually anyone claiming Greek heritage of any kind you should be sure to mention the Olympic Hymn written by Spyridon Samaras. He got the ball rolling as far as writing music especially for the Olympics goes. And this will appeal to all Olympian purists for sure when you tell them it was performed for the first time at the 1896 Athens Olympics and it will be heard this time around during the opening ceremony immediately following the raising of the Olympic flag.   Ah what a chorus. So now I want to bring in music that maybe the rest of us here in the U.S. will recognize right?   Now we are talking Olympic music but can you name this piece?  Absolutely not.   OK. Everyone is going to be impressed with you Audie when you tell them that the real title to this beloved Olympic fanfare is actually the Bugler's Dream. And of course they will nod in affirmation when you remind them that it was the theme music for ABC's Olympic coverage beginning in the late 1960s.  Aha.  The music is by Leo Arnaud a French-born American composer also a movie score composer. Now if you are among classical music buffs it is going to be crucial to point out that Arnaud was a pupil of Maurice Ravel. Also you might want to take a risk and scoff at John Williams the contemporary composer who actually co-opted this music of Arnaud by attaching it to his own Olympic fanfare and theme which he composed for the 1984 Olympics in Los Angeles. Audie let us hear this kind of unsightly scene that John Williams has imposed between Arnaud's music and his own.   Ah they are sort of sewn together a little bit.  Yeah. It is - to me it is like somebody dumping 7UP in your champagne. It is just not quite right.   Now John Williams is not the only contemporary composer who was you know called on to write Olympic music right?  Oh no. You mean you should be ready to toss off a few names of other you know important composers who have written pieces related to the Olympics. There is Philip Glass. He is hip in almost any circle. So he is written two pieces one for the torch lighting of the 1984 L.A. games a piece called The Olympian. And there is - I particularly like Michael Torke's Javelin for the Atlanta Olympics.  Now Olympic music is not always classical though right?  No. Remember this one?    Barcelona Barcelona.  Whoa.  Mm-hmm. Oh yeah.  I recognize the voice right? Freddie Mercury? It has to be.  That is right. You know it is very impressive if you can succinctly these days point out the intersections between the pop and classical music world when there is no better place than with the 1992 Barcelona Olympics  Freddie Mercury - he is the immensely gifted lead singer from Queen of course - and Montserrat Caballe one of the supreme opera singers of the 20th century. And you might think like many of us that this song was performed at the 1992 Barcelona Olympics but...  Oh you would be wrong there right?   You would be wrong. And you would be so much smarter if you can quickly recount the devastating backstory and that was that the duet which we are hearing was recorded and performed ahead of the 1992 games. It was slated for the opening ceremony. Freddie Mercury died eight months before so TV audiences were shown a performance the two taped earlier in Barcelona.    Now my dream is slowly coming true.  Tom hearing this music it makes me wonder sort of how difficult it is to come up with music around the games. Is it that they are pulled in so many different directions between the host country and appealing to the whole world? Is it the modern and the new? How come sometimes it just seems cheesy looking back?  Well it can and I think you have hit on a good point that people are pulled in many different directions. For the 2004 Athens Olympics Philip Glass was pulled in at least seven different directions because he has seven different composers to help him write this big music piece that was really you know it was overambitious. But along with the formerly composed pieces for the Olympics there is the pop music like we have just heard and that becomes kind of the soundtrack and that just reflects the style of music that we are hearing today.  So that leads us to this year's Olympic music because the British paper The Telegraph has published what it calls a leaked playlist of music...  Quote unquote leaked.  Leaked right.   So what is on it? What are the threads we see here?  Amazingly as it turns out the whole playlist reads like a Brit pop-retro night at your local dance club. It is filled with British music. You have got Duran Duran whom we heard earlier The Jam Blur Eurythmics Soul II Soul and there are a number of surprisingly strange bedfellows in the list too. Now who knows what will be done with them but there is the Sex Pistols' God Save the Queen.    God save the queen. She as not no human being.  And the queen will be at the opening ceremony so...  That will not be awkward at all yeah.  Of course not. Well...   I am sure she is heard it before.  And then juxtaposing that with Elgar's Nimrod from the Enigma Variations.   And then...   ...Frankie Goes to Hollywood's Relax.    Relax do not do it when you want to go to it. Relax...  That is actually pretty awesome.    ...do not do it when you want to come. Relax do not do it...  All right. Tom in fairness few people...   ...reportedly have attended the opening ceremony rehearsals right? So we do not know for sure so...  We do not know but they caught up with a few coming back on the tram and they promised to be tightlipped about it. But one guy did say it was magnificently bonkers. You know they are describing it as the British celebrating the British. And Audie that is in itself that is got to be funny.    ...come.  Tom Huizenga thank you so much for talking with us.  It is been a pleasure.   Tom Huizenga is NPR's classical music producer. More of his thoughts about Olympic music are at nprmusic.org.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 