 When he wrote Another Brick in the Wall in 1979 Pink Floyd's bassist Roger Waters wanted to convey the cruelty and rigidity of British boarding schools.    We do not need no education.  But around the world this song became a political anthem against government oppression. It was banned in South Africa during Apartheid and a decade later became the soundtrack to the fall of the Berlin Wall.    Hey teacher leave those kids alone.  Now a new generation has taken on the song. A pair of musicians born in Iran have re-worked the lyrics as a rallying cry against the government in Tehran.    Hey Ayatollah leave those kids alone.  Brothers Sepp and Sohl make up the Canadian duo Blurred Vision and while they are using the song to criticize Iran's government today in 1979 many young Iranians who supported the Islamic revolution drew inspiration from it.  The song Another Brick in the Wall has been sort of a symbol for anti-oppression and not so more than in Iran when at the same time the revolution happened for the Islamic Republic. And one of the first things that government did was ban rock and roll. Another Brick in the Wall became the anthem for the youth at that time. So now 30 years later we are seeing this amazing movement rise up again started by the youth once more.    No dark sarcasm in the classroom.  leave them kids alone.  Is the song resonating in Iran? Do you know if people are hearing it?  Just like back in 1979 when they were making you know copies of cassette copies of the album The Wall now they are making you know email copies of this and sending it to each other. So it is always been very technologically advanced these revolutions in Iran.  I should mention Sepp and Sohl you are not using your last names because you still have relatives in Iran. And have you received any messages from people in Iran?  Yeah I mean that is one of the most inspiring things is when this came out the messages that were coming through the wire it was so touching to hear that the youth they still had so much hope even though they were you know being cracked down in such brutal manners by the government.  Now you in order to make this song and then to release it you had to sort of jump through a couple of legal hoops because it is owned by Pink Floyd. How did you get their permission to put this out there?  When we recorded the song we knew immediately that before we actually released it we had to get permission. And it did not take very long. I mean all we pretty much had to do was ask and he sent us back saying yeah go ahead you can use this song.  So the lead singer of Pink Floyd Roger Waters...  Yeah that is right. He said you can use this song.   You must have been floored when he said that.  Oh we were.  Oh yeah more than floored but at the same time not surprised because you know being huge Floyd fans we have known of their you know of their work for humanity and especially Roger's support of things going around the world.  Did you guys ask Roger Waters if you know maybe one day when you know things sort themselves out he will perform this with you in Tehran?   The concert would be monumental. You know rock 'n' roll has always been in that land. And the idea of rock and roll I mean you can go back hundreds and centuries to the time of the ancient Persian poets who really can be called the first rock and rollers who used to roam those ancient lands and drink wine and speak poetry and sing and you know surrounded by women. I mean you read into the history of Persian culture and it is all about that. It is all about life and enjoying it and having a good time and being around one another. So you know if that happens then we will definitely ask Rogers.  All right we are going to ask for backstage passes.   Absolutely.  Absolutely. This will be an invitation to the world to come.  That is Sepp and Sohl. They joined me from the CBC studios in Toronto. Their band is called Blurred Vision. Gentlemen thanks so much.  That was great thank you.  No problem. Thank you. 