 Thanks for listening. It is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR West.    Come a long way. Come a long way.  That is the voice of Fin Greenall. As a musician he is truly come a long way. He spent a decade making his name in the electronic music scene as a producer and DJ before taking a sharp turn to singer-songwriter. In 2006 he released the first album with his band Fink. Their latest album is called Hard Believer. It is the fifth studio album with guitarist and drummer Tim Thornton and bassist Guy Whittaker. I asked Greenall how his collaboration process with them has evolved over the years.  Well they are staring right now through the control room screens so I have to be nice. In the early days in 2006 I was very much an electronic producer trying to be a singer-songwriter. So I was a control freak. I had to relinquish my control freakery to - if I needed drum beats I would ask Tim to do the drum. If I needed a bassline I would ask Guy to do the bassline. It is lovely to share the burden with two of your closest friends.    Oh it is all right. Not that heavy as before. Come a long way. Come a long way.  You know the title track Hard Believer it is a bluesy soulful and for me a little darkly catchy tune. Tell us about writing Hard Believer.  I just wanted to write a song about having faith in yourself. And sometimes the creative process - half the battle is persuading yourself come on man do not think about the judgment just get it done.    I can see the light coming. Over the hill over the hill.  It is easily one of the favorite moments I have ever got on record for me. It is a live take in the studio. And I hope that people can hear the belief in that recording. We were really believing in it when we did it.    Hard Believer. Hard Believer.  A live take. Embrace the blues. It is a great tune. Some singer-songwriters can be so sort of overly earnest you want to whack them with a wet noodle. And you guys just never go there. So thank you for that.  Thank you. Thanks for saying that. I get asked quite a lot in interviews you know where do you get all your material from? I think just they think I am a serial dater just to get dumped to get material you know? And it is just life.    This is a song about somebody else. So do not worry yourself worry yourself. The devil's right there right there in the details. And you do not want to hurt yourself hurt yourself. Looking too closely looking too closely.  Fin you have switched gears big time in your career. You started out as a club DJ an electronic producer. And you gained a pretty big international following. Tell me a little bit about that transition when you decided to sort of hang up your headphones and start to write your own tunes.  It was a long transition and I was signed to - and still am signed to - Ninja Tune Records a big independent kind of European dance label. You know in the '90s the whole electronic dance music thing it was a revolution to us. We bypassed the industry and made our own records and you know for seven years I did not have a manager or an agent or a lawyer. And I do not know it came to a point where I was doing gigs as a DJ and kind of not loving it. And if music's your life and you fall out of love with it then that can be a pretty difficult space to be in you know? So I was lucky enough to work with Amy Winehouse in the early days before she was signed. And just making beats for her and writing songs with her and hanging out. And sometimes dance music is a lot of sitting in a room on your own clicking a mouse. And working with Amy was the absolute opposite of that. And after sort of 10 years of being part of the revolution that was trying to kill off the song and kill off the band I kind of suddenly realized oh yeah actually I kind of get it now. So yeah I spent three or four years kind of of re-tooling and teaching myself to sing and play guitar and write. And we actually told the record label that the guy singing on the record was actually an American kid that I would found who was 20 and looked like Brad Pitt obviously or something like that. And we did not tell him it was me at all. We wanted an honest feedback on it you know? And it was only when they needed to start arranging tours and live gigs and our first single Pretty Little Thing was kind of pretty big and we needed to do TV and all that kind of stuff that they said OK let us meet this guy. And I was like yeah it is actually me. And the CEO literally fell off his chair.  That is amazing. He was - literally fell out of his chair.  He literally fell off his seat yeah. He was...  Suddenly this famous electronic music label is putting out a singer-songwriter.    Pretty little thing. No no.  I am speaking with musician Fin Greenall. His latest album with the trio Fink is Hard Believer. You know dance music you know people are into it because they are getting up and moving. When you are up there doing you know another song off the new album it is a different kind of feedback from the audience. They are not shaking it on the dance floor per se. I guess I am curious in terms of audience feedback how are you getting that when it is so different from when you were a DJ?  Absolutely. It is totally different. And instead of judging it with everybody moving around and making a lot of noise if everybody's completely silent you know that something's going on.  You sort of develop your own mental emotional applause meter - you know what the audience is sort of saying.  Absolutely. I mean you can feel it. And I remember the finest moment I think we have had on stage with applause was we did this concert with the Royal Concertgebouw Symphony Orchestra in Holland. We were super nervous with this hundred piece orchestra. And we came on stage very nervous and played a track called Berlin Sunrise.    Berlin sunrise. Come down.  With a symphony orchestra which we learned there was not any option of - Fin's decided to do an extra ending so everybody just jam along. It is really not an option. We finished the track. And then because in classical music you do not kind of clap after each track there was a pause of about - I do not know - it felt like a minute but it was probably like two seconds.    You are gonna come down.  And then we got this beautiful enormous round of applause.   .  We just knew that the audience had kind of almost breathed a collective sigh of relief too.  You had as well?  Yeah absolutely. All of us. All 5000 people and the band and the orchestra kind of went OK this is going to work out this is going to be good. And that was a beautiful moment. Really really wonderful moment.  Fin Greenall with the band Fink. Their new album is Hard Believer. Fin it is been a real pleasure.  Hey it is been a pleasure Eric. Thanks for having me man. Cheers. 