 We have a guest in our studios today who has brought in a very cool musical instrument Glenn Donnellan violinist with the National Symphony Orchestra here in Washington. And Glenn play us a little something to give us a hint.   It sounds an awful lot like a violin looks suspiciously like a baseball bat. What have you got there? Mr.  It is a baseball bat. It is a Louisville Slugger that I picked up at a sporting goods store and made it into a violin.  Yeah you have the business end of the bat under your chin. Mr.  Yeah.  There is a beer - foam beer Mr.  Beer coozie.  Yeah for your chin rest. Mr.  Uh-huh.  You have got tuning pegs drilled into the - pretty much the sweet spot. There is a little hole cut out of the center of the bat and the strings go most of the way down the length of the bat. Mr.  Mm-hmm. I left enough room at the end so you can swing it.  Mr.  That was the whole plan. I wanted to still be able to use it.  And you have got the electric bat. Mr.  It is the electric bat.  And why is there an electric bat? Mr.  Well the National Symphony has young persons concerts that we do every year. We bus in kids from Montgomery County or Fairfax school system. And they were doing a science and music program wanted me to play some electric fiddle examples because they know that I do fiddling and so they thought I would be someone that might be happy to give that a shot. So I did. And then at subsequent programs the same fiddle was not available to the symphony and I do not own one so I thought I have either got to spend 1000 to get one that is nice or make my own.  And you made your Major League Baseball debut this weekend here in Washington at the Nationals game. Mr.  Yeah.  You played the national anthem. How did it go? Mr.  It was fun. It was a lot of fun yeah.  Good crowd response? Mr.  Great crowd response yeah. When I went out into the crowd everyone that I went by wanted a picture of it or were asking me questions or congratulating. You know it was - they were really receptive so that was fun.  You know do you get so used to playing the bat that when you go and pick up your violin it feels kind of strange? Mr.  It does. And what is really weird was getting used to the bat because when you go up higher and higher to get higher notes the bat gets really wide compared to a violin. It is suddenly like you are playing a string bass under your chin and your fingers want to expand and get wider since your thumb is going farther away from the hand on the other side of the bat and so it becomes very tricky to find the notes and everything yeah.  Well take us out with something Glenn would you? Mr.  Okay.  On your electric bat. Mr.  Okay.  Glenn Donnellan with the National Symphony Orchestra.   You can see a picture of Glenn Donnellan playing his bat violin at npr.org. 