 The inimitable Rickie Lee Jones got her start just down the road from where I am sitting here at NPR West singing in clubs in Venice Beach. Over the decades she is raised the bar for pop vocalists. You can hear that in this live performance of We Belong Together.    Climb upon the rooftop docks looking out on the crosstown seas. And he wrapped his jacket across her shoulders and he falls in front of her and hugs her and holds her on his knees...  While Rickie Lee Jones has continued to perform and record she has not put out an album of original music in over a decade. But a year ago she moved to New Orleans which inspired a new record Other Side Of Desire. She says the first step was getting away from this city where it all started.  The first inspiration was to leave LA because I just could not take it anymore. It was a lonely life and most of it spent in a car. So I made the decision to try again.    It makes you feel like you have never been alone never been alone. The moment I got here I felt - what is the word? I felt naked. I felt reduced down to the lowest possible denominator which is where you have to be to start again. It was good.  Well so you moved to New Orleans. And then before too long we have this great album of new music. So that definitely seems more like cause and effect than coincidence right?  I wanted to honor this city. You know it was - I was just happy here. And it was feeding me and I liked what I was hearing. And I liked the people I was meeting. And so I said why not let it in? So I let it in and it came back out and sounded like that.   .  Something I wanted to ask you about your vocal technique 'ecause you have been doing these things with your voice for years where I have been thinking man that is got to hurt the vocal cords.  By these things do you mean singing ?  Yeah. Well I mean this type of singing you do where you  go from - you can go from a whisper to a scream to doing things like some of the gospel vocalists do. Well how are you able to do that all the time  and keep it up?  Well to be honest I still have the range but absolute control is slightly wavering. And the good part about that is it brings a kind of a sorrow because it is not quite quavering from age but it is slightly torn at the end of it. And so I am enjoying it.    Trying to have some fun did not hurt no one but yourself and wasted. And it is a long sad tale... The timber and sound of my voice is not ever going to change. This is how I sound when I sing. Yeah so - so far it is holding up.  I am speaking with Rickie Lee Jones. Her new album Other Side Of Desire is out right now. You talked about how quickly this album came together when you moved to New Orleans. But it had come out of - after a period where you know I think your fans we somehow feel like you should have like a regular output  and we had to wait a little while...  Yeah.  ...For this record. What was going on?  I agree. I wish I had a regular output you know? Something we could count on like the moon and the sun.   The creative process is really elusive right? We would not want to hold it down and describe it to you. Its beauty is that it is elusive so - and it is also an ever-changing thing. What it serves why it serves in 1980 is probably different. The fact that I am still interested in writing at 60 - truly interested - because there were times when I said let us hang it up . This is too dang hard you know? And then I go what are you talking about?    Sometimes I tell myself it does not matter to me if I live in chains or if I fight to be free. When you lose money it always helps lead you down a new path really. I think once people have their house and their money and their power there is nothing to lead you away from there you know? Who would risk everything and try something new? We just - it is not in our nature to do that.    'ecause I am blinded by the hunt. I am blinded by the hunt.  You are talking about how it can be valuable for an artist to really kind of - to lose everything. You have this interesting line in your liner notes of this album. You say I am happy with the loss of prestige. First off have you really lost prestige and why would that make you happy?  The loss of prestige is like this. I would never go to a concert. But if I did and said oh I would like to say hello. I am Rickie Lee Jones. And they said I do not know who you are. Who? Who are you? And that is a powerful thing to go from where I was when I started to not only me but my whole generation does not know who you are.    'ecause this is where we have always been. It will always come again. It has not even happened yet. We are here and in infinity. It is not that I do not want money. I really would like some money. But if I would start doing it for money it always ends up going awry. That is my journey. It is not Beyonce's not somebody else's - mine. And I have to follow that. I have to follow that. I have to know it memorize it sing it every day.   Rickie Lee Jones singer-songwriter cultural force. I do not know how else I could describe you. You are just Rickie Lee Jones.  Yeah.   Back now with a new album Other Side Of Desire. Rickie this has been a blast speaking with you. Thank you.  Thank you for considering me on ALL THINGS CONSIDERED.  You are now considered.    We will stay together. We will never part... 