 He was an unlikely star rather plain looking. Nowadays we would say geeky 20-something in thick-framed glasses. But with hits like That'ill Be the Day Rave On and Peggy Sue Buddy Holly became a rockabilly icon.    If you knew Peggy Sue then you would know why I feel blue about Peggy my Peggy Sue. Well I love you gal. Yes I love you Peggy Sue.  Buddy Holly died at the beginning of 1959. Had he lived he would be 75 years old today and it is cause for reflection and for tribute including the release of a new CD entitled Listen to Me.    Listen to me and hold me tight and you will see our love's so right. Hold me darling. Listen closely to me.  Peter Asher produced the CD and joins us now. Welcome to the program.  Thank you very much. Happy to be here.  And thinking of these Buddy Holly songs and I did not mention Every Day and Maybe Baby that is an incredibly impressive output for a very sadly brief career.  It is. It is quite amazing. I mean there is such a collection of extraordinarily good songs and he came up with them in less than two years or something. It is quite astounding.  We know of you first as the Peter of Peter and Gordon. You covered a Buddy Holly song in your day.  And of course too he proved that you did not have to be Elvis to be a pop star. You could as you said in your intro be the nerdy guy with the glasses.  Did you affect those glasses just as a tribute to Buddy Holly?  I did. I did indeed. I actually took my favorite Buddy Holly cover around looking for glasses exactly like that.  I want to ask you about the performers who appear on the album Listen to Me. There is the track of Linda Ronstadt doing That'ill Be the Day which you produced years ago. That is the old recording.  It is. Yes. In '75 I think or something like that. But yes they decided they wanted to use that old one the only old one.  And then there are some natural fits. Buddy Holly's fellow Texan Lyle Lovett also Chris Isaak are in some ways from the Buddy Holly cast their songs seem to come very naturally.  Yes.  Then when we get to what I will call some stretches groups that I personally am completely unfamiliar with. The Fray or Cobra Starship which plays Peggy Sue.    If you knew Peggy Sue then you would know what I feel blue without Peggy my Peggy Sue.  Yeah. They are a terrific band and I have a particular affection for them because my daughter happens to be in the band.  I see I see.  But they are doing very well. I do not know if you watched the VMA awards the other night. You would have seen them and they are doing terrifically.  Now there is a test for an album of covers even if they are tribute covers which is - would you just as soon hear the covers as listen to the originals? Well in the case of Cobra Starship do they succeed?  I mean some of these versions are quite different like Natalie Merchant does a version of Learning the Game and to me what struck me about that song as Buddy was writing it he was young and enthusiastic and it is about people who are about to learn the game. And obviously when someone with a little more experience sings it - and Natalie sings it in a way that breaks your heart - it is about someone who has played the game and learned a lot from it. And it is different.    When you love him and he does not love you you are only learning the game.  The Natalie Merchant track is remarkable and I have to say that even though I believe I owned 45s of Buddy Holly with or without the Crickets back in 1958 or whatever it was this is not a song that I knew. And if you played it for me I would have assumed it was a Natalie Merchant song.  Ah beautiful.    When he says that you are the only one he will ever love then you find that you are not the one he is thinking of feeling so sad when you are all alone and blue that is when you are learning the game.  She really got into that song.  And it was a pleasure working with her because I had not worked with her since we did a couple of 10000 Maniacs albums together many years ago.  Which you produced you are saying as a...  Which I did. Yes yes.  Did any of the younger performers here have to be told who Buddy Holly was and what you were doing?  Zooey Deschanel knew several of the songs already and knew which one she wanted to sing so it is surprising but the songs have survived. People do know them.  Peter Asher thank you very much for talking with us today.  Thank you very much Robert. It is a pleasure.    It is seems so easy. Yeah. It is seems so easy. Oh it is seems so easy. Well where you are concerned my heart can learn. Oh it is so easy to fall in love. It is so easy to fall in love.  Today would have been Buddy Holly's 75th birthday. 