 It is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Audie Cornish. And a note in advance of our next interview...   No. ATC is not going all Top 40. But we do need to play a little more of this song.   Yes. We Cannot Stop by Miley Cyrus. Most recently associated with twerking teddy bears and tongue.   But we found a version online that gives 2013 hit a touch of 1950s class.   We Cannot Stop has gone doo wop on YouTube. That is where Scott Bradlee and his Postmodern Jukebox project post their video remakes of pop hits. And I got to say it made this song you know actually enjoyable.   It is infectious in a good way so it is no surprise the video is now viral. The man behind this musical rearranging joins us from our New York Bureau Scott Bradlee welcome to the program.  Hi. Thanks Audie.  So how many hits on YouTube so far for your version of We Cannot Stop?  Oh. The last time I checked which was maybe yesterday we just passed 4 million. And so...  Wow. And that is without any twerking? You are just sitting at a piano.  No twerking. Mine's just another piano. There is not even an opportunity for me to twerk. So...   And I thank you.   So this is part of what you call your Postmodern Jukebox and talk about what eras you are partial to.  Sure. The whole idea behind Postmodern Jukebox it is kind of imagine an alternate universe of pop music where the songs that we hear today are somehow you know stuck in a time machine and come out you know in the 1930s or the 1940s or the '50s. Kind of like a you know for Seinfeld fans a Bizarro world of music.   So that is - that is kind of like the basic idea. And you know it really kind of taught me that no song has to be tied to one particular genre. You know and I see it also on YouTube there are lots of people doing cross genre covers and I think it is becoming like a big thing now you know? There is more collaboration between and across genre lines.  I was going to ask about that. You are right. This covering of songs is very popular on YouTube. And one thing it does is it exposes the strengths and weaknesses of a song right? And I am thinking of Selena Gomez's Come And Get It.  Oh yeah.   And you redo this very shiny pop hit right that we have been hearing this summer as '40s jazz.   What I did in that song was a reharmonization which means like I took the chorus of the song and I changed them. And the melody kind of went itself to be kind of reimagined in a jazz sense and you know jazz musicians. That is something that is been all the time. I mean the idea when jazz first came to prominence musicians were taking Broadway songs which were the pop music of the day and they were kind of transforming them. They were reharmonizing them in ways that made them sound like jazz. So this was really just an extension of that tradition.   All right. So while jazz and ragtime are obviously a favorite both for the Postmodern Jukebox you also venture into other genres. And one that struck me was the country version of the Keha song Die Young.   But there is also an Irish waltz version of Daft Punk's Get Lucky. So first I do not even know why we have to play it because it is like the hit of the summer. Here's the original.    And I really thought I had heard every cover of this song...  Ah.   ...until I heard this one.   OK. In this...   In this performance in the video a can of Guinness appears so does a box of Lucky Charms. I am not going to make any judgments about that...   ...but talk a little bit about doing this and not you know verging into parody. Is it parody?  This one I think is definitely a lot - this is more a parody in this one. Largely because I think as soon as that song came out and it was such a big hit for Daft Punk everyone was expecting us to do a 1920s cover of it because that is what we had been doing up into that point. So I kind of wanted to do something completely different. And I mean the phrase get lucky you know lucky the luck of the Irish so I pretty much played into like every Irish stereotype there that you know Americans might have. But...   And you know I brought aboard Mitch Jarvis who is a really talented actor and writer. You know he is just hilarious in this. He just...   He kind of created this whole very over-the-top Irish tenor character.   You know I think another thing that I am kind of trying to showcase in this particular series is that these older styles of music they are not dead genres. They are not you know no longer relevant. Just by taking modern contemporary source material we can kind of revitalize them a bit. And we are getting a lot of comments of people that never really listen to jazz or never really listen to ragtime or doo wop or whatever but they are finding that they really have an affinity for when it is presented in a way that is interesting and relevant to them.  Does it give you a different perspective on the originals?  I think so. You know I have never really listened to the lyrics until I would do these things. And now I know all the words to all these songs.   So it is - but it made me realize that as much as you know people may call the lyrics inane of some of these songs it does reach a very large demographic of people. I mean these are songs that are big hits. And I think that there is a definite skill in writing for you know a mass audience like that. And that is something that I do not think I could do.  So fess up in the end did you learn to love We Cannot Stop the Miley Cyrus version?  Well you know what I got to say that our version is stuck in my head just from all the hours of editing. So every so often I heard it on the radio and I am like oh somebody remixed our song. That is awesome. But...   I mean it is definitely a catchy song.  That is New York-based musician Scott Bradlee. Scott thank you so much for talking with us.  You got it.  And when Scott not rearranging pop hits to the sounds of bygone eras he is the music director of Sleep No More an off-Broadway immersive theatre production.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 