 Omaha Neb. gained national attention around the turn-of-the-century for the band Bright Eyes and other artists on their label Saddle Creek Records. As it often does the national spotlight has moved on in the search for the next scene. But Omaha's musical community is still growing strong. And a number of new albums are coming out this year with ties to the Midwestern city. Iowa Public Radio's Clay Masters tells us why.  On a recent afternoon Omaha rapper Brenton Gomez aka Conchance stops by Make Believe studios just outside of downtown.  Hey.  Hey how are you. Good to see you.  Good to see.  The studio is still under construction. CEO Rick Carson shows off some of the progress.  You are standing in control room right here so there'ill actually be a wall right in front of that glass wall there. And this'ill have a pro-tools rig.  Carson moved to Omaha a few years ago. He is lived in Detroit Chicago and Colorado but settled on making records here.  It is all market research you know? Omaha's the best. We have one of the best economies in the world. We have one of the lowest unemployment rates which means that people can pay lower rate and they can still have a job you know? Someplace in Chicago and Detroit for sure that is not exactly how it goes down.  That low cost of living was one of the reasons Laura Burhenn moved to Omaha. When she left Washington D.C. six years ago making music was a second full-time job.  When I moved out to Omaha it was really - it was really nice. I actually was able to find myself an environment where I could make music full-time. It is nice about a low cost of living.   Burhenn says she was able to write the music for her first album as The Mynabirds.    Let the record show you gave it all your might. And let the record show I gave it all of mine. It did not turn out quite quite like we would hoped. So lay your best lines and let the record go.  In addition to finding time to write Burhenn also found a thriving artistic community.  There are all of these really incredible activists and artists who live in this town in the middle of a very conservative space in the Midwest. And when you live there you realize really how much the rest of the world sees it as flyover territory. But then you get in there and you realize how many great things are happening all around you and how people just sort of step up and just do it.  Burhenn now calls LA home but her upcoming album features an ode to Omaha.    Omaha will you still call me darling? Omaha will I still be your girl when I come home from the thrill of hunting lions my ruby-throated riches from the world.  But in the end Omaha is Omaha. And that is the thing I love about it. It is like oh yeah we welcome everybody in here but we are not necessarily changing for anybody. And that is a real incredible thing you know what I mean? Those are the people you want to be friends with right?  One of her friends is Simon Joyner. He is been putting out critically-acclaimed music from Omaha since the 1990s.    Or is there a fire you forgot to touch? Is there a heart you never saw? Tell me do you think you would miss it very much if you are the only living boy in Omaha?  In 2002 the national media descended on Omaha thanks largely to Saddle Creek Records and its handful of bands. Joyner says that brief flurry of attention probably still haunts musicians in the city but says Omaha is like any town with a music scene.  The train stopped here for a minute and then moved on. But there is great scenes in all of these cities. They just need some breakout band for the world to kind of look and say oh I wonder what is going on in Des Moines? You know it seems like if this band is there then there must be other things. But I guarantee you there is exciting scenes going on all over the place that we do not know about.  But a lot of musicians feel to really get attention you have got to be in New York or LA. Omaha native Conchance says he feels like he has to leave.  It is really important for us not to necessarily stay here - 'ecause I cannot deal with too many more winters - but to be the artist that did our city justice. There is not a huge community of hip-hop here in Omaha setting a standard for it. So like that is what I am trying to leave with the help of my friends.  He and his friends collaborate for M34N STR33T one of his three musical project he is working on while in Omaha.  M34N STR33  Funny how regret dress same impressive and Jess. Sonny Ive been broke depressed learning lessons of stress. Unless you the mess swept where the garbage is kept you slept hardly stepped the steps the blessed often forget. I shot the chef. She cook nonsense s foods of the West. Listen destiny I am dissin' your distress. The Moons mission left landed on planet booze take what you for granted loose. Check your ambition sabatic truths.  For his part Simon Joyner says he is thought about leaving but he likes the speed of Omaha. He has a family and runs and antique business as well. He says while Omaha might be more conservative than other cities were a lot of creative people are working that tension sparks a kind of positive struggle.  And struggle little usually adds to creativity whereas the easier things are the lazier I think people can be you know? So Omaha is good for keeping it just hard enough  I think.  Just hard enough to keep the music scene thriving with or without the spotlight. For NPR News I am Clay Masters.    Then we will go to Omaha to work and exploit the booming music scene and humility. 