 A guitar band called Tinariwen is famous worldwide.   Their fans and collaborators have included Robert Plant Thom Yorke of Radiohead and Bono of U2. They have fought extremism in their home country of Mali and been victims themselves. Now ahead of a show in Winston-Salem N.C. commenters on social media are leveling violent racist attacks against the musicians. Joining us to discuss the situation is NPR's Anastasia Tsioulcas. Hi Anastasia.  Hey Ari.  I know you have followed this band for years. Tell us more about them.  They are a group of nomadic Tuareg musicians from the northern end of Mali in the Sahara Desert. And they have been hailed as guitar gods. And here they are playing with Nels Cline of the band Wilco.   .  Tell us more about what we are hearing here.  Well you can hear all those wonderful rolling guitars. You can hear how they are fusing electric guitars with traditional rhythms and aesthetics.   The band's name literally means deserts in their language Tamashek. And you get that desert feeling in all their work.  And the first time you saw them was in their home country of Mali back when it was a safer country than it is today. What was that like?  Yes. It was a life-transforming experience. In 2003 I was lucky enough to travel to see them in the Sahara at an oasis about 40 miles outside of Timbuktu which gives you a sense of how remote it was. And this was the performance that really catapulted them to worldwide attention.   And ever since they have been touring the world. And their next U.S. leg is this fall.  People who have been following the news from Mali will know that Islamist extremism has been a huge problem there. And musicians have been a target. So how did that affect this band Tinariwen?  Right. Back in 2012 2013 Islamist groups in northern Mali really tried to take over the region and also made musicians one of their prime targets. And in fact one of the band's own members one of the vocalists for Tinariwen was kidnapped in early 2013.  What happened to him?  Intidao the name of this vocalist was thankfully released a short time later. But it - of course it is had an enormous impact on the band. And many of the group's lyrics actively rebuke fundamentalism.  So you have this group that is singing against fundamentalism that has been kidnapped by Islamist extremists. And then they are scheduled to play a gig in Winston-Salem N.C. in September. And what happens?  So the club which is called The Ramkat put up a social media ad on Facebook advertising the show. And these hateful racist inciting comments started rolling in. And a few days ago a local weekly alternative paper the Triad City Beat wrote about the situation. And earlier today I talked to one of the owners of the club. His name is Andy Tennille. And here's what he had to say.  If any of these commenters had done any sort of homework they would find that the band and the Tuareg people have been marginalized their entire lives. And Tinariwen themselves have stood up to some of these kind of hateful and racist forces in North Africa. And probably the most disappointing thing of all is we are talking about these misguided commenters and what we are not talking about is what an incredible band Tinariwen is.  And is the show going to go on?  Yes. And the club owners say that after all these hateful comments they have been really heartened to see a lot of positive comments and ticket purchases as well. So Tinariwen is planning to play at The Ramkat on September 17. And Andy Tennille the club owner says that they are going to increase security measures around that show.  And we should let listeners know Tinariwen is on a U.S. tour and will be playing a lot of different cities through September and October. That is NPR's Anastasia Tsioulcas. Thanks so much.  Thanks for having me Ari.   