 Now to another installment in our series called Why Music Matters the stories of music fans in their own words about how songs or bands have changed their lives. With this past week's concluding journey of the space shuttle Endeavor today's story features what else music from the heavens.  We were working like demons 16 hours a day. In space every day is a day of important work. My name is Stan Love. I am an astronaut.   Part of our mission was to bring up to the space station a new crew member who was going to stay for months and bring home a crew member who had spent four months up on space station. Well as soon as we got this returning station crew back onto shuttle we closed the hatches we undocked from the station we are getting ready to go home within minutes of undocking our station crew member was like dudes where is the tunes? And we said huh? And he said do not you have speakers? No. We did not think to bring them. Then he pulls out his speakers.   And suddenly the shuttle mid-deck is filled with Steely Dan and some other kind of old-guy music that - since we are largely old guys here.   Having completed our main goals for the mission we were feeling like we could relax just a little bit.   We also took some time to turn off all of the lights in the cabin. You are flying across the cloud tops there at 17000 miles per hour so it is always spinning underneath you scrolling past. The view of the Earth is absolutely amazing.   The Earth is huge. It is bright. It is colorful. For 45 minutes at a time you are going over the night part of the Earth and the Earth is between you and the sun. And you can look down and see thunderstorms and city lights. You can see the aurora. The shuttle flies through the northern lights.   And you can also get a chance to look at the stars.   People tend to portray scientists as being dry interested only in numbers not interested in arts or in the emotions that art brings out in us. That is just not true. I actually made a special playlist for space.   David Bowie's Space Oddity XTC's Another Satellite. And I got Shonen Knife's Riding on a Rocket. To me it makes the experience more complete if you can be working with the numbers and the science and the physics and the engineering but also have an artistic emotional side to the activity as well.   That is Stan Love with Why Music Matters. And our series is produced by Anna Boiko-Weyrauch. 