 And finally today a star who seemed to come out of nowhere four years ago a teenaged singer-songwriter from New Zealand who won a place as a leading voice of millennials with this song.    And we will never be royals royals. It is not in our blood. That kind of luxe just as not for us. We crave a different kind of buzz. Let me be your ruler.  This is the artist known as Lorde born Ella Yelich-O'Connor. She was a 16-year-old high school student when her first album Pure Heroine - as in female hero - took off back in 2013 making her the youngest singer to reach the top of the Billboard charts since 1987. The album won critical raves for its fresh take on life and musical genre. The many accolades included two Grammys and praise from stars like David Bowie and Taylor Swift not to mention it sold a million copies in five months. That album though musically sophisticated spoke to a teenager's experience with touches of angst set off with biting critiques of pop culture celebrity lifestyle and Hollywood glam. And now Lorde is back with a second album. It is called Melodrama.    But I hear sounds in my mind brand new sounds in my mind.  It is a new chapter with new stories to tell of heartbreak of coming of age and of living in the spotlight.  I have never felt like a spokesperson or a role model or anything like that really. I think because I know how kind of violently I rejected those figures when I was growing up.    I will come get my things but I cannot let go. I am waiting for it that green light I want it. Oh I wish I could get my things and just let go. I just try and represent myself in a way where I am going to feel like I can live with myself when it is the end of the day and I am alone in my room. It is just me and my thoughts. Like I need to know that I will feel like I represented myself and what I believe in you know with dignity I guess.  With her latest album Lorde is no longer an outsider but instead has had a taste of the celebrity life she once famously criticized. She is also gone through something just about everyone has experienced - heartbreak.  The intimacy of the spaces on this record I think it is sort of like a direct response to having my life kind of flipped inside out I think. Because I think like it does not matter if you are famous or not a breakup feels horrific for everybody. And everyone knows that feeling of just feeling like your head is going to explode walking around with all of these - you are like if people knew this if they knew what you have done. And I feel like that is - that is universal.  I do find myself wondering if having had such a success with the first album was the second a struggle? Was it just - was it sort of terrifying to think about you know?  Oh my goodness it was so terrifying and so difficult. I do not think I was worried that - about people and whether or not they would like it. But just for me personally like making a good record was such an epic novel. Like it was such a journey to get there. And I remember distinctly thinking that it just was not going to happen. It just took so long and took so much from me every day. And I just you know I would - I would go to sleep thinking about it. And I would dream about it. And I would wake up the morning thinking about it. It was just - it was - its grip on me was unrelenting. And so it was I mean it was very difficult. But maybe for someone who was like a bit more of a chilled-out operator that would be a bit easier. But I am - as you know I am a bit of a drama a bit of a melodrama. It is all a bit melodramatic over here so .   So let us talk about Melodrama. Tell me was there sort of an organizing thought going into it? And tell me about the title track like why Melodrama?  Well that song is interesting. It was - so it is called you know Sober II. It brackets Melodrama. It is the second part of one of the first songs that we wrote where I really started to understand what the album would be.    We told you this was melodrama. Oh how fast the evening passes cleaning up the champagne  glasses. Our only wish is melodrama. It is funny you know I have synesthesia. And the clearest sort of example of synesthesia really sort of like kicking in with this record was with this song. And it just - all of a sudden the like color of the record was so present and vivid. And it was just the craziest - just the sort of rain of violets and blues. And it was so intense. And that sort of came to shape the rest of the record.    They will talk about us all the lovers how we kiss and kill each other. Whoa. They will talk about us and discover how we kissed and killed each other. Whoa.  Synesthesia is where you actually - you hear certain sounds and you see colors associated with it. Is that how it...  Yeah. I guess it is just like there is a visual component to sound whether there is you know texture or certain forms or...  Yeah. How you are describing it is very different from what I expected because when I hear melodrama I think of grays and sadness. But you are describing something very different you know very vibrant very kind of exciting.  Well just intense I think. The intensity of the color sort of blew me away. But this song is sort of - maps the course of a party. And the first part is very much like the party's in full swing maybe sort of tipping over to that area where it might be a little too much. And then this is sort of singing from the perspective of the deflated room.    We told you this was melodrama. You wanted something that we offer. We told you this was melodrama. We told you this was melodrama.  Well thanks so much for visiting with us. And it is been a pleasure to visit with you.  Thank you. Oh my goodness thanks.  What shall we go out on? And tell us why you - what you love about that song one of the ones you particularly love.  Well I really love a song called Writer In The Dark. I love it because I think people will not have heard my voice in this way or heard me write in this way.    Break the news - you are walking out to be a good man for someone else. Sorry I was never good like you. There is always a song on every record and I call them portal songs because they - as sort of a little glimpse into what could happen what that artist could you know could go on to do. And I feel like this song there is something about it. I - it happened very quickly. A lot of the songs on this record were just so drawn out. And this one was like a couple of days and it was done. And we just - we were scared to mess with it too much I think. We did not want to take the essence out of it. So yeah I really love this one.    Now she is going to play and sing and lock you in her heart. Bet you rue the day you kissed a writer in the dark.  That is Lorde. Her new album Melodrama is out now. She was kind enough to join us in our NPR bureau in New York City where she worked on the album for the last couple of years. Lorde Ella thank you so much for visiting with us.  Thank you Michel I appreciate it. It was so nice .    But in our darkest hours I stumbled on a secret power. I will find a way. 