 And finally this hour a memory of music and family for our series Mom and Dad's Record Collection. Leonard Pitts is a Pulitzer Prize-winning columnist and author of the recent novel Freeman. When I asked him about a song he remembered hearing with his parents he instantly recalled this song Nat King Cole singing Do not Get Around Much Anymore.   One of my best memories of my mom is her putting out - doing the laundry and putting clothes on the line in the backyard and just singing that song and me hanging out with her. I think I was digging up the yard at the time flooding ant nests which I had a fetish for doing when I was 10 years old.   But I also remember that as just being a very you know peaceful afternoon with her doing the laundry and singing Do not Get Around Much Anymore and me you know torturing the ants.  Was she a singer?  No no. She had a lovely voice. My father probably could have been a singer but he never sang. She was a big Nat King Cole fan. She used to always tell us to listen to the way he enunciated.   She liked the fact that he was very proper in his framing of the words and she just loved that about him.  As you grew older did you return to that music?  Actually I did. I had the typical teen rebellion you know mom's music is no good and you know - and she was not feeling much for The Temptations or Funkadelic or the OJs either but as I have gotten older and especially with the advent of iTunes I find myself going back. And Nat Cole - I bought - I got the box set years ago and every once in a while I will break it out and listen to it and you know just really enjoy particularly that song Do not Get Around Much Anymore. It is a great song.   Writer Leonard Pitts for our series Mom and Dad's Record Collection. We are still collecting your stories about one song you learned about from your parents. It does not matter whether you loved it or hated it you just need a story to tell. You can write us by going to NPR.org. Please put Parents' Music in your subject line.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 