 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block. Now a story about patriotism and song. A year ago last July 1st jazz singer Rene Marie was invited to sing the Star Spangled Banner for a public event in Denver. What ended up happening created an uproar left locals divided and raised questions about the role of the artist and the meaning of patriotism for African-Americans. Lara Pellegrinelli reports.  Rene Marie was flanked by elected officials and civil servants as she calmly approached the microphone before Denver's State of the City address last year. She was there to perform a time-honored ritual the singing of the National Anthem.  Ms.   Lift every voice and sing till earth and heaven ring.  The melody was the same but the words she chose were written by James Weldon Johnson in 1899. They belong to the song Lift Every Voice and Sing also known as The Black National Anthem. Ms.  Let us march on till victory is won.  It did not take long for state and local politicians to denounce the performance. Some called it a disgrace. With a little more than a month until Denver hosted the Democratic National Convention then-presidential hopeful Barack Obama was even asked about the incident.  If she was asked to sing the national anthem she should have sung that. Lift Every Voice and Sing is a beautiful song but we have one national anthem.  To be clear Rene Marie was invited to sing the national anthem. She did not sign a contract and she says the governor and officials from the mayor's office heard her sing her arrangement of Lift Every Voice in an earlier event. Marie rejects the idea that her dishonesty was at the center of the uproar. Ms.  I can see why they would say it. But I think if I had sung America the Beautiful or My Country 'Tis of Thee instead of the national anthem nobody would have had anything to say about there being any dishonesty. So it is not about that. It is about what I sang. Mr.  I think her performance embodies black patriotism.  Marc Lamont Hill one of the few news commentators sympathetic to Marie's actions considers her performance an act of resistance. Mr.  It is celebrating black progress black hope black pride. But it is also keenly fundamentally even preoccupied with the obstacles that lay in front of us. That is reflected not just in that moment but in the broader political moment where people are celebrating Barack Obama as president. People are excited that the country has moved forward but people are still keenly aware that there are many many forms of inequality unfreedom suffering marginalization that continue.  A child of the Civil Rights era Rene Marie was born in Virginia. All of the schools she attended were segregated. Her mother and father both teachers helped integrate a local lunch counter when their daughter was around eight years old. Ms.  At the Frost Diner on the bypass in Warrenton Virginia which is still there  the sign on the door said no dogs and no niggers. And they went in they were refused service but politely so. No violent incident came about as a result but my father lost his job. He was blackballed and never rehired to teach in the county again.  A Jehovah's Witness Marie only began performing professionally when she left the church and her marriage at the age of 42. She had a recording contract within months.  Ms.   Them that is got shall get. Them that is not shall lose. So the Bible said and it still is news. Mama may have papa may have. But God bless the child that is got his own. That is got his own.  Marie's own compositions take on homelessness religion and racial injustice. Her arrangement of The Star-Spangled Banner with Lift Every Voice and Sing is part of a larger suite she calls Voice of My Beautiful Country.  Ms.   O beautiful for spacious skies for amber waves of grain...  The sales of her recordings have been modest but the response to her performance in Denver was startling - more than 1600 emails. Many African-Americans were offended by her use of the national anthem while some objected to her adaptation of Lift Every Voice. Other emails were laced with racial slurs. A handful were death threats. Ms.  Some of the emails saying that The Star Spangled Banner was sacred. Oh really? Maybe it is sacred to you. That is fine cool. But it is not sacred to me. The dude who wrote it he was a slave owner.  Francis Scott Key was a plantation owner and the melody which so many consider sacred was borrowed from an English drinking tune. In addition to the emails Marie got phone calls which she answered. Ms.  I learned a lot. And I had some really good phone calls from complete strangers. A lot of them did not expect me to answer the phone you know they kind of sputtered for the first few seconds. Well I just wanted to tell you what I thought about it. Okay tell me I am listening. And that is when I realized we do not have to agree but listening sure does go a long way toward peaceful relations  when people feel that they are being heard.  And that is all Rene Marie is really asking for. For NPR News I am Lara Pellegrinelli in New York. 