 Earlier this summer we began a search for music that sets the season's soundtrack around the world. We called our series The Spin.   And our final stop on this summer's leg of The Spin is in Africa in one of the continent's most vibrant cities - Nairobi Kenya. I spoke with MTV Africa host Emukule Ekirapa. VJ Kule as he is often known told me something surprising about the music of choice in his hometown. Mr.  If you were to bring Dolly Parton to Nairobi it would be the biggest concert Nairobi has ever seen. Dolly Parton Kenny Rogers yes. Country music is big. That is what we really grew up.  Ms. DOLLY PARTON and Mr.   Islands in the stream that is what we are...  Now that may be what Kenyans grew up with but the music that sets the beat for Nairobi today comes from the Democratic Republic of Congo.   It is a type of dance music known as Lingala and its infectious rhythms are at the heart of VJ Kule's pick for our summer playlist. Mr.  Well the song is called Tobina a song sang by a gentlemen called Daddy Owen. He is a gospel artist. And it is just the craziest it is the sickest and it is just taken over the street of east Africa not just Kenya.  Mr.    VJ Kule I do not know what is happening. Mr.  You feel that beat right?  I do. I was going to say I do not know what is happening in the studio over there but nobody's standing still in here. Mr.  Yeah your shoulders your neck. I mean hey you get up.  Mr.  . Mr.  I was telling you the Central Africans specifically DRC the Congo have this way of just blending the guitars the drums the beats and making people move. So you hit the nail on the head and the whole of Nairobi is bumping to the jam.  Mr.  .  But this is a gospel song? Mr.  It is a gospel song. That is the crazy thing about it. And the song it means tobina means to dance. But if you ask anybody in the street what tobina means 99.9 percent of people have no idea what tobina means. But we just know it makes us move and it makes us dance.  Mr.  .  So what is going on in the lyrics? What is he talking about? Mr.  Well he is talking about praising God when things have gone well thank God for the beautiful life that you are living thank God for your health thank God for your family. And once God has sorted all of that out the only thing left to do is to dance and to praise him.  Mr.    You know we are listening to this music and it is got so much energy and it is a gospel song and I' In their cars? In the clubs? Would they be listening to this in church? Would people just sort of get the holy ghost and dance in uniform... Mr.  Man they listen everywhere. They listen in the clubs more than anything. They dance to it at three in the morning with a beer in their hand with like four or five girls. It is crazy and hectic. So if you are a pious person and you walk into a Nairobi club at three in morning you might not be happy with what you see. But you know what? The message is getting clear. Praise the lord whether you are in church or whether you are clubbing in Nairobi Kenya.  Mr.  For the past two three years a lot of club songs club bangers in Nairobi clubs have been gospel. And that is why there is also a dichotomy in terms of the generation gap because there is a lot of older people who feel gospel music should not be in the club.  So not everyone likes this mixture of religious and secular music? Mr.  Oh definitely not. There is a big divide between the youth that are taking over the gospel scene and their dancing and a lot of the older generation that just they do not buy it. They have a problem with it. But the young people it is a phenomenon. I wish you could come here and see how big and how quick churches are popping up all over and how the youth are being incorporated.  If I were to drive by one of these churches on a Sunday morning this is what I would hear rocking out the windows? Mr.  You would hear this. You would hear live bands. Youd hear the youth screaming. There would be  it is loud. Churches have become louder than clubs truth be told. I would never believe I would see the day when a church would be more jiggy than in the club .  Mr.    You know most of the artists that we have been talking to this series we call The Spin we have been asking them about a perfect summer evening. I think I should be asking you about a perfect Sunday morning.   What would be an ideal summer Sunday morning where you would be hearing the sounds of summer coming through the stained glass windows? Mr.  You would go to all the young churches around the place. A big one in there that is really targeting the youth is called Mohuno and in Mohuno if you go there from around I would say 00 in the morning you leave at 2 oclock really feeling blessed feeling energized and ready for the week. They have a live band. Their praise and worship team is like a Kirk Franklin. They really know how to get on and everybody gets up. Everybody dances.  Mr.  So a good Sunday morning would be a Mohuno church in any of the Nairobi chapel outfits.  Sanctified sweaty swaying to the beat on a Sunday morning. Mr.  Praise the Lord hallelujah amen.  VJ Kule it is been a pleasure to talk to you. All the best to you. Mr.  Hey thank you as well. Thank you for having me and I appreciate the phone.  Let us go out with music.  Mr.  .  That was Emukule Ekirapa. He is a VJ with MTV's African Network and we were listening to a song called. Mr.  Tobina Kupe De Kalle.  Mr.  .  You can find a full playlist of song picks by VJ Kule as well as links to previous stops along The Spin at nprmusic.org. 