 Listen to this next voice for a moment - takes me back home to where I grew up in the Deep South.  C.W.   Well we made it down to a river bank. Spied a steamboat coming along. Then we hitched a ride Lord looking over the side...  You know you hear that voice and you are thinking old-school Southern blues. Well you might be thinking that but you would be wrong. That is the voice of one Christopher William Stoneking or as he is known onstage C.W. Stoneking. And he hails not from the banks of the Mississippi but from Australia.    And eyes that watched as we drifted along. I sang that jungle lullaby.  Now he is trying his luck in the place where his music sounds like it came from - here in the U.S. He is on tour here with his new record Gon' Boogaloo and he stopped by our Chicago member station WBEZ to tell us about it. Hey there.  Hey.  Can I ask you a blunt question?  Sure.  How does a white guy from remote Australia end up recording music that sounds like a black musician from the Deep South in America?  I had a cassette tape that was - two albums on it - and one side of it was a compilation of Texas blues out of like the 1950s and the other side was a '20s and '30s blues artist and guitar player. As a guitar player I was always impressed with those sort of early ways  of playing the guitar in the blues era.  What is the song on this record that you are most proud of?  I think I like - I like The Thing I Done.    I roll like thunder blow like dynamite all flesh and bone I come old death long by my side. Like rhythmically or whatever it was more of a sort of blues thing. But then I just started to fiddle with it and it is - came with this more sort of Caribbean theme. I enjoy it. The mood is strong.   That song makes me want to get up and dance. Is there a certain song that seems to be getting everybody up dancing?  We get some people dancing. It is a funny thing. I kind of feel like sometimes I shoot myself in the foot maybe because I have a strong inclination for writing sort of story songs. I sometimes wonder if I should not do that 'ecause maybe the people listen to the story and...   Instead of just dancing.  ...It takes their mind off their feet.  Can you give me an example of one of those songs?  Boogaloo. Boogaloo comes close to being pretty light.    We gon' boogaloo. Ooh ooh ooh ooh. Do not ever - never say we are through. We gon' boogaloo. It is sort of like that movie High Noon. You ever seen that cowboy movie?  OK. Yup.  And you know the guy's waiting for the baddie to roll in on the train. And it has this song that goes all through the movie you know do not forsake me oh my darling.    Do not forsake me oh my darling.  Halfway through the movie I find myself personally like I wish the dude would just come shoot him so the song would stop playing.    Do not forsake me oh my darling.  I think my wife probably began to worry a couple of years into the process where the song still was not finished and I was just in my bedroom shouting boogaloo at myself.  Is your wife the person you talk to when you are writing and you get stuck?  I do not really talk to anyone. I am a bit furtive with unfinished stuff. It is like I am hiding some deformed creatures in my cupboard.  Oh wow. I have never heard the writing process described that way - furtive with it.  I like it when it is formed and it is ready to go.    Oooooh boogaloo. Oooh boogaloo.  C.W. Stoneking give us a little taste of what you are going to be playing tonight. I know you are on stage in Chicago. What are you hoping to get people up dancing to?  One of my songs on this record is my attempt to create a dance sensation.   Are you ready?  Yeah.  ...With a tune called the Zombie which is - it is a bit of a social commentary mixed with some Michael Jackson Thriller and a dance craze.    The dead of the night.   Can you hear the little children cry?   Crying mama mama.   Watch out. Zombies a terrible fright.  That is C.W. Stoneking speaking to us from Chicago about his new record. It is called Gon' Boogaloo and he is on his first U.S. tour. C.W. Stoneking we wish you the best of luck. I hope it is the first of many U.S. tours. Thanks so much.  Thank you very much. Thanks a lot. 