 Let us talk about music. Do you remember the last time you bought a full album - actually sat down and stuck with something for the entire track list? If you are a fan of the full album experience you might feel like you are in a shrinking minority. It is the age of streaming singles and one-off YouTube links. But you album fans have some friends. NPR Music has spent the last month listening to arguing about and voting on a list of their 25 favorite albums from the first half of 2015.    My life your life. Do not cross them lines.    Because I am just a dime store cowgirl.   .   From Kamasi Washington saxophone to the Alabama Shakes NPR music editor Jacob Ganz is here to talk through some of these selection. Hey Jacob.  Howdy Rachel.  OK so aside from Taylor Swift or Beyonce album sales have fallen steadily since 2000. And there have been a whole lot of think pieces by music critics eulogizing the album. I happen to know you disagree. Tell me why the album is not dead.  The album is definitely not dead if only because it makes an absolute coherent statement. It is the quickest way to deeply understand where a musician is coming from. A single might give you a burst of energy or a really quick hit of something that you need in a specific moment. But when you commit to an album it is really a deeper understanding a longer soak in what they are doing. That is sort of what we try to do with this list.  All right OK I buy it. I buy it.  Whether or not the albums are selling well...  .  ...Is another question. That is a definitive no.  OK so let us get right into it. There is one album that you did not have to argue about. It had to be on the list. We are talking about Kendrick Lamar's To Pimp A Butterfly.    Where were you when I was walking? Now I run the game for the whole world talking. King Kunta - everybody want to cut the legs off him - Kunta. That man taking no losses oh yeah.  It is a great album.  Yeah. I mean probably the most acclaimed album of the year so far from any genre. He is an extremely compelling voice first off. You can hear in just the way he delivers his rhymes.    The yam is the power that be.  He is got that grittiness to his voice. He packs so much into this - references to Kunta Kinte from Alex Haley's Roots. He makes him royalty in this song King Kunta. You know there is references to music that dates back to the early '90s.  But tell me why it is worth my time to sit through the whole thing.  It is worth your time because Kendrick Lamar - you know like this song is incredibly catchy but it deepens and he makes everything more complex the longer that you listen to it.    Something's in the water.  He starts out with it from a perspective that you might think - OK he is commenting on race in America in 2015 but he is doing that not necessarily from a political standpoint but from a personal standpoint. And he does it in a way that does not provide easy answers. By the time you get to the end of this record you have not necessarily got a cleaner understanding of the way things are in the world but you have got a very very vivid portrait of a man trying to understand those issues.  OK next one. You all agreed on this album - Courtney Barnett's Sometimes I Sit And Think And Sometimes I Just Sit. Let us take a listen to this track. It is called Pedestrian At Best.    I love you. I hate you. I am on the fence. It all depends. Whether I am up or down I am on the mend transcending all reality. I like you despise you admire you. What are we going to do when everything all falls through?  So Courtney Barnett has dabbled in some other genres but this is pretty much just straight up rock 'n roll.  Yeah and that is actually the biggest development for Courtney Barnett here. She is always been an incredible wordsmith a great writer. She starts off small. Where Kendrick Lamar maybe starts off huge and narrows it down to a specific person's focus she usually starts off with a tiny little observation and then widens things. And maybe something starts off with just a song about a road trip and it becomes a treatise on industrial agriculture and it is...  .  Seriously. Or maybe - there is a song on the record called Depreston.    We drive to a house in Preston. We see police arresting a man with his hand in a bag.  It is about hunting for a new house and then realizing through the things that are in the house that somebody has lived there before that it has a history that there is...  She is a great songwriter - storyteller.  She is a great storyteller but the music here has a lot more energy and a lot more power than the stuff that she had released previously. It was a total no-brainer for us.    It is got a lovely garden a garage for two cars to park in or a lot of room for storage if you have just got one.  OK. And as you mentioned it is a diverse list right? You have got some classical albums on here as well?  Yeah totally. The Boston Modern Orchestra Project performed a very recent classical piece by a composer named Andrew Norman. It is called Play and it is intense.  All right let us listen.   OK I realize this may be complicated and acclaimed but I do not know if that - what I just heard is drawing in and makes we want to sit for 45 minutes and listen to more. Is that OK to say?  That is totally fair. You know that is the very beginning of the piece. It is meant to overwhelm you. It is meant to sweep you away to either blow your mind or like make you take a step back.  Andrew Norman is a young composer. He is 35 years old. He structured the piece into three sections. Like what you might call movements he calls them levels like in videogames - level one level two level three - that feel completely different but all sort of cohere together in a really interesting way.  And getting back to the videogame thing I mean levels one two three that suggests there is a payoff. Like if you get to level three you are going to be wowed.  There is a catharsis and there is a sort of moment where everything builds to a climax at the end of level three. It is a pretty remarkable piece. I mean I wish that I could see it.   OK last pick. It is a holiday weekend Jacob so we need a groove. Give me a groove. I need a party song he. You got one of those?  Yeah let us listen to something from the album Amanecer by the Columbian band Bomba Estereo.   .  Tell me about this.  All right. This is as I said the Colombian band Bomba Estereo. This is sort of everything we like at NPR Music all thrown into one big bag.   .  This band has a lot of traditional Latin elements in it but they pull from everywhere. There is rap in here. There is baile funk. This is one of those things that if you heard a single song you might think oh I get it right? This is sort of a bouncy party song. And it has a couple of elements from other things. If you listen to this album across the entire dozen tracks...  Yeah.  ...You get a sense of this band pulling from the entire world. It is not just picking and choosing a couple things. They really want to incorporate as many different things as they possibly can into what they are doing. And just that sense of aggregation that sense of density that sense of being totally open to a world of a party is what makes this band incredible. This album is total fun front to back.   .  So we have walked through four of these albums that you guys put on this list. There are 25 in total right?  There are 25 yeah. There are 21 more. And also we made and app where you can listen to almost 200 of our favorite songs of the year. Just like hit play and let them all roll past you.  If you are looking for something to do this holiday weekend.  Yeah if you have a little bit of time over the holiday weekend - maybe a barbecue. We have got a few things for you.  Plenty of ways to sit down and spend some quality time. NPR music editor Jacob Ganz. Thanks for walking us through it Jacob.  My pleasure Rachel.   . 