   The world is lazy...  Now there is a new wave of sun-baked rock out there and one band getting a lot of attention for its debut album is Best Coast.    The world is lazy but you and me. We are just crazy. So when I am with you.  Bethany welcome to the program.  Hi. Thank you.  And you are a California girl. What are the elements of California that you are trying to capture in your music?  And you know that does not happen in reality at least not now but I really want the music - you know if someone in Minnesota is listening to a Best Coast song in the dead of winter I want them to feel like they are part of what is going on in California and around sun and palm trees and all that stuff because I lived here in New York for a while and I depended on bands like The Beach Boys to sort of make me feel like I was back at home. And that is sort of why I started this band in the first place.    I hate sleeping alone. I hate sleeping alone.  I read that you had attended the New School in New York City for a while and kind of high-tailed out of there.  Yeah.  I mean what was it about New York that sent you packing?  And I mean I think at the end of the day it was probably one of the best decisions I have ever made because now I am doing something that I truly love. And I do not think I would be doing this if I had stayed in New York. So...  And the music the sound of it is the kind of polar opposite of what you just described you were feeling in New York. I mean I am pretty sure there is a song in which you just say I am happy over and over again.   Yeah.    .  Your sound also - I feel like we can listen to it through the lens of not just the '50s and '60s the Ronettes and the Shangri-Las and so forth but also The Ramones and...  Yeah.  ...punk and even some kind of '90s alternative music. Is that the route you know Ramones to Ronettes?  When we were doing the record at least we walked into the studio like day one and we were like Ramones guitar Phil Spector-Ronettes vocals and early Beatles drumming. And I think that we pretty much achieved that to the best...  Well then we definitely have to hear a song because that is a big...   ...that is a tall order. We are going to hear a song called Boyfriend.  Cool.    I wish he was my boyfriend. I wish he was my boyfriend. I would love him to the very end but instead he is just a friend. I wish he was my boyfriend. There is nothing worse than sitting all alone at home and waiting waiting waiting waiting waiting by the phone.  Now Bethany one thing I think a lot of the songs have in common with those girl groups is the writing about lost love unrequited love misunderstanding.  Yeah.  Why are you drawn to that part of yourself when you write lyrics?  And you know I just I have been writing music since I was a teenager. And for the most part all of the music I have ever written has been about boys. And I mean a I have a lot of other...   And I always use the example of like The Beatles' I Want to Hold Your Hand. It is like there is nothing more straightforward than that.    When you leave me the bed is empty and I feel crazy 'ecause I did not say anything. I wish you would tell me how you really feel. But you will never tell me 'ecause that is not our deal.  When I heard a song like Our Deal which sounds sweet and lyrically though and the way you are delivering it I am not quite sure if you are being sarcastic or not.  Yeah. Yeah. I get asked that all the time. It is so funny. I mean are you being sarcastic there because your voice sounds sarcastic. And I am like I do not know what you mean by that but no I am being sincere.  I have also read that you wish you have the voice of Lesley Gore for some of these songs.  Yeah.  And of course she sang It is My Party and You Do not Own Me. What do you hear in that voice that you want to inject into your songs?  I feel like when I listen to a lot of girl group music I feel like the female singers have a voice that is very like sweet and innocent. And now that I am performing so much my voice is becoming more and more raspy. And I wake up in the morning and I am like trying to talk to people and you know it sounds like I have a fur ball or something you know?   So for me it is sort of like when I listen to someone like Lesley Gore I just hear so much innocence. And her voice is just like beautiful and crisp-sounding. And sometimes I will hear my voice in a song and I will think okay if only I had that sweet innocent voice this song would come across less grungy sounding.    .  Is there a song that you would like us to go out on?  What about Crazy For You? That is the name of the record I think that - I think that song kind of sums up a little bit about what the record is about. I think everyone can kind of relate to loving someone so much that they kind of make you a little crazy. So yeah Crazy For You.    I cannot do anything without you. Cannot do anything without you. You drive me crazy but I love you.  Bethany thanks so much.  Thank you.  And if you want to download a free track from that album you can do that at our website nprmusic.org.    I am always waiting by the phone. I cannot wait for you to get home. 