 The rapper Common is feeling the love on his new album.    It is in the grandchild's stare up at Papa. Love is love became the mantra the montage for creation. We need it in relation. When two ships pass one love is the flotation.  But it took a lot of work for Common to get to a place where he could even write an album like this one. It is called Let Love. He does some serious self-examination on his record about the abuse he endured in his past and about his relationships both with the women he dates and with his family. That process started with a late-night phone call from his daughter.  My phone rang and I saw it was Omoye my daughter. I could tell she had been drinking. She was in college. You know we had a brief conversation and I told her look. I have to work in the morning so I will talk to you later. So like three minutes later she called me back and just started spewing out a lot of her feelings. Like you do not even care. You did not even see if I was OK. You did not see where I was at.  Wow.  And I was just you know defensive because you feel like man I have given you love you know? Like I love my daughter so - but just because my expression of love and intention is to love in that way that I know how and I think is the best does not mean that is how that person is receiving it.  Yeah.  And within that whether I agree or do not agree it is still - the most important thing is to listen to the person to hear them.  When she was saying these things to you - I felt like you did not care about me because you seem so busy you seem to value other things more than me - was there a part of you that could recognize at some level that what she was saying was true?  I think that is when you know it hurts because there is some truth in the fact of - in pursuit of a career - in pursuit of my career I can speak for me - many people that I love did not get some of the time. They did not get as much time as they may have normally gotten if I was working a different type of job. You know I just was not as truly available.    She said it is the things that you did not do not what you did. It hurt her spirit when she saw me with another woman's kid. Peeled back and thought to love her I got to listen. Now love in action is the new vision. She said Dad let your actions be your loudest speaker. And now my daughter is now my teacher with love.  I want to talk about a different kind of love now - romantic love. You should know that three women were involved in preparing for this interview - myself my producer and my editor - and one of our absolute favorite lyrics in this entire album is about a cheating husband.    The clerk said Mr. Terry yo you left your Visa and it was really real good to meet your wife. Her blue hair was fresh. Her perfume was nice. Things got ice ice. He about the feel that spice spice. She remember going up flights smelling perfume and seeing blue hair in the bathroom. As Terry mumbled telling his story she pushed him out the window of the fifth story.  She pushed him out the window of the fifth story. OK who is this song about? Or who is it for?  Oh well...  There is a backstory here.  No.  No?  No. My imagination - that is the one thing I love about creating and writing. Now obviously throughout my life at some point I have been in a relationship and went outside of that relationship.  You have cheated before.  Yeah I cheated.  Yeah.  I think with Omoye's mom I really at that moment decided to be more honest in my relationships. Therapy has helped.  Yeah I want to talk about that. Is that why you started going to therapy - was because you wanted to figure out what going on with your relationships?  Yeah. I found myself repeating the same things in relationships. Some of the things that I was projecting onto the relationships was more about the relationship with me and my mom meaning...  In what way?  Being a single mom with a young man especially if the father's left early - that can cause you know a lot of responsibility onto a child. When I experience certain things in a relationship that feels like somebody needs me more than I want to be needed...  Than you are able to give...  Yeah than I am able to give - I am like - it triggers things to happen...  When you were a little boy...  ...When I was a little boy. So that is where therapy has helped me to identify this is actually something that is from the past and I am projecting onto this relationship.  And did you grow up thinking about therapy as a good way to figure out life?  No. I grew up thinking therapy was something black people do not do. When you knew somebody was going to a therapist you looked at them like man something is really wrong with you not knowing that it was something wrong with me too.    As a black man I feel I should be sharing this. In the hood they say we crazy and we derelicts but we need it for our kids and our marriages. The old folks say we do not do that but taking care of self is the new black.  The truth of the matter is like we inherit certain trauma just from generation - it is generational like what slavery has been in our lives or just in the breaking up of families and what - the way that is passed down. But then just to experience like sometimes what your parents have been through and what they thought of the abuse that they may not even know and they took on - and I bring that up because when I first talked about being molested as a kid and I eventually had to tell my mother after it had happened within our family before.  Oh wow. And you had no idea? Or you...  I had no idea.  Wow.  So how can we heal it if we do not talk about it if we do not like get help?    As I kept building there were cranes in the sky. Certain memories my brain would deny. A tear laid in my eye. I was afraid to reply to the hurt that was calling. It came from the sky. An older play cousin - of course I trust him but he was touching where he was not supposed to be touching. What is a kid supposed to do when they going through what I was going through do not know who to go to? You want to tell somebody.  Do you think that maybe by being so busy all the time for years and years and years that delayed some of your healing?  Yes I do believe that. I think that drive is a gift but there is moments where you just have to be still. I was not still a lot to take time to heal. And mind you when I talk about therapy I only think that is one tool. I am a very like God-loving spiritual person and I know people you know stray away from God talk but I am a believer in God in the God that exists in all of us in the most high God.  You are a guy who has won Grammys an Oscar Emmy - right?  Yes.  You are only missing the Tony at this point. I guess I am curious. How has your definition of success shifted as you are trying to pour yourself and focus more on relationships?  I do not think focusing on relationship has detoured my definition of success. I think the success comes in - like what do I do for others and what do I do to create happiness for myself and those around me? Everything that I do that is a lot of that purpose is what makes me feel like I am successful.  Common - he is out with a new album called Let Love. Thank you so much for coming into the studio today. This was such a pleasure.  I appreciate your love and support and your grace ma.  Thank you.    New shoes new clothes - really that glow is from your inner soul. You a good DJ as long as you as not blow. 