 Sit back and drink this in.    I am just as scared of the world as an insect to a human being. I think everybody's out to get me.  That is Stacy Barthe. The world came close to never hearing her voice. For years she stayed in the shadows as a songwriter for superstars like Katy Perry Britney Spears and Rihanna. But now she is bearing all in her debut album BEcoming.    Reality's such a tragedy. Oh maybe it is all in my head. It is all in my head.  In the past Stacy Barthe did not want the spotlight because she felt she did not belong.  I personally never thought that anybody wanted to hear me sing in my shell. And I was like 380 pounds at the time. And I was just like nobody - nobody wants to hear this. You know I just never really believed that anybody wanted to hear me sing. So that is why it took all this time.  Well when you are like sitting down and like working on a song though say like with Katy Perry or Miley Cyrus or whatever are not you singing? Like were not you doing that in the process?  I was but I never - you know - with Miley I have this song that was for my 30P - P.S. I Love You - and it was supposed to be the first song on my project. And she heard the song and she was like I love this song. And Liam proposed to her to this song so it was like really special to her at the time. And she fought for that song.  So she convinced you to let her have it?  No she had it. I was like here have it. And she killed it.    When you say you love me - no I love you more. And when you say you need me - no I need you more. Boy I adore you.  It was more impactful that she sung it versus me 'ecause to me it was just a song and for her it was like a moment.  So this album - your first full-length album - BEcoming - it is a deep very personal album. It is almost like a - parts of it almost like a diary...  Yeah.  ...Of what I guess is the most intense part of your life from the sounds of it.  Yeah.  Let us start off with a track called My Suicide Note.    I have been here a time or two before. And dear I am talking myself off the ledge again. Is it really that bad? Yes it is a pain I cannot bear. What do you do?  You have talked about this openly. And you attempted suicide.  I was at a really hopeless place in my life at the time. I was 25 years old and I did not find any real purpose in my life to keep living. So I took all these pills in my medicine cabinet and I was hoping to not wake up the next morning and I did. I woke up the next morning and was like am I seriously still here?    It is cold out here. I am going through it. Oh man I am going through it. Oh I am going through it. So that is the day I decided to make an attempt to try to lose weight.  We should tell people I mean you have lost around 200 pounds.  Yeah like 180.  Yeah. And you work out like a fiend right?  I do. I mean I got down to my smallest from being 380 to like 195. I gained like 40 pounds since then but whatever. That little boost of determination when I got to the 100s was not genuinely for me because I was in a relationship at the time that I was basically trying to become for him.    Sat by my window watching all the other girls fall in love. But I would never know what it felt to hear him say all the while. I was working out twice a day and really unhealthy like taking all kinds of supplements and you know not eating and not really doing it for me. It was you know I was fighting for something that was not mine. But I do thank him for the motivation because he basically rationed his affection and his love and to basically motivate me to lose weight. So now I am in a place where I am like OK I gained 40 pounds. I do not want to go back to where I was but I am happy with where I am. And I am respecting the process.    It is still an uphill battle - battle - me versus me. Me versus me.  I am speaking with Stacy Barthe about her debut album BEcoming. I know the hopelessness of depression does not have a logic to it but it is hard not to think of a 25-year-old that - you are writing songs for pop stars. You have accomplished way more than most 25-year-olds and...  You know I am dealing with real-life outside of the studio. Like the studio was an escape. It was like a cathartic experience to go and live the life I was living and then come in the studio and write about it. So it was like therapy for me. But what was actually going on in my life was the complete opposite. Because you know you are talking with somebody that is been dealing self-esteem issues from birth. And I used to get teased miserably. I have never really felt like I was enough. And so I am just now getting to a place where like you know you are not in school here anymore babe you know what I mean? Like get into you. You are . Stop. That is what I am getting to now.  The process you document on this album - it is almost nothing less than a rebirth 'ecause from that really awful low moment you remake yourself. And well I cannot think of any better way to convey this than with one of the tracks on this album. Let us listen to the start of Hey You There.    When you get the courage to be honest with yourself you could stop lying to everybody else. And do not you ever get tired of pretending - tired? I think the common denominator between all human beings is the human condition. You know there are so many layers to that. You have happy moments but most of us go through life trying to figure it out.    Look yourself in the mirror and say hey you there is it me you are looking for? Say hey you there you there you there is it me you are looking for?  This album is called BEcoming. What are you becoming?  I am still trying to figure that out. I am becoming - I would say to people I am about to be 30 next month. But really I am about three in fat years. And I say that because you know I literally feel like I am three years old. I am having so many first times in my new self. So BEcoming is whatever is next.    Sometimes we are insecure. We are fragile sometimes. We laugh at each other to make ourselves feel better.  Well I hope you keep this musical documentation process. It is nice being able to take the journey with you.  Yeah.  Stacy Barthe thank you very much. It is been such a pleasure speaking with you.  Thank you. I appreciate you.    We are all flawed beautiful people.  Be sure to check NPR Music for an exclusive first listen with Stacy Barthe and stream every track from the new album for free.    We are all flawed beautiful people. We are all flawed beautiful creatures. 