 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR West. I am Arun Rath.   If that is what we are we all want a love bizarre.  This is how most people know Shelia E - from the hit records she recorded back in the '80s with a telltale influence of Prince. But if that is all you know about Shelia E. you are missing half the story. Do you know about her debut jazz album when she was a teenager even before Prince got his start? How about the fact she played percussion for Marvin Gaye and Santana and Michael Jackson and that she still leading a Latin jazz band? Shelia E. packed as much history as she could into a new memoir it is called The Beat of My Own Drum. The first chapter starts with the time her conga playing father Pete Escovedo brought her on stage for the first time at a little club in Oakland. She was five years old.  I just member walking up the stairs of the club and I could hear the music getting closer and closer as we got closer to the front door and my dad introduced me and the people kind of just parted you know there was like a line right up to the stage and my dad picked me up and sat me - or actually stood me on a stool because the congas were a little bit too high. I do not remember playing but my dad said I played good.  Now I want to play you a little piece of music for you. Take a listen to this.   1977.  Wooo  that is a long time ago.  Can you tell our listeners what we are listening to?  I know it is Billy playing and my dad and I but I do not know if it is Billy's record or the Solo Two record.  This is the Solo Two record. This is you playing with your dad and you are talking about  talking to Billy Cobham.  Wow. Yeah.  The Great Jazz drummer.  Yeah.  Who kind of discovered you and your dad playing.  Yeah he came to San Francisco and ended up in a club that we were playing in and he was like oh wow I was just coming to hang out met us and he was excited about you know hey maybe we could do a record together - a father and daughter. And I could come back and we could produce and blah blah blah. And we was like like yeah OK and we thought he is not going to come back. And a few months later he came back and we did the record and we could not believe it.   And this is a part of your work that I feel like a lot of people - and maybe even a lot of your fans are not aware of that but you were - Shelia Escovedo you were a star before Prince was a star.  Yeah.  You know before you were Sheila E. you were out there you has your own sound.  Yeah that is what is been so great and celebrating now 40 years in the business was that being a musician at an early age at 15 and being able to play with such great artists you know at an early age from Billy Cobham to George Duke Herbie Hancock Miles Davis. I mean it is been an honor to be able to not only listen and play with them but just to know them and learn from them.  And while we are dropping names I got to mention one other fun discovering in this book and that is Michael Jackson from Off The Wall. You play on Do not Stop 'Til You Get Enough.  Yeah. That bottle sound that very distinct bottle sound.   I remember Quincy saying you know...  Quincy Jones.  Yeah Quincy Jones there is a sound that Michael wants on the record can you kind of emulate it so I got two bottles - and put in it and I just pitch them to the key of the song and then played that as percussion. So when you hear dun dun dun dun dun dun dund that kind of thing those are the bottles.   Keep on with the force do not stop. Do not stop 'til you get enough. Keep on with the force do not stop. Do not stop 'til you get enough.  I am speaking with percussionist and band leader Shelia E. about her new memoir. It is called The Beat Of My Own Drum. So like we were saying you were established you were Sheila Escovedo. Now one thing that was deftly new with Shelia E. as opposed to what you would done before - you never really sang before. And you write that it was Prince that convinced you to sing. How did he do that?  Well somewhat. It was the one song he just called me and he  tricked me because he said I have a session come to the studio. I met him but I looked in the studio and the live room and there were no drums or Timbales -percussion. And I said what am I doing he says you are going to sing and I am like no no no. Because I can do that singing and playing. I can sing and play but when you take away my Timbales I though well what do I do with my hands? I need to hit something you know. That took a second and then I went OK I am a do it. So he said OK here's a song I want you to sing on - which was Erotic City.    If we cannot make babies Maybe we can make some time Erotic City come alive.  And he also helped convince you to come a bandleader do your own album.  Well yes and no. He did not convince me I have always been a bandleader. I started a couple of bands that I had early on in my years.  And from your own account you are a pretty strict bandleader.  Very much so yeah. He learned a lot from me on that and I will tell you that. He came to one of my rehearsals and realized how much work we had put into rehearsing and he went back and called an emergency rehearsal with his band to say I am not getting my butt kicked by Shelia E. on this tour. So he went back and revamped his whole show. I mean everyone talks about the boot camp that I started and it was more of rehearsing 12 hour days which we did every day. And I would have maybe a day off. It was strict because this is my first time being out there as a solo artist and I was - it is like we have got to do this right. So it was brutal.    She wants to leave. The glamourous life. She do not need a man's touch.  She wants to leave. The glamourous life. Without love it as not much.  Now something I had no idea about maybe nobody did you write about in this book is that there was a very serious physical toll that your style of drum playing took on your body.  There is a lot of injuries that happened. And I - and because I talk about to the kids it is very important to practice you know every single day blah blah blah I never practiced. There is no warm-up you warm up my hands warm up my feet my voice I never did any of that. So those injuries came from playing being a woman I wanted to make sure I stayed looking like a woman and definitely playing in high heels was not a smart thing to do.  Energetic style you have of playing. I imagine that is got to be tough.  Yeah so my back went out I was partially paralyzed for a couple of weeks. After a while when you are reaching to hit a cymbal and you are playing awkward it the way that you sit something's going to give and it did.  There must be a lot of women now -  young women who are playing drums and percussion that saw you when they were little girls. Have you heard from them?  Yes.  It must be nice.  Very nice. Very nice. They come to me and say that you know if it was not for you I would not be playing right now and there are older women that are older than me that come up to me and say I always wanted to play but you know in school they did not have it or it was not accepted or my parents did not you know did not want me to do it or what and I said it is never too late to play. I grabbed her hand she was 80 something years old I pulled her on stage and I had her sit down and play congas with the band. We played live and she had never experienced anything like that before she will never forget it. It makes you happy you know it is like a plant being watered every day and for me it is like if I do not get my food my water my nourishment musically some kind way creatively I feel like I am going to die.  That is Sheila E. Her new memoir is called The Beat Of My Own Drum. Shelia E. love your playing love speaking with you. Thank you so much.  You are welcome. Thank you very much. 