 Thanks again for listening. It is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR West. I am Eric Westervelt. Sometimes a chance encounter can lead to profound change in a person's life. Consider the case of actress Mary Elizabeth Winstead.    If we are going to date you may have to defeat my seven evil exes.     Seven evil exes yes.  Winstead was shooting movie Scott Pilgram Vs. The World opposite Michael Cera and she met on of the films music consultancy hotshot producer named Daniel Nakamura - known to fans of the band guerrillas as Dan the Automator. Dan the Automator had Mary Elizabeth singing in the Quentin Tarantino film Death Proof.    Do not want nobody nobody.  The two struck up a friendship and an unexpected musical partnership was born.   Sipping my vodka tonic in your leather-back chair I put on my makeup perfectly. Let down my hair.  This is the result. It is a band they call Gotta A Girl and their debut album is curiously titled I Love You But I Must Drive Off This Cliff Now. Mary Elizabeth Winstead explains.  We were writing lyrics in a hotel room and we were joking about kind of how ridiculously melodramatic our lyrics were and how kind of sad and saccharine they were coming out. And we just sort of laughed and we are like yeah it is totally I Love You But I Must Drive Off This Cliff Now. For like a year we are like oh yeah that is a joke what our album going to be titled and then we realized it was a good enough joke to just make it real.     I am sure she is very lovely But are not I just as nice? I know that I am so young and naive. You do not have to tell me twice. Did we live too fast in this fantasy? Sandcastles were the walls we made.  So just how does Mary Elizabeth Winstead end up making an album with Dan the Automator one of the coolest producers in the music game?  Kind of all happen-stance really.  Everything I do is happenstance. I just kinda go by instincts and whatever I feel about people and Mary had a certain kind of I do not know spirit or something. And the interest in singing and everything just made it seem like a good idea at the time.  Yeah. Yeah it was an experiment of sorts I think rather than like a let us make an album together. It was sort of like let us collaborate on a song possibly that we might never show anybody but let us just see what it is like to work together. And it just kind of clicked.   There is a Revolution is a song I really like. It is dripping with this sort of '60s pop production kind of cheeky James Bond homage.    Say it with me say it with me that the store through the backdoor shake up the third floor.  Tell us about this song Dan.  There is a French influence to the whole record in general but it is not a French record so to speak. That it has the influence and definitely calls from that time period. And I think...  What do you mean by that can explain a little?  ...What I mean by that is in the tradition of like Francoise Hardy or even like a Surge Gaze Borgue or something like that but also like the whole just a girl period in France basically.   Singing in French.   Saying you want to tell me that you want to take a ride with the wave that is rushing through you never mind the words that came before us and metamorphous arriving at the chorus say there is a revolution on the way.  It is maybe one of the things I was most excited about when he sent me that track I was like yes. I really wanted to do something that really represented that upbeat E-E  girl kind of childlike sound you know. That is really fine and just sort of silly and indulgent in that way. It was one of the most fun things to write lyrically as well. Just go completely in that direction and not worry about if it is simplistic or whatever because that sort of the whole ideas to make it in the make it like a child's rhyme or something.    And every line the moon will rise intertwine but are you mine?  Mary Elizabeth I mean a lot of actors have had sort of side jobs as singers and have used their fame as actors to pursue music - Russell Crowe Kevin Bacon Scarlett Johansson. You know they get beat up a lot by critics. I mean were you apprehend all about that side of this collaboration?  I did not want to be an actress singer or I did not want to try and take her some other category just because you know I have some proximity to it as an actor. I wanted it to come just naturally if it did ever come. So I do not think I expected it to happen but I am really grateful now that I have had the opportunity to explore that because it is been so much fun and it is been really rewarding for me. It is kind of interesting I am now realizing how many actors I know personally who are also musicians. And how many of them are really good and it sort of  makes me a little sad that so many actors get a bad rap. Because it is actually a pretty natural progression I think.    Take what you can from me take what you need from me.  That is actress Mary Elizabeth Winstead and producer Dan Nakamura better known as Dan the Automator. Together their new band is Got A Girl. Thanks a lot both of you for coming in.  The.  Thanks so much.   And for Sunday that is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR West. I am Eric Westervelt. Irun Rath is backnext weekend. Until then thanks a lot for listening and have a great week. 