 Our next story is about a man who makes an instrument that you have probably never heard. It is played by hundreds of musicians but only behind closed doors. He is a civil engineer who never thought much of his own musical talents. NPR's Andrea Hsu has his story. Mr.  So anyhow this is my factory.  Ernest Nussbaum's one-car garage reveals a lifetime of activity. There are rakes and leather suitcases also a drill press a band saw and a wall of woodworking tools things the 82-year-old amateur cellist needs to make his Prakticello.   Three decades ago  What if you had a cello that you could take apart and pack into a box something you could take on vacation? Mr.  So I thought it would be fun to fool around and see if something could be made of that sort.  So the man who years earlier designed bridges for the Washington Beltway set out to distill the cello into its essential parts. He began with his own cello a beautiful instrument built in Vienna in the 18th century. Mr.  All I did was I took that very cello put it on a big piece of brown packing paper and traced off the areas where it actually touches one's body when one plays.  Assembled Ernest Nussbaum's creation looks like something Picasso might have painted in his Cubist period. There are two wooden boards that rest against the chest and knees four more boards for the long rectangular frame that is the body. Other things such as the neck and fingerboard he purchases and adapts as necessary. All of the pieces fit inside the body and into a vinyl case something you might roll up a poster in. It is tiny compared to a regular cello and small enough to put in the overhead compartment on planes.   The Prakticello sounds quieter and thinner than a regular cello. There is no body for the sound to resonate through but it is still audible.  Mr.  People are usually pleased at the tone quality because they expect it to sound horrible and then they find it does not sound horrible so that is good.  Now it is not something a professional musician would ever play in public but... Ms.  You can learn a piece of music. You can practice scales. You can practice arpeggios. You can do everything you need to do when you' Janet Frank is with the National Symphony Orchestra here in Washington. She is had her Prakticello for more than 20 years. It is gone with her on vacation and on tour. Ms.  Well it is been in China all over China. It is been in Korea. It is been in Japan Sweden Germany France Italy Denmark.  She plays it in hotels when her real cello is being shipped. Since the early '80s Nussbaum has sold about 450 Prakticellos to amateurs and professionals. Other buyers include Joel Krosnick of the Juilliard String Quartet Yo-Yo Ma and Sheri Greening of the Lake Charles Louisiana Symphony. This spring she took hers on a snorkeling trip to Honduras shortly before a wedding gig. Ms.  So I took this thing down to this little hut on stilts and I practiced every afternoon. I probably played about three hours a day.  On the way home  The strings and end-pin looked suspicious in the X-ray. To complicate matters she would packed her undergarments in with the cello parts for extra padding. Ms.  So here I am in Honduras in the airport with all of my unmentionables all over the countertop and I am pantomiming playing the cello and just having to finally convince them that it was not dangerous. They did not really ever know what it was but they let me get on the plane anyway.  Back in his garage Earnest Nussbaum is starting on another Prakticello. In all it will take about 40 hours to make. Nowadays he sells them for 1275 the materials alone cost nearly half that. Ms.  It is an up-and-down business. For two months I will hear from nobody and go around moaning and groaning that the business has come to an end. Then I will get three orders within a week or 10 days.  So it keeps him busy but not so busy that he doesn' playing chamber music on his regular cello with his friends. Andrea Hsu NPR News. 