 If you need a break from bad news an escape from whatever you need an escape from our Music reviewer Tom Moon says put on the new album from Dirty Projectors.    Now right now now right now now right now...  This is from Lamp Lit Prose the eighth album from the rock bandart project led by guitarist and singer David Longstreth. It follows a series of personnel changes and upheavals. Here's more of the album and our review from Tom Moon.    Are we fundamentally alone in the universe? What would it possibly mean if we found in each other something...  After the breakup album comes the bounce back. The last time we heard from Dirty Projectors back in 2017 David Longstreth was getting over a relationship and knee-deep in dark laments. Now he is all about shaking off despair with a record that is sunny and sometimes giddy.    Something opening a new consciousness beginning in the room when my eyes saw the design - I feel energy.  Lit up with Michael Jacksonish  falsetto vocals and guitar riffs from West Africa these new Dirty Projectors songs are fixated on pleasure and the loosening of inhibitions. But they are never exclusively that. Beneath the surface are glitchy unsettling rhythms and spasms of guitar dissonance.    I found...  Longstreth says the album is the direct result of changes he made to his work routine. Rather than touring after the last record he just kept on writing. He collaborated with Kanye West and contributed to Solange Knowles' acclaimed A Seat At The Table. Those experiences tilted him in the direction of RB.    I feel an affinity. Look at me a deity. In all the ways she is a break-through. Under the sun there is nothing new but she keeps it 100 in the shade. She is a break-through. It is cold out there. That is nothing new. But she keeps in 100 in the shade. She is a break-through.  This stylistic shift probably will not surprise longtime fans. Dirty Projectors came up in the hyperactive Brooklyn indie rock world of the early 2000s and evolved quickly. One album leaned toward progressive rock of the 1970s. Another maneuvered into pop with lavish vocal harmonies. This record cuts right to the chase. Its tight disciplined music with a shot of off-kilter.    We shout out loud - megaphone - kind of zoned but listening in. We browse our own episodes. That is a that is a that is a - 'ecause a monster eats its young till they are gone gone gone. And the rules are there to hurt and that is the way it is done.  Longstreth says working with West and others offered him a deep dive into looping and beat making. Here he combines tricky program beats with even trickier live polyrhythmic percussion.    That is a that is a that is a...  For all the details the album is just a blast of energy a magic pop elixir designed to help you forget whatever troubles you might be carrying around.  The latest from Dirty Projectors is Lamp Lit Prose. Our reviewer is Tom Moon.    I feel an affinity. Look at me a deity. In all her ways... 