 This next story is about a musician that is coming to terms with his own past.  Mr.   If you would come back home we could start all over.  You are listening to the music of William Fitzsimmons. He was born outside Pittsburgh to blind parents. So he grew up reacting more to sounds rather than sights. While his classmates were rushing home to watch television he would join in the music his folks played at night. In college Fitzsimmons gave up music to study psychology and he became a practicing mental health therapist. But music kept calling him back.  Mr.   I could fix you lunch or take you out for coffee.  William Fitzsimmons is a full-time musician now. His new CD is called The Sparrow and the Crow. He joins me from the studios of KUOW in Seattle. Hello. Mr.  Hello. How are you?  Fine thanks. You have written a little bit about how growing up in a blind household helped you focus on sound. What was it like inside your house as a kid? Mr.  Noisy.  When you are without a sense the other ones you know I think a lot of people know how to become very important. And there was always something going on between - you know my dad had a pipe organ in the house. And whenever he would come home from work he would turn that thing up full volume and get everything single neighbor within you know a square mile really really upset at us. And my mother had a lot of - she actually raised cockatiels and parakeets and things like that in the house. And my dad hated that but we kind of liked having birds flying around. We thought it was kind of funny.  I have read that your parents were amateur musicians and there was a lot of music in the house. What kind of music were you drawn to as a kid? Mr.  I mean I suppose we always have a penchant for liking whatever our parents listened to when we were younger at least some of it. But my mother was -  Joni Mitchell and Peter Paul and Mary and Bob Dylan and all those really really wonderful artists of that time. And my dad was - he would not have any of that hippy music.  He was a classical organist and so he pretty much just listened to orchestral and organ records.  Can we hear any of those influences or whispers of that music in any of the work that you write? Mr.  Yeah I think so. It probably leans more towards the folk than the classical. The classical is too hard to do. I could never get into that too much. But I have always been drawn to folk music and I inject a lot of that into the work that I do. A lot of those artists could make you feel something very very saliently without you know hitting you in the face with volume or anything like that. They use their words and sweet melodies and things like that. So I try to emulate that as appropriately as I can.  Mr.   Mom and dad parted ways. We were young and got good grades and trees in yards meant to climb. We left home but never looked behind. Music is a very bittersweet experience for me. It was a beautiful thing to share with my parents and it still is. But it also kind of highlighted the distance between myself and my mother and my father and there was kind of a chasm that could not really be breached.  A distance because the music was not connecting with them? Mr.  The distance because the music was only you know so much of a bridge. It was only maybe three-quarters of a bridge in order to be able to communicate fully with them. You know I have never met eyes with my mother for example. And there is a part of that that is always - especially when I grew up that always kind of broke my heart 'ecause she does not know what I look like. And now there is my father. And you know the music was a good thing but it was also a - it highlighted that distance between us.  We are speaking with singer and songwriter Williams Fitzsimmons. The music for this new CD The Sparrow and the Crow was written during the breakup with your first wife. Is that right? Mr.  That is correct.  And so in sense this is your sort of divorce album.  Mr.  Yeah I guess everybody's got to have one right? You know the irony of the whole thing is that I already wrote one of those about my parents and the Goodnight record was actually about my parents and their divorce. And it was in the process of making that the things in my own relationship started to kind of head southward very quickly. The irony is not lost on me but it is not the good kind of irony that gives you you know a belly laugh. It is the other kind.  Let us listen to one of the songs from your new album. This one is called I Do not Feel it Anymore.  Mr.   Hold on. This will hurt more than anything has before. What it was what it was what it was. I have brought this on us more than anyone could ignore. What I have done what I have done what I have done.  What I have done what I have done what I have done. Now William Fitzsimmons tell me about this song. What have you done? Mr.  Well I guess candor is called for. I was the one that was honest on the records so...  I was not a faithful person in the relationship and it cost me dearly. And yeah that is what that song is about. It is the things that my wife said to me and some of the things that I imagined that she would have said after the fact.    I have worked for so long just to see you mess around. What you have done what you have done what you have done. I want back the years that you took when I was young. I was young I was young but it is done.  It is subtitled Song of the Sparrow. There is another song a few tracks down which seems like the counterpoint may be. It is called  Song of the Crow.  Mr.   I left you out at sea. I left you there to plea. Please forgive me. This is the answer I guess to the accusations and - but it is still a little bit fresh to talk about.  This was me trying to - when I finally came to my senses I sort of was hit in the face with everything that I did. And I just you know I just wanted to say that I was sorry and find the way to get the forgiveness that I did not really deserve.  It seems like through the arc of the CD  denial anger bargaining depression and then acceptance. And have you found forgiveness from your first wife? Mr.  Yeah. There was a very difficult period for both of us. And I think I did I found the forgiveness that I needed. And she is a very graceful soul. And you know she found a way to move on and she herself has actually remarried now and just had her second child. You know even in the midst of all the darkness and all those things I think that there is some sort of joy that can come out of those things. You have to go through them. You cannot go around them. But yeah the forgiveness was there and it was real. And it was a relief when we were able to get to that point finally.  Mr.   But they will never take the good years. There are some that never pass. No they will never take the good years. God I wish I would have learned.  You were a counselor and you dealt with all kinds of grief people who were dealing with it. I mean you are writing about a divorce and you are essentially revisiting it over and over and over again as you tour through the country. Do you think as a counselor you would give somebody this kind of advice in a sense to sort of revisit what they have been through? Mr.  No I do not think I would.  I think I would tell them to move on you know? Take up a different hobby or something. I am sitting here every single night reminding myself and other people of the worst decisions that I have ever made in my life.  I do not know if that is really a wise thing to do. There is a little part of me that I think secretly is very excited about time passing and you know moving onto new music.  Do you think you could write a happy album? Or do you think you would want to write a happy album?  Mr.  I am beginning to think I do not have it in me.  And I am worried about that. And I am in a place where I am ready to write different songs and I am so thankful for that. I have been waiting for this time to come. I do not think I am ready to write about ice cream and puppy dogs or anything like that. But I definitely think there will be a lot more sunshine and stuff to come.  Singer-songwriter William Fitzsimmons. His latest CD is called The Sparrow and the Crow. This weekend his tour hits Bellingham Washington and Portland Oregon. Mr. Fitzsimmons thanks so much. Mr.  Oh thank you very much.   You will find love.  You can hear a few tracks from William Fitzsimmon's CD at nprmusic.org.  Mr.   You will find love. You will find love. 