 Soul singer Lizz Wright is starting over. Her new album called Freedom And Surrender came after a tough few years. She left behind a failed marriage and her own expectations about starting a family. But she found creativity in that loss and a new kind of voice.    This is a new game going to flow like nothing behind.  When I spoke with her Lizz Wright said the key to great songwriting is knowing just how much personal experience to share.  There is a beautiful kind of seducing trap in being autobiographical in our writing of songs because sometimes we can get so stuck in our own - we just get stuck in our own syrup. And it is so personal that it almost can be embarrassing to the listener. Sometimes I will listen to you know music that - and from artists that I love and I will be like oh my gosh. Can I just not be locked in your bedroom with you?  .  So it is a beautiful challenge to try and be personal and find that universal undercurrent where we are really talking about what it means to be human and it does not smell like my sweat.  What was hard about that - trying to use your music in a way as autobiography and catharsis I imagine and still keeping it universal. Was there a moment when you thought I have gone into the syrup I have got to get out?  . You can feel it. You can feel it when you have failed to surface. But the beauty of that whole process is when you can come up from your murk and see light and you bring both into the writing. And you know that it is complete when it is balanced and when it is rounded and it can be received by other people. And be personal but still open like a threshold. Like here's a door to my house but I am not going to lock you in here or lock you out.   Come for a little while.  Eat some pie and be on your way now. Scurry on.   I want to ask you about the song called Right Where You Are.   Right where you are stuck for a minute.   Oh.   Shimmering there in the sun.  I mean this is just a beautiful duet that you sing with Gregory Porter and it is pretty much a straight up love song. And I guess I wonder - as someone who was trying to move forward after a divorce this seems like a counterintuitive piece to include.   Well I am so grateful Rachel for just the inherent mercy of life. You know it is not static. We just kind of get carried along the current and brought up somewhere where we have a little more to work with. And I think living in the mountains and bringing my focus back to the land which is really where I come from and enjoying my life around people who really lived based on what is going on around them. Like for instance you know  I spend a lot of time with my neighbor who is 91. And she is my favorite 'ecause she is so cute. I cannot stand it. She is about four feet and change and she is got bright blue eyes. And she just taught me to care about little things. And so the caring about little things that happen all the time and returning to just a basic sense of wonder has made it easier for me to return to love without having to think about it.  You still live in the small town in North Carolina. What is it like and how does it fit into your music? I imagine it is a big part of what inspires you.  Well there is a couple different experiences Rachel. There is in town which for me is Asheville N.C. which is you know a good 40 minutes from me. And then there is the mountains. I really like being on the mountain the most because I like talking to people about what to grow and what to harvest. And I just - I do not want so far to fall and I do not want so far to climb. I just want to really enjoy being present.    My soul went walking up a mountain trail.  So with the song called Somewhere Down The Mystic because this is a story about losing someone but feeling a connection to a parallel life the afterworld if you will is there something about where you are from - Appalachia - that has that quality to it? Do you feel more in tune with things that are beyond this life?  I think living in a way that is close to nature makes you feel like that makes you feel how thin the veil is between life and death. And I guess there is no point to this song but one piece that kind of shines through it is that you know love does not really regard that threshold so much anyway. How do we know that love goes anywhere when our bodies fail?    Somewhere down the Mystic another kind of angel calls another kind of glory another kind of fog.  You actually had your own brush with death. You were in a bad car accident. What effect did that experience have on you?  Well I had this accident a week before I was supposed to record the record. So the songs were already tracked and everything. But when I saw the you know 75 foot ravine over the frozen creek where my car was held in suspension by this young tree I had a different feeling for you know the words of the chorus. And I really - I was just actually super grateful that I finally had an encounter with death. I am a preacher's kid. You know I am big-boned. I have giant feet and I have always been able to run fast. And so I have this sense of I cannot fail. Yeah I am invincible and I am made of like you know green juice and concrete. Like nothing's going to happen to me. So it was great to walk into the studio with this really tender reverence for my life and profound gratitude and wonder.  Even though this is not an album of covers there are a couple of cover songs including your take on the Bee Gees' 1967 hit To Love Somebody. Let us listen to this.    Honey you do not know what it is like to love somebody. To love somebody the way I love you.  You hear that preacher's kid in there...  .  ...Which is funny. I would not associate that with the Bee Gees. But you hear your take on this and there is some gospel happening in there. I wondered was this song hard to sing. I mean it is a beautiful showcase for your voice but it is - you know those are long notes and there is not a whole lot of instrumentation behind you.  The beautiful thing Rachel is that I come from a place where when you sing slow you give up who you are. You know you are standing in front of the congregation and people are looking at you. And they can see completely through you. And the whole worship part of the religious musical experience is just that you give it up. You give up who you are and you just stand there like a window. You just give it up. There is nothing to do but slow down and be there.    Can you see what I am? I live and I breathe. I live and breathe for you.  Lizz Wright - her new album is called Freedom And Surrender. Thanks so much for talking with us Lizz.  What a pleasure Rachel.    If I as not got you if I as not got you you do not know... 