 The conductor Sir Thomas Beecham once famously said it sounded like two skeletons copulating on a tin roof.   The harpsichord has had a rough ride. It was displaced by the piano but the old instrument has its devotees and champions including the man we hear at the keyboard for one. This is from Mahan Esfahani's album Time Present And Time Past.   Mahan Esfahani joins us from Munich. Welcome to the program.  Thank you. It is a great pleasure.  On this album you play both Baroque music and also minimalist music. To begin with explain your love of this not hugely-popular instrument the harpsichord.  Well firstly you know Robert - if I may call you that - I mean I have a huge respect for your work. But if you do not mind I am going to friendly - in a friendly tone take issue with almost everything you have said so far...  .  ...Which is that it is old and which it is not enormously popular. I think these things would only matter to Americans. As long as there is a place for sundials and gardening and beautiful things there is a place for the harpsichord. I completely reject the idea that harpsichord is old and I reject the idea that something old is therefore not good or not popular. Lots of things are old. Lots of traditions are old - cooking art. I like it because it is beautiful.  But were you at some point at a fork in the road where you were either to be a pianist or harpsichordist?  Not really no. I mean I played piano. I have always liked piano. My father played piano. Actually to be fair the sound of the harpsichord did annoy him a bit and I thought how can I annoy Dad? I will play the harpsichord.  .  So you know it was a little sort of teenage rebellion - and I am being serious about that actually. But the harpsichord I just always had a love for.  Well the music that we heard a moment ago was by Scarlatti. It is the first track on the album Time Present And Time Past and that is one of the Baroque pieces. But then we have for example this bit by Steve Reich an adaptation of his piece Piano Phase For Two Pianos adapted for harpsichord obviously.   Its sounds a little bit like an electric guitar right there.  Well harpsichord is kind of a big guitar is not it? I mean it is plucked after all.   I had a good time recording this piece. I think it is fabulous. I think Steve Reich completely redefined musical language.  You have talked about your love of both Baroque music and minimalist music and of finding something in common between the two. How do you express that?  When I say that there is commonality I mean more in terms of the sort of techniques by which we perceive Baroque and minimalist music rather than the techniques used to compose them. I know that is being sort of overly complicated. But I think in Baroque music especially in the case of Bach what really transformed Bach's musical language what changed it for him was hearing Vivaldi hearing the sort of manipulation of small cells of information and patterns in order to generate sort of huge blocks of harmony.  You also include a composition by Henryk Gorecki in this album.  Yes Gorecki you know there is a kind of personal thing there for me. I had you know kind of become obsessed with that sort of Soviet Bloc period. And actually a lot of composers in the Soviet Bloc - Gorecki's not the only one - are writing for the harpsichord as a sort of reaction against enforced Soviet realism expressionism sort of enforced modernism. The harpsichord was actually ideologically considered a very questionable instrument in that period much like I think it is ideologically considered suspect today in some circles.  Why? Was the idea that it was associated with the aristocracy in that time in a pre-modern time was that the problem for the harpsichord?  I think that was a big issue. I mean already in the French Revolution the harpsichord becomes identified with the aristocracy with the ancien regime. Plus hey you know I mean harpsichord is a really easy target is not it? I mean it is - it is just how it is.  I thought the problem with the harpsichord was also that it lacked a dynamic range that you could not...  Is it? I did not know that. I was not aware of that.  ...Make notes louder or softer. That was the problem.  Is that the problem?  I am not speaking as a musician Mahan but that is the rumor I have heard yes.  You know there is a lot of misinformation. I mean there are still people who think that the earth is flat you know? I mean all of the...  .  ...Evidence that we can bring to light that there was evolution and that the earth is round still has not convinced some people. You know look I mean to me the harpsichord has a huge dynamic range. And I always say to people come and listen to it. You know come and listen and actually experience this and realize there is good harpsichord playing there is bad harpsichord playing. By the way I am fun outside of this context .   You are fun in this context also. I am having a fine time. But can you - just to explain - can you play a note on the harpsichord so that it is pianissimo and so it is you know fortissimo?  Well within a phrase. And with a series of phrases you can certainly create the effect of diminuendo and crescendo no question.   One of the tracks that I have is Carl Philipp Emanuel Bach - by the way that is Bach's second son - Emanuel Bach's variations on Le Folie. You will definitely hear - I mean I think if we listen to say the last couple of minutes of that track there is a wide range of colors that the harpsichord is capable of. And I think you know that gives lie to the assumption that it does not have that kind of variety. And I think it very much speaks for itself.   Are you finding composers writing for harpsichord today?  Absolutely. It is really thrilling actually. I think you know for someone who does play let us say old music or you know Baroque music or Renaissance music - and you know and I do play a lot of that obviously - engaging with new composers engaging with young composers is really exciting because it makes me look at people of the past in a very different way that they are also living that there was a lot of subjectivity in the decisions that they were making. And it totally has transformed my relationship with someone like say Bach. You know Bach is born 330 years ago but you know gosh he really is alive.   The last piece on Time Present And Time Past is Johann Sebastian Bach's Harpsichord Concerto. You have said you have arrived at a new relationship with Bach. Tell me more about that as we hear this piece.  You know Bach of course was my first love. He still is. I mean he is the man of my life that is for sure. And when I say that there is been a re-evaluation look to be perfectly honest I think I have a re-evaluation of my relationship with Bach probably every day and that will never stop. And that is probably why I still get up in the morning and I do this.   Mahan Esfahani thank you very much for talking with us about your album and about your instrument.  It is been a great pleasure and I say to people keep your ears and your minds open.  And let me say that I personally have nothing against the harpsichord.  . Hey it makes one of us. . 