 Richard Thompson has been making music for almost half a century. He played with the folk band Fairport Convention. Many know his voice from his collaborations with his former wife Linda.    Let me ride on the Wall of Death one more time.  For the past few decades Thompson's been a solo artist. His new album titled Still was produced by Wilco frontman and producer Jeff Tweedy. Our reviewer Meredith Ochs says it is a good match.  Having released an astonishing 40-plus albums Richard Thompson made an inspired choice to work with Jeff Tweedy on his new one. The big natural sound of Tweedy's loft studio lends itself perfectly to Thompson's unique blend of British folk Celtic and Americana.    Take the path down to the mill. I am going to get my fill. I am going to eat till the pump runs dry.  Jeff Tweedy's subtle sonic influence is felt in the keyboards and arrangements similar to the way he evolved the sound of his own band Wilco. And he brought in background singers from his current eponymous project. Their voices suggest Thompson's earlier work but they also meld perfectly with the new material.    She never could resist a winding road. She never could resist a winding road. Maybe just around the bend a  are not the end. She never could resist a winding road.  Richard Thompson is an extraordinary guitar player and songwriter but a big part of his magic is the way he integrates the two.    Forgive me if I sneer. You used to be a Cleopatra. You do not like to hear the stuff you dish come right back at you - same old same old facts and lies and compromises.  Few artists can do this as well as Thompson. His solos are pageantry a fireworks display of notes and rich tones coxed out of his instrument. All this dazzling technical skill never comes off as flashy. It absolutely serves the song.    You know she is all buttoned up no place to go. Well...  At the end of his new album Richard Thompson sort of breaks the fourth wall with a first-person story about how his guitar heroes shaped his own playing mimicking Les Paul and the gypsy jazz of Django Reinhardt.    Well my teacher says they are going to kick me out of school 'ecause I am nothing but a bebop twang-head and rock 'n' roll fool. If I do not do my homework I have got to go. They cannot teach me what I have got to know. How do I make my guitar sound like Les Paul?  This song is such a departure from the rest that it sounds more like a hidden track. But considering that Thompson once made a live album covering 1000 years of music this exercise does not sound strange at all. It is also a great conclusion to a great album because Thompson belongs in the pantheon of pickers right alongside all of these guys.  Richard Thompson's new album is called Still. Our reviewer Meredith Ochs is a talk-show host and DJ at SiriusXM Radio. 