 There is a song out right now that is catching a few people off guard.    I am going to need someone to help me. I am going to need somebody's hand.  It sounds kind of familiar maybe a revived oldie. But it is not. It is fresh off the new album from Nathaniel Rateliff and the Night Sweats. It is called S.O.B.    Son of a  give me a drink. One more night I just cannot be me. Son of a  if I cannot get clean I am going to drink my life away.  Nathaniel Rateliff joins me from Colorado Public Radio outside of Denver. Welcome to the program.  Thanks for having me. It is a pleasure to be here.  So you know because we are NPR we had to secure special clearance to play that song.  Oh really?  Yeah . It is not words we are supposed to use upholding the community standards.  I understand completely.  Were you surprised that S.O.B. took off? Because it is got a good groove obviously.  I have never really had a hit before so I - you know I do not know what the - the perfect equation is for it. But yeah it is - it was a surprise - or it is still a surprise. I am just mostly waiting for backlash so...   So I was like well something's going to - you know something's going to go wrong at some point.    Shake baby. I feel it when you shake baby.  There is a retro feel certainly to some - to this music. What genre - how would you define this?  I mean it falls into the vein of RB and soul. But the stuff that was influencing me was Bang sessions of Van Morrison and Sam and Dave and Otis Redding. And I really wanted to try to kind of mix that Southern soul sound with a little bit of honky-tonk and sort of what our you know Missouri roots are.    Think of all the time time time time time think of all the time time time time time.  There is been something of a soul revival lately would not you say? What do you make of that?  You know it is been happening for a couple of years. And two years ago when I first started writing these songs I was like man I have got to get this record out before I just end up looking like some guy who came in on the coat tails of everybody else who was driving the plow. So...  You are not just catching this wave.  No I am just a horrible surfer so...  .  But yeah you know I think there is like a resurgence of this style of music. And I think it is soul and RB and blues and all that kind of stuff is still you know Americana music. You know it is kind of the beauty of history of music in the United States and what the different cultures that came here made. It is just a bummer that it went away so I am excited that it is back. I hope it lasts and I hope other people have new and inventive ways to play soul and RB that is real and a part of them.   I am talking with Nathaniel Rateliff about his new album with the Night Sweats. When you sing you really bring it. I want to play a little bit of Howling At Nothing.    We were howling at the moon. We were shaking our hips. Danced until we flat out falling into bed but I will not let you go.  How do you maintain that intensity - you know bring that to the song every time you sing it?  Well that is a part of the song so you know it is just the work you have got to do.  Got howling in there so I guess you have got to.  Yeah. And you know it is been a challenge as far as like how many nights in a row you can do that. But we are figuring that out - or I am rather. I think it is a lot of not talking  and less drinking.  .  But - I do not know you know I feel like the songs require for me to be a part of them. And those parts really move me so I feel it is important to like do the best I can to be real with it.  You are making me think of the song I have Been Failing.    Well I needed you and not just someone. I have been so long failing you dear. I said I would care for all of this darling. Yet I buried all of it again. Ah yeah come on baby. Yeah. We could be good. Oh honey. It is just the two of us now.  And you said this was one of your favorite songs off this album.  Yeah we do a different version of it live. It is more like a Tom Petty song or - but for the record we - I do not know the version we had sort of demoed before was a little too dad rock. So we were trying to keep away from that as much as possible.   Explain that - too much dad rock.  I do not know just loud guitars with bad tones.  OK .  Expensive guitars with bad tones.  You do not go for perfection in the studio though right?  No not at all. I actually had a friend who I had sent him one of the first songs we did. And he was like I like this song. I am surprised that you kept those guitars in there. They are wildly out of tune. I was like great. But yeah I think the mistakes make it a little more human you know.  Something I have got to ask you. Now I read this on the Internet so maybe it is not true. Tell me did you used to be a missionary?  I first moved to Denver Colo. to work with a group called YWAM - Youth With A Mission. I was a kid. So I was 18 and did some work with homeless people and really you know to - trying to convert people is sort of an awful position to find yourself in. So I quickly on my own grew out of religious ideas. So...  Well it is kind of hard to escape your songs are a lot about the reprobate life - you know drinking sin and consequences.  Right - not in a bad way though.  No of course not.   Sinning and drinking - if you can do it at the same time it is a hell of a day.  .    Spend your years spend your time...  Nathaniel Rateliff his new album is Nathaniel Rateliff And The Night Sweats. It is been great speaking with you. Thank you.  Oh thanks so much for having me. I really appreciate it.    I just want to thank you. I just want to thank you. I just want to thank you. 