 Next week more than 50000 people are expected to camp in Nevada's Black Rock Desert for the Burning Man festival. There'ill be towering fire sculptures elaborate neo-Victorian costumes and LED light displays. And to top it off a few performance artists will also showcase pieces of their new rock opera about Burning Man. It is called How to Survive the Apocalypse and it is designed for the burner curious people who have never been to Burning Man but are thinking about it. April Dembosky reports.  The opera about Burning Man begins much like a first-timer's trip to the Black Rock Desert might.    .  By reading the disclaimer on the back of the ticket...    And by reading this ticket you voluntarily assume all risk of serious injury or death. That is right we said death.  The idea for the show began on a late summer's night at Burning Man when a bunch of burners got to talking...  ...in the line at the port-a-potties.  They figured...  ...the only way to capture this festival was in opera.  Rock opera to be precise. Librettist Erik Davis says he hopes theirs will be the Hair of the new millennium. Mr.  I think it actually is a great medium to communicate things about the altering of culture. It forces you to be more accessible and open and melodic and catchy.  Composer Mark Nichols drew from a range of musical styles to write the score from Igor Stravinsky to Jesus Christ Superstar. Mr.  When you have a voice singing by itself and then have the whole band go bop and it is a very rock sound you are immediately going to think of that.  Unidentified Person 1   So that is why we came to fry our brains in the sun so you could ogle the faces at the    an older woman whose husband left her and a younger couple Brooke and Bud. Director Christopher Fulling explains how Bud is an archetypal first-timer. Mr.  A guy hears about this thing sees the pictures of this sort of like sexual utopia of little raver chicks and then you know basically drags his highly suspicious wife or girlfriend there. And then on the fly things go horribly wrong.  Horrible dust storms a bad acid trip. Then Bud's girlfriend has an  affair with another woman. But Bud does not run home complaining. Something about Burning Man makes him want to engage with the challenge. Librettist Erik Davis says the opera is trying to highlight this theme of Burning Man. Mr.  From the outside it just looks like a crazy hedonistic party. And in some ways it is a crazy hedonistic party. But within that it has the potential for a lot of really transformative experiences and a kind of seriousness.  It is this nuanced picture of Burning Man that Davis hopes the opera will project to audiences around the country. He has visions of a nationwide tour. Mr.  What we want to do is be able to kind of bring a slice of Burning Man on the road by drawing sort of a whole troupe of art cars and performance artists and veggie oil activists and the kinds of folks that are attracted to Burning Man and sort of have like a traveling  almost like a circus.    .  Replicating Burning Man on stage will always be imperfect especially when so many venues prohibit nudity and fire sculpture. For NPR News I am April Dembosky. 