 Finally this hour words of love that became a chart-topping song.  That is how it all began. I was just lonely one evening and just sat down and wrote it.  That is Fred Stobaugh. Earlier this summer the 96-year-old submitted lyrics to a local songwriting contest at Green Shoe Studio in Peoria Illinois. The song was in memory of his late wife Lorraine.  She was just one of the beautiful-est girls in the world. She could stand up to anybody movie stars or anybody.  Lorraine died back in April just a few months shy of their 73rd wedding anniversary. Stobaugh's entry did not win but it did catch the attention of Green Shoe Studio's CEO Jacob Colgan.  It was just so touching and so heartwarming I had to call him. And the team here at the studio decided we had to bring his song to life.  About a month later Stobaugh's handwritten lyrics turned into the fully produced Oh Sweet Lorraine.   That is Jacob Colgan singing. Green Shoe Studio posted a video on YouTube of a visibly moved Stobaugh listening to the song for the first time with Colgan.  It is wonderful just wonderful.  Good. I am glad you like it. So glad you like it.  It is wonderful.  It is the most nervous I have been taking someone a song in years because it meant so much.  This week Oh Sweet Lorraine debuted at number 42 on the Billboard Hot 100 making Fred Stobaugh the oldest artist ever to appear on the chart. The song also has more than 100000 downloads on iTunes. Again Green Shoe CEO and the voice behind Oh Sweet Lorraine Jacob Colgan.  He goes do you know who this Justin guy is? And we are like yeah Justin Timberlake? He goes yeah well evidently I passed him right on by.  But Colgan says the fame has not gone to Stobaugh's head. In fact Stobaugh has a hard time believing everything that is happened.  I just - I am sitting here thinking it is a big dream. I just think it is a big dream and I am going to wake up.  But for Fred Stobaugh the dream is real. And now thanks to Jacob Colgan and his team so is his song.  