 Brace yourself for a goofy music analogy. But if there is a Mozart of garage rock it is Ty Segall. He is put out at least a dozen albums of face-melting critic-adored low-fi rock in the style of bands like The Troggs or The Stooges. Not to mention his work in several other bands and other collaborations in a ton of different styles. And he is barely 27 years old.  'ecause she do not mind nothing nothing.  But his newest album Manipulator is something.    Susie wants to do all the latest moves. Sitting on the screen...  Manipulator is much more polished and produced. Ty Segall's a southern California boy so he came by our studios at NPR West guitar in hand planning to - in his words - rock out acoustic style. I started by asking him why these songs were not as rough around the edges.  Yeah. There is only so many times you can you know make a record on a four-track or an eight-track. And we were really lucky to have the opportunity this time to go into a studio for like a month. So it is very rare these days that you have an opportunity if you are not like signed to a big label or you know you do not have a bunch of money. It is very rare to get an opportunity like that. So it is just like let us go for it you know.  But would you say with this new album - I mean you did not just take longer to produce it in the studio. There is a different sound here right?  Well yeah. I mean I took twice as long to write it than I have usually done. I am a pretty impatient person with myself. I like to - at least in the past - like first take's the take or try to do stuff live with a band a lot. You know I think there is a beauty in non-perfectionism. Like all the old records that are just like - Louie Louie is just like the guy screws up. He starts singing one of the words before the verse starts and that is my favorite part of the saw.    Day - day by day...  So that is where my head has been but as an antithesis to that I am also a huge fan of like Tony Visconti Bowie - all these like beautifully like very very lush and well thought-out records. So I was like let us try to do one of those. That is where the idea kind of came from.  It feels - does this have kind of more of a glam rock feel to it would you say?  Yeah. We were trying to go for a Tony Visconti record you know - Mick Ronson Tony Visconti style.   . .  So you are sitting here with your guitar. I do not want to talk too much longer before getting to hear you play. Now the album like we said is very produced but you are just here with your guitar. So what are going to play for us from the album?  Yeah. I was thinking about songs that would fit. And I thought that the song Green Belly would fit. It is kind of about - it is like about Hollywood or something like that.  Perfect. . Just around the corner from Hollywood here.  Yeah. Here we go.    I have seen the green in the belly of your eyes. That scene you have seen - yeah give me no surprise yeah. He is going to make a movie of his entire life. He wants to figure how to do it right. Oh yeah. So he needs that big man with a big plan to step right in. He fell down from the sky and knew why he had to win yeah. He is going to make a movie of his entire life. She will cry. She will cry why? Oh yeah. Yeah he is going to make a movie of his entire life. She will cry. She will cry why? Oh yeah.  That is Ty Segall performing Green Belly from his new album Manipulator. And again I should emphasize this is sort of NPR unplugged here because the solo version's here just you and the guitar. It is very different from what we heard on the album.  Yeah. Yeah.  So you grew up here in southern California. And I read you actually went to the Laguna Beach High School which is famous for the reality show...  Yeah.  ...Which is kind of funny with you sitting here and talking to you because you kind of seem about as much of the opposite of what you see on that show...  .  ...As somebody could imagine.  That show is insane. I knew a lot of those kids. I knew most of those kids. They started filming that when I was a junior or a senior so they filmed my graduation. There is an episode of my graduation.  Can we spot you on a...  Whenever I saw a camera I was like get away from me. We would throw water balloons at them and we were like get out of here.  Why would you not want to be associated with those people?  Oh man.  .  I do not know.  Well having spent some time in L.A. now - I am recent transplant - but I can kind of understand how you have so many different files in your style because there is everything here.  There is so much. It is cool. Yeah. Growing up here like got me into noise music. And I am from Orange County so it is like surf music. So I will just - I will have reverb. I have always had reverb on my guitar for some reason. I think it is 'ecause of Orange County.  Blame Orange County for the reverb.  Yes it is their - yeah it is...  Among other things.  It is their fault.  .  Yeah. The reverb and the nihilism - Orange County.  I am just kidding.  That is Ty Segall. His new album is called Manipulator. It is been such a pleasure speaking with you. Thank you so much.  Thanks man.  And can take us out on one more tune?  Yeah. I will play one more. Let us see.   OK. This one's called The Feels.    And when I look into your eyes I realize you are the same as me just wanting to be free.  And for Sunday that is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR West. I Arun Roth. Check out our weekly podcast. Look for weekends in ALL THINGS CONSIDERED on iTunes or on the NPR app. And you can follow us on Twitter at NPR WATC. We are back next weekend. Until then thanks for listening and have a great holiday.    It just cannot be. You will never be free. 