 With the holiday weekend coming up we imagine many of you are having this exchange.  Tank full.  Yep.  Tires inflated.  Done.  Snacks for the road.  Got them.  And what about the music?  Robert I thought you would never ask.    I am the cat with the bass and drum going around like bom bom bom.  The ALL THINGS CONSIDERED road-trip playlist is now complete and ready to roll.  We asked you for the songs that you think are essential for summer driving and you sent us more than 3000.  And we have whittled that number down to a mighty mix of 99 and there is no zoning out with this playlist.  That is right. We are anti-highway hypnosis which is why we picked this song by the British trio Sam and the Womp.    I want 16 pints of rum and then I bom bom. Glowing up in the dark in the night and so I go oh ah ah ah ah ah...  That is the song Bom Bom.  It was number one in the U.K. three years ago.  And of course we took your advice and went with the Wookie mix for our playlist.  Here's another one of the gems you suggested.    I am the thing that goes bump in the night you all. I am the thing that goes bump oh bump bump bump in the night you all.  I am reliably informed that song is Bump. It is by the Nashville funk band Here Come The Mummies. Their members perform incognito.  Incognito in that they are literally under wraps.  On stage they are dressed like mummies.  Its true Robert Google it. The road-trip playlist also has the song you all suggested the most.    She sends a cable coming in from above do not need a phone at all. We have got a thing and that is called radar love. We have got a wave in the air radar love.  Golden Earring with Radar Love.  You are now officially set for your holiday driving. The ALL THINGS CONSIDERED road-trip playlist is at NPR.org.  Stream enjoy dance in your seats but keep your hands on the wheel.    The radio's playing some forgotten song Brenda Lee's Coming On Strong. The road has got me hypnotized and I am speeding into a new sunrise. When I get lonely and I am sure I have had enough she sends her... 