 Reggaeton is a hugely popular musical genre. I mean surely you have danced to this song.   .  That is the global hit Despacito with more than 7 billion views on YouTube. And you might also recognize Chantaje with Shakira too.   .  .  But few people actually know where reggaeton really came from. Yeah Puerto Rico is part of the story. But there is a lot more to it.   We are going to spend time in Puerto Rico New York Colombia. But to tell the story right we have to start in Panama.  That is Ivy Queen host of a new podcast called Loud which explores the origins of reggaeton. Loud promises to bring us quote an incredible story about sex race drugs censorship and of course perreo. We are joined now by three of the people responsible for fulfilling that promise - executive producers Marlon Bishop and Julio A. Pabon and producer Katelina Gata Eccleston. Welcome to all three of you.  Thank you.  Thank you for having us.  Thanks for having us.  Katelina - or should I call you Gata?  Gata's cool .  Gata so Loud reveals some of the real roots of reggaeton - dancehall there is reggae there is hip-hop. Can you talk about how all these different styles end up fusing together to become reggaeton?  It all starts in Jamaica right?    One good thing about music - when it hits you you feel no pain.  Bob Marley - if you know the story of reggae that music was so powerful it really united two opposite sides in political schisms in Jamaica. A lot of immigrants went over to Panama to work on the canal and they brought their culture. They brought their music - right? - their food everything.  There was an immigration of Jamaicans in particular but English-speaking Caribbeans to come and work the Panama Canal. Once the Americans left the Panama Canal Zone and gave it back to the Panamanians communities were now brought together and therefore sounds were brought together.  It went from a tool of resistance to really a tool of movement. People decided after all you know what? We want to dance. Dance is resistance as well. That is what perreo is right? It is not just twerk music.   I love that. And at that point it was not even called reggaeton yet right?  You are correct. It was not called reggaeton. It went from reggae to reggae in Spanish to dancehall to dancehall in Spanish to reggaeton. And really in Panama the primary reggaeton artist was this artist called El General the general.   El General is like the blueprint.  He was crazy on the stage. He could say something - I am the Black Elvis Presley - and they was just screaming.  He is considered the father of reggaeton.  He would say I am going to America. I would say to him you know what? You better perform and do it.  You know he is the one that took it to the next level. He blew up.  He was called The General because of his ability to improvise on the spot. But more so his thing was getting people to move. And that is what reggaeton is. It is the music that keeps people dancing.   .  And Marlon then where does this genre go next after Panama?  So El General himself was a Panamanian immigrant to Brooklyn who came when he was young in the mid-80s. And that is kind of the next phase for this music is you had a lot of Panamanians of western descent moving to Brooklyn and sharing neighborhoods with Jamaicans and other people from the English-speaking Caribbean. One of the people from that community who we interviewed in the podcast was called La Atrevida or the Rude Girl.  Rude Girl .   I am Excenia Knights. I go by the name La Atrevida.  La Atrevida means the Rude Girl. We never met but she was the first woman to do dancehall in espanol . And she got the name Rude Girl for a reason.  The dancing the lyrics that I was using. I was like oh my God. Like I was raw .  She put it all out there and she was not ashamed of it.  Totally. And you know she was a young Panamanian woman who migrated to Brooklyn to central Brooklyn to the West Indian neighborhoods. And they would have parties in auto shops and in basements just jam sessions where they would you know be doing dancehall in English and in Spanish. And it is in that environment where in a way that is another one of the birthplaces of reggaeton is these basements in Brooklyn you know? Because it is where...  Yeah.  ...Jamaican producers connected with artists like La Atrevida and began to record them. And those recordings of dancehall in Spanish became hugely popular in New York at first and then all over Latin America.   .  Well Julio I want to go to you because there is been this long-held assumption out there that reggaeton started in Puerto Rico which is wrong. But why do so many people think the genre started there?  Because that is in a sense where it sort of blew up. It is where it morphed into the musical movement that it is today in many regards - people going from Puerto Rico to New York and New York being the hub of Panamanians that had come from Panama. And so the Puerto Ricans by nature of their relationship with the United States and the ability to go back-and-forth really were able to spread that sound and make it a musical movement.  Yeah.  And so the misconception is that because it blew up in Puerto Rico it originated in Puerto Rico.  I also want to talk about the choice of the host in this podcast Ivy Queen who is like you know like a legend in reggaeton. And I have to say she is amazing.   OK. Picture this. It is 1995 and I am about to have the most important audition of my life - an audition to run with the hottest underground crew in San Juan. It was the moment that I was going to decide if I was going to make it in the music or go back to my hometown as a nobody.  Can you tell us how did you land on Ivy Queen specifically to drive these stories you wanted to tell?   You know Ivy Queen is the biggest female artist in the genre but also the most influential. She was going to give validity to the podcast in a way that nobody else could because she lived through so many of these moments and helped shape so many of these watershed moments that you will hear about in the podcast. And so for us this was a dream fulfilled.  Well you mentioned the crossover aspect of this genre. I mean Loud is a bilingual podcast. And I was wondering was that a natural development? I mean having Ivy Queen as the host I am sure like code switching just kind of happened right?  It was more intentional. I think what was most important was that we were going to make it accessible even if you are just tangentially related or a fan of the genre that you were going to be able to understand its roots and where it was going to come from.  The idea is that you know there is so many people in this country who are bilingual and enjoy hearing media and living their daily lives in both languages. And there is people who may not catch everything but they will catch enough to follow it along. And in this story it just would not make sense. It is inherently a Spanglish story from the beginning. It just was the natural way to produce this podcast.  Julio A. Pabon Marlon Bishop and Katelina Gata Eccleston are part of the creative team behind the new podcast Loud from Futuro Studios and Spotify Studios. Thank you all so much for joining us. This was so much fun.  Thank you Ailsa.  Thank you for having us.  Thank you Ailsa.   . 