 Soaring synths spiked hair studded leather jackets - The Psychedelic Furs were the quintessential '80s rock stars.    Love my way it is a new road.  But once the '80s ended so did the band. Now 29 years after their last album The Psychedelic Furs are back with a new one called Made Of Rain. And singer Richard Butler says this time they did it on their own terms.  Back in the '80s it was the old treadmill of you know make a record do a tour make another record do a tour. And this was clearly - you know taken 29 years it was up to us.    I do not believe. I do not believe you. Do not believe me. I do not believe...  I asked Butler to take me back to the beginning before the music videos and sold-out stadiums back to the band's original inspiration which was early punk music and a legendary Sex Pistols show in the spring of 1976.    I am an anti-Christ. I am an anarchist.  We were waiting outside in the line outside and the Sex Pistols got out of the cab. And everybody was looking at them like wow there they are. That is the Sex Pistols. There they are. And when they appeared on stage we would never seen so much intense anger. I walked away from it you know kind of blown away by it.   I would wanted to make music for a long time. But you know I was not personally a musician and I did not see a way into doing that until punk rock came along. And I thought well yeah you can buy or borrow a guitar and go out and do what you can. You did not have to be a fantastic musician. That gave me a way in.    Fall in love like sailors do. Tell your lover you will be true. Sail upon the stupid sea.  Well you guys ended up forming The Psychedelic Furs and there is this quote from your brother Tim who played bass. He said in this recent interview that in those early years quote we were a very argumentative band especially after a few beers.   And I wanted to ask you about that. What do you think Tim meant? Like what was it like between you and your brother back then?  Well the arguments within the band were never between Tim and myself. You know it was always with the other members of the band. But you know we were kind of louts. We were very nervous for example before we would do a show so we would often get completely drunk...  .  ...To enable us to go onstage.  Yeah. Yeah.  And you know when people get drunk the arguments happen.  Well I want to fast-forward a few years after that. I want to talk about Pretty In Pink.   You released that song in 1981. And then five years later Molly Ringwald the actress tells John Hughes the screenwriter about the song. He ends up writing this whole movie around the title of this song. And I am wondering like when you first heard that happened what did you think of that - your song becoming the title track for a 1980s rom-com?  Initially it was very exciting to have somebody write a movie about - around your song. But it carried with it mixed blessings I suppose in a way. It brought us a legion of new fans - younger fans but fans that probably misunderstood the song.  What do you mean?  The actual message of the song is not about a girl that dresses up in a pink dress.  Yeah.  For me Pretty In Pink meant pretty naked...  Right.  ...You know as in in the pink so to speak.    ...Same. Pretty in pink is not she? Pretty in pink...  When you look back at that movie at that moment do you think it shifted the path for The Psychedelic Furs? I mean you said it gained new fans. But like going into the late '80s do you think the path for your band shifted because of this moment with the movie?  Yes I would say so. I mean it did gain us extra fans. And I think probably a lot of the older fans were maybe turned off by that.  How so?  I think originally our fans were darker possibly more as they are known now gothier  . And they became - you know there were more young women at our shows than there were before. And a lot of the - our older audience kind of went I am not sure we like this band anymore. It is - you know we do not like being seen with these Pretty In Pink girls you know?   Well in 1991 The Psychedelic Furs decided to part ways. Tell me why. What happened?  Well we kind of lost direction I suppose in the late '80s. And I did not want to go in the studio with the same bunch of guys and make the same-sounding record. I kind of felt like I knew what it was going to be like. And I knew what the work process was going to be like. And I felt like I even knew what it was going to sound like. And I did not want that. And I wanted a break from that.   Well now The Psychedelic Furs are out with this new album. What does it feel like to see your first album in 29 years coming out now?  It is exciting. It is a - I feel it is a great record and I am very proud of it. It feels like I spent 25 years saying why make an album and then the last four years thinking why not make an album ?  Yeah. Well what was it? What made you guys decide let us do this again after three decades? Let us do it again.  Well the band was sounding really fantastic live. I mean we really were a very cohesive unit. We did not say we want to sound like this part of The Psychedelic Furs or that part of The Psychedelic Furs or - you know we wanted to sound like The Psychedelic Furs from 1982 or whatever you know? It just felt like you know why do not we write a record? You know this band is as good as it is ever sounded.   Well even though you say that you guys did not intentionally try to recreate anything you guys did in the '80s there is a lot on this album that is reminiscent of your music from the '80s. Also your music was featured on the show Stranger Things which is set in the '80s. It is been featured in the movie Call Me By Your Name which also took place in the '80s. There does seem to be this like resurgence now of nostalgia for the '80s and '80s music all around us. And I am curious - what do you think? What is going on with us?  .  Why are we harkening back to the '80s?  Why are we looking back? I do not know. Maybe because there is not a lot - I mean these days there is not a lot of rock 'n' roll going on. And I think you know people who love rock 'n' roll are kind of going back to those days. That was - you know the '80s '90s even the '70s '60s you know were - all of those decades were a great time for rock 'n' roll. This is not a great time for rock 'n' roll and I think that people that miss that and love that are perhaps looking back.   Richard Butler is the lead singer for The Psychedelic Furs. Their first album in 29 years is called Made Of Rain and it is out now. Thank you so much for speaking with me today.  Well thank you too. And lots of love to you all.  