 Mr.   Woke up on the sand and I tied up my sleeping bag.  We are listening to a new track by indie rocker John Vanderslice. It is called Too Much Time. And if you regularly check out NPR's Song of the Day section at our Web site you might have heard it this past Monday. Stephen Thompson is the man who brings you NPR's Song of the Day. And he is with us to talk about some of the picks this past week. Hi Stephen.  Hi Guy.  An interesting mix of stuff here Stephen. You have got some indie-college music. We have got this song we are listening to by John Vanderslice. Some piano lounge jazz. And then a band that sort of defies description Edward Sharpe and the Magnetic Zeros which we will get to in a sec. But I want to ask you about another song first. It is called Shook Down by a band called The Dead Satellites. Let us take a listen.  Mr.   I sat down with some friends. Familiar strangers. It is said that in the end we know the danger.  A rather jingly guitars here. The guy sounds a little bit like Ian McCulloch from Echo  The Bunnymen. Tell us about this song and the band Steve.  Okay. It is a brand-new band. The singer's been around a while. His name is Matthew Ryan. And it is kind of a groth you know slightly sort of Springsteeny guy. There is a little bit of a throwbacky kind of slightly replacementy vibe to it as well.  Right. Paul Westerbergy.  Oh yeah. And  Are we getting to insider here?   I do not think so. But the song's got - it is got a little bit of an interesting back story to it. Matthew Ryan wrote the song because his father had lost his - a significant chunk of his lifesavings the way so many of us have.  Right.  And so he wanted to write kind of a modern-day protest song to that effect. And what is kind of interesting about it is if you listen closely that outrage is in the lyrics but at the same time it functions just like the way whether you are listening closely or not.  Mr.   Shook down shook down.  It is an interesting song I have got to admit I did not love it. But he does sort of beat you over the head at the end with this kind of  Yeah.  I mean he says the average CEO makes 400 times the average worker makes.  It is very hard to work that statistic into a rock lyric even the   And he manages to do it.  He does a little - yeah. He does a little spoken word coda at the end.  Okay. The next song that we are going to play thankfully Stephen is not indie-college rock.  But it is a gentle cover of John Coltrane's Lush Life.  Mr.   I used to visit all the very gay places. Those come-what-may places where one relaxes on the axis of the wheel of life to get the feel of life from jazz and cocktails.  Okay. I have got to admit I love this song. I mean this is a great song. This guy has an amazing voice. His name is Kurt Elling. Who is he?  Like a 40-year-old mid-Western jazz singer. The thing with jazz vocals - it is so tricky when you are talking about just purely jazz vocalists making it not sound like you are going to hear it in the hotel bar. No matter how strong the singer is you are always sort of up against that. And I think this is a very pure thoughtful vocal and ultimately a beautiful rendition of the song. Billy Strayhorn wrote it when he was 16 years old. And it is from this record of John Coltrane and Johnny Hartman songs it is all covers.  Mr.   Then you came along with your siren song to tempt me to madness. I thought for awhile that your poignant smile was tinged with sadness of a great love for me.  Makes me want to have a martini and sit back and watch Madmen.  When do not I feel like that?  Right. Well now I was told you have a very special pick for Song of the Week Stephen.  The song the week.  And I mentioned it briefly at the beginning a band called Edward Sharpe  The Magnetic Zeros. First how would you describe this band?  Okay. Very very tricky. And I saw them live at South by Southwest Music Festival in Austin early this year and it was absolutely over the moon.  Sounds like there is a lot of people. There is Edward Sharpe and on the Magnetic Zeros...  It is 10-piece band. When I saw the band it was as if you had like handed a 6-year-old a kitten. Like I was just sitting there I was like .  Oh you were the  I was the 6-year-old and I guess that that would make the band the kitten.  So it was incredible just unbelievably electric.    Well hot and heavy  chocolate candy Jesus Christ . Home. Let me come home. Home is whenever I am with you. Home...  The record actually has a tricky time capturing what makes this band so unbelievably great. And I feel like it is as if you were doing an art exhibit where you filled the Grand Canyon entirely with marshmallow fluff. You could - which I do not recommend. But if you did that - if you took a picture of the Grand Canyon full of marshmallow fluff it is not going to compare to standing at the mouth of the Grand Canyon full of marshmallow fluff and just taking in the sheer enormousness of that experience.     I am coming home.  Such a good song.  It is a wonderful song and...  Great tune.  Wait until see you this band live. When people see this band live that is where they are going to fall head over heels in love.  The song is called Home. It is by Edward Sharpe  The Magnetic Zeros Stephen Thompson's pick of the week. You can hear more of Stephen Thompson's picks by going to npr.org and checking out the Song of the Day. Stephen thanks so much.  Thanks so much Guy.     That is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Guy Raz. Have a great night. 