 One of the year's most anticipated albums is finally out. Watch the Throne is a collaboration between the rap superstars Jay-Z and Kanye West. And for a few days it is online only before it hits the shelves. That is helped cut down on the usual pre-release leaks so anticipation had built to a fever pitch. Oliver Wang weighs in on whether or not the album lives up to its expectations.  My favorite part of Watch the Throne was waiting for it to come out. With no leaks and no advances we were all reduced to waiting together - resurrecting the memory of rushing record store doors the day of release. The grim irony is that today the cost of a leak-proof digital release is borne by those same brick and mortar stores cut out of the Watch the Throne sales action.   From a fan's point of view though there was something giddy in the collective experience of counting down the minutes until the album went live.    Human beings in a mob. What is a mob to a king? What is a king to a god? What is a god to a non-believer?  But after the downloading comes the listening.    Tears on the mausoleum floor blood stains the coliseum doors lies on the lips of a priest Thanksgiving disguised as a feast.  At the very least Watch the Throne is competent the predictable product of two immense talents who have already spent 10 years working well together. In fact the two rappers play so nicely with one another it is easy to forget the subplot that Jay-Z used to be Kanye's mentor. But on Watch the Throne it is clearly Kanye's musical vision that reigns supreme.   As with his last album My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy Kanye and his co-producers push a big plush pop sound weighted with layers of synthesizer swells and piercing vocal samples.    I cannot stop. This is something like the Holocaust millions of our people lost I cannot stop...  If Jay-Z seems content to let Kanye stir the album sonically big brother's contribution comes from finally whipping his flow back into shape.    Uh Picasso was alive he woulda made her thats right  Mona Lisa cannot fade her. I mean Marilyn Monroe she is quite nice. But why all the pretty icons always all white?  The biggest problem with Watch the Throne is that with all that competence and goodwill there is not much to accelerate the album past cruise control. There is no real tension or conflict and least of all hunger. Instead you have two pop superstars heading luxury raps about their access to excess. Excitement is generated from swinging for the fences not in the victory lap that follows.    I invented swag. Popping bottles putting supermodels in the cab proof. I guess I got my swagger back truth. New watch alert Hublot's or the big face Rollie - I got two of those.  On the other hand tortured introspection has been a specialty of both men. And one of the album's most compelling moments comes from their self-reflective ode to imaginary future children.    And I will never let my son have an ego. He will be nice to everyone wherever we go. I mean I might even make him be Republican so everybody knows he loves white people. And I will never let him leave his college girlfriend and get caught up with the groupies in the whirlwind...  That song aside almost nothing else on Watch the Throne would rank among the best of either artist's catalog. There is no sustained sense of exhilaration let alone transcendent magic especially for an album that nakedly aspires to make history. In the end it is a decent project by two good artists. There is no reason that should feel like a disappointment so why does it?   Our reviewer Oliver Wang writes the music blog Soul Sides. He is a professor of sociology at California State University Long Beach. 