 Jack White has just released a compilation called Acoustic Recordings 1998-2016. It includes this unreleased song by his old band The White Stripes.    I want to grab a stranger's hand and hold it as tightly as I can. And I will tell by their reaction if they are like me or if I am crazy.  Reviewer Tom Moon says the compilation is a window into the work of one of rock's most creative figures.    It is the right thing to do and you know it. And it is inside of you so just show it. Love is the truth and it is inside of you. It is the right thing to do.  Every so often you run across a collection that opens up a whole new way to think about an artist. This Jack White retrospective which focuses on his less raucous unplugged songs does exactly that.    Well I want to try and hold my head up high in this busted-up Pinto truck conversion between the broken concrete and the cloudy sky. Well you have to make an effort with me. Can you make it look like you are chauffeuring me? There is enough gas to get us home now if we glide.  These short songs show Jack White's delightfully scrambled take on American roots music. He starts out in familiar places the blues folk and bluegrass but he rarely stays put. His tales of small-time hustlers are delivered with a distinct irreverence.    I feel like I have been cheating somehow. Stop what you are doing and get back in line. I hear this from people all the time. If we cannot be happy then you cannot be too. I am tired of being told what to do. Yeah I am sick of being told what to do.  Sometimes he is embracing tradition sometimes mocking it. Almost always what comes across is a great sense of playfulness and improvisation. Listen to a bunch of these ripping effortless-sounding songs in a row and you might pick up one of Jack White's secrets. He is not afraid to try stuff not afraid to fail. That makes all the difference.    The stones in the sky never worry. They do not have to hurry. They move in their own way. But I have to choose what to do how to act what to think how to talk what to say - on and on on and on. on and on on and on.  Tom Moon reviewed Jack White Acoustic Recordings 1998-2016.    On and on on and on. On and on on and on. On and on on and on. On and on on and on. 