 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.   Ricky Skaggs do you remember a time when you were not holding a string instrument in your hands? Mr.  Barely.  Mr.   Your love is colder than a foggy river flowing o'er a heart of stone.  Ricky Skaggs has been making music for 50 years now. He played with bluegrass great Ralph Stanley when he was still in his teens went on to have a streak of country hits then went back to bluegrass. And now he is returned to the songs he learned from his father as a young boy in eastern Kentucky. Ricky Skaggs is solo on his new CD Songs My Dad Loved  fiddles banjo piano lots more.  Mr.  My dad bought a mandolin for me when I was five. He came in. He was a construction welder and so he traveled quite a bit. And came in one Saturday morning and this little mandolin was in my bed when I woke up.  In your bed with you. Mr.  In the bed. And so I woke up and opened it up and looked in there and there was this little teeny tiny mandolin and I just fell in love with wood and strings. It just - I mean it was like the greatest gift I could have gotten.  G C and D the basic Mel Bay way you know and so that was it. And he got snowed in at a job up in Lima Ohio and could not get home for a couple of weeks. And so when he came back home I was singing and changing keys and playing and all that and it just really really got him so excited he went out and bought a guitar. You know he did not even have a guitar at the house at the time.  So he knew that well if Ricky's interested I would better pick up a guitar then. Mr.  That is right.  What do you think inspired him to buy you that mandolin when you were five years old? Mr.  Well there was a real reason. He and my uncle his brother his brother got killed in World War II and they had a little brother's duet when they were about 15 16 years old and they played just locally. You know they never traveled and went anywhere but they played and sang together. My dad played guitar and sang lead and my uncle played mandolin and sung tenor. And when he passed away boy my dad just - it was a real blow to my father you know because that was not only his real blood brother but his singing partner you know. And my dad just kind of made one of those inner vows I think that if I ever have a son that shows you know any kind of you know interest in music I am going to buy him a mandolin. He had a purpose in his heart that he wanted me to play the mandolin.  Ricky I want to do a little audio time travel with you here.  Mr.  Come back over here just a minute. Let us tell all these folks your name. You want to tell them? All right. Mr.  My name is Ricky Skaggs. Mr.  Ricky Skaggs and you are how old? Mr.  Seven years old. Mr.  Seven years old. You are originally from up about  Ricky that takes you back. That is you on the Flatt  Scruggs TV show. That is you with Lester Flatt. Mr.  Yeah.  He gets a little excited. He calls you Ricky Skraggs maybe thinking about his pal Earl Scruggs there.  Mr.  Skraggs and Scruggs.  And you are up there. We should describe this. You are up there. You have got a little string tie on. Your hair's slicked back. You are probably elbow-high. You have got your mandolin and you look scared to death. Mr.  I was confident though. I might have looked scared but I knew what I was supposed to do.   And you come back. You come back later in the show and you sing Mr.  Ruby - are you mad at your man at seven years old.   Mr.   Ruby Ruby honey are you mad at your man?   Mr.  Oh that is real fine Ricky thank you so much. And you heard Mr.  I wish I could sing that high again.  Mr.  I cannot quite get up to those notes anymore but that was - I mean let us see that is almost 50 years ago.  Yeah. Mr.  That is hard to believe. When you listen to those things they really take you back. And here again you know we are talking about my dad. He is the very - he is the center of this thing. He is the one that made this happen you know.  What did he do? Mr.  Well he just had this knack for knowing where to be at the right place at the right time. I mean he just had - he had a quality about him that he was so confident as a person. He knew who he was but he was such a friendly person. He' Hi I am Holbert Skaggs you know and this is my boy Ricky you know. And he had made friends with the backstage guard at the Opry when it was down at the old Ryman downtown.  In Nashville. Mr.  Yeah in Nashville and Mr. Bell was the backstage guard and so he had made friends with him somehow. I do not know if they traded pocket knives or exactly what and what they did. But anyway they let me backstage and I was back there me and my dad you know was back there just kind of playing. I had my mandolin out and I was playing something and Earl Scruggs walks by. He said that is your boy? Yes sir it is. Well why do not you - he is really good. Why do not you bring him down for an audition for our television show next week? And that is how it happened.   The new CD with these songs from your father on the songs where you are singing close harmony with yourself say What is a Home Without Love? would you be hearing your dad's voice as you were doing that?  Mr.   What is a home without a baby? Mr.  He was a really great singer and guitar player and he could have gone on probably and been you know a known singer you know and could have made records and stuff. But he knew that if he did he would have to leave the family to do it.  Mr.   to kiss you each night at the door.  Ricky if you were singing this with your dad he would have the bottom part and you would be up there and that is a third? Mr.  A third yeah. Actually a third and if you listen right through here this is the old Monroe style.  Mr.   You may have wealth and its pleasure but what is a home without love?  When they come together. Mr.  Yeah where they come together. Is not that the coolest thing? You know nobody sings like that anymore. You know that is just so mountain and so cool. You know I love that. And so I really wanted this generation to kind of hear that.  Ricky Skaggs thanks for coming in. Mr.  Thanks Melissa. It is always a pleasure to be with you.  Mr.   He is your friend. He holds the future in his hand.  And you can hear songs from Ricky Skaggs' new solo album Songs My Dad Loved at nprmusic.org.  Mr.   What e'er may come he bends above to guide his children safely home. God holds the future in his hands and every heart he understands on him depends. He is your friend. God holds the future in his hands.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 