 The Ogoniland region in southeast Nigeria lies on the Niger Delta. For decades it was the scene of massive oil extraction by Royal Dutch Shell and its Nigerian subsidiaries. Since then a series of major oil spills has turned this region into one of the world's largest environmental disaster areas. Afropop Worldwide producer Banning Eyre visited Ogoniland to see how musicians are helping to create a new beginning.  We leave the Niger Delta's biggest city Port Harcourt early to the sound of roosters and doves. Visiting Ogoniland can be dangerous and our plan is to get in and out in a single morning. Our guide is a young hip-hop artist.  My name is MC Kay. I was a fisherman.  MC Kay's dad died young leaving him to support the family as a fisherman. But after the massive oil spill of 2009 took all that away he turned to music.  I decide to be a musician because I want to send the message of what is happening in my country that is affecting the poor people and affecting the youth. I cannot go to the government and tell them. But I can say this through the music and people will hear it.   .  This is MC Kay's most popular song January Money.  January Money - you know people were expecting payment of the compensation due to the 2009 spill.  Eric Dooh's a village chief in Ogoniland. In 2012 Chief Dooh and other plaintiffs took their case to a Dutch civil court seeking meaningful compensation for the loss of their land and fisheries.  Shell came here to explore oil long ago in the '50s. Right from then they have not changed their pipelines. Their pipelines are over-aged. And because of that it had been corroded and there have been series of spills.  Their efforts paid off. In January 2015 Royal Dutch Shell reached a settlement with these residents. The month of that settlement inspired the name of MC Kay's song. Here's Chief Dooh again.  But when the money came it was peanuts.  The total was reported to be 83 million. That is about 3300 per fishermen a substantial amount. But to people who have lost their homes their livelihoods and are condemned to live in an environmental wasteland this seemed insufficient. January Money became widely known in Ogoniland through grassroots circulation mostly by Bluetooth phone-to-phone. Chief Dooh assembled about a dozen young musicians for us to meet because he believes they have a crucial role to play in the future of his community.  Look at our musicians who are supposed to be the light of world tomorrow. If I am paid compensation now what I would do is to establish a very powerful studio for them.   .  We meet another local star reggae singer Tumsi. His song Jah Message uses Jamaican Rastafarian rhetoric to assail broken promises including those to the people of Ogoniland. Tumsi says people there have been left without hospitals or schools.  Nobody for to send us school any things you know? We just live by God Almighty. Except God Almighty we are nothing.  These young artists have another mentor beside Chief Dooh - a veteran Ogoniland journalist named Alloy Khenom. Alloy says the root source of the violence and crime here is idleness. If you give young people no opportunities no support no choices you cannot be surprised when they turn to crime. But he says they could choose music. Artists in the Niger Delta have seen the recent success of Nigerian music stars from the capital Lagos. So their odds may be long but there are role models to follow.  Music remains the most powerful instrument to solving situations. Through music you reach anywhere in the world asking them to look at those problems that are facing us and highlight them through music.  It seems almost fanciful to imagine that musicians like these can be a force against oil companies and corrupt governments. But if there is a road forward for Ogoniland it has to start somewhere. Game for the challenge Chief Dooh's musicians sent me off with an impromptu song.  .  For NPR News I am Banning Eyre. Thank you. That was great. 