 TikTok is an app that lets people create and post 15-second videos often music videos you can dance and lip sync to.    Pulling back the curtain by myself. Take a look - ay. I am a bar spitta. I am a hard hitta.  TikTok fans act out these short - really short - scenes that fit with the music.    I am sitting here crying in my prom dress. I would be the prom queen if crying was contest.  And each video is seen as a challenge to other users - top this. More and more a song that is a hit on TikTok can end up a song that is a hit everywhere.    I got the horses in the back horse tack is attached hat is matte black got the boots that is black to match.  The Ringer's Alyssa Bereznak recently wrote a story declaring the Chinese-owned app the future of the music industry. She joins us now to explain. Welcome to the program.  Thanks for having me.  So who is doing the singing along and the challenges? Are we talking 11-year-olds 14-year-olds? Who is the TikTok user?  The TikTok user ranges I think from 11 to age of 30 but it skews much younger than that. If you are at 30 you pretty much are aged out of the demographic of TikTok. I have tried very hard to...   We have greater questions about your life then.   Yes. But I think - it is very young people. And I think one thing that we have to keep in mind with social networks that are occupied by a lot of young people is it does not take much for a thing to go viral. They are just looking to have fun. A lot of them are bored kids in college or on summer break in high school and they are just looking for other teens who can inspire them and create prompts for like their own content and their own videos that they film when they have nothing else to do.  What kind of music tends to work well on TikTok?  Yeah. I think the users are looking for high drama in a short amount of time. You know you only have 15 seconds to make your video compelling so that lends itself really well to trap music which often has like really intense mood shifts or beat drops and super poppy  bubblegum pop.    I just wanted you to watch me dissolve. I just wanted you to watch me dissolve slowly.  OK. So I want to talk about an artist that is blowing up on TikTok Blanco Brown and this song is called The Git Up.    Gon' and do the two step then cowboy boogie grab your sweetheart and spin out with them do the hoedown and get into it.  So this song is much like the Macarena that it directs the type of dance moves that you are doing. And it also creates a very thematic atmosphere. You know you feel really Western. You feel really country listening to it but it is very poppy too. Its high energy.    It is simple. You can do it. Slide to the left. Slide to the right now cool down have a good time. Slide to the left. Slide to the right. Do the butterfly have a good time 'round.  You can be a bad dancer. Anyone can do it. You can follow along to the instructions in the song. And that is the way that the challenge spreads. And you can also dress up to it. You can put on a cowboy hat. You can put on cowboy boots and Wrangler jeans and all the sudden you have transformed yourself in the challenge.  And Blanco Brown very much encourages this right? I mean this is one aspect of this. There is not some marketing team that says this is how it goes. It sounds like the artists are on board with understanding how to spread the music how to make it viral.  Definitely. They want to encourage participation on these social networks. And it might not necessarily show up in every song but artists are savvy. They know that they need to rise above the noise and stand out on the hottest new social network. And by including lyrics that are easy to dance to easy to sing along to they are doing that.  Another song that fits the bill let us talk about Steppin by Supa Dupa Humble.  So with Steppin the intro is the most important part.   I do not know. I do not know.  This I do not know to a beat actually is a frame for a challenge and that is why it was picked up on TikTok. People really liked to sing along to the song and use it for visual cues like they did not know about something. And so he did not do that on purpose at first but he recognized that that is the part of the song that caught on on TikTok.   I do not know. I do not know.  'ecause I am steppin' on my toes but I do not stop. I make flips out of my flops. My swag drippin' out my socks.  Is TikTok generating a shift in how these artists write music? Or are these artists just - is it able to take advantage of a kind of songwriting that was already happening?  I think it takes advantage of the songwriting that was already happening and sort of exploits it to the nth degree. So we all know that artists they want to be taken seriously. They put out a full album of music that is supposed to have a cohesive theme. But there is always one or two singles that are definitely for that top 40 chart. You know it is for radio hits. It is to be blasted in cars during the summertime. And I think that like anything else they are taking note of this medium and adding in elements that would make it popular on the medium. Artists are very savvy and they know that they need to rise above the noise. And in some cases that means catering to the latest hot social network.  Is TikTok the future of the music industry? There is been a lot of writing out there saying look this - you are not going to see Lil Nas X selling out any stadiums 20 years from now.  Yeah. And I spoke to a NYU professor who said as much. And I think that the issue here is that the music industry itself is shifting away from stories being told in albums and it is moving to stories being told in songs. So people care a lot more about singles because playlist culture is very strong and people can decide what songs they want to listen to. They do not have to stick around for the whole album. People have shorter attention spans in that sense. And so that means the labels are kind of having to focus a little bit less on the overall artistic development of a singer or songwriter and focus more on these quick-hit singles. And TikTok's power in this area is very apparent and they are looking to start a streaming service of their own in emerging markets like India. So they could very well be a really big player in the music industry a couple years from now especially as we are becoming more global more connected over the Internet.  Whether it is the advent of the radio or the MP3 there is always a question of like are people making good music on this new platform? What is the consensus around TikTok?  I am not going to say that it is bad music. It is definitely a type of music. It might not be music that touches you deep in your soul but it definitely evokes a certain type of emotion. And I think that is the most important thing with art. It is very uplifting. It can be moody at times and it makes you want to move. It makes you want to participate in a movement. And if that is not good music I do not know what is. I am a complete poptimist in that sense.    To the left. Take it down now. Take it - take it down now. Take it down now. Take it - take it down now.  Alyssa Bereznak writes about tech and culture for The Ringer. Thanks so much.  Thank you.  And by the way this week Blanco Brown's The Git Up hit No. 1 on Billboard's Hot Country Songs chart.    Do whatever you like right here. Just have fun. Gon' and do the two step... 