 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block. John Fogerty wrote some of the most enduring songs of 1960's rock Proud Mary Born on the Bayou Have You Ever Seen The Rain. Just a few of the hits he performed with his band Creedence Clearwater Revival. But for years Fogerty was so mired in legal and financial issues over those songs that he felt he could not play them. Jeffrey Pepper Rodgers reports Fogerty is performing his early hits once again. He is reinterpreting them with a new generation of rock and country stars.   That is Foo Fighters performing with John Fogerty on his new albumWrote A Song For Everyone. Fogerty wrote Fortunate Son more than 40 years ago but the song has hardly aged partly because at 68 he sounds remarkably the same and partly because the song's theme about privilege and class is as current as ever as Fogerty said when I visited him in Los Angeles.  So when I sing Fortunate Son now you know part of me is remembering a time a long time ago and part of me is - I could have walked into my bedroom yesterday or tonight and written the same song.   Fogerty's album features an array of A-list artists playing his songs like Born on the Bayou with Kid Rock Long As I Can See the Light with My Morning Jacket and Bad Moon Rising with the Zac Brown Band. The whole album feels energetic and joyous.  I am sure that has something to do with how I am feeling myself these days and how I am feeling about the songs I wrote. And you know it is all in a really happy good place now. I only say that because some of you may have heard I had a few difficulties in the music business.  In case you have not heard here's a quick summary. Back in the '60s Fogerty signed away the rights to his Creedence songs to Fantasy Records. And for decades he battled the label and often his former bandmates as well including his brother. And Fantasy notoriously sued Fogerty for plagiarizing himself. For many years he refused to play his early hits. To explain he imagined himself singing Creedence songs in a cheesy Vegas act circa 1979.  And there you are night after night Ahooga-hooga-hooga rolling on the river you know. I just figured at some point I would be desensitizing myself so much you know getting drunk probably drugs whatever trying to shut out of my brain that voice that is going what the hell are you doing? How could you fall this far? Or how could you be so unconnected to the music?   Even while Fogerty was not performing his songs everyone else was. Dave Grohl drummer for Nirvana and frontman of Foo Fighters pointed out that when Kurt Cobain and Krist Novoselic of Nirvana first played together they started a Creedence cover band. Grohl recently performed onstage with Fogerty.  You know there is something about when you launch into the song 'Bad Moon in front of 4000 people. It does not matter if the guy has a mohawk the guy has a mustache the chick has a Madonna shirt everybody loves Fogerty's music. Everybody.  Sitting in the Foo Fighters' studio in L.A. Grohl says he is struck by how rock icons like Fogerty and Paul McCartney love to get heavy and weird. In fact he said Fogerty's guitar is the loudest he is ever heard onstage.   Now I love Motorhead. I love ACDC. But standing onstage next to John Fogerty's amp like it will burn the hairs off your face you know. He is not afraid. It is good.   Though Fogerty remains a rocker his new album highlights his deep connections to country music. He is an obsessive student of country guitar techniques. A highlight of the album is Hot Rod Heart with Brad Paisley who Fogerty calls one of the greatest guitarists alive. At the end of the song the two of them have a kind of guitar duel.   Brad Paisley has been covering Fogerty's songs since he was a teenager. Talking from his Nashville studio Paisley said he would love to pick Fogerty's brain about guitar tone but never gets the chance.  He is such a student of guitar playing that I end up not being able to get a word in edgewise because he just asks all these questions about guitar amps. And it is like should not he be sitting back coasting at this point? But he is not. He is more interested in learning than anyone I know that is my age or younger.   Every morning Fogerty spends several hours practicing guitar licks and scales and he is writing. His new album features a couple new songs that fit right in with the Creedence hits.   One sign of how Fogerty has reunited with his old songs can be seen in his family room where gold and platinum records from Creedence are displayed alongside solo hits like Centerfield.  This is the first house that I have actually had my gold records up. This probably happened seven years ago. You know I would kept them in boxes or in storage for the longest time. I have got Down On The Corner Looking Out My Back Door yeah those are the old label.  The idea of displaying the gold records came from Fogerty's wife Julie. She also originally suggested making an album revisiting his old songs with other artists and Fogerty credits her with helping him finally make peace with his past.  I have become comfortable with what in fact happened I guess. I do not have a big personality hiccup when I come in this room anymore. Whereas I remember standing here the first time with Julie and she is sort of - keeping moving so I will not be able to object get a word in. She wants them up because I think in her mind she knows it is time. I have been blessed to have Julie around kind of keeping the needle moving forward.  For NPR News I am Jeffrey Pepper Rodgers. 