 And finally this hour to a recent music festival in western Kentucky that featured a historic reunion. Dozens of people got together who all played in the Blue Grass Boys the backing band for the legendary musician Bill Monroe. The band existed for more than 50 years. Micah Schweizer of member station WNIN talked with some of the members about their mentor.   I am standing outside the International Bluegrass Music Museum in downtown Owensboro Kentucky. Most towns do not have bluegrass piped out to the sidewalk but then Owensboro is home to this music. It is not far from Rosine the birthplace of Bill Monroe widely considered the father of bluegrass. It was here in Owensboro members of his band from over the years the Blue Grass Boys converged for a musical reunion. Mr.  It is just like you going to a family reunion you know? I mean we are all in the same family because we are all taught by the same teacher.  Guy Stevenson played in the band in 1973. Over the years there were countless incarnations of the group that backed up Bill Monroe's singing and mandolin picking.  Mr.   Oh the people would come from far away. They would dance all night till the break of day. When the caller hollered do-si-do you knew Uncle Pen was ready to go.  Between its formation at the start of World War II and Monroe's death in 1996 about 175 Blue Grass Boys wore the band's signature Stetson hats. This summer the International Bluegrass Music Museum's annual ROMP festival hosted a reunion for 29 of them. Before ROMP many of those never shared a stage together.  Mr.   Walk softly on this heart of mine love. Do not treat it mean and so unkind.  That is Guy Stevenson playing guitar and singing lead along with fiddler Wayne Jerrolds and Scottie Baugus playing banjo. Monroe's band included some of the best bluegrass pickers but not everyone was well known when they joined the band. And some could not even really play the instruments they were hired to play. Scottie Baugus for instance was 29 when Monroe tapped him to sing and play guitar. He remembers a daunting audition for Monroe backstage at the Grand Ole Opry. Mr.  And I was scared to death. And we sang the Cabin Home on the Hill.  Mr.   Tonight I am alone without you my dear. It seems there is a longing for you still. All I have to do now is sit alone and cry in our little cabin home on the hill. And when we got through he turned around to Bobby Osborne he says what do you think about this young man? And Bobby being honest he said well he is not very loud. And Bill said oh I can work on that. He said he plays the guitar in time and said he sings right on key so I think I could work on getting him a little louder.  Once he was hired Baugus says things were still stressful. The band hardly rehearsed. At his first show he got to see the set list only 20 minutes before stepping on stage. Fiddler Wayne Jerrolds remembers when he joined the band in 1988. His first gig was the next night at the Grand Ole Opry. Mr.  And man I got in there I am about to have a heart attack because I always wanted to do it. And this is my big chance but I am going to blow it. I will freeze. But I made it through it. I had to take about three Xanax or I could not have made it just to tell you the truth.  But some guys are less reverential like banjo player Curtis McPeake who toured and recorded with Monroe in the early 1960s. Mr.  I know the gentleman's name that started the name bluegrass music and it was not Bill.  Who was that? Mr.  Oh...  Mr.  I do not want to start a controversy. But it happened in the '60s when it was branded bluegrass music.  Do you think that Bill was the father of bluegrass? Mr.  Well in a sense. Not totally I do not think.  We will not solve that mystery today but all the same Monroe is responsible for linking the musicians gathered at this Blue Grass Boys reunion together to film a documentary about their boss. It will be released next year for the centennial of Monroe's birth. About 75 Blue Grass Boys are still living. Many are not well enough to travel but others like Guy Stevenson are still playing music. Mr.  You know one of these days we are going to run out of Blue Grass Boys because there is never going to be any more and we are slowly disappearing you know?   But some Blue Grass Boys think there is still life left in the band. There is talk of a possible tribute tour next year in celebration of Monroe's centennial. For NPR News I am Micah Schweizer in Owensboro Kentucky.  And if you like Bill Monroe's music you may also want to tune into nprmusic.org tonight. We will be streaming live coverage of the Americana Music Awards.  Mr.   ...shining bright.  New love has said goodbye. Blue moon of Kentucky keep on shining. Shine on the one that is gone and said goodbye.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 