 We turn now to the story of an L.A. hardcore punk band that is taken a radical career turn. They have produced a mariachi record. The band is called The Bronx and normally the music sounds like this.  Mr.   Think fast or you will never survive. You feel the whiplash if all the cities divide.  The song Past Lives from The Bronx's self titled 2008 album. For the time being though the band put the hardcore on hold and they transformed into Mariachi El Bronx.  Mr.    crawling back to you.  We are hearing the song Cell Mates. It is off the new album by Mariachi El Bronx. Matt Caughtran is the band's singer and Joby Ford is the band's guitarist. Gentlemen welcome to the show. Mr.  Hey man. How is it going? Mr.  Hey.  Matt Caughtran how did you guys decide to do this? Mr.  It came about - you know we got some friends together to do a mariachi version of a song on our second record called Dirty Leaves for a TV show. It was just kind of came about as a way to get around having to do the typical rock goes acoustic singersongwriter type of boring things that is been done.  The MTV unplugged kind of sound. Mr.  Yeah that type of thing that is been done just a zillion times. So once we did the song after that really the record just completely took off. I mean as far as writing recording the whole thing it was just - it was an amazing moment you know out of all of our lives to be able to take this thing from an idea you know all the way to completion.  Mr.    crawling back to you.  How familiar were you guys with mariachi music? Mr.  Outside Los Lobos and stuff like that and just you know I really was not too well versed you know? Joby's got the mindset on that one so let him tell you all about it.  Joby Ford? Mr.  I think probably the most difficult thing to do was to learn how to play everything correctly. We are a touring band. We are on the road more times than not. So I actually went on YouTube to find some of the  lessons.  That is kind of the way my life goes.  The music on this record sounds so authentic. And in fact when we first heard it here we were blown away. And it is all sung in English. And I want to play a track off the album that is called Clown Powder.  Mr.   Lo and behold the house is .  Did you guys get coaching to sort of learn how to do this authentically? Mr.  No no. I mean we coached ourselves. We had - Vincent Hidalgo who played guitar over the record has been a friend of Joby and myself for a super long time. And he was a very good guy to kind of balance things off to make sure we were doing things right as far as rhythms and stuff like that.  And Vincent Hidalgo is the son of David Hidalgo Mr.  Yeah.  from Los Lobos. Mr.  Yep. Mr.  Yep.  And David Hidalgo also played on this record. Mr.  Yeah yeah.  Was it intimidating to play with somebody like that? Mr.  A little bit.  Mr.  Yeah a little bit. I - yeah I have known Mr. Hidalgo for a long time and...  You call him Mr. Hidalgo. Mr.  Oh we call him Mr. H.  Mr. H. You know you have got to give him respect. I have always wanted to impress that guy you know since he has seen me  you know high school punk band with his kids. And I you know I have always wanted to impress him. And when he came in and you know  write or play a couple of things on the record you know I was nervous as hell. I think we all were you know because you know that is kind of like the final test like are we doing something right or are we just going to get laughed at right now? And you know he was blown away man and it was cool. It was one of the you know best feelings in my life you know having him excited about what we are doing. So that was a real special day when he came in.  Mr.     Matt Caughtran this entire album is in English. Did you guys ever think about singing in Spanish? Mr.  Yeah. You know we have thought about it for a second. But it just felt like that would be you know extremely fake you know? I do not know Spanish and there is nothing worse you know in our heads than like white guys playing punk.  You know what I mean? So it kind of felt like it would add an element of cheese and then we would just be wrong if I did that you know? So we did it in English. And I think it is kind of cool too in that way because a lot of people when they hear the music they immediately kind of expect to hear language that is not English you know? And when you hear it it kind of throws you for a little bit and I think it is a - it just kind of adds the originality of the record.  Joby Ford are there any songs on this record that started out as punk songs but then ended up as mariachi songs? Mr.  No. That would be very interesting though. Maybe that might be our next record.  I started writing everything just kind of you know learn the instruments and songs would kind of come out doing that or have bits and pieces  around. It is very difficult to take a song that is not kind of written specifically for mariachi and make it mariachi. And I can actually validate that firsthand because we did a - Spin Magazine put out a Purple Rain tribute album to Prince had a bunch of bands do stuff. And we got picked to do I Would Die For You and we did it mariachi version. And man talk about it nightmare trying to figure that out. And there it is.  Mr.   I am not your woman. I am not your man. I am something that you will never understand. Ill never beat you. I will never lie. And if you are evil I will forgive you by and by. I would die for you.  If Prince himself is not proud of this then I do not know what he could be proud of.  Mr.  He better be.  Mr.   I would die for you. Yeah. I am not your lover. I am not your friend. I am something that you will never comprehend. No need to worry. No need to cry. I am your messiah and you are the reason why because I would die for you.  Matt Caughtran have you had any feedback from other mariachi musicians? Mr.  You know what we are starting to get that for the first time. You know it is wild. Our MySpace is getting flooded with other mariachi bands like saying you know this record is great. We should do shows together and stuff like this. So you know the feedback has all been great. I am very very stoked about that because the actual reaction from the Hispanic community has been awesome and I was a little worried about that because the record means so much to us and it is an homage to the culture. So I was really hoping that it would not get trashed and you know the response has been great.  Have you guys been booked for any kinsenieras or first communions yet?  Mr.  No. Mr.  We are - I know you cannot see us but we are pretty sketchy looking dudes.   Mr.   Oh my love where have you gone?  That is Joby Ford and Matt Caughtran of Mariachi El Bronx also known as The Bronx. Their album Mariachi El Bronx is out now. Gentlemen thanks for coming in. Mr.  Thank you so much for having us. Mr.  Thank you so much.  Mr.   You made me say. You made me nervous. You made me say oh my love where have you gone? Oh my love have you  And that is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. Join us tomorrow when we will speak with two men who each command a pretty respectable following Ron Paul and Mr. Spock Leonard Nimoy. I am Guy Raz have a great night. 