 Finally this hour a musician whose voice is one of the most memorable instruments in jazz. Jon Hendricks turns 90 today and he is still performing. Lara Pellegrinelli has this profile of the man who put words to jazz solos.  One of Jon Hendricks' favorite anecdotes involves a party where the wives of composer Jerome Kern and lyricist Oscar Hammerstein II had a little dispute over who wrote Old Man River.  My husband wrote Old Man River.   And that is a good illustration of how the lyric brings the song out like a flower blossoms. You know it is the lyric that makes the song.  Jon Hendricks writes his own songs - words and music - and is also a critically acclaimed jazz singer. But he is best known for fashioning lyrics to the big-band arrangements of Count Basie Duke Ellington and Woody Herman.   Not just the melodies but all of the parts down to the most technically demanding solos.    We might as well admit it. We are the best that ever did it. But in case you as not too sure a knowing. We are going to let you listen to us one by one. Four brothers who are blowing our horns.  You would find a word that exactly describes that sound. And then you have got it. Words are very flexible things.  His lyrical dexterity found the perfect outlet in Lambert Hendricks  Ross the pioneering vocal trio he co-founded with singers Dave Lambert and Annie Ross in the late 1950s. A new generation was getting hip to swing music and the group inspired legions of young fans.    Get up and go now. Let up and go now.  I have this image in my head of me in the house that I grew up in hearing this incredible music on the television going over to it and there is Jon Hendricks and Dave Lambert and Annie Ross.  Al Jarreau was a teenager when he first heard the trio on The Steve Allen Show.  It knocked me out of my socks and I am still in flight.    I am going to sing. I am going to sing. I am going to shout. I am going to shout. I am going to tell the whole wide world what is going on.  The son of a minister and one of 14 children Jon Hendricks was born in Newark Ohio in 1921. He performed as a child with piano virtuoso Art Tatum. Hendricks served in World War II and afterwards studied law on the GI Bill. But it was a chance to sit in with legend Charlie Parker - nicknamed Bird - that pointed to his real future.  It seemed like I must have scatted about 34 choruses.   I kept thinking I should quit but just one more. I can do better than that. So we had this bandstand confab. Bird says what you doing man? I said I am studying law.   He says you as not no lawyer.  Hendricks moved to New York ghostwrote lyrics for a Tin Pan Alley publisher and met Dave Lambert. The two convinced a producer to make a record of Count Basie's charts arranged for a full vocal ensemble.  The singers could not swing. So Lambert Hendricks and Ross went into the studio after hours.  And so Dave says OK we'00. Annie Jon and I and we will do a process called multitracking.  The 12 voices heard on Lambert Hendricks  Ross' debut Sing a Song of Basie belong to the trio's three singers.    I tell you all.  I want to have a ball.  I am ready to groove.  Oh boy I am feeling like .  We will be jumping through the night till the broad daylight.  Despite the success Lambert Hendricks  Ross lasted only a few years. Dave Lambert was killed in a roadside accident. Hendricks kept performing. Al Jarreau finally got the chance to record with his idol when Hendricks came up with an arrangement of the Miles Davis-John Coltrane classic Freddie Freeloader.   In that solo of Trane's which is something like...   It is that complex and precise in the notes that have to be sung and then to have the idea that you can write a lyric for that and say speaking of Freddie who is Freddie to me and all these stories about the kind of drink that he sells and kind of bar he tends that is insane.    Speaking of Freddie. Who the hell is he? What is Freddie to me? And what is this I hear about the kind of bar he tends? So he tends a groovy bar.  to me .  These days Jon Hendricks is a little more low-key in his performances.   Jon Jon.  It takes him a few minutes to make his way to the stage during a summer show with Annie Ross at New York's Blue Note the first to celebrate his 90th birthday.   Jon cannot see.   They are all the same. What is that?  Nevertheless Hendricks is never at a loss for words.  I am older than my mother.  For NPR News I am Lara Pellegrinelli in New York.    Of the wonderful things that you get out of life there are four. 