 The past few years have been all over the place for Josh Homme. He is the frontman and founder of the band Queens Of The Stone Age. He produced and toured with Iggy Pop. And his other band The Eagles of Death Metal was playing at the Bataclan during the horrific Paris attacks almost two years ago. He was not there that night and he still does not like talking about it. But if he is haunted by what happened at the Bataclan you cannot tell by the latest Queens Of The Stone Age album. It is called Villains.    When I first met her she was 17 17.  You can thank Mark Ronson for the sound. He famously produced Amy Winehouse Adele and Lady Gaga before working on Villians. And when he came into the studio the other day I asked Homme how two guys from very different musical worlds found each other.  He asked me to play on the Lady Gaga record. And so I played on about four tracks five tracks. And I got to watch him work. He is a great communicator. And I have kind of banked everything on music being my religion and my philosophy and my way to leave baggage behind and learn something. And so he was very understanding of that. And I think he got excited at the - that reality you know? And he - plus he dresses like a gangster on vacation so he looks very handsome.  All the time - he is got the best hair.  Yeah. He is willing to go the extra hair mile.    But it does not matter now. Just come and love me how - like the way you use to do.  You are a rock 'n' roll dude. You do not have your leather jacket on today but you got your - you know you got your tatted hands. You have got your serious cane that looks like it could maybe hurt somebody.  I have seen and done things.  Right . But you have this new album and it is kind of electronic and dancey .  Yeah. I mean - well normally we are - we have three guitar players. And Lynyrd Skynyrd did three guitar players wonderfully but it is difficult to do. So while two guitars are going - when a vocal leaves something needs to vocalize and carry the tune. So we had our keyboard player Dean sort of lead that way in this sort of John Carpenter - you know John Carpenter did all the soundtracks to his movies. And there are these sort of broken robotic keyboard sounds - very dental perhaps sometimes as a sound.  I would love an example.  Of his or mine?  His - both.  Well I mean the Halloween soundtracks - everything seems to start with this stark like bing bing bing . And then it goes ...  Yeah.  ...These kind of noises. And for us - like a song like Fortress would be a great example of keyboards leading the way.    If your fortress is under siege you can always run to me.  When you think about your last album it was dark.  Yeah. I had troubles yeah.  Yeah. You had some health issues.  Yeah.  So how - what does it that this album is tracking in terms of your life? Like are things just kind of better and like you' Yeah.  ...In a good place? Is that what is happening?  And I also think that what I took from that - without wanting to speak in depth about Paris - what I took from that...  From Bataclan.  Yeah. What I took from that was - I felt like if I was going to carry the flag for anything it was being yourself in the moment. And if there is a moment hanging in the air grab it and make it yours. Especially after working with Iggy Pop as well...  Yeah.  ...On Post Pop Depression it was like say what you want. Like and do not like what you want. But I am going to run now.    All I want to do is tell Gardenia what to do tonight. All I want to do is tell Gardenia what to do tonight.  Let us talk about working with Iggy Pop. Like how did that come about?  Well I mean I got - in a very modern way I got a text.   Wait. What did it say because like nobody else in the world gets this text. So I feel like we need to linger on this moment for a minute.  It said hey I was thinking maybe we could record something. Let me know what you think - Iggy Pop. And if you told the 13-year-old me you know that that was the case that was going to happen I would have gave you the finger and skated off.  I want to listen to another song that our colleague Gabe says is his new anthem The Evil Has Landed.  .    A grand cabaret the last float on parade 'ecause their swing got left behind every puzzle piece of mind handshake in facade play the fool or playing God. For God's sake just play along. Well you can have a laugh. Hit it. .  So again it is like - it is definitely rock. There is also this kind of Bryan Ferry kind of thing going on too.  Absolutely.  How did that feel?  It is sort of a Sly and The Family Stone perhaps you know?  Yeah OK.  There is something that was really important to me. And many songs are like a merry-go-round. When the chorus comes back around you have heard it. You are familiar with it. And it is the same. Perhaps the words change. Perhaps they do not. And for me this needed to be very orbital where every time you hear a part you hear a verse come around it is only 40 percent the same that it is been altered each time in the chorus as well. And that way it is more like getting on a bus at a bus stop. You get on one place. You get off somewhere else. And you do not understand what is going to happen at all times. But you feel comfortable. Hopefully you feel comfortable.  Yeah. You are like I am on the bus.  Yeah well...  I just do not know - like I know what a bus is .  And it is my bus...  Right.  ....You know?  But where is it going?  This orbital style that - I figured hell we are spinning on the planet spinning around the sun. Let us try the same thing with music you know?  You said you did not want to - you do not like to talk about Bataclan. And I am not going to linger on it too much but I guess what I want to know is why? Why do not you want to talk about it?  There is so much that I could not explain that is not up for discussion that does not require your opinion. There are people's kids which I have.  Yep.  And I do not talk about the Bataclan because in some ways it is the business of the world. And in other ways it is nobody's business you know? And I cannot explain how rough that was in a way that I care what you think you know? I am sorry to say it that way.  No I think I see what you mean.  And so I just say I do not like to talk about that because I do not. I hate it you know? But it did not change anything for me. It amplified everything - who I am.  I mean it sounds like you were like all right let us live. Let us be.  Yeah yeah. You cannot stop what I have coming.    Here we come. Here we come. Here we come.  Josh Homme thank you so much.  Thank you.  That was Joshua Homme of Queens Of The Stone Age about the group's new album Villians.    Here we come. Get out of the way - matters not what the people say matters not... 