  And if you are just joining us this is WEEKENDS on ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Guy Raz. And it is time now for music.   The oldest son in what is considered the first family of American jazz released a new album this week. Legendary saxophonist Branford Marsalis has been putting out acclaimed albums for almost three decades but he says when it comes to naming them he usually has trouble.  My managers call me and say we are time sensitive here. We need a title now. And I usually say something incredibly ridiculous or controversial and they say that is the dumbest thing I ever heard.  The name he threw out this time Four MFs Playin' Tunes. After all he says that is what this album is.  It is just about four guys on a stage playing tunes and that the tune is more important than any individual solo or any idea of genius or innovation all these false choices that I hear in the jazz world. And when my manager said we need a title I kind of threw that out there figuring he would say that is the dumbest thing. You are not going to do it. So when I said it there was a little beat and they said man that is great. We are going to go with that. And then it was me saying now wait a second. We might not want to use this. And it was too late. They were off to the races with it. They were in like crazy people with it. And there it is.  And it really is just four guys. I mean...  For lack of a better phrase four guys.  For lack of a...  Four guys.  Four guys just playing music and almost as if it is a band of equals.  Well all bands are bands of equals if they are bands. The things that made jazz magical in the early years musicians actually played together not just at the same time. You are finding fewer and fewer of those guys. You find guys that come off the stage and say stuff like I really liked my solo in the third song. What do you think? In a band situation it has to be a group of equals regardless of age or anything else.   You have taken on a very young drummer who is on this record Justin Faulkner and a lot has been written about him. First of all why did you take a chance on him?  It was not a chance. It was a sure shot. There was no chance at all. There were things that he had that I did not even hear some current New York drummers have. I could tell that he played gospel music or RB or something like that because his feeling was really really - it had a real strong feel to it. And he was playing very simply. He was not playing any overly complicated things. So to hear him play a very simple blues with a very not good high school band and just keep time and not try to use it as a vehicle to show off what he could do when he was clearly the most talented person in the band I kind of went wow yeah that is the kind of guy I want to be around. And over a span of two years he basically learned everything that we asked him to learn.  That is incredible to hear him on this record particularly on the song Whiplash where you hear that moment.   How many arms does this guy have?  He is a player. He is a player. And one of the things that was funny about playing with the young kids is that when you get older you get a little slower and you get a little less intense. But you still fashion yourself as the guy that you were. So we would always make comments that we played with a lot of intensity. And then Justin joins the band and the first night he played  Oh we thought we were playing with intensity.   So it was really great to have a young kid in the band because he brought that young kid energy. It kind of perked the whole band up because we had gotten very comfortable with each other like a marriage. And we were settled in and we were playing what we played. But he was a big jolt of caffeine to the system from the moment he joined the band.   I am speaking with Branford Marsalis. His new record with his quartet is called Four MFs Playin' Tunes. What was amazing about this record to me is it was recorded on two days - October 11th and 12th last year - and then mixed in like five days. I mean that is - that is lightning fast. You guys recorded this in two days.  Well a lot of musicians due to financial realities they record records in one day. But what they do that we do not do is they rehearse the music for about six or seven days before they record it. But my philosophy is that the preparation is done when you play gigs. When you play concerts you are preparing for this moment. So either we are good musicians or we are not good musicians because these songs are not like concertos. There is not a whole bunch of notes you have got to practice. The songs are very simply stated. And either we can play or we cannot play. So the element of surprise I think is very very important in the songs and in the band concept.   Branford Marsalis when people put this CD on what do you hope they will hear on this record?  I guess the best way to explain the question is to relay a story. When my kids were younger  I heard that you only play jazz and classical music for your daughters.  Well yeah.  Well why?  Well I am not stupid. They are going to listen to pop music eventually - which is all they listen to right now actually - but I just want them to have a well-rounded template for when they get older. And she had her defense of what it is that she makes her kid listen to.  Well when you listen to a song like a Raffi song the kids' song...  Listened to him this morning by the way in the kitchen with my two kids.  Very good. Very good. So when you listen to a song and the song is about alligators or kangaroos or whatever it is it is about that. That is what it is about. It is about kangaroos. But if you play Eine kleine Nachtmusik for your kid the music is whatever your kid wants it to be about. It is instrumental music. The kids' imaginations can run wild. And I used to watch my kids hear this music and say this music reminds me of - and they would basically tell stories. So the stories that the music tells are actually personal to the listener. I do not want the listener to come up with the same conclusions that I have come up with because they are not me. They have not lived my life. They do not know nearly as much music as I do. I want them to hear the music and find things that are relevant to their own personal experience in the songs.  This record is whatever anybody wants it to be.  Whatever - I think any record is whatever you want it to be particularly instrumental music because we do not have lyrics that tell us what the songs are about. So we just carve out our little sliver of reality and you know we - any time one person gets it that is an awesome thing.   Do you listen to your own music?  No. It is counterproductive. I am trying to get better. I am not trying to stand still.  So what happens when you release this record? You just...  Well by the time I release a record I have already heard it 20 times. So by the time that is done I do not actually want to hear it anymore. But there have been times in the last few months when I have actually gone back and listened to this record. And it is a departure for me because I usually do not go back and revisit it. But I really do like this record. And it is a very very different sound for us than what we are used to.   That is jazz musician Branford Marsalis. His quartet's new record is called Four MFs Playin' Tunes. Branford Marsalis thank you so much.  Thanks Guy. Take care man.   And for Saturday that is WEEKENDS on ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Guy Raz. Check out our weekly podcast. Search for WEEKENDS on ALL THINGS CONSIDERED on iTunes or go to npr.orgweekendatc. We are back with a whole new hour of radio tomorrow. Until then thanks for listening and have a great night. 