 If you are just joining us this is WEEKENDS on ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Laura Sullivan and it is time now for music and one heck of a comeback story.   Bobby Womack made a name for himself as writer for The Rolling Stones Janis Joplin Isaac Hayes Wilson Pickett plenty of others. As a singer Bobby Womack was a constant fixture on the RB charts through the 1970s. But drug addiction and serious health problems sidelined him for the better part of two decades. When I spoke with him recently he would just finished treatment for colon cancer.  I am glad to be here and when I say that I mean that 'ecause you do not appreciate nothing until you lose it. You do not miss your water till your well run dry.  Over the years Bobby Womack's fought diabetes prostate cancer a serious bout with pneumonia. He even spent 10 days in a coma.  My doctor told me he said you know what I have never seen a person as sick as you.  He said that to you?  Yeah. He said everything is wrong. Man well hurry up and fix it 'ecause I got a tour to do. He said you got to be out your mind.  Bobby Womack had not recorded an album of original music in 18 years that is until now.    The bravest man in the universe.  This is the title track to The Bravest Man In The Universe. Womack has not just made some retro comeback album though. This one's produced by two of the most progressive forces in music today. Damon Albarn has written some of the biggest hits of the last two decades with his band Blur and Gorillaz. He first collaborated with Bobby Womack on a Gorillaz track in 2009 and that is when they first considered working together on a comeback album. Albarn enlisted the help of Richard Russell both a percussion programmer and the founder of the hugely influential XL Records.  When we talked about doing this album together we talked about 5050 just me and you 5050. So when I get to London in the studio there was another guy named Richard doing all the programming with the drums. So I told Damon I said Damon step out here a minute. Who is that guy? So he said that is the president of the record company. I said you are kidding me. I said all my life I have never seen the president of the record company come down to the studio to see what I was doing.    The bravest man in the universe.  Richard Russell says they never gave a thought to trying to recreate Womack's old sound.  We would just get beaten by his past if we did that. You know if you assemble the musicians and try to make across 110th Street you know that type of sound that is not going to be as good. I would not be able to do that anyway.  So he and Damon Albarn married Womack's voice and acoustic instruments with modern production elements.  He thought I was going to be hard to deal with because all these little gadgets  I said what has that got to do with the price of beans?  What I did end up doing was using snippets of Bobby's vocal adlibs weaved into the rhythm tracks.    Preaching is speaking.  You know I chopped up all these adlibs that he would done and laid them out on the keyboard and started playing them back over the beat. It was great.  When they would sample my voice and put it back on I could not figure - who is that? He said that is you. Now I did not understand that but I did not argue with him. I just said okay you guys go.    In the name of the Lord. And there .  But it did not take long for Bobby Womack to adapt to this new style. He told Richard Russell that he learned about the music business from singer Sam Cooke. So Russell set out to learn more about Cooke.  When I was watching YouTube I came across an interview and he was talking about how a singer can improve his  and I thought this is very pertinent.   As a singer grows older his conception goes a little deeper.  So I brought it into play to Bobby and Bobby loved it. And that song probably became part of the piece of music we were working on that day. And Bobby said to me when you use the sample the second time in the song slow it down and the pitch will lower and he will sound older. And I thought wow he is really contributing to the production of this.   As a singer grows older his conception goes a little deeper because he needs life and he understands whom he is trying to say a little more. The thing is that  tries to find out what  that gives him a better insight on telling the story of the song he is trying to sing.  You learn if you mind stay open. And once you cannot learn no more your mind must be closed. Life goes on and you keep growing you know?  Bobby Womack says the collaboration really reached a high point on the song Jubilee.    Do not do that do not stop. Just do that... When I was a kid during those days you could not use instruments. It was against the pastor's religion so all the singers would make these instruments with their voices. It was just unbelievable. I could not explain it. It was called jubilee and the thing that Damon allowed me to do that I never have done - he say whatever you want to do just do it. And I said you know what I want to do this song called Jubilee. I put all these voices on.    Raining. Rainfall. Do not you let nobody bring you down bring you down bring you down. Do not you let nobody bring you down. Just keep on... And so when I finished with it he said that is a masterpiece. I love it. And I say you really think people understand? He said man that is education. I never heard of jubilee.  Bobby Womack hopes his longtime fans will join him on this new path one he would almost given up walking down.  We take things for granted and because we wake up every day you start talking about what you are going to do next week. I said who told you you would be here next week?    If it was not for the man... I said right now I feel so fortunate to still be here and still can have something to say. And I feel that being with XL gave me that opportunity.    If it was not for the man...  Bobby Womack's new album is called The Bravest Man In The Universe. You can hear tracks from the album and read more of Richard Russell's thoughts at our website nprmusic.org. Special thanks to Jacob Ganz and Michael Tomsic for their help with this story.    Made me work so hard to reach you. Where you coming from? There is some things that I could teach you baby.  And for Sunday that is WEEKENDS on ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Laura Sullivan. Check out our weekly podcasts it is called WEEKENDS ON ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. You can find it at iTunes or at npr.orgweekendatc. Guy Raz is back next weekend. Until then. Thanks for listening and have a great night. 