 The frontwoman of Alabama Shakes Brittany Howard has just released her first solo album.   It is called Jaime in honor of her sister who died as a teenager after struggling with cancer. Howard says she wrote this record as a process of healing. In a statement to the media she said I suppose all I want is to help others feel a bit better about being. Tom Moon has our review of Jaime.   I promise to think before I speak to be wary of who I give my energy to because it is needed for a greater cause greater than my own pride. And that cause is to spread the enlightenment of love.  Behold Brittany Howard armed with a megaphone. She is getting her preacher on pledging to spread love affirming some of her core values - kindness realness brotherhood.   I repeat we are all brothers and sisters. I repeat we are all brothers and sisters. I repeat we are all brothers and sisters. We are all...  It is more street sermon than mission statement propelled by a pressurized churning rhythm from drummer Nate Smith. As the energy climbs Howard sends out a tense but beautifully harmonized call to action.   Wherever you have been and wherever you will go give it to love. Just do the best you can. Give it to love. To be kind - give it to love - to your fellow man - give it to love.  That is just one of the exciting moments on Brittany Howard's first solo album. Every track has an intense melody that becomes more addictive as Howard sings. Her gritty textured voice is a gravitational force all its own. And watch out when she veers away from the melodies into one of these stupendous free-floating improvisations.    'ecause where I come from everybody frowns and walks around with that ugly thing on their face. And where I come from we work hard and grind and hustle all day. Yes we do.  Howard makes songs that seem at once radically new and instantly familiar. They are like smash hits from a parallel galaxy where pop and soul and hard rock and RB do not just coexist they synergize into something fresh and profound. Howard uses these platforms to explore personal questions of sexual identity and the lingering impact of racially motivated hate crimes she experienced as a child.    'ecause Mama is white and Daddy is black. When I first got made guess I made these folks mad. See I know my colors see. But what I want to know is who slashed my dad's tires and put a goat head in the back? I guess I was not supposed to know that.  It does not take Brittany Howard too many words to share what she is been through and what she is learned. Even when it gets deep the atmosphere of this extraordinary record remains loose traveling between extremes of pain and joy truth-telling and escape at whiplash-inducing speed.    I know he still loves me when...  The first solo album from Brittany Howard is called Jaime. Our reviewer is Tom Moon.    He loves me then yeah. He loves me when I do what I want. He loves me. He does not judge me. Yes he loves me. 