 The indie rock band The Walkmen had a big following when it announced an extreme hiatus late last year. All of the band members already had other projects in the works including organist-bassist Walter Martin. And his first solo album has surprised fans. He made it for a different audience. Here's Stefan Shepherd with a review.  It is not unusual for band members to release solo albums while their bands take a break. It is unusual however for those solo albums to be recorded for kids. Walter Martin first started writing these songs in 2012 inspired by the news of him becoming a father.    Butterflies they fill my guts when I look in your eyes. A heart that is young and filled with sweet surprise. Only the innocent can sympathize.  There is an innocence here in a song like Sing 2 Me which could be romantic but clearly works as a love song from parent to child. His new album We are All Young Together features lots of Martin's indie rock friends like members of The National and on this track Karen O of the Yeah Yeah Yeahs    'Til then you are beautiful and I just stare. KAREN O    Sing another lonely line with me. Sing it in a lazy melody. There is no words to say just how I feel. So it is just yodel-odel-odle-lay-hi. Yodel-odel-odle-lay-hi. Yodel-odel-odle-lay-hi.  Martin played the brainy and serious music of The Walkmen for many years but when he played the first songs that eventually made it on this album to close friends and family they and he knew those songs were his own voice. SOUNDBITE OF SONG THE BEATLES    Well John Paul Georgie and Ringo.   Ringo.   They are singing in my head wherever I go.   I go.   Songs with magic charms you cannot deny. Well I cannot decide who is my favorite one.   Favorite one.   Mama likes Paul. Daddy likes John.   Likes John.   Sis likes George so I guess Ringo's mine.  A lot of the album's inspiration comes from Martin's childhood like listening to the Beatles in the backseat of his parents car on long spring break drives and his ongoing love for those rock records from the '50s and '60's that still get people dancing. SOUNDBITE OF SONG THE BEATLES    The Beatles beat.     Makes a kid feel free.   Makes a kid feel free.   Sounds so sweet.   Sounds so sweet.   And full of mystery.   Full of mystery.  Whatever cool-points Martin may have lost by wadding into the kid's music world the playful and sweet nature of this new album shows he does not care one bit. He feels very much at home.   I would like to let my little sister share the microphone with me for a second. She is going to help me sing a song called Hey Sister.  Hey Sister.  yeah?   Something in the way you look looks just like me.  Well that kind of makes sense I mean I am your sister.   Something in the way you talk sounds just like Aunt Marie.  Yeah I could see that.   Grandma looks just like Pop.  It is true is not it?   Mama looks just like Cousin Bob. We should put them all together and call it a family.  Stefan Shepherd reviewed We are All Young Together by Walter Martin. Stefan writes about kid's music at zooglobble.com. You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 