  Since its premiere in 1918 Gustav Holst's symphonic cycle The Planets has pretty much defined the category of music about space. Recently four prominent artists from different realms of music collaborated on a cosmic exploration of their own. It is called Planetarium. Reviewer Tom Moon says like Holst's work it devotes a separate track to each planet.   Planetarium began in 2011 when composer Nico Muhly was commissioned to create a long-form work for a concert hall in Europe. He gathered friends from the rock world - the singer and songwriter Sufjan Stevens and his longtime drummer James McAlister as well as guitarist and composer Bryce Dessner from The National. They set out to make a sprawling song cycle about the solar system.    In the future there will only be war profanity outside.  They spent a few days brainstorming harvesting grooves and song ideas then divided up the best fragments and went off to develop them independently.    Wandering star put in its place. Sermon of death says Jupiter is the only contest. Father of light father of death...  Stevens came up with the pop hooks. McAlister created the rhythmic foundations and some electronic textures. Dessner added spectral arrays of guitar. Muhly handled the orchestrations for string quartet and a brass choir comprised of seven trombones.   The 80-minute concept album unfolds like a Disney ride alternating between turbulent passages and moments of disturbing calm. As Holst knew music about space should evoke that eerie feeling of desolation. Planetarium captures that spectacularly.    As I am about to enter your world as I am about to enter your world I give you light.  When I first heard about this project it seemed like a perfect storm of hipster artistic pretension. As I listened though that cynicism was melted by the ambitious scope and grandeur of these pieces and by the way these four musicians who would probably rather not be referred to as a supergroup combined their talents into a dizzying constellation of sound.   The latest from Sufjan Stevens Nico Muhly Bryce Dessner and James McAlister is called Planetarium. Our reviewer is Tom Moon.  