   We are running out of time to solve a mystery. Mr.  The nurse left work at five oclock.  The mystery is what happens next. That is where you come in by writing an original short story that begins with that line. Mr.  The nurse left work at five oclock.  The catch is we have to be able to read your story in three minutes or less which is why we call our writing contest Three Minute Fiction. Literary critic James Wood of the New Yorker will read our winning story on the air. And until then we are posting one standout submission a week. To read those stories and to submit your entry go to our Web site npr.orgthreeminutefiction. That is threeminutefiction all spelled out no spaces. But remember the clock is ticking. 59 p.m. this Tuesday.    We are well into summer jam season and I wanted to thank you for tuning in to NPR. But if you decide to switch the station you are very likely to hear this.    Fill up my cup mazel tov. Look at her dancing. Just take it off.  And you might also hear this.  Ms.   I am so 3008. You so 2000 and late. I got that boom boom boom. That future boom boom boom. Let me get it now.  That first song was the Black Eyed Peas and the second one also the Black Eyed Peas. They just broke a record by holding down the top spot on the Hot 100 chart for 20 weeks in a row. But despite that pop music critic Maura Johnston says not one song not a one can claim the title of the song of the summer. Maura Johnston is the music editor with Idolator.com and she is in our New York studio. Hi Maura. Ms.   Let me ask you about the Black Eyed Peas the song we are listening to. I do not really get their appeal. How do they always get to the top of the charts? Ms.  You know this is a question that a lot of people actually ask themselves because some people think that they actually annoy their way to the top of the charts.  Ms.  You know a lot of people would say oh the Black Eyed Peas they are so annoying and then they would be like but that song's not that bad because it does sort you know like bring a lot of elements of like dance trends that were sort of percolating underneath and it makes them very ready say to be an HP ad like the video for the Black Eyed Peas' Boom Boom Pow looks like. So  It is an HP ad? Ms.  Yeah yeah.  It is funny you said that because I said that when I first heard this song I said this song is so annoying. But I have been listening to it so many times preparing for this interview that I actually kind of like it now and I am sort of dancing to it in the studio. Ms.  Yes they will bludgeon you. That is what they do. It is mind control. Watch. They will be the number one act from here until like 2015.  Oh god. Can I just play an awesome summer song for a moment? This is from the summer of 2007 and the song is Umbrella by Rihanna.  Ms.   Now that it is raining more than ever know that we will still have each other you can stand under my umbrella. You can stand under my umbrella.  Maura Johnston how does a song go from just being popular you know just played on the radio a bit to sort of exploding into a summer jam like this song Umbrella by Rihanna? Ms.  Well you know the one sort of metric that I use for the ultimate summer jam is hearing how it sounds coming out of a car at full blast. And Umbrella sounds absolutely massive you know these drums the synths you know they just sound really big and really good especially when they sort of like bend the sound as the cars are driving away.  It kicks butt. Ms.  It kicks butt pretty much.  Yeah. Ms.  And then like you know I think it also needs a sort of like unifying message that a lot of people will - and it does not have to be deep. I mean the message can just be like let us dance.  So Maura what is this summer's Umbrella? Ms.  Well you know it is funny because this summer's Umbrella I think is not a song from 2009. I think this summer's Umbrella might actually be one of a selection of Michael Jackson's songs because you know the death of Michael Jackson sort of resulted in his music becoming like really - I mean his music obviously was always a really big cultural force. But if you look at the album charts in the weeks following his death he is had at least three albums in the Top 10 if not the Top 5 for the entire summer.  Wow. Ms.  Yeah. And he is been consistently selling you know six figures and that is in a time when who can sell records anymore? Nobody you know?  Mr.   Keep on with the force do not stop. Do not stop 'til you get enough.  So he sort of stole the thunder from all these other artists who were hoping to be you know the kind of the summer anthem. Ms.  I think he did. I think it was also sort of like a collection of you know cultural factors. I mean people are also I think listening to their own music collections a lot more you know with the rise of like iPods and with the rise of more personalized ways to listen to music.  Maura if you had to pick a song one song that came out this summer that everyone should be you know blasting out their car windows which one would it be? Ms.  I think it would be Why R U by Amerie which is a song by this RB singer. Her record is coming out in November but the first single Why R U is this really good sort of throw-backy RB song and it has a king of Umbrella-ish feel to it I think.  Okay the song is Why R U by Amerie Maura Johnston's pick for song of the summer coming at you from NPR.  Ms.   Why are you the only thing that I care about? Why are you the only thing that I care about? Why are you the only thing that I think about? Why are you the only one?  Maura Johnston is the music editor for Idolator.com. Maura thanks for coming in. Ms.  Thanks.  Ms.   You can be you can be you can you can be the only one. You can be you can be you can you can be the only one. And though I hate it hate it that I cannot forget you. I try my best but I am a mess 'ecause I cant shake you. 