 Zydeco musician Stanley Dural Jr. has died. He was also known as Buckwheat.   If you ready can you say yeah? If you are feeling good can you say hell yeah? Let us go and zydeco a little bit right here.   Dural brought a type of feel good party music that originated in southwest Louisiana to the rest of the world. NPR's Andrew Limbong has this remembrance.  Stanley Dural Jr. was a persuasive showman. He was the type of guy who would encourage folks to sing along even if they could not sing to dance even if they did not like dancing. He was also the type of guy who had his own nickname screwed onto his white accordion - Buckwheat after the character on Little Rascals.    Now what you going to do what you...  The thing about Buck is that he had this incredible charisma and charm that was absolutely genuine.  That is Ted Fox a friend and manager of Dural's for 30 years. The band Buckwheat Zydeco opened for U2 played at the 1996 Summer Olympics and even a couple presidential inaugurals. But Dural always managed to stay grounded.  That touched people and is really at the essence of what Stanley Dural Jr. was - just a person who really had not changed even with all of his success from the little 5-year-old kid who grew up picking cotton in Lafayette.  Lafayette La. is where Stanley Dural Jr. was born and raised. His dad played accordion around the house. His mom sang. He said he had seven sisters and six brothers in a two-bedroom house and he started playing music as a kid. That part of Louisiana is also where zydeco music was created by black French Creole speakers. It is an accordion-based blend of RB blues rock and these days hip-hop according to Herman Fuselier music and entertainment writer for The Lafayette Daily Advertiser and host of the radio show Zydeco Stomp.  It is a big gumbo of music and it is - it makes everybody happy. It is hard to sit still and be in a bad mood when you listen to zydeco music.    It is all right. It is all right.  Fuselier says Dural showed people beyond Louisiana how much fun zydeco could be.  He is a role model. Buckwheat showed how popular a zydeco musician could be not only at home but worldwide.  He did that by touring a lot as he told NPR in 2009.   I get on the road maybe around 10 months out of the year in and out you know? I do not know how many dates I do because I mean I do not even think about it. This is what I do and I love doing what I am doing. You get out there you know see thousands of people and got smile on their faces. That is my reward - somebody's happy.   .  Dural took playing and entertaining very seriously. And after more than 35 years of touring and playing shows that meant he led the tightest band around says Ted Fox.  You cannot learn that. You either have it or you do not. And it came from Buck's leadership and it came from the tremendous talent of all the guys that he had in his band.    Hey everybody let us have some fun. You only live once and when you are dead you are gone. So let it roll.  Stanley Buckwheat Dural Jr. died Saturday from lung cancer. He was 68 years old. Andrew Limbong NPR News.    I am going to have some fun. Come on let the good times roll. Now look here. Do not sit there mumbling... 