 On Friday a federal judge in Manhattan ordered that the first and most famous verse of the civil rights-era anthem We Shall Overcome belongs in the public domain.    We shall overcome. We shall...  Plaintiffs in the case had asked the judge to negate a half-century-old copyright by four songwriters including the late Pete Seeger. Rick Karr has the story.  The origins of We Shall Overcome like those of a lot of folk songs are tough to pin down. Pete Seeger tried in 1963 when his name was added to the song's copyright.   It was known among the food and tobacco workers mainly Negro union members. And I heard them singing it in 1947 '48.  The lyrics of that earlier version ran we will overcome. The music publishers defending the song's copyright argued that Seeger and his three co-authors changed will to shall and slightly altered the melody of the existing tune. The defendant's attorney Paul LiCalsi says those changes deserve copyright protection.  The changes in fact although they were simple were profound. And the verse we shall overcome is what became the anthem of the civil rights movement not we will overcome not any of the other variations.  There are a bunch of variations - a 17th century hymn another that appeared in the folk magazine Sing Out! in the late 1940s and a hymn copyrighted in 1954 called If My Jesus Wills. Six years later a group of folk singers filed another copyright. Music producer Isaias Gamboa made a documentary film about the song's history. But the music publishers behind the folk singers' copyright to which Seeger was added refused to grant him a license to use the song.  My lawyers and many other lawyers have said Isaias if you try to put this film out they can shut the film down. They have done it before. All they have to do is wait till it gets released and distributed send a letter of cease-and-desist and that is it. You are toast.  So last April Gamboa sued. On Friday Judge Denise Cote of the Southern District of New York ruled that the changes from will to shall and to the melody quote lacked originality unquote and that the verse belongs in the public domain. Her decision is likely to have adverse effects on the very communities where the song has the most meaning according to Ash-Lee Woodard-Henderson of the Highlander Center. The Tennessee nonprofit distributes half of the royalties earned by the song - around 40000 a year - as grants.  That money is going to literally all 13 of the Southern states.  It is going to black communities and cities and counties from hoods to hollers.  Just hours before Judge Cote handed down her ruling the Highlander Center announced the most recent and possibly final winners of those grants. Attorneys for the defendants in the suit say they are considering their next move. Isaias Gamboa will not be able to release his film until the court rules on the other verses of the song. For NPR News I am Rick Karr.    We shall overcome. 