 If you are just joining us it is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR West. I am Arun Rath. I have got a familiar face in the studio with me now a familiar voice to you out there. Our friend world music DJ Betto Arcos. And I cannot think of a better welcome back to the West Coast then to have you Betto sitting in front of me with a stack of CD's. Good to see you.  It is great to see you and it is always wonderful to be here.  So I was excited when I heard about your theme for this week. Tell us what you have got.  Well I am a big fan of the guitar. I play guitar myself and occasionally I do sing and even with my wife. We have a duet going on. And I think one of the best things about music is guitar and voice and especially guitar and female voice. So I prepared a set of four guitarists and four singers four female singers because every duet that we are going to be featuring today has a different quality a different approach to singing and to playing the guitar.  Nice. Well let us hear your first song. This is a song called Claveles.  Let us hear a little bit of that.   .  That is beautiful. Tell us who that is.  This is a duet from the bay area. The guitarist is from Mexico. His name is Jorge Liceaga. And she is American. Her name is Arwen Lawrence and they have a group called Cascada de Flores which means waterfall of flowers. And what they are doing here is they are interpreting an old Mexican song from the pennisula of Yucatan where there is a great musical culture called trova yucateca. And she is singing in the style known as bambuco which is a very very African influenced style of music.   .  It sounds very traditional. Is it just a retro take? Or are they doing something new with this music as well?  They are reimagining it because the traditional way of playing and singing this one is not exactly the way she does it. But she is reimagining it. She is giving the song much more modern much more present much more current quality to to it. And I love how Jorge who plays the guitar meets up with her voice. It is just a beautiful pairing of the two.   .  Next up you have a collaboration between a flamenco guitarist and a Latin jazz singer. Tell us a little bit about that.  This is a jazz vocalist Mancos Arreola  a jazz vocalist originally from Mexico living in New York. And flamenco guitarist and producer Javier Limon.   And what they are doing here is they are taking a standard called Nature Boy - classic American song - but they are taking us a little bit into andalucia  with this beautiful kind of flamenco style called solapur polyuria.    There was a boy a very strange enchanted boy. They he wandered very far very far over land and sea. A little shy but so am I.  So jazz by way of Spain but still a fairly traditional sound.  It is but I think what is interesting here is that she is not singing flamenco. She is really interpreting her own way but he is meeting her somewhere in the middle and creating something completely new.  If you are just joining us I am speaking with Betto Arcos. He is host of the Global Village on KPFK here in Los Angeles. And he is brought a brunch of new music with him. OK Betto what is next?  I want to play this song by this singer from Catalonia her name is Sylvia Perez Cruz accompanied by this fantastic guitarist who plays in this case the electric guitar. His name is Raul Fernandez Miro.   .  And she is singing this song that is the poem by Federico Garcia Lorca the great Spanish poet. But it is the music of Leonard Cohen. The song is called Piccolo Valz Viennese which in the U.S. it is known as Take This Waltz.   .  Her very passionate style of singing it almost reminds me of some of the Balkan female singers or like the Fado singers of Portugal.  Absolutely. The thing I love about this singer Sylvia Perez Cruz is that she takes somebody else's song and she owns it. She makes it her own song. And this is what she does - not just in the song but throughout this record which is just a beautiful album called Granada. And again notice in this sound you are going to hear a bit of that kind of Sonic Youth Nine Inch Nails rocking guitar. I love this contrast of that sweet voice against that sound of the electric guitar.   .  OK Betto we have time for just one more. What is that going to be?  This is a singer Kavita Shah and guitarist from Benin Leonel Loueke. And the song they are going to perform is going to perform is called Oju Oba.   .  Now you notice she is singing Portuguese. She sings in Portuguese in Spanish in English. She is a polyglot. She studied at Harvard University. She is got this amazing dexterity with musical languages. And it is just like she owns the song. She wants to almost tell people that this song was meant for her.   .  It is amazing I mean she is billed as a jazz singer but she seems pretty hard to classify.  Absolutely. I really think that what she is doing something completely new.  I tell you the Indian-American jazz artists these days are doing well - Viche Ire  Rudarsh Muharnthapa  and Kavita Shah is amazing.  Fantastic. She is a really wonderful - I am looking forward to her next record. This is a beautiful album. It is called Visions.   .  In the studio here with me this is Betto Arcos. He is the host of Global Village on KPFK in Los Angeles. Betto it is always a blast having you here. Thanks for coming by.  Thank you so much for having me.   .  And for Saturday that is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR West. I am Arun Rath. 