 The Associated Press reported this morning that 11 more women have accused opera megastar Plcido Domingo of sexual harassment and misconduct. This follows accusations from nine other women in an AP report last month. NPR's Anastasia Tsioulcas joins us to talk about the allegations. Hi there.  Hi there.  Tell us about these newest accusations. Who has made them and what exactly do they allege?  Well one woman came forward by name. She is a singer - Angela Turner Wilson. And she alleges that Domingo groped her breasts backstage at the Washington Opera in the fall of 1999. She says it happened while they were both having their makeup applied. And the AP says it corroborated her account with her husband and her parents as well as in journal entries that she wrote at the time. But the makeup artist told the AP that he did not remember this incident and he declined further comment. And 10 other women are also alleging that Domingo touched them unwantedly persistently asked them for private meetings either in person or in late night phone calls or that he attempted to kiss them. But they say they want to remain anonymous because Domingo is a very powerful and influential person in the opera world. He is arguably the field's most bankable star.  One of the most recognizable names in opera certainly.  For sure.  In today's report and the one from last month the AP quotes a number of backstage employees saying there was this kind of unofficial whisper network about Plcido Domingo.  That is right. As far back as the 1980s and as recently as 2017 women tried to keep Domingo from having any one-on-one contact with young women even on elevators. One woman named Melinda McLain who worked with Domingo at both the LA Opera and the Houston Grand Opera told the AP quote we created these elaborate schemes for keeping him away from particular singers.  And what has the response been from Domingo and his team?  His spokesperson sent a statement to NPR this morning disputing the new accusations Ari. She also called today's report quote inaccurate and unethical. And she says the AP is trying to disparage the singer. Last month Domingo responded to the nine original accusers by saying he believed quote all of my interactions and relationships were always welcomed and consensual.  Last month both the Philadelphia Orchestra and the San Francisco Opera rescinded invitations for Domingo to perform with them this fall. Has there been any more fallout now that these new accusations are coming out?  Well the LA Opera where Domingo's general director has already hired an independent firm to conduct an investigation. But this afternoon the Washington National Opera and the Kennedy Center released a statement saying in part that they appreciated the courage that it has taken for the accusers to come forward but that they still have not received any documented complaints about the singer's behavior prior to 2011 when that opera company became affiliated with the Kennedy Center. But Ari a number of European institutions and major opera singers and fans have rallied to support Plcido Domingo since last month. And interestingly some of these new accusers today told the AP that this kind of support for Domingo in the opera world is precisely why they have chosen to keep anonymous.  That is NPR's Anastasia Tsioulcas. Thank you very much.  Thanks for having me Ari.  And an update to this story this evening - after we recorded our conversation the Dallas Opera announced that it had cancelled a high-profile concert next March at which Domingo had been scheduled to perform. 