 They are an Internet sensation with more than 40 YouTube videos. They are adored by big name artists including Tori Amos and Stevie Nicks whose songs they have performed. They have been on MTV and Nightline and they are only 10 and 11 years old. I am talking about the fifth-grade chorus from Public School 22 in Staten Island New York. And as NPR's Margot Adler reports their singing has captivated millions.  It is still summer and school is out but Gregg Breinberg the choral director of the PS22 Chorus is rehearsing with the group in Central Park for a performance. They start by warming up. Mr.  Cool. One more really high if you can. PS22   .  Since it is summer only half of the chorus is here and it is bittersweet because all these children will be leaving for sixth-grade and different middle schools many of which may not even have a music program given budget cuts. But even at half their numbers and having not practiced together for months you can feel their magic immediately. Here they are learning a new song The World by Empire of the Sun.  PS22    When did you begin?  Where did you go wrong? Mr.  Good. We are going to do that again and I want a little more power. And guys there is no feeling. You know it is like a question. Like you are questioning the world. Like how did - did you ever wonder like how did all this happen? You know it is amazing. So you have got to just look around at the beauty around you. You have got to feel it.  PS22 has its share of troubled kids and poor kids. Seventy-five percent of the students qualify for free lunch. And for many English is a second language. But the fifth-graders say Gregg Breinberg who they call Mr. B has brought life to their school. Ms.  He is not like any other music teacher.  Maimouna Faye is sad to be moving on. Ms.  He really works with us. He like helps us get it right. He does not yell at us. He is really nice. Mr.  I think I am a little bit nontraditional. I mean I am intense. You know I am very passionate about the music. And if I do not feel like they are giving 100 percent yeah I will get intense with them and say come on guys this is not fair. I am working so hard for you. I am trying to do my best for you. You have to come through for me. You have to give 100 percent.  But Breinberg says he is also a goofball. He is eccentric and emotional. He will weep at performances and says he is a role model one that says it is okay for boys to cry. Mr.  But I also want to bring to them that it is okay to be yourself. And what is so wonderful about these kids is they are in this environment that we have created together that allows them to express themselves and totally be wacky and silly.  And be willing to make mistakes. Gabriel Vasquez and Maimouna Faye say being in the chorus allowed them to do something that they often do not have a place for. Mr.  Letting out your emotions showing your feelings. Ms.  If I was mad one day I could go to chorus and just let it all out without like yelling at somebody or getting mad or pouting or something like that.  They have only begun to professionally record their performances. Here they are singing Lady Gaga's Just Dance.  PS22   How does he twist the dance? Cannot find a drink oh man. Where are my keys? I lost my phone. What is going on on the floor? I love this record baby but I cannot see straight anymore. Keep it cool what is the name of this club? I cannot remember but it is all right all right. Just dance gonna be okay da da doo. Just dance spin that record babe da da doo-doo. Just dance gonna be okay da da doo-doo. Just dance. Dance dance. Just just dance.  Breinberg says there are many factors as to why they have become such a sensation. Mr.  There is something just magical about their performances. I think it is their selections. I think they sing selections people do not expect. I try to teach them that there is more to music than what they are hearing necessarily on the radio and to be open. And they bring their own thing to it. They have a sound. And when you bring something unique to the table yeah that catches people's interest.  Despite success Breinberg says the future of the chorus is uncertain. He is still waiting to hear if given education budget cuts in New York City his chorus will be fully funded this year. Margot Adler NPR News New York.  And you can see the PS22 Chorus perform at the new npr.org. You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 