 Once again this is WEEKENDS on ALL PR News. I am Jacki Lyden. And it is time now for music.    Take me out...  Nine years ago this song was a huge hit for the Scottish band Franz Ferdinand and it started a trend. Bands started popping up all over the place with one foot at Studio 54 and the other one at CBGBs - so half dance half post-punk. While most of those bands are fading away Franz Ferdinand is back after a four-year layoff with an album called Right Thoughts Right Words Right Action.   Alex Kapranos is the lead singer and guitarist and he joins us now from our New York studios. Welcome to the program.  Thank you very much.  You know this is such a fun album. It just had me dancing as I have been listening to it. And for anybody who is loved your music you have had this energy from the very beginning. Did you have any kind of a mission statement going into the writing and recording of this album?  Well you know I am really glad to hear that it makes you want to dance because that is something we have always wanted to do with the band. And - I do not know - I just like a record to make you feel uplifted like the blood runs a little bit faster in your veins.    But how can we leave you to a Saturday night or a Sunday morning...  Your lyrics are always so inventive and that is true throughout this album. But Right Action is actually one of the more straightforward.  Come home practically all is nearly forgiven right thoughts right words right action. Can you tell me just a little bit about the genesis of this one?  Yeah yeah. Sure. It came about when one day I was in Brick Lane market which is a flea market in London. And quite often in flea markets you know you find these estate sales where somebody's belongings are sold off after they die. And there was a collection of postcards and these postcards were all blank apart from this one solitary postcard with this message on it. And in the message field  Come home practically all is nearly forgiven.  Wow.  And I loved it. It was so evocative.  Who are these people? Who is being forgiven? And I was thinking like if that was me would I really want to go home? Because it seems really welcoming at first but then you kind of think well practically all? Nearly forgiven?  Nearly?   It is actually quite qualified. I am not sure I really want to go back home.    Come home practically all is nearly forgiven...  And then we thought all right we need a chorus - which was going to answer this like a response to that kind of a verse. And I' Right thoughts right words right actions. I thought that is a great response. It is not an answer. It is a response which you can maybe come up with your own answers for.    Right thoughts right words right actions...  One of the things about your band is that you are as creative verbally as you are musically. And I did think that this song also had you know some really great kind of funk guitar throwback sound to it.  What I love about funk guitar - and a lot of the bands you know I love things like The J.B.'s and Funkadelic and I guess later like Talking Heads as well. What they would do is they would take a song and remove the chords and everything was reduced to melody and countermelody. And those melodies were rhythmic melodies. And that is the way I have always approached it. And I think we always see ourselves as a dance band as much as a rock 'n' roll band. And I think that is probably at the core of it. Like every person in the band is part of the rhythm.  Mm-hmm. Yeah. And another song I just loved on here Evil Eye - what is the color of the next car well actually you guys do it a lot better. We will just listen to a little bit of it here.    Ooh what is the color of the next car? Yeah red you bastard...   Yeah red you bastard...    Some people get freaked out on me. Some people cannot see that I can. Oh some people wanna see what I see. Some people put an evil eye on me...  This one - I do not know this one explodes.  Oh cool. I am really glad. I am really glad. Yeah this one - you see my dad's Greek and I would go to Greece a lot when I was a kid. And a lot of Greek culture I feel is very much part of my heritage. In Greece my grandmother was obsessed with the evil eye and people putting the evil eye on you in different ways you would have to ward off the evil eye. And she was also obsessed with predicting the future as well. And she would read the grounds of the coffee cup. I would look in and I would maybe see some squiggles. And with a bit of a push I could maybe imagine seeing some mountains and rivers. But she would just see death and destruction and calamity. And ...   And so you could...  But you could never go wrong with that you know?  No no no. Of course. And I think those kind of superstitions have stuck with me throughout my life. And even though - like I have these intellectual ideas where I kind of dismiss the majority of religion or whatever and think - but I am still superstitious at heart. And like I have still got a soft spot for all that sort of thing. And I was sitting in this cafe I am like yeah maybe I have got the evil eye. Maybe I can predict the future. And so I was closing my eyes and like what is the color of the next car? Well it is going to be red. I would open my eyes and a red car went past. I am like yes red you bastard. And so that is how the song came about.    No no there is no solution. Some people wanna see what I see. Some people got an evil eye on me...  You know  Goodbye lovers and friends you can laugh as if we are still together but this really is the end. Gosh you know do not scare your fans here. You are not going to break up or anything are you?  I do not know. I cannot predict the future that well that was not the intention. And this song was written completely independently. But we decided it would be - well you know when we were deciding on the running order of the album it is one of my favorite bits you know the bit at the end where you have got this collection of songs. It is like making a compilation for somebody. And so the album opens up with the words Come home practically all is nearly forgiven and it ends with the words But this really is the end. It just seemed like the perfect way to end an album - maybe not a career just an album.    ...anyway goodbye lovers and friends. So sad to leave you. When they lie and say this is not the end you can laugh as if we are still together. You can laugh about it all anyway...  Alex Kapranos is the lead singer with Franz Ferdinand. Their new album comes out Tuesday. It is called Right Thoughts Right Words Right Action. And for a limited time you can hear the entire album at nprmusic.org. Alex thanks so much. Congratulations.  Thanks very much Jacki. Cheers.    ...to the ones I love. So goodbye...  And for Saturday that is WEEKENDS on ALL PR News. I am Jacki Lyden. Check out our weekly podcast. Search for WEEKENDS on ALL THINGS CONSIDERED on iTunes or on the NPR smartphone app. Click on Programs scroll down. We are back on the radio tomorrow. Until then thanks for listening and have a great night. 