 Mulatu Astatke is an Ethiopian musical pioneer. It all began for him in the early '60s when he fell in love with jazz. He is been perfecting his take on the genre ever since. He is recently released an album called Inspiration Information. And critic Robert Christgau says Astatke has never been more impressive.  Mulatu Astatke experienced his musical conversion as a teenager while supposedly studying engineering abroad mastering piano vibraphone and Latin percussion in London Boston and New York.   After he returned home he immersed in Ethiopian music as well conceiving a fusion he calls Ethio-jazz. He plays  on this single recorded in Addis Ababa in 1969.   The half-Arab feel of the horn voicings on that tune which features all Ethiopian players is based on a pentatonic scale peculiar to the culture. That sound is the signal attraction of a lot of Ethiopian music. But there is a problem with the Ethio-jazz idea. Although Ethiopia is one of the world's oldest nations its musical traditions do not run especially deep. It lacks the polyrhythmic complexity of sub-Saharan Africa. For reasons like these Ethio-jazz does not come naturally. Notice the much lighter groove on this Mulatu Astatke track from his new collaboration Inspiration Information.   Appropriately that one's called Cha Cha. And rather than playing piano Astatke is the percussionist. The piano is by Oliver Parfitt of The Heliocentrics an experimental funk band from England who are equal partners on Inspiration Information. Historically Astatke has tended to record with conventional jazz musicians whether Ethiopian or not. But The Heliocentrics are not conventional. They push him loosen up his sound adding thunderous beats here and importing traditional Ethiopian instruments there. On this track Astatke does not even appear but playing an end-blown flute called a washint Ethiopian multi-instrumentalist Dawit Gebreab does.   Because the music of Ethiopia is more European formally than that of other African cultures Inspiration Information is not the first attempt at a fusion. The French jazz band Le Tigre and the English mixmaster Dubulah have both done Ethiopian-flavored albums. But Inspiration Information is both the edgiest and the easiest such effort so far just the right combination of funky and strange. Hear how The Heliocentrics' version of those horn voicings is offset by Mulatu Astatke's keyboards on this standout track Esketa Dance.   Robert Christgau writes the Consumer Guide to CDs at msn.com. He reviewed Inspiration Information by Mulatu Astatke and The Heliocentrics.   You can hear songs from this album at our Web site. And this weekend NPR Music is live from the Newport Folk Festival in its 50th year. You can listen to performances from the festival at the new npr.org.  