 Life right now is a lot of things - unsettled scary quiet - rush-hour traffic mostly gone the thrum of our daily routines suspended. For concert pianist Simone Dinnerstein that has meant no touring no concerts. Instead she has recorded a new album at home during quarantine and chosen music that speaks to a sense of the world slowing down. It is called A Character Of Quiet. And Simone Dinnerstein joins us now from New York. Welcome.  Thanks for having me.  I am told you gave up piano the first few months of the pandemic. So let me start there. Why?  Well I struggled with it. I tried to play. I tried to practice. I thought I should you know attempt to learn all sorts of music. But I felt really distanced from music. I felt that for the first time in my life music could not really express what I was feeling. And I did not feel creative. I just felt frozen. And it seemed meaningless to me to be playing the piano.  I can so relate to that. I do not play the piano but I am a writer - a journalist obviously - and I write fiction. And I have struggled these last few months feeling there is nothing I can write that remotely captures everything going on in the world right now. It sounds like you were in a similar place.  Yes. Yes. I felt that I could not process what was happening. And music was not getting me any closer to it.  So what changed and drew you back to the piano?  Well I was having a talk with my friend and producer Adam Abeshouse. And I said to him I cannot play - like I do not know - I am feeling really disconnected. I do not know what to do. And he said you should record. And I thought how on Earth am I going to do that? You know every place is closed. And he said I can come to your house and we can record in your room. I have never thought that I could do that like in Brooklyn you know - the amount of street noise. And my room is a small room and I have an enormous piano in this small room. And he said we will deal with it. We will get over it. And he really encouraged me to do this. And I tried to think about what music would really speak to me right now because I could not find any music that I related to. And I thought about music by Franz Schubert and Philip Glass and I thought that that music was absolutely perfect because the music has a kind of ruminative quality that is both very reflective and introspective and also painful.  Give me an example from one of the pieces that are now on this new album.  The opening of Schubert's Sonata In B-Flat. This is the last piano sonata that he wrote and he wrote it while he was dying. And it starts off with this very very beautiful theme.   It has a very deep sadness to it and a kind of sense of longing of memory. It is not straightforwardly happy. And then there is this kind of rumbling trill in the left hand very very low down on the piano in the bass.   And it just - it is like this kind of unrest that is underneath this beautiful melody. And so it is neither one thing nor another. I think it is just the most stunning opening to a piece of music.   And then what about the Glass? Tell me more about why that seemed to be the right choice in this moment.  In these particular etudes there is a feeling to them that you could imagine that it is almost like a meditation when you are listening to it. But also there is a feeling of unease.   The first etude that I record which is Etude No. 16 - it is a kind of dance rhythm which is syncopated. And it repeats quite a few times - this rhythm - over and over again. And even though the notes sometimes just remain the same the feeling evolves and it - sometimes it feels like just a beautiful dance. And other times it feels like something really really quite sad has come to pass.   His music forces you to listen in the moment while you are playing it because though it seems at first glance that it is about repetition actually it is about constant change. And so though you may be playing the same pattern something is happening as you repeat that pattern that is transforming it. And you have to be open to it. You have to be listening while you are playing. And as a listener if you are not playing you have to be open to hearing those changes. So right now this seems to be a period of time when we are almost caught in this sense of repetition each day not knowing where we are going. You know there is not the sense of forward momentum that we normally have in our lives. And I think that that feeling that I get playing Glass's music is almost a mirror to what we are feeling right now.  That is beautifully put. Let me ask this. Did how you play these pieces change? These are works you have performed before.  Yes I was really struck by how my playing had changed when I listened to the recording. I mean as I said I had not been practicing. I - you know I would be lucky if I practiced for an hour a day. And normally I practice for about six hours a day. So I did not know how the recording would come out. I was very nervous about it. And I had these two nights where we recorded it where I decided not to listen to anything that I did. I did not go in and listen to playbacks. I just played for five hours each night without much pause. And so then when I went to edit the recording and I listened to what had happened I was really surprised because my playing during those months of not playing seemed to have grown tremendously and...  Really?  Yeah it was really strange. And I think that this may be my best recording so far. And it is so surprising and also very reassuring for me because I thought that I was all dried out and doing nothing. And it turns out that something was happening to me when I was not playing. And I guess that is a good lesson to learn.  Yeah. Well congratulations on producing a work of beauty in these unsettled and scary and often painful times.  Thank you.  That is the pianist Simone Dinnerstein. Her new album A Character Of Quiet is out this week.  