 If you had to guess where Aaron Lee Tasjan's music came from you might land a few miles wide of the correct answer. He is tried out a few different musical styles - jazz and glam rock - and different cities too before landing in the Nashville scene. That is where Jewly Hight interviewed him and sent this profile.  There is a notebook on the coffee table of Aaron Lee Tasjan's cozy East Nashville apartment. Its pages are open to autobiographical scrawling. He is made himself a cheat sheet for the interview.  Because it is like you want to remember all of this stuff because even the stuff that was not good that happened like all served some kind of purpose.  Well what did you have to consult?  My mom .  To be fair it is not all that simple to retrace the musical path Tasjan traveled to get here.    You sound like a radio station. You are looking for a standing ovation. You look like you could use a vacation.  Tasjan started out in suburban Ohio obsessing over Tom Petty and The Beatles. During his junior high years in Orange County Calif. he spent lunchtime in the music room hiding from bullies and strumming his first songs. By the end of high school he was mimicking Freddie Green the guitarist in the Count Basie Orchestra.  Playing jazz seemed like a thing that I did that made my dad really happy.   Tasjan caught the judges' ears at a national competition for high school jazz bands.  I was the only kid there who did not play through an amp and did not play a guitar solo . And they gave me the award.   He came away with a scholarship to study jazz guitar at Boston's Berklee College of Music but left after just six months. Tasjan moved to Brooklyn where he co-founded the glam rock band Semi Precious Weapons.    It is not my fault I look better in her party dress. It is not my fault that she left a slutty girlfriend. It is not my fault. This is how my mama made me. I have been magnetic since I was a baby. It is not my fault...  The group's lead singer Justin Tranter was known for his theatrical androgynous persona and the band sometimes shared the stage with Lady Gaga.  I saw Justin and Semi Precious Weapons as a hero for kids like me or just kids who are growing up in small towns in America that know that they are different or feel that they are different in some way.  At the same time Tasjan was also working on his own roots rock material. He eventually wound up in Nashville and released his first album under his own name three years ago.    The trouble with drinking is it as not no trouble at all. I do not have no problem when it comes to alcohol. It is as easy to come by as the air that I breathe unless I am low on money or too high on the weed.  It seemed like the work of an artist who fit right in among the clever troubadours in his East Nashville neighborhood. But Tasjan soon decided he was ready to do his own thing.  To try to have a little more empathy for myself and try to encourage these things that I am naturally thinking and feeling rather than thinking oh I am too - that is too weird if I do that. Like everyone's going to think I am weird you know? It is like well everyone already thinks that I am weird 'ecause I am weird.  Maybe so but that certainly has not kept Tasjan from making lots of musician friends in Nashville. Tasjan really felt the freedom to be himself on his third and latest album Karma For Cheap.    With the sun in your eyes through the golden haze yeah you are doing all right in so many ways. But the truth is so hard yes so hard the truth is so hard to believe. For me it is as Americana as it gets. You know Tom Petty and The Beatles and the Traveling Wilburys and David Bowie - like they are the same thing for me. You know they are my Loretta Lynn.  Tasjan's new music may not have the rootsiest sound but Elizabeth Cook a longtime fixture of the Americana scene recognizes a kinship to folk tradition in his songwriting.  I think one thing that helps bridge that gap for him is that he has a social conscience which is tradition in roots music. And that is in his lyrics. So there is often I think a heavy social message in - or a heavy heart about sort of the human condition in his songs.    Well the television psychic says you should have seen it coming. The deal is dirty. Fingers are reaching for your money. Your bones just rattle like a dropped tambourine and everything sad is a little bit funny.  When Tasjan received an Americana award nomination last year he took it as a sign of affirmation.  I would never really been given any sort of congratulations for being myself . I would been given lots of congratulations for playing guitar for this band or for that band. But no one had ever really been saying like hey man we think that what you did is cool and we appreciate you adding it to the conversation that is happening about all this stuff.  Not once during our conversation did Aaron Lee Tasjan refer to his notes. That is probably because he is absorbed his far-flung interests and experiences into one original identity in Nashville. For NPR News I am Jewly Hight.    Honey if your heart slows down... 