 And now to New Orleans where the Essence Music Festival just wrapped up in the wee hours this morning. For the past 17 years it is been a go-to event for African-Americans and especially African-American women from all over the U.S. It attracts hundreds of thousands of people for RB and Gospel performances along with panels on politics financial planning and parenting. NPR's Frannie Kelley was there and reports on this party with a purpose.  New Orleans is a party city and they party. If you go to the hotels those 40-floor hotels like 40 floors of parties.  That is George Wein creator of the Newport Jazz and Folk Festivals Kool Jazz and the New Orleans Jazz  Heritage Festival. What he is talking about sounds like this.   But Wein took a big risk in 1994 when he began planning another music festival in New Orleans - this one in the middle of the summer.  Everybody thought we were crazy. I said no no no no. I said the people that'ill come to the Essence Festival they will come from Georgia they will come from Mississippi they will come from Texas they will come from Baltimore. I said it is just as hot there as it is in New Orleans.  Not everybody thought he was crazy. Ed Lewis then the publisher of Essence had been looking for a way to celebrate the 25th anniversary of his magazine.  African-American women. The first year 140000 people showed up. Last year there were more than 400000. Lolis Elie has been to Essence many times. He is a writer from New Orleans and he says the festival is the single biggest event of its kind.  I do not know that any RB stars could fill this arena by themselves. But by having all these people together it is that much more attractive to the fans and also it is that much more attractive to these people who can get to play in front of this huge audience even though they themselves might not be able to sell 50 or 60000 tickets.  That is one reason stars choose to make comebacks here. Take D'Angelo who played his first big show in the U.S. in more than 10 years on Friday night.   He is been away from the game but he knew the Essence Festival would guarantee an audience.   D'Angelo became a star with the music video for this song in which he was naked from the pelvis up. Now he is trying to distance himself from that image and that is just the way Essence likes it says George Wein. He remembers Susan Taylor the longtime editor in chief of Essence often called its conscience and her insistence on keeping it clean. In the early years producers dropped the curtain on Bobby Brown and cut short an R. Kelly performance.  These are not kids that come to the Essence Festival. These are adults. This music was part of their life. I always say that rock-pop festivals are an escapism for young kids who come from middle-class and upper-middle-class families who can afford 150 tickets for a weekend to a big festival. For African-Americans it is not an escapism it is a totally different experience.  That is why Essence calls itself the party with a purpose. A few blocks from the Superdome at the Convention Center the magazine offers panels on education and relationships. Sunday afternoon is devoted to prominent Gospel performers. Little kids and grandparents show up. Everyone is wearing flats not stilettos. Bringing all these people out is very good business for Essence its corporate sponsors and the musicians. It is good for the city's coffers too - the hotels are jammed there are lines out the door at guidebook restaurants and every cab company in town works overtime. Lolis Elie says that matters in more than a monetary sense.  Another thing that I think Essence is doing which is unparalleled in terms of New Orleans commercial history is bringing a lot of black tourists here. If you go to the JazzFest you go to the Carnival events you do not see as many black tourists as you do at Essence obviously. And it is important to me that the city and its wonders be introduced to a larger black audience.  Essence is changing as it grows. Until recently the festival closed with a performance by '70s stars Frankie Beverly and Maze dressed all in white. Now RB singer Mary J. Blige is the perennial. She pulls in a somewhat younger audience like Binita Naylor who came down from Detroit.  Most people who have been listening to Mary probably have been listening to Mary since they were like teenagers. We grew up on her music and we kind of grew up with her. When I was younger she was singing about songs of things that I was going through when I was younger. And as I got older she started singing about more things too that I was dealing with as an adult.  At Essence many brands are competing for Naylor's attention. That is because she and her peers are highly influential consumers. Keshia Walker says they belong to a community that runs on word of mouth and referrals - and if they like your product you are golden. She is president and CEO of Insights Marketing. She is been putting on events during Essence for all of its 18 years.  So you see a wide diverse range of people of color so it is a phenomenal experience. I have been to every continent except for Antarctica and there is nothing like it in the world. Nothing.  Until next July. Frannie Kelley NPR News.  V.I.C.  All the shorties in the club. Let me see you just back it up drop it down. Let me see you just get low and scrub the ground. Let me see you just push it up push it up. Let me see you just. Wobble baby. Wobble baby. Wobble baby. Wobble yeah. Wobble baby. Wobble baby. Wobble baby. Wobble yeah. Wobble baby. Wobble baby. Wobble baby. Wobble yeah. Wobble baby. Wobble baby. Wobble baby. Wobble yeah. Get in there. Yeah yeah. Get in there. Yeah yeah.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 