 Young YouTube phenomenon - it is a phrase we hear a lot. But when it comes to Jacob Collier it is kind of true.    There is a world where I can go to tell my secrets to in my room in my room.  Collier's videos got the attention they deserved. The 21-year-old has just released his first album. The title comes from this track the cover of The Beach Boys' In My Room. Reviewer Tom Moon says the album is a dizzying ride.    I am alone but I will not be afraid in my room.  In his endearingly nerdy videos Jacob Collier shows how he makes music. He plays all the instruments and sings all the parts using a laptop to layer his tracks into massive arrays of sound.    I do not need you to save me no. I do not need you saving me no.  Lots of producers work this way. Collier's secret weapon is a short attention span. He is allergic to anything repetitive anything that is the least bit ordinary. Listen to where he takes that track a little later.    You say that I am lost and you can help me find that I do not want to be a saviour no more. I wish you could tell me something.  Collier's music revolves around sudden changes of meter or mood or feel. There are outbreaks of euphoria in the singing and behind them serious instrumental wizardry in the playing.    Found my strength to feel it. I woke up today. Heaven knows it found a girl who makes me sing.  There is a mad genius aspect to Jacob Collier. His music darts around constantly. Sometimes he abandons hypnotic grooves before they even fully coalesce. He usually winds up someplace interesting and that is what sets him apart. Not only does he have a seemingly endless supply of ideas. He is got the chops to execute them and the fearlessness to try anything.    I was walking down the line.  Jacob Collier's debut is called In My Room. Our reviewer is Tom Moon.    ...Peace of mind. Then I saw you. You were taking it slow and walking it one step at a time. You said listen Stranger. I am feeling low now. I do not know which way to go. I said if you are lost now maybe I could help you along and sing you a song and move you on. 