 These words might sound familiar.  To the left to the left. Everything you own is in a box to the left. In the closet that is my stuff. Yes if I bought it please do not touch.  Can you place it? Maybe this'ill jog your memory.    To the left to the left. Everything you own in the box to the left. In the closet that is my stuff. Yes if I bought it please do not touch. And keep talking...  It is Irreplaceable by Beyonce. The song is from her 2006 studio album. Its video has been played nearly 93 million times on YouTube. But it is never sounded quite like this.  You must not know about me. I could have another you by tomorrow. So do not you ever for a second get to thinking you are irreplaceable.  Actor Nina Millin performs Beyonce lyrics as monologues. Her interpretation of Irreplaceable was posted earlier this month and already has more than 300000 views. And people are hungry for more. To tell us how this all started Nina Millin joins me now from NPR West. Hi there Nina.  Hello.  So I hear the roots of this are in karaoke. Specifically a karaoke fail.  A karaoke fail indeed.  What happened?  I attempted to sing a Beyonce - like who does not want to sing a Beyonce song? So I attempted to sing one. And I attempted to while singing dance like one-half of one-quarter of one hair of what she does when I see her perform in the videos you know. And I failed miserably - could not even make it through.  Beyonce has a vast catalog right? I mean this woman's been in the game forever...  It is incredible.  Going back to a teenager. And so far you have release a version of Irreplaceable Mine and If I Were A Boy. How did you choose?  I chose the three that I thought showed how amazing these words actually are. You know that emotionally the journey that each of these things takes is Shakespearean.  So when you are sitting down and trying to break down a song and get ready to turn it into a monologue give us a little you know quick sense of the process. How do you detox your brain from the like indomitable rhythm of a Beyonce song? I mean I cannot get it out of my head.  I know.  So how do you approach this?  That was the most fun about Irreplaceable was trying to unhook from her hook. I did not listen to any of her song while was preparing for this. So I could stand a chance of having my own personal point of view from it. And then I broke down the text just in Theater 101 stuff. Who is this woman? Who is she talking to? What is she talking about? What are the circumstances - and made a character for each one.  So the character you are in these performs is not necessarily Beyonce.  It is inspired by her. No I would never even try to feel those high heels. Are you kidding me?   Now do you plan on using any of these monologues in your own work- say to land a gig?  Probably. Why not right? Which one - which one should I do?  I do not know. The If I Were A Boy one really works for me. That one actually - I could actually picture in a monologue.  If I were a boy I think I would understand how it feels to love a girl. I swear I would be a better man. I would listen to her 'ecause I know how it hurts to lose the one you wanted when you are taking her for granted. And everything you had got destroyed.    If I were a boy. I think I could understand.  Someone recently came up and said that they had not heard that song before. And it made them go and listen to it which is like the highest compliment there is for me.  That is actor Nina Millin. Nina thank you so much for talking with us about the Beyonce logs.  Thank you so much for having me.    But you are just a boy. You do not understand. Yeah you do not understand. How it feels to love...  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 