 Three years ago an unknown Canadian singer named Carly Rae Jepsen became the voice of summer.    So call me maybe. Hey I just met you and this is crazy. But here's my number so call me maybe.  Call Me Maybe was the earworm to end all earworms - pure pop music distilled. Now Carly Rae Jepsen has a new album called Emotion. It is still filled with pop anthems about love and longing but as you dig deeper into the album there are surprises.    Give me love. Give me love. Give me love. Give me love. Give me love. Give me touch.  The songs wind through some slinky moody unexpected places.    Give me love. Give me love. Give me love. Give me love. Fall into me. Give me love.  Carly Rae Jepsen joins us now from NPR West to discuss her latest project. Welcome to the program.  Oh thank you so much for having.  I think you probably know better than anyone what makes the perfect pop song. Your first single off this album is really really really catchy.    I really really really really really really like you and want you to want me to want me too.  When you write a song like that and you think yes this is pop perfection do you think hooray I might have another Call Me Maybe on my hands or do you think oh no I might have another Call Me Maybe on my hands?  . That is a good question. I can remember when I everyone was getting excited about that song feeling a little frightened for sure. I did not want to make another Call Me Maybe. I was very grateful for that experience but I was really excited to kind of just make some new music and show some other colors of what I like to do as a writer. But I was getting a lot of phone calls late at night from my manager saying this song this song. And it did give me chills at first 'ecause I was not sure if I was ready for that again.    Who gave you eyes like that said you could keep them? I do not know how to act or if I should be leaving. I am running out of time going out of my mind. I need to tell you something. I need to tell you something - yeah. I really really really really really really like you.  But this album is not all pop. There are also kind of moody slow jams. There are things that sound nothing like a Carly Rae Jepsen that we have heard before. For example one track that I keep going back to is Favorite Color. Let us listen to a bit of it.    Hold on now. This is getting kind of serious. This is getting kind of out of control out of control.  What does a song like this let you express that an upbeat poppy number might not?  I mean this song to me was just my feeling of love actually. I was very in love when I wrote this song and I felt myself almost fading into my partner. And I felt like we kind of blended into each other. That sounds strange does not it? But it is the best way I can explain it.    When I am close to you we blend into my favorite color. I am bright baby-blue fall into you falling for each other. Should I stay - making love until the morning light. I think that production was so key because it has the sweetness but it also has - I do not know - the intimacy. I do not know how they caught that but it is really kudos to them for that.  You worked with a lot of different collaborators and producers on this album. Earlier this week I spoke to the producer Diplo who said when vocalists come to him they want to sound like the future. So when you went to the producers and collaborators you worked on this album. What did you tell them you wanted to sound like?  You know there was not so much that discussion. I think in pursuit of figuring out what I wanted this album to be I really did so many different collaborations. I probably wrote over 200 songs.  You are kidding.  And...  Two-hundred.  Yeah. No. It is true. It is a sad tale .  That is incredible productivity.  Well I think there would been a bit of a tug-of-war going on in my own mind of really having that desire to rebel away from what I would done before but also not wanting to stray too far. And I love pop music. I wanted to make a pop album but I wanted to kind of blur the lines of what that needed to be.    In your fantasy dream about me and all that we could do with this emotion. When I discovered this era of '80s pop that was emotional and at the same time hooky it just triggered everything good in me. I just knew that this is what I wanted to make and that excitement kind of propelled the next few months. And then it was really quick but it took me a while to land on that direction.    This emotion - you feel it - all that we could do with this emotion.  You say you love pop music. I love pop music. I feel like there are people in the world perhaps even in the world of public radio who think pop music is an art form that people need to apologize for. Do you ever feel like you have to defend your love of pop?  No. I have been asked in interviews actually like what is your guilty pleasure what do you listen to that you wish no one else would know about? And I always think that is such a strange this 'ecause if it gives me pleasure I am never going to feel guilty for it.  .  I love pop music. I can remember actually growing up in a household that was very folk-based with what we listened to. Lopez was what we listen to is all James Taylor Joni Mitchell Leonard Cohen. And do not get me wrong. I love those artist to this day but something happened to me when I heard the Spice Girls and I had to...   And I just have not been - it changed me and I...  You have not been the same since.  I have not been the same since no .    You are stuck in my head stuck in my heart stuck in my body. I want to go get out of here. I am sick of the party. I would run away. I would run away with you.  It seems safe to say people know your music more than they know you. A lot of pop stars today define their brand through Instagram through Facebook through Twitter. You are not as active there. Is that a conscious decision?  I do not know if it is conscious so much as just a comfort thing. I find that I am very attracted to aspects of this career. Getting to make music for living is like a dream. I cannot picture anything better. But the other stuff that comes along with the idea of celebrity I - there is moments I can handle it and there is other moments that I really desire privacy. And I find that I shy away.  Do you think there are drawbacks to the effort it takes to preserve a part of yourself and say no I am not going to share 100 percent with the world I am not going to get devoured by my fans my audience?  Well my belief is that it would be more exhausting to be constantly sharing every aspect. I think that that privacy is really key for me at least. And I think it is probably different for every person what their comfort level is with that. But I think there is something to see as a way of putting music out and wearing the wig full time. I get it in some way. And I mean I am not there yet but I understand it and I sympathize.  Well Carly Rae Jepsen congratulations on your latest album Emotion and thanks for talking with us.  Thank you so much for having me.    'ecause you make me feel like I could be driving you all night. And I will find your lips in the streetlights and I will want to be there with you. Oh Baby take me to the feeling. I will be your sinner your secret. 