 Jazz musician Steve Coleman has been playing the saxophone for five decades. His latest album combines two of his passions - jazz and boxing. It is called Morphogenesis and Michelle Mercer has our review.   The relationship between jazz and boxing goes back to the pre-civil rights era when entertainment and sports were some of the only professions in which African-Americans could excel. Miles Davis paid tribute to the first African-American world heavyweight champion in his 1971 album Jack Johnson. Now Steve Coleman has released his own musical tribute to boxing.   Coleman was into boxing before he was into music. As a boy his father took him to watch fights at their local Chicago movie theater. After Coleman became a saxophonist and composer he found a philosophical and physical connection between boxing and music. Musicians in his band would describe a rhythm as backpedaling when a player would move away from a shift in the music like a boxer retreating from an opponent.   Morphogenesis means the beginning of the shape. And true to Colman's MacArthur genius style it is dense with layers and meanings. You would need to be a serious fan of boxing and jazz to hear all its references. But even the most casual listener can probably feel boxing in the slipping bobbing and weaving music here.   Coleman sometimes practices his saxophone while he watches boxing on TV with the sound off. Morphogenesis could be the soundtrack for a match but even more it is a musical mapping of the sport with Coleman putting the boxer's movements directly into musical lines. And because Coleman likes a challenge when the drummer he wanted for this album was not available he decided to represent the rhythmic gestures of boxing without a trap set and instead mostly through precise arrangements of horns and strings.   On Morphogenesis we have to meet the music somewhere out on the edge of comprehension. But even if these are not dance tracks music this connected to physical movement can get into our bodies somehow. We might even see boxing differently thanks to Steve Colman's imaginative composition.   Steve Coleman's latest album is Morphogenesis. Our reviewer was Michelle Mercer. 