 Product placement is everywhere these days including in our music. Pop culture reporter Kim Bhasin at Bloomberg recently took a deep dive.  I was listening to Bad And Boujee by Migos and there is a bunch of brand name drops in there.    Bustin' for Instagram. Get your Klout up. Yeah that way - float on the track like a Segway. Yeah that way...  Rolex Gucci Uber Ferrari Jacuzzi - that song has 19 brand names in all which got Bhasin thinking. He and another reporter pored over all the top 20 songs in the past three years. They found 212 different brand names mentioned either by name or otherwise.  We had to look up a lot of slang words to make sure we did not miss anything.  Like a frog for example. That is a Porsche. Eight of the 10 most mentioned brands were fancy cars along with alcohol and other things favored by the rich and famous. And Bhasin says that is not all.  There is a ton of like unexpected brands that get mentioned in music that you do not realize until you sift through  all of these songs.  His analysis revealed nods to Kit Kat 7-Eleven Crock-Pot Rolaids A1 steak sauce even Band-Aid.    Band-Aids do not fix bullet holes. You say sorry...  That is Taylor Swift's hit song Bad Blood. It is hard to know for sure why these product placements end up in songs.  Who knows how they pick these brands? A lot of the times it is just you know they like it. Or it works as an analogy in their lyrics and it just makes sense to make that reference.  And then there are less poetic reasons. Take the song Forever by Chris Brown.    Double your pleasure. Double your fun.  Which was released as a regular song. But Wrigley the chewing gum folks later revealed that it was actually a long version of a jingle for Doublemint gum.  There is one thing that is clear from all this number crunching and listening. The most mentioned brand was Rolls Royce. Artists seem to really like that particular flashy car.  And they like mustard too.    Hey this that Grey Poupon that Evian that TED Talk. Hey watch my soul speak. You let... 