 You could say we had a bit of an A-ha moment today.   This is how it ends each on our own.  That is the Norwegian band A-ha and it is a song from a new album they released today called Cast In Steel. It is their 10th studio album and it is a perfectly nice song. But we could not even finish listening to it before searching for this.   Take on me. Take on me. Take me on. Take on me.  And that is A-ha's mega mega hit Take On Me something our NPR A-ha correspondent can never get enough of. Stephen Thompson joins me in the studio. Hey Stephen.  It is so great to be here for such a momentous occasion.  . This song we all thought immediately - oh man we love this song and I am not quite sure why we love this song.  Well this song has been in our blood and in our hearts...  Is it just because we are a certain age?  I think part of it is that we are a certain age. I certainly would not care to guess your age Rachel but I am 43 which means that I was 13 when this record came out exactly 30 years ago - roughly exactly 30 years ago. And it has never really left the way some songs do. And it has kept percolating in part due to this incredible video that it had which we will get to in a second. But in part because it keeps getting sampled and because that little synth line is just - it is etched into each individual strand of our DNA.   I love that synth line but I would be remiss if I did not point out my favorite part of this song. I cannot come up with a technical term - but it is known - it builds it builds it builds and then it is the .  I cannot tell you how many times I have heard Rachel Martin in the minutes and hours leading up to this interview...  There it is! There it is!   This is a song - of course we have mentioned it was accompanied by this video that at the time was really revolutionary.  Yeah they used this rotoscoping technique in animation and they interspersed this line drawn animation with video and have them overlap. So it is a woman reading a comic book in a diner and the lead singer is in the comic book and she gets pulled in. And there are all these little techniques they use to kind of go back and forth between line drawn animation and real life. And it is so cool. It still looks neat yet the hairstyles are still the '80s but it is - I love it.  Plus who does not want to get drawn into the world of a comic book with a hot guy?  It is - you know when I was 13 I wanted to look like Morten Harket more than I wanted to look like anyone else. I think I still do.   Lastly we love this song we love these riffs in these songs. But other people have used these. The legacy is long of A-ha.  Yeah just like two years ago Pitbull and Christina Aguilera had a top-10 hit with a song built around that same synth line. And what I have found one of the things that makes this song eternal for me is that every time I drop my iPod in my bag and it starts playing my playlist from the beginning - this is the first song.  A-ha.  A-ha. This song - I do not know if they thought of this at the time but they are name - the way it is punctuated A-ha - means it is almost always the first song in your iTunes playlist.  Very smart of them. NPR music editor Stephen Thompson and A-ha lover. Thanks so much Stephen.  Thank you Rachel.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 