 Now for the rest of All Tech we are going to make some music. And as someone who knows you know close to nothing about making music this morning I actually made a song on my tablet that if I say so myself is a little jazzy.   OK I mean it is not exactly jazzy. But I have got Bob Boilen and Robin Hilton of NPR Music here in the studio to talk about the app that I made this song with because they have got a bunch of these music-making apps. Guys welcome to the studio.  Was not too bad.  As you just - you know well thank you.   Had a nice beat.  Oh I should explain that Bob and Rob and this is just one of a few music-making apps that you guys sent my way. This one was called Figure and it was really fun. We will talk about in a bit. But there was actually a simpler one right called Musyc spelled M-U-S-Y-C right Robin?  Yeah. You really do not need to know how to play an instrument or read music at all in order to use an app like this one. If you look at the screen it just has a simple horizontal line running across it  a circle square a triangle. And as I drag these shapes onto the page they bounce against the line creating a sound.   Each shape creates a different sound. That is a circle here's a square.   Here's a triangle.   And the rectangle is sort of the rhythm section.   Now the shapes are just bouncing around on their own bouncing into each other creating new tones.  It actually looks like an animated geometry test.  Yeah. It is a little bit like just playing with toy blocks or something that you are dropping on the ground. And as they bounce on the ground they are making sounds.   The thing with an app like this is you are not going to score a symphony or anything like that. You are just going to have some fun and kill some time.  Well I think the next app Figure seems a little more complicated frankly. I feel like I could make a song but it - I did not even know how I did it.   Bob explain how this app works.  OK.  a drum a bass and some sort of lead-sounding instrument some sort of melody instrument. I will start with the basic drum. There' there is a kick drum there is a snare drum a high hat and a cowbell sound right? Here comes the kick.   You know that sound.   Now it is just going to keep repeating. I have placed my finger on a little blue rectangle and we will do the same with the snare.   And then the cowbell. There is got to be a cowbell.  More cowbell.   And I am just playing now trying to make a melody that sounds right by just moving my finger around the screen and it remembers that. And it is looping it.   Now unlike the other app which is kind of abstract shapes dancing around this one does mimic in a way what we might think of as in terms of audio equipment. Those circles look like dials...  Right.  ...right that you might see on a board. It feels like you are sliding a slider up and down when you are playing around with the sounds.  And if you are on a piano - the far left of the piano are the lower notes the far right are the high notes - well the same thing on this sort of rectangular grid.   So now I am going to do what is called the lead instrument.   And again I am moving my finger high up to the left. And now far down to the bottom.   It almost sounds like you know what you are doing.   You could go around calling yourself a producer probably or a beat maker right?   That is right. Yes that is right.   Well we are going to end on an app that has virtual instruments you can play. And I have to say I find this app incredibly difficult. It is called Garage Band. Robin talk a little bit about it. I think people who are musicians might be pretty familiar with it.  It is an app that can go pretty deep. But you also do not need to know a whole lot about music if you just want to play with it on a very basic level. It has a whole bunch of instruments in it - like piano and guitar bass drums - and you can play all those light virtual instruments or it has a feature called Smart Instruments that all you have to do is touch a button and it plays patterns for you for each of those instruments. Bob if you want to bring up one of the Smart Instruments like give me some strings or something in C.  Right. So here we go. I am simply going to press my finger on a thing that says C.   Take it up to F.   Then to G back to C.   Whoa. Holy smokes.  Right?  That is using the Smart Instruments.  I am pretty good right?  And that was the strings. So yeah Bob's - it is making Bob sound way better than he is.  Yeah. We are a long way from circles and triangles here. I mean that is pretty impressive.  Yeah.  All right. Now that we have technically mastered these music apps should we actually try and make a song?  We can and we will use Garage Band. Bob and Audie why do not you two use Smart Instruments? All you have to do is hit a button and it will play a chord.  And I have this virtual acoustic guitar so you guys are going to have to be very patient with me.  So Audie why do not you just start with a C chord and I will count it off.  OK.  OK? And then I am going to call out other chords for you to hit.  All right.  So starting out with C - one two three four.   We are going to go to F.   Now to G.  I am going to join.  Now back to C.   Robin you join us on piano.  OK.   Whoa.   Robin you are hot on that piano.   It is not Mozart here but...   Yeah no one is turning in any graves.   Let us do a grand finale.   Oh solo guitar.   I thought you were going to ask me to sing next. Nobody wants to hear that. All right. So guys with all of these apps are they games or do they really expect people to make music people like me perhaps who really you know do not have a musical bone in their body.  I think they are ways in. This is a way for someone without the craft to have fun with sound and create.  I think another way to look at this is that you are playing around with somebody else's imagination. Someone has created this tool that allows you to be creative and find a way into this world of music that you otherwise might not discover.  That is Bob Boilen and Robin Hilton of NPR Music. They host NPR's All Songs Considered podcast. Guys thank you so much.  Let us rock.   Two three four...  