 The war in Iraq has provided ample material for authors filmmakers and now as it turns out a choreographer who is a former Marine. Homecoming is a dance performance inspired by letters from loved ones and relatives to U.S. troops serving in Iraq. It opens with three women dancing to the words of a letter from a girlfriend to a soldier in Fallujah.    I miss you. I miss us. I miss everything about the life we used to live together. I know that we are still together in spirit but I miss the physical reality of you.  The choreographer and former Marine sergeant is Roman Baca and he joins us now from Hartford Connecticut. Sergeant Baca thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you for having me Michele.  How did your fellow Marines respond to your background? I am wondering what they made of your background because there probably arent a lot of people in the Marines who are ballet dancers. Sgt.  No there are not. When I was in boot camp I confided in three of my comrades and told them that I was a ballet dancer and showed them some pictures. And two of them were very interested and very intrigued by it. And the third one never spoke to me again.  You were deployed to active duty in Iraq in Fallujah and it was at a time you arrived I guess not long after Operation Phantom Fury which is when the Marines attempted to clear Fallujah. At the time when you were going through that did you think that you might try to process this when you returned through your art? Sgt.  I did not think of it at all until halfway through the deployment I was standing post with my roommate Sergeant Damico and we were talking about the things that we would do when we got home. And it came up that I was a dancer and I started telling him about this story that I wanted to tell. And I did not know how he would take it. And the next day we showed up on post he had a pen and a piece paper and he looked at me and he said we are going to write this down so that we can get this done.  And is that what eventually evolved and became Homecoming? Sgt.  In theory yes it is. On getting home stories of wives and of mothers and of girlfriends losing their Marine or their soldier to battle and having to deal with that or having to deal with them being so far away and having children it resonated with me. And I felt that focusing on them would in turn highlight the soldier but tell the story from a very human view.  In listening to the narrative as you are watching the dancers there is a very moving letter where we hear about a couple who fought right before their separation his deployment. Let us take a quick listen.    I am really sad that we did not part on the best of terms. I am really disappointed that I never shared my feelings.  And what you see there is someone dancing and you see the longing in that dancing. Is that part of what you were trying to do is to help people understand the human toll of this? Sgt.  Yes. To have them open their eyes and look at the person next to them and open their heart to what they might be going through.  Well Sergeant Baca it is been great to talk to you. Thank you very much for coming to talk to us about your production of Homecoming. All the best to you. Sgt.  Michele thank you. It is been nice to talk to you too.  Roman Baca is the artistic director of the Exit 12 Dance Company and choreographer of Homecoming. The dance will be performed again next month in New York City. And you can see video of this dance performance online at NPR.org. Just click on Programs and go to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. 