 Ms.   Feel it coming in the air hear the screams from everywhere. I am addicted to...  This is a track off one of the most anticipated albums coming out this fall.  Ms.   Cannot be scaring nickels down. Got a problem tell me now. Only thing that is on my mind is who' The track is called Run this Town the record Blueprint 3 by rap megastar Jay-Z. It features Kanye West and in this song Rihanna. It is one of Maura Johnston's picks for new pop music to look out for this autumn. She is the editor of Idolator.com and Maura's in our New York bureau. Welcome back. Ms.  Hi.  Maura give us a quick back story to the song we are hearing here. It is off Jay-Z's album Blueprint 3. Ms.  Well the Blueprint 3 is coming out on September 11 which is actually the eighth anniversary of the release of the original Blueprint album which came out on September 11 2001.  On 911 right. Ms.  Yeah. And basically you know it is Jay-Z. I mean Jay-Z is one of the biggest megastars in pop music right now. You know he has clothing lines. He can endorse a computer just by having his hands waving around a screen as he did with an ad for HP a couple of weeks ago.  You do not even have to show his face. Ms.  You do not even have to show his face no.  Just Jay-Z's hands is enough. Ms.  Yeah Jay-Z's hands.  How much are his hands worth?  Ms.  Probably more than I could even imagine.  And this is a really big record. It has a ton of guest stars like you said Kanye West and Rihanna who are both on the song Run this Town. Alicia Keys is on it. The band MGMT produced a track.  Wow. Ms.  I mean it is just so many people. It is a big event.  Ms.   Run this town tonight. Mr.   We are yeah I said it we are. You can call me Caesar in a dark Caesar. Please follow the leader so Eric B we are. Microphone fiend it is the return of the god peace god.  And I was reading how secretive they were about the making of this album. They like went to Hawaii to record it. Ms.  Yeah because they wanted to prevent you know as many leaks as possible from the sessions although what wound up happening was it wound up leaking earlier this week.  Right otherwise we would not be able to be playing it right now. Ms.  Right right.  Because we got a leaked version.  Ms.  Shh.  Okay Maura what is your next pick? Ms.  My next pick is an album by Miranda Lambert who is a country singer who actually came to fame on the show Nashville Star. She did not win but she is had a really good string of records come out over the past couple years and her new albums is called Revolution and it is her third record.  Ms.   I feel like the flowers in this vase. He just brought them home one day as not they beautiful he said. They have been here in the kitchen and the water's turning gray. They are sitting in the vase but now they are dead. Dead flowers.  The song is called Dead Flowers by Miranda Lambert. Maura she is a pretty young country singer. Tell me about her. Ms.  She is kind of a bad girl you know? Her first album was called Kerosene. Her last album was called Crazy Ex-girlfriend. She definitely sings about carrying a gun if her boyfriend beats her up. And she said this is a much more artistic record than her two previous albums. So I think it will be a really interesting switch for her from this young firebrand persona to someone who is more reflective. This song is actually one of my favorites. It is a really evocative look at a relationship that is dying and I think it is really beautiful.  Ms.   He as not feeling anything. My love my hurt or the sting of this rain. I am living in a hurricane.   Maura this next song is my favorite of the lot that you picked. Can you guess which one it is? Ms.  I think it is the Roots.  You got it.    When you on the corners too much drama Living with the police right behind you. It is always more than a slight reminder. We living in a war zone like Rwanda. Before I go back to the heavenly father. Pray for me if it as not too much bother. Whatever do not break me or make me stronger. I feel like I cannot take too much longer. It is too much lying and too much frying. I am all cried out 'ecause I grew up crying. They all got a sales pitch I as not buying. They are trying to convince me that I as not trying. We uninspired. We unadmired. And tired and sick of being sick and tired. A living in the hood where the shots are fired. We dying to live so to live we dying. You just like I am.  Maura their last album Rising Down which came out in 2008 around now last year I think that was one of my favorite records last year. I think a lot of people will recognize this band from the Jimmy Fallon show. What should we expect with this record? Ms.  Well you know an interview with Questlove the drummer and the de facto leader of the band he is sort of the most visible he is really popular on Twitter these days. You know he has the big afro and he sits behind the kit. But he said that when he is been playing the record for people they have been throwing around the word gospel a lot. And he says that this record's very organ-heavy so - and you can hear that on that one - on the title track which is How I Got Over. You know you can definitely hear that the organ is playing a big role in the music.  I cannot wait for this one to come out. Ms.  Yeah it is really going to be good.  You picked a track called My Love is Better and it is by a Norwegian pop singer called Annie. And Maura this one sounds like it was recorded in 1984. Are you sure this is new? Ms.  I am positive it is new yeah.  Okay let us hear it.  Ms.   Coming with the light here we go again. First you say you are right. Then you take my pen. Because underneath your smile you do not wanna lose. Babe I have got the style. You have just got the shoes.  I read on a Web site that they called this album a complete modern masterpiece. Seriously? Ms.  I think it is really great actually. I think it is really just like really fun dance pop. You know Annie is a sort of well-known singer among the criterati - can I say that?   Yeah why not? Ms.  This record's actually been kicking around for a while. It came out in Norway last year and it is sort of been this apocryphal record and I am really into it. I think that it is really bouncy and fun and I am glad that it is finally seeing the light of day.  What are you going to leave us with this afternoon Maura? Ms.  I am going to leave you with Hope Sandoval  The Warm Inventions. She is the former lead singer of Mazzy Star and this is her first record in a long time and it is - people are very excited about it and I think it is easy to hear why once you just hit play.  Ms.   The trouble with the trouble is the trouble in me.  The song is Trouble by Hope Sandoval. It is one of Maura Johnston's fall picks. She is the editor of the website Idolator.com. You can find more of her recommendations at Idolator.com. Maura as always thank you so much. Ms.  Thank you.  Ms.   ...I do not know what you think...  We here at NPR will keep you up to date with all of the latest music this fall from rock to pop to classical and jazz. It' arena shows studio sessions and even something we call tiny desk concerts plus plenty of news and reviews. It is all at npr.orgmusic. 