 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Robert Siegel. Ella Fitzgerald was known as the First Lady of Song but Carla Bruni was the singer-songwriter of first ladies. The Italian-born globetrotting fashion model and girlfriend to rock stars and philosophers recorded a French and international hit in 2002 Someone Told Me Quelqu'un M'a Dit.   Then in 2008 Carla Bruni married Nicolas Sarkozy who was then president of France and she became literally a rock star first lady. Now with Sarkozy out of office she is released a new album Little French Songs although as you will hear I have just mispronounced that title.   Carla Bruni welcome.  Thank you. Hello.  And I gather that this album Little French Songs has been in the works for quite some time. Did you wait until you were no longer as we would say the first lady of France to release it?  Well what happened it was a mix of circumstances. I did wait until my husband was not the president of France anymore but I also waited because I had a little girl a baby girl so I had really no choice. And I gave priority to you know the baby of course and so I did it piece by piece.  Yeah.  I wrote the album then I recorded the album in another time and then I released the album instead of doing it all at once like most songwriters do.  But does this mark a change of a period in your life where now - for now you are back to being an artist...  Yeah.  ...and you are not - for now at least you are not the first lady of France.  Oh yeah. Oh it is so nice. I mean it was great. You know it was a great honor and a great experience. But talking about the music it just makes it easier you know? And also for touring no security problem no you know? It just makes it easy to be an artist for me definitely.    This is one of the songs from the album. It is Chez Keith et Anita. I guess we would say With Keith and Anita.  At Keith and Anita yes.  At Keith and Anita...  Yeah.  ...this place or whatever.  Yeah. It was very much related to a photograph shoot that was made in the house in the south of France by Dominique Tarle this French photographer. And this was made at Keith Richard and Anita Pallenberg's house and this was in the '70s. So I was just born you know at the time. So this is not like a personal experience.   You know when I saw those pictures and I heard of this album that came out from that time it was called Exile on Main Street - a Rolling Stone album - and the picture was showing such style of life such a quiet freedom. You know the '60s and the '70s were very different times. So I guess it would be a song about those years you know that no one really remembers now. But we still have the music that came out from those years the fashion you know the look.  You know what they say about no one remembers.   They are saying they are so stoned at the time they cannot remember what was happening in the 1960s.  Yeah. I remember the first sentence of Keith Richards' biography. It says believe it or not I remember everything.    Do you realize how hard it is for Americans to wrap their minds around the thought that this song about nostalgia for Keith Richards and Anita Pallenberg The Rolling Stones and the glamorous life of the wild '60s did - that was the wife of the president of the republic. Just how odd that is for us.   Yes. Well you know I happened to fall in love with this man and he was the president of the republic. I understand that it might be strange from outside. Of course from inside he is just my man and my husband. And really the point for me was to be you know next to him and to try to help him through his job if I can use that word.   The song on Little French Songs Mon Raymond My Raymond your Raymond I assume is not named Raymond.  No.   This is - why do you refer to your husband as Raymond?  Well it was kind of a blink you know because as you said he is so famous anyway that I was not going to sing  Nicolas Nicolas you know? And I tried.   You tried to write a song around Nicolas.  There was already a song from a very famous French singer called Sylvie Vartan and it was called Nicolas. So that was a song from the '80s. It was very - it was sort of a hit you know? So - and then I was trying to find another name for him and hesitating between Raymond but also Rogier you know Roger and then I also thought of Raoul.  Raoul yeah. Yeah.  Yeah. Raoul. But you know Raoul is not so cool for rhymes you know? You have cool but not so many other rhymes. Raymond you have a lot.   It is a round sound. Also it is sort of an old-fashioned name you know for us in France. Raymond was more the people from the '40s the '50s. I thought it was funny to use such a name to describe him quite precisely.   And you have no shortage of rhymes.   Oh yeah. Well you know I am not going to say Raymond is no good. Hey.   He is all good.  Yeah. He is all good...  He is all good.  ...to me anyway.  It is quite a description of your husband. He is an...  Yeah.  ...atomic bomb.  Yeah.  He is electric. He is dynamic.  Definitely.  Definitely.  Yeah.  This is a realistic- as far as things go a realistic depiction.  This is a very lucid and realistic description of him yeah. And loving of course you know?   The name in France the name of this CD...  Little French Songs.   Oh the name is in  in France yes.  Yes. The name is in . Yes. It is - I thought it was fun to also use an English title to describe such a French thing you know?  So it is not    No.  It is - and it is not Little French Songs. It is Little French Songs.   Exactly. See you get it.  That is exactly it.  Yes exactly.  Well welcome back to the singer-songwriting ranks here.  Thank you very much.  It is very nice to talk with you.  Thank you so much for inviting me.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 