 If you are a fan of country of David Letterman - hey of NPR then you have heard of Elizabeth Cook. She is been on the circuit for more than a decade and a half now on the radio and on the stage of the Grand Ole Opry where fans love her darkly comic attitude toward life's ups and downs. And she is gotten a lot more material to work with over the past few years she tells us. It is reflected in her new album Exodus Of Venus.    Calm me. Come on. Hand me that bottle. Come on. Ask for forgiveness while you still can pray.  Elizabeth Cook joins us now from WXPN in Philadelphia to talk about her new album. Elizabeth Cook thanks so much for speaking with us.  Oh thank you. Thanks for having me.  You know what? You have been through a lot. And I kind of hate to drag you through it. But the fact of the matter is that this last couple of years for you has had more than its share of life's ups and downs you know - divorce - always difficult - deaths of family members a major fire a stint in rehab. Understand that there was a mental health diagnosis that was new. And dealing with that - that is a lot.  It is been a lot in a short amount of time. You know as we know and as we are freshly reminded there is a lot of tragedies in the world. And I had a experience that - where it - just a lot happened in a really short period of time. And I think that was sort of what was the breaker for me.  It is been awhile since your last album Welder which was super popular ended up on a lot of people's top 10 lists of the year in 2010. Were you writing all along or were you just not in a position to produce an album during this period?  Yeah. You know I was writing some not a lot but some. There is always things brewing. Always - I am always having ideas. Now with modern devices I take notes on my phone and iPad and stuff. I have got ongoing lists of non sequitur. So I am always always working on it. But every two years there was a major disrupt when it seemed like it was time for me to make the record. And that just kept happening.  What is music to you at this stage of your life? I mean for some people I would imagine given the pressures of the music business now - I mean you have got to tour. You really have to really in order to make a living. That can really wear on a person who is dealing with some other stuff. But for other people they say gee if I did not have that you know - it is my lifeline. What is music to you at this stage in your life?  Yeah that for sure. I mean having - it is having experimented with a lot of therapy in recent years different types. It is my greatest therapy. It brings me along heals me consoles me. I feel like more powerfully than anything else.    Now do not be a doubter and do not be a cynic. All I ever need is a ride to the clinic. How does this sweat keep coming out of my head? It is like a number two pencil with a little extra lead.  Tell me about Methadone Blues.  Methadone Blues - well on the Welder album that came out in 2010 there was a song called Heroin Addict Sister. And Methadone Blues is a continuation of that same character. She came to live with the family for a little while in south Georgia and got what I call on the government's form of doing heroin which is called methadone. And it is a real pain in the butt to deal with and I felt so bad for her. She - you know she was dealing with her addiction. She was sick as she could be. She just stayed on a constant hustle. It felt like trying to keep everybody OK around her. And I felt bad for her so I wrote a song called Methadone Blues.    If I need gas money and sell what I do not use - methadone methadone methadone blues.  Now is this a real person?  Yes.  This is a real person that this is based...  Yes.  It is not you though.  It is not me.  It is not you but you...  Even though this - Methadone Blues is in first person as if I am her.  Is this a family member?  Yes yes.  You know they used to say that rap is the CNN of the streets. And it is kind of like this album is the CNN of your life not just your life but the people you know and like things kind of going on in your world.  Yeah you know it is highly informational I guess. But that is where I write from. I do not really know how to do it any other way. One thing that we have always had as a family and as a characteristic in my people is a lot of love and a lot of humor. And as so many people have fallen away and passed away on the inner circle and marriages blown up and things like that it is really - it is changed my surroundings quite a bit. So I am having to search again to find that. And I think that is why this record is you know coming from a darker place right now because that is just where it is at.    When heartache is in a locket tangled in my hand. Look out. Look out sugar. Mama needs a girl. Time for you to wrap me up in straitjacket love.  But it also is so fun to listen to.  I am glad that prevails because that is hopefully the characteristic that supersedes everything else something that I would hope to carry on no matter what life brings. That was sort of what was ingrained into me coming from you know a poor southern family that is messed up in every way that you can be messed up. And that was something that we always held onto and that we had was love humor and a good time in the face of any time.    I feel a slow pain coming up my back. I feel a slow pain. Blow everything covering my tracks blow everything.  Well congratulations on getting this one out. How are people reacting to it so far?  So far really well. And I have been nervous about it because I know that sonically it is a shift which in a business where people like brands and they like genres I definitely debunk that because I do not care about it. And I love country music. I love hillbilly music. I love rap music. I love you know. And I - but I do not like claim some allegiance to one format when it comes to getting my songs out so I am so far so good.    I have been dying turning into the dirt.  That is Elizabeth Cook. Her latest album is Exodus Of Venus. Thanks so much for speaking with us. We really enjoyed it.  Thank you. I appreciate you all.    I have been trying not to complain. I was hoping you would do the same. I see you. I see you do that dance. I see you...  For Sunday that is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Michel Martin. Let us keep the conversation going on social media. Check us out on Twitter npratc or follow me nprmichel. We are back next week. Until then thank you for listening and happy Father's Day to the dads. 