 Few people would look at U.S. copyright law and think comedy gold but for Rob Reid a former Internet entrepreneur it is been fertile ground. His new novel Year Zero pokes fun at the music and movie industries in what he considers their hysterical overreaction to copyright infringement. NPR's Joel Rose has this look at the book the man behind it and the great piracy debate.  Year Zero begins with the premise that human beings make the best music in the universe.  Aliens suck at music and it is not for a lack of trying.  This is actor John Hodgman reading the audio book version of Year Zero. The narrator describes how an otherwise advanced alien civilization first learns about our musical mastery when it intercepts a TV broadcast of the 1970s sitcom Welcome Back Kotter.  The show ended the credits rolled and the theme music began and suddenly the brainless brutes that they would been pitying were beaming out the greatest creative achievement that the wider universe had ever witnessed.   From there the aliens basically fall in love with all of Earth's recorded popular music but since they are unfamiliar with our legal system it takes the aliens a while to figure out that they are committing copyright infringement on an intergalactic scale.  The action of the book starts when they come to the realization that they owe us an ungodly amount of money.  First time novelist Rob Reid has a bit of history with the music industry. He was the founder of Listen.com which created the Rhapsody music service in the 1990s so Reid had to deal a lot with record labels and copyright law.  What I tried to do was to create two equally comical surreal worlds in the eyes of the reader one of those worlds being that of the music-addled aliens and the other one being basically the interaction of giant media interests with the United States Congress and the mutant spawn of that romance which is American copyright law.  Reid does believe in the sanctity of intellectual property but he thinks the penalties for copyright infringement in the U.S. are so extreme that they wind up being counterproductive.  When the law gets stretched to such a cartoon extreme 150000 penalty for pirating a single 99 cent song we cease to look like victims of property theft who deserve to be protected and we start looking more like a coddled interest group.  That is certainly how Reid made the music and movie industries look earlier this year in a talk called the 8 billion iPod that he delivered for the Technology Entertainment and Design or TED conference in California. The video has been viewed more than a million times since it was posted online.  These days an iPod Classic can hold 40000 songs which is to say 8 billion worth of stolen media.  Well actually 40000 songs times 150000 per song would make it the 6 billion iPod. But Reid goes on to poke fun at a study cited by the Motion Picture Association of America which found that copyright infringement costs the U.S. economy 58 billion a year.  This money could stretch from this auditorium all the way across Ocean Boulevard to the Weston and then to Mars if we use pennies.  The Motion Picture Association declined to comment for this story but it did refer me to the economist who wrote the study. Turns out he had watched Reid's TED talk too.  Was I entertained? No. I was probably not entertained.  Steve Siwek works for Economists Incorporated a consulting firm in Washington D.C. He is the one who came up with the 58 billion number in a report published five years ago and he stands by it.  There are four industries that we study. We study motion pictures we study recorded music we study entertainment software and video games and we study software.  Including Microsoft Office and many other kinds of copyrighted business software that are frequently copied without permission. It is also important to note that Siwek is talking about direct and indirect effects on the economy which are much bigger than just lost sales or profits. Those are distinctions that rarely get mentioned when his study is cited and it was cited quite a bit during the debate in Congress over two controversial bills known as SOPA and PIPA that were intended to combat copyright infringement. Both bills seem to be on permanent hold though Siwek says their critics have offered no real alternatives.  There seems to be pretty much universal acceptance that piracy is large and that it affects a lot of people and a lot of money but no one from that side particularly comes forward and tries to estimate those things. So that is kind of troubling to me.  It is true that Rob Reid for one does not claim to know exactly what copyright infringement is costing Hollywood or the music business. His own contribution to the discussion is more satirical than empirical but Reid says both industries could learn a lot from book publishers who rushed to embrace online distribution platforms instead of fighting them.  The day that the Kindle launched rather than trying to seal it out of existence the six major publishers all were there with 90 of the top 100 selling books of the day available on the Kindle. The result of that was an immaculately integrated experience that piracy cannot match.  That would not do much to help the music-obsessed aliens in Rob Reid's novel although it is good news for any species that happens to fall in love with human literature. Joel Rose NPR News New York. 