 Another giant of 19th-century thought Charles Darwin is the inspiration for a new record by the Rhode Island band The Low Anthem.  Mr.   Who could heed the words of Charlie Darwin?  The Low Anthem is a trio of recent college graduates. Their songwriting and their sound is very far away from the indie rock that dominates campus radio stations. This is music steeped in the tradition of American folk and roots. Ben Knox Miller Jeff Prystowsky and Jocie Adams are The Low Anthem. Their latest album is called Oh My God Charlie Darwin and they are with me in the studio. Welcome to you all. Mr.  Hi guys. Mr.  Hello. Ms.  Hello.   Who could heed the words of Charlie Darwin fighting for a system built to fail? Ben Knox Miller tell me about this song. Why Charles Darwin? Mr.  Well I became very interested in the theory of natural selection was fascinated by using it as a framework to think about other things like religious institutions and political institutions academic institutions and the way that thoughts are in competition the same way genes are in competition and this idea that what survives is what is fit and we are taught that what survives ought to survive for a moral reason or some sort of absolute reason but this seemed to throw all of that into chaos.  Ms.   Who could heed the words of Charlie Darwin? The lords of war just profit from decay and trade the children's promise for the jingle the way we trade our hard-earned time for pay.  I should make it clear from the get-go that you guys do not just produce gentle melodic sound. There are some raucous pieces on this album and I am thinking particularly of this track The Horizon Is a Beltway.  Mr.   The horizon is a beltway that we may never cross. The tops of buildings tremble like children lorn and lost. The stain runs deep it is deeper than the blood upon the cross. The horizon is a beltway that we may never cross.  Ben Knox Miller there is no getting around the comparison with Tom Waits and a lot of reviewers have made it. Is that a sound you are consciously channeling? Mr.  Well we love Tom Waits' music. That is pretty clear I think. We put a song that he is done as the next track on the record you know and as far as the vocal style I am not sure that is any kind of conscious imitation. I love his singing it is very expressive. But really it was just looking for a way to cut through that raucous mix and create a more dynamic sound in a live set. You know a lot of listen to the record and assume that there must be multiple singers on the record. You know a lot of people...  And you sing on all the - you are the lead vocals on all the songs. Mr.  Yeah a lot of people and most embarrassingly Bruce Springsteen thought that maybe Jocie was singing the lead on the first track.  Mr.  So I get that a lot.  That falsetto voice. Mr.  Yeah. We are always experimenting with different sounds. While we arrange oftentimes we will bring a song in and we have an arranging room in our apartment and...  You guys live together Jeff? Mr.  Yes. And that is the way I look at how Ben has been experimenting with his voice singing falsetto singing in what would be called a regular voice and singing in more of a hoarse voice while we do the same thing with instruments.  And 27 instruments on this record right something like that? Mr.  That number might be inflated but that is what we told the press.  Mr.  There is a couple that make just very minor appearances.  Including I notice a Tibetan singing bowl.  Mr.  That is right. That was recorded by our tour manager and dear friend Graham Smith. And he had been awake for 72 hours working on a project that he was doing for his architecture program that he was in. And he shows up after 72 on his feet giving a presentation and we asked him to record the Tibetan singing bowl. And he fell asleep during the first take. He is just singing there. You just - it is a bowl and you run a stick around it and it makes this resonance. And he fell asleep during the first take so did not remember that he was on the record.  Mr.  Ben do you remember when we bought that thing? Mr.  That is right. Mr.  We bought the Tibetan singing bowl.  Oh you guys bought it. Mr.  We bought it on like 85th Street in New York City. We had played one at a friend's apartment. It was a Tibetan gift shop. And we brought a tuner in. And we really felt like these Western musicians entering this Eastern culture because you know the Tibetan singing bowl is a prayer instrument and we went in there with a tuner and tried to find one that would hit the pitch C exactly. Mr.  We tried 100 singing bowls. Mr.  We tried 100 of them.  And you finally found the right one. Mr.  We did we did but we did not make any friends that way.  I want to hear a little bit of this song To Ohio. It is such a beautiful song. Let us play some of that for a moment.  Mr.   Lost my love before her time lost my love before her time on the way to Ohio on the way to Ohio.  Jocie Adams your voice sounds lovely on this track coming in with Ben. I have read that you worked at NASA. Is that right? Ms.  Yeah I did briefly work at NASA.  Here in Washington? Ms.  Yeah at Goddard actually.  How did you go from NASA to The Low Anthem? Mr.  Same thing really.  Ms.  I studied that during college and I studied music as well. And I was trying to figure out what I wanted to do and tried a bunch of research jobs at different places and it just was not the right thing for me. I could not deny my love for music any longer.  The three of you met as undergraduates at Brown University. Did any of you guys get any grief from professors or family or friends when you said you know I am going to start a band. I am going to join a band. Ben? Mr.  You know Brown is a great school. Personally I think I was a bit disengaged during that time though and have some regrets looking back at that because there is lots of things now that I look back and say that is so fascinating. Why - where was my head then? But I do not think that I ever really fooled any of my professors or my parents into thinking that I was really serious about academics.  Jeff? Mr.  Well I had a lot of pressure from my family to become a doctor because they are all doctors my parents and my uncles and aunts. And so I tried. I was pre-med did not work out. But they were not so disappointed because I have an older brother and a younger sister who are both doctors so... Mr.  Two out of three as not bad. Mr.  Two out of three as not bad yeah. They were always very supportive.  Jocie? Ms.  Yeah my parents also are very supportive. But I think that you know they would not have minded if I ended up working at NASA probably.  They are a little curious about that still but they are very supportive and they love the music.  You are here with your guitars and a clarinet is that right? And you are going to leave us with one song from the record. What are you going to play Ben? Mr.  We will play Ticket Taker.  Ben Knox Miller Jeff Prystowsky and Jocie Adams are The Low Anthem. Their latest record is called Oh My God Charlie Darwin. Guys thanks so much for coming in. Mr.  Thanks a lot Guy. Mr.  Thank you. Ms.  Thanks for having us.  Mr.   Now tonight's the night when the waters rise. You are groping in the dark and ticket takers count the men who can afford the arc. The ticket takers will not board. The ticket takers are tied for five and change an hour to count the passersby.  If you would like to hear more from The Low Anthem including their performance from this year's Newport Folk Festival go to nprmusic.org. And that is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Guy Raz. Have a great week. 