 This week a new album came out by singer-songwriter Ryan Adams.    Got a long list of ex-lovers. They will tell you I am insane. But I have got a blank space Baby. And I will write your name.  And if that song sounds familiar it is. It is a word-for-word cover of Taylor Swift's megahit Blank Space.    Got a long list of ex-lovers. They will tell you I am insane. But I have got a blank space Baby. And I will write your name.    I will write your name.  Ryan Adam's new album of Taylor Swift songs has the same name as Taylor Swift's album. It is 1989. And joining me in the studio to talk about it is NPR Music's Stephen Thompson. So OK we all know who Taylor Swift is but remind us. Who is Ryan Adams?  Ryan Adams is a veteran singer-songwriter. He is put out an enormous catalog of music. He was incredibly prolific 10 or 15 years ago and has made some records that I think are considered classics albums like Heartbreaker. He is very well-received well-reviewed and has a certain amount of gravitas about him especially as he is formed this large body of work.  OK so is this new project a Taylor Swift-sanctioned project? I mean what is the motivation here for an album-length tribute to her?  I like the idea that Taylor Swift industries has signed off on this.  Right right right yeah.  But she has purported to be a Ryan Adams fan. She has said so for years now. And so I think she approves of it and has said that she is very excited about it. I think the motivation for Ryan Adams recording this album - he has said that it is a breakup record. You know Taylor Swift writes very convincingly about heartbreak and he went through a very high-profile breakup in his own life. And so he drew on a lot of her songs for inspiration. And I think as he was listening to them and learning how to play them he realized how much song craft there is in her writing.    I will write your name.  Do I need Ryan Adams to tell me what a good songwriter Taylor Swift is?  That is a great question. I think there are people who do need to be told what a good songwriter Taylor Swift is. But it is a little frustrating to have like - finally a 40-year-old dude has declared that he approves of Taylor and now we can take her seriously? Like we should have been taking Taylor Swift seriously. Not for nothing is she one of the best-selling musicians in the world right now. She is very very good at what she does even if what she does is very spangly pop music that a lot of people do not take seriously.  And quickly let us listen to Taylor Swift's version of that huge hit Shake It Off.    'ecause the players going to play play play play play and the haters going to hate hate hate hate hate. Baby I am just going to shake shake shake shake shake.  All right. Now let us listen to Ryan Adams's version of that song.    The players are going to play and the haters are going to hate. Baby I am just going to shake. Baby I am just going to shake.  OK this one is a lot more mopey. I mean it is sad. What is going on?  It is suddenly an incredibly somber take. To me it sounds incredibly like Bruce Springsteen's song...  Yeah right?  ...I am On Fire.  The...  The little slow percussion and guitar and everything. The whole record sounds a lot like Bruce Springsteen which is kind of interesting in its own right.  That is NPR Music's Stephen Thompson. Thanks for joining us.  Thank you.    Shake it off. Shake it off. 