 Tens of thousands of people attended a candlelight vigil in Memphis Tenn. last night. But it was not an entirely somber event.    Well I can preach until you are deaf and dumb. I am in the soul saving army...  It was in commemoration of the king of rock 'n' roll Elvis Presley who passed away 40 years ago today. He died unexpectedly in his Graceland home. He was 42.  Elvis is still the reigning king. To this day he holds the record for the most top 40 hits - 114 total. He won his first gold record in 1956 for Heartbreak Hotel.    Well since my baby left me well I found a new place to dwell. Well it is down at the end of Lonely Street at Heartbreak Hotel.  Before long Presley secured legend status.  Saying the words Elvis Presley at that point it was almost like saying Chevy or Ford or football. You know what I mean? You just do not think somebody like that would pass away.  That is performer and lifelong Elvis fan Shawn Klush. He is built a career off of Elvis' memory traveling the country and the world as an Elvis tribute artist.  He draws crowds everywhere he performs. Recently he went to Chile.  So I went down there. And you go out and stand out on the stage and there is 12000 people in the audience. But man I will tell you what - son of a gun if I did not get on stage and In The Ghetto starts and they sang it right back to me in English. I mean that is - I felt a little embarrassed almost as if it should not be me receiving these accolades. It should have been him.  He says it is been more than just the music that keeps fans clambering to pay their respects. Elvis had something truly special.  Some musicians and entertainers have a certain quality. You know one will have good looks. One will have a great voice. One will have this. He was the only guy that had it all.  As for the real Elvis his rock star persona was a lot even for him. When asked in a 1972 press conference about it he said this.   Well the image is one thing and a human being is another you know? So...  How close does the image come to the man you really are?  It is very hard to live up to an image. I will put it that way.  But for thousands and thousands of fans that image is as close as they will ever get to him.  Well the image and of course the voice.    You as not nothing but a hound dog crying all the time. You as not nothing but a hound dog crying all the time. Well you as not never caught a rabbit and you as not no friend of mine. Well they said you was high-classed. Well that was just a lie. 