 Finally this hour music to enhance a summer road trip. Heat and traffic and constant queries of are we there yet can make traveling tedious. Our critic Tom Moon suggests this soundtrack to make the trip go faster.  As soon as the first road trip of the summer is on the calendar I began searching for music that can help make the ride from point A to point B a pleasurable experience. I am a creature of habit so typically I gravitate toward the old faithful tried-and-true driving companions like the Grateful Dead and the Allman Brothers.  Mr.   Well I am southbound. Lord I am coming home to you.  For me this is the essence of driving music. It just pulls you along with sheer locomotive force. You can chew up lots of miles with this blasting. But according to my family I have relied on the Allmans a few too many times. So before hitting the road this year I sought out only new stuff.    I do not know. I have been around.  shake them down.  That is from the self-titled debut of Hill Country Revue a spinoff from the North Mississippi All-stars. These guys come from the blues but they specialize in a sweaty supercharged update that owes as much to the Allmans as Muddy Waters. The whole album has this kind of energy.    I am going down to  sweet like mine. Sweet like mine. Sweet like mine. Oh sweet like mine. Yeah.  In addition to intense rhythm sometimes what I need in the car is music that on some level engages my brain. The latest from Green Day 21st Century Breakdown does that. It is a full-blown rock opera about what it means to hold onto ideals when prospects are bleak. The Green Day mix  punk attitude classic-rock hooks and comic book philosophy  is downright galvanizing.  Mr.   Put your faith in a miracle. And it is non-denominational. Join the choir we will be singing in in the church of wishful thinking. A fire burns today of blasphemy and genocide. The sirens of decay will infiltrate the faith fanatics.  Of course you also need variety on the road some intense music to keep you alert during the day and music that can chill you out and renew your spirit in the evening when you still have hours more to go. The violinist and singer Sara Watkins of Nickel Creek has a wonderfully desolate late-night tune on her first solo album. It is called Bygones.  Ms.   As faint as a phantom. But I can pull you under. Bound to you in bygones. You took it to the limit and glimpsed all that you would been missing. Found yourself a secret.  Some music makes a road trip better and sometimes the trip itself enhances the music. That is the case with Wilco's new album. The band's seventh studio effort has lighthearted melodies and Morse code guitar blasts that seem to blossom when you are moving.  Mr.   Come out children you are acting like children. Every generation thinks it is the end of the world.  That tune has lots going for it including a grabby refrain that is tailor-made for singing along.  Mr.   Yes dream down a well. There is a lone heavy hell. I do not care anymore. I do not care anymore.  To me that right there sounds like summer on the open road.  Mr.   We are here at the end.  Our critic Tom Moon is the author of 1000 Recordings to Hear Before You Die. And you can find all his suggestions for road trip music at nprmusic.org.  Mr.   Come on kids you are acting like children. 