 Every summer musicians from across the Spanish-speaking world flock to New York City for the Latin Alternative Music Conference. For one week famous and aspiring musicians and members of the Latin music industry meet and greet and then there are the shows.   Night after night live musics gather throughout the Big Apple. This year was no exception. Last week New York was bouncing with Latin music and here to bring us the scoop on which bands wowed the crowds are Jasmine Garsd and Felix Contreras. They host NPR Music's Alt.Latino. Jasmine and Felix welcome to the show.  Thank you so much for having us.  Hey Audie.   So who are we listening to right now?  This is Ana Tijoux. She is a Chilean rapper whose popularity is growing and very well-deserved because she is an incredible talent.   And Felix what makes this Latin alternative because I know that definition is probably pretty elastic?  It is very elastic and it is easier to describe what Latin alternative music is not. It is certainly not polished pop. In this case in Ana Tijoux's case she is very very intricate in her delivery and in her attitude and in her message.  There is definitely like a cultural ideological element to what you call Latin alternative. I mean Ana Tijoux as so many of the artists that presented at the Latin Alternative Music Conference definitely going against the big record label industry model but also discussing very political issues very socially committed. The other big names that were present at New York was Puerto Rican rap duo Calle 13 and they if anyone is a political band it is them.   A big band known for putting on a great big live show tell us a little bit more about them.  Sure. Calle 13 is a Puerto Rican rap duo. They started off in reggaeton but they quickly expanded. And they would mix cumbia salsa rock and they also quickly expanded beyond Puerto Rico. They really carry the flag of every Latin American country. Let me just give you an idea of how popular this band is. They played at Prospect Park in Brooklyn. There was an estimate that it was like 6500 people in the audience 6500 had to be turned down.  Oh wow.  Yeah. And these guys bring in the crowds and this song that we are hearing Latinoamerica Latin America is an ode to being Latino Americano to being a Latin American.   And we do not want to let you guys go without asking about some newer acts. So who were the surprises of the show?  For me it was a band that we have heard of and definitely listeners on ATC have heard of which is La Santa Cecilia from Los Angeles. First up this band was brought to my attention by Felix and I thought well this is an interesting band whatever. I saw them live. And let me tell you I was that fool in the crowd that started singing ...   ...like you know we want another song because I just could not believe this woman's stage presence live.    There is no end to the story. No fun no blow. Oh glory.  And Felix for you who stood out?  You know we had a table set up - Alt.Latino had a table set up at the LAMC and people come by and drop off CDs which is part of the magic of the DIY the do-it-yourself crowd of people bringing in their music. A woman named Xenia Rubinos dropped off her CD introduced herself to me and then walked off into the crowd and I put it on and it stopped me in my tracks because it was just so imaginative so creative and unlike anything I expected to hear.   Very nice.  You know there is a vocal thing that she is doing there with that but then - and later on in the track and throughout the whole album there is a strong like a distorted almost punk feeling to it. There is an organ playing that - what it reminded me of all things Deep Purple back in the '70s because it is just so unconventional and it is just such a strong record. I really really enjoyed this one.   So essentially this is an industry event for Latin alternative music. I mean what was the conversation about the state of the industry?  Well the big industry is not doing that well right now but for an alternative genre a genre based on people who have a true passion for well-constructed music with a message that kind of never falters. I mean they are doing great.  And there is also the challenge of getting that music out and getting the word out you know because of the lack of radio play in both English and in Spanish. When you are pushing the DIY aesthetic like that there is always going to be that challenge no matter what language you are singing in but this is - that was part of the message of this conference as well.  Felix thank you.  Thank you.  And Jasmine thank you.  Thank you for having us.  Jasmine Garsd and Felix Contreras host the Alt.Latino podcast at NPR Music and you can listen to performances from the Latin Alternative Music Conference at nprmusic.org.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 