 Glen Campbell was honored last night at the Academy of Country Music honors with a career achievement award. He has sold tens of millions of albums in a career that has spanned six decades hit after hit especially in the 1960s and '70s.    Like a rhinestone cowboy riding out on a horse in a star-spangled rodeo.  Mr. Campbell was not at the Ryman Auditorium in Nashville to receive his award. His wife Kim accepted it on his behalf because he is in the late stages of Alzheimer's. He announced his diagnosis about five years ago and his early struggles with the disease can be seen in a film that came out in October of 2014. That is when I spoke about it with Campbell's wife and the film's director who captured a family seeing a loved one begin to slip away and a man saying goodbye to his career.   I would like you to try to remember four words OK? I am going to give you four words. You try to remember them now. G.  If and and but is my big one.   This is Campbell and his wife Kim at the Mayo Clinic. It is a scene from a new documentary called  I will Be Me. It is about his Alzheimer's and the farewell tour of concerts Campbell played with his children even as the disease was advancing.   Mr. Johnson. G.  Mr. Johnson.  Charity. G.  Charity.  And tunnel. G.  And tunnel.  OK. Can you give those back to me now? G.  No. I have no use for it now.  OK any of them? G.   I just already passed it.  They are gone already OK. G.  I can play guitar.  .  Director James Keach and Kim Campbell welcome to the program.  Thank you.  It is a stunning scene where we are witnessing Glen Campbell's loss of memory but not his loss of his sense of humor. That is - what an odd condition he was in at that moment. K.  That is just the way he is always been. He is always had just a great sense of humor and...  Yeah. K.  ...Loves to laugh.  He was - in fact when we were doing that he would call it part timers. He made light of it even when he was given the diagnosis.  James Keach you have to describe what you filmed here. It is both an intimate documentary about Glen Campbell and his family his wife his children and a musician's tour around the country.  Yes. It certainly was a tour. My partner Trevor Albert and I set out to try and find a light in a very dark space. And as soon as we met Glen and Kim the light turned on. I mean they said Glen has announced he is got Alzheimer's. A few years before I would made a movie called Walk The Line and they thought oh gee you understand about making musical bios. Well I do not necessarily know how to make a bio about a guy with Alzheimer's and we were very reluctant to do it. And we thought well it is five weeks. And then it turned into 151 shows. And the thing that is really cool is that the audience becomes this character in the film that lifts this man up at his most vulnerable. They rally around him. And there is a lot of comedy in it and that is Glen.  Yeah.  You know Glen's funny.  Here's a part of the film in which Glen is playing at Ryman Auditorium in Nashville. He played a few nights. It was a hugely important stop on the tour. And it starts out with a complete train wreck.  G.   'ecause it is knowing that your door is always open and your path is free to walk. And makes me . You got a thing going here?  The teleprompter went out.  Yeah.  G.  Now what is that - the words - you have to have one of those things on me 'ecause I have forgot everything I learned.   And the show goes on. Kim Campbell were people at that moment thinking maybe this was not such a great idea - this tour? K.  Well you know Glen took everything in stride and the audience you know just pick up on that same attitude. And they did not care. They were there to cheer him on.  He needed the teleprompter for the lyrics but he is playing. I mean he remembers the music. And if the teleprompter said play solo Glen he would then say play solo Glen. He would read it off the teleprompter...  He did.  ...During this.  He would read Glen play solo and then he would start doing it. It was awesome.  G.  I will play one now .  When we started the film we were focused on how can this guy go play music with Alzheimer's? And he did not have shame for having Alzheimer's. When I would say hey Glen how is the Alzheimer's coming along? I would say it to him - you know when I first said it people look at me like what are you doing man?  Yeah.  You do not talk about - the guy's got Alzheimer's. And I said exactly. Why are we making the movie? So we would ask him things like so what is it like to forget stuff? And he would go it sucks. It sucks. And then he would joke about it. And by the time he was done with the joking and regaling what he would forgotten he felt safe and everybody else felt safe. And it was an opportunity for the elephant to be in the room and to be OK with it.  He is playing with his kids. Is it fair to say that he would have had trouble naming his children on stage when he was performing and crediting who the musicians were?  I do not think he could have. He would go that is my baby girl. He would say that all the time. And he would look over at Cal the drummer and he would kind of cock his head. He knew - he always knew that they were his children and that they were part of him and that he loved them but not by name.  G.  My darling...  Introduce me dad. G.  Huh? A.  Introduce me. G.  I have. I got it right here.  G.  I had to write it down or you would have got it first. A.  You are funny.  Kim Campbell he has at home with you one - in the movie at least - one full-throated tantrum.  K.  Here. What you need to do is go to the dentist down the street and have them fix it. G.  No. And I as not going to do it either. I do not want to  there.  Was that the one tantrum he had during that year and whatever or was that a much more common occurrence? K.  It was a more common occurrence. There were some really dark places you know and experiences that we had.  K.  You just had a knife in your mouth on the bus a few minutes ago. G.  I did not. K.  Yes you did. G.  . K.  But that is the nature of this disease. They can become very agitated. They can hallucinate. So it is a balancing act that caregivers have to you know dance to keep everybody happy and everything even keel and redirect them if they begin to go off into kind of a dark area.  He is now in a long-term care facility? K.  Yes.  Does he play guitar while he is there? K.  Yes. He has two guitars in his room. He still does pick it up every now and then.  He tuned - he - last - we went to see him last week and he picked it up and he tuned it. And he still plays better than I do.   Glen Campbell can lose a lot of skill at the guitar and still play a lot better than most people who picked up a guitar.  That is right. K.  Yeah.  G.   And I need you more than want you.  Kim Campbell and filmmaker James Keach two years ago speaking about the Glen Campbell documentary I will Be Me.  G.   And the Wichita lineman is still on the line. 