 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR West. I am Arun Rath.    To say that things are jumpin' leaves not a single doubt that everything is in full swing when you hear someone shout. Here 'tis. The joint is jumpin'. It is really jumpin'. Come in cats and check your hats. I mean this joint is jumpin'.  Legend has it that pianist Fats Waller used to say if you do not know what it is do not mess with it. Well fellow pianist Jason Moran knows what it is and he is messing with it.    This joint is jumpin'. It is really jumpin'. Come in cats and check your hats. I mean this joint is jumpin'.  Jason Moran's latest album is called  A Joyful Elegy For Fats Waller he is taken some of Waller's biggest crowd pleasers and reworked them to reveal just how timeless these songs are. Moran was originally commissioned by the Harlem Stage to perform a concert of Waller's music but at that same time his wife was prodding him to try something new.  And my wife was like Jason you need to do something for some people to come dance and I followed her lead and thought Fats Waller was the perfect vehicle for this kind of investigation of his sound related to dance. And so that led us all the way from that commission three years ago to this recording.   A lot of people might expect well you are a pianist you know you will just do a straight piano tribute but...  Right.  There is a different philosophy with this album.  Yeah. I mean I love collaborators and collaborating and the first person I called was the beautiful and genius Meshell Ndegeocello. She and I really kind of put our heads together and started to look at this music and as much as I love traditional concerts and traditional celebrations of great artists that has not been my forte. I have always chosen to try to something else with the form and the format.  You know we had Meshell Ndegeocello on the show here a few months back. What - we spoke to her in front of a live audience and knew that you were doing this work with her. I asked her about working with you. Here's what she said.   My process with Jason is to love him and let him be free. You know I hire people to surround him like I just want to be this kind of person that just creates an environment where the artist can do what they do best you know and that might mean just bringing the coffee.   Does that sound about right?  That is her. That is her. Oh I love her so much. Yeah she is amazing at that you know way of kind of giving me the bedrock to walk around on and then to just also as a fan watch her manipulate these songs with you know such beautiful minimalism. So it is a really great way to approach good music.   You know clearly she was doing a lot more than just bringing the coffee. Listening to you know probably the song most associated with Fats Waller As not Misbehavin'.    No one to talk with all by myself. No one to walk with but I am happy here all by myself. As not misbehavin' I am savin' my love for you for you for you.  As not Misbehavin' is such an iconic American piece of music. A guy professing his love for his partner and in reality like Fats Waller he says in an interview that he wrote the song while he was an alimony jail. You know like wow. You know write your hit in the jail wow. Go ahead Fats Waller but in one of his recordings the recording I have at the very end of it he says for you for you for you for you.    For you for you.  And it more felt like kind of like a prayer like a mantra to give yourself confidence and convince yourself and convince those around you with these words. And I just took him uttering those words for you over and over again and made that the new landscape for us to perform the song on top of.    For you for you for you for you. It is for you it is for you.  I am speaking with pianist and composer Jason Moran about his new album  A Joyful Elegy For Fats Waller. You know I would always thought that Fats Waller sounded so modern. And now I feel like I can hold this album up to people as proof.  I mean he is modern especially in that timeframe. You have to think about African-American performers and the trajectory that they have gone. Fats Waller with all this insane piano technique but also this freedom with his lips to say the things that he says you know to think the things that he thinks. The son of a preacher the man who likes to drink you know the man who finds his sorrow but it expresses it through comedy. And these songs they do not just seem funny they do not just seem sad you know like there is always like this duality of them. And what we try to look at is part of that duality that probably comes mostly into light when Meshell performs As not Nobodies Business. It is a haunting rendition of that song. And it is quite wonderful.    If I should take the notion to jump in the ocean as not nobody's business if I do. As not nobody's business if I if I do.  There is sadness there but a dear friend of mine once said that whenever she needed something to give her a lift Fats Waller was the most reliable thing in the world. There is this joy in this music that comes across in that.  Right. You know when we do these performances live I have this enormous paper mache Fats Waller mask that I wear for the performance.  I have seen a picture of that. What is that about?  Yeah. Well you know because people want joy. And a good mask can bring that because I wanted to embody Fats in a way literally but also like a spiritual reviving you know. But I want Fats to know that I am really trying to maintain and uphold his legacy with the highest honor.  Is not wearing a mask on stage - I have seen this it is a big mask. Does not that make it hard to play?  You know this is like a Mardi Gras mask and you actually can see through the nostrils. And there is something about being in - well OK you are in Fats Waller's head that is little bit odd already. But sonically everything changes in there. So you are in kind of like this cocoon and also nobody in the band can see any kind of eye cues from you. There is no queues being given unless they are by hand. But there is a difference space that you set up inside there. And I have actually found myself psychologically like retreating into the mask and wearing it more and more because it was almost - I felt like - a way of hiding even more and more. And I am still kind of working through this issue with the mask.  I think it is when you start wearing it when you are not on stage. That is when you need to maybe get a professional to help you out.   That is pianist Jason Moran. His new album is  A Joyful Elegy For Fats Waller. That comes out on Tuesday. But until then you can sample every track at our exclusive First Listen. That is at nprmusic.org. Jason Moran I have so enjoyed speaking with you. Thank you so much.  My pleasure. Thank you.  