 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block.   This is new music from the RB singer John Legend backed by the hip-hop group The Roots.  Mr.   Cold cold eyes upon me they stare. People all around me and they are all in fear.  The CD is called Wake Up! and it is full of politically charged soul tunes most of them covers of songs from the '60s and '70s. This one Hard Times was written by Curtis Mayfield.  Mr.   Having hard times in this crazy town. Having hard times. There is no love to be found.  The John Legend CD is one of several musical collaborations out this fall that have caught the ear of our music critic Tom Moon. Hey Tom.  Hello there.  And what does John Legend had to say about the idea behind the CD?  Well he and The Roots started talking about this apparently in the summer of 2008 and that was during the Barack Obama campaign and a time when people were talking about change in huge lofty terms. And a lot of the songs that they picked and eventually turned up on this record are songs that are the kind that shake you sideways and go hey pay attention or hey wake up.  You know I read a review of a live performance of John Legend that said you know the original versions of these songs by you know Harold Melvin  the Blue Notes and Bill Withers had a real urgency and passion. And John Legend just is not that guy. He is like Mr. Smooth.   He is Mr. Bedroom Soul. He is like one of our new crooners and he is never had to sort of bring it in this fierce way and who better to coax it out of him than The Roots who have been on this kind of social consciousness tip for a long long time?  Mr.   There is no love to be found.   Check it out. Seventeen years and counting I am trying to climb up the rough side of the mountain.  I have to do it without them.  Okay well let us move on from John Legend to new music from a band called Junip.    We have got our rope and summit. Got our rope and summit but we need to wake up. Baby wake up.  Junip is the side project of sorts of singer-songwriter Jose Gonzalez from Sweden and he is a sort of an introspective singer-songwriter and as we know there is millions of those on the planet right now. And what is interesting to me about this is he and his cohorts here have really tried to figure out a way to retain the introspective sort of mood of his other music and yet give it a bump up rhythmically and make it sort of more engaged and give it more dimension musically.    We have got our rope and summit. Got our rope and summit but we need to wake up. Baby wake up.  It sounds to me like they have listened to a lot of ambient electronica. They sort of figured out how to translate this sort of hypnotic electronic pulse to acoustic instruments and in the case of the keyboards some vintage old-school keyboards.    Got our rope and summit but we need to wake up.  Okay so that is the band Junip and their new CD Fields. And the last CD we are going to talk about is one that I am surprised I am liking as much as I am. It is a collaboration between - get this - Elton John and Leon Russell the longtime American songwriter studio musician longtime - also long-haired and long-bearded Leon Russell. And this is called The Union. Let us take a listen.  Mr. LEON RUSSELL  and Mr.   I knew from the first night I met you. Something just was not quite right. Loving like an innocent stranger. But something was just out of sight. How could I know that you had used me? Fill out some plan of your own. I could not know you would abuse me. Leave me here hurt and alone.  And a lot of piano on this CD both Elton John and Leon Russell great piano guys. What are you hearing here?  Well and they recorded together on two pianos. Everyone playing live in the studio. Elton John when he was coming along in the early '70s Leon Russell was a big star. He had a bunch of solo records. He had this hit called Carney. He was sort of a big deal in the music industry. So Elton always treated him as an idol and viewed him that way. And so part of what you hear here is just pure mutual admiration society stuff.  Mr. JOHN and Mr.   If it was not for you I would be happy. If it was not for lies you would be true. I know you could be just like you should. If it was not for bad you would be good.  And Tom this CD produced by T Bone Burnett who is everywhere. What do you think about how these two voices combined Elton John and Leon Russell?  Well it is sort of sweet and savory a little bit. You know Leon Russell has just this great grizzled voice. He is - it is - and it sounds exactly the same now as it did in the early '70s. Elton I think learned how to do the kind of blues phrasing that he does from listening to Leon Russell.  Mr. JOHN and Mr.   Hey Ahab can you tell me where I can take a ride out of here? Hey Ahab hoist that sail. You got to stand up straight when you ride that whale.  Well Tom when you think about these three CDs from John Legend Junip - the band - and now Elton John and Leon Russell is there a risk a downside do you think in collaborations like these?  Well when people have these careers where they are pretty well-known any time they step out of their box they are taking a risk. And what I like about this is you know here's John Legend a guy who can sing ballads all day long sort of saying you know this is something I really feel and I want to try and do this. Likewise Elton and Leon really taking steps to sort of say look we do not have anything to prove. Let us just throw down and see what we can come up with. And I feel that way about Jose Gonzales too. He is established himself as a singer-songwriter. And often when you see someone do that and it is so hard to establish yourself anymore when you see that happen you can expect five or six records that are sort of in the same general area. And I think that in each case here these are not the same record over again.  Well Tom it is always fun to talk to you. Thanks so much.  Thanks for having me.  That is music critic Tom Moon. We were talking about the CDs Wake Up! by John Legend and The Roots Fields by the band Junip and The Union from Elton John and Leon Russell.    Whenever things seem hard to bear do not give up. Hang on in there. Mr.   There as not no time... 