 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.    When you going to pack your suitcase and run - run run run run away from me?  Jenny Scheinman spent years not being the voice out front. She made her name playing jazz violin but now she is out with a vocal album - all songs she wrote.    What are you going to tell your mother when you get home? Standing in the doorway kind of slumped against the frame. She will look up from the table. Will she laugh or will she cry? There is always time to reckon in the sky by and by.  Jenny Scheinman likes to say she grew up in the westernmost house in the continental United States - a rural homestead up on a bluff in far Northern California - Humboldt County out among the redwoods. Summers then would be spent camping out with her family making music all night around the campfire with folks from the community. Jenny Scheinman has moved back to that area now after many years in New York. I asked her to describe the homestead where she grew up.  It was about a 300-acre North-facing hillside covered in coyote brush - very very windy. And now it is sort of a falling down dilapidating wooden house with an astoundingly beautiful view when it is not fogged in of the Pacific Ocean.  And what was life for you like there growing up?  Oh there were - you know we were very isolated in many ways - no electricity. You know going to the bathroom in a hole in the field and a lot of chores that come with homesteading like ditching the road fixing the water feeding the animals. You know we were sort of feral I guess. As children we were helping her parents a lot but you know after school was out we were just sort of up on the hill. We also had a Steinway in there that my mom inherited from her mother. She grew up in Manhattan. My dad always played guitar at all the parties and taught music to the kids and - so in the middle of all this there was a lot of music.  Why did your parents move out to Northern California in the first place?  They are hippies. I mean they are not exactly hippies. My dad's a doctor. They did not do a lot of drugs and they did not really drop out. But they had this vision of community and a way of living that was an alternate to the ambitious anxious-ridden New York East Coast scene. They wanted to be around animals and dirt and all this stuff. You know they were part of that movement of urban kids in the late '60s and early '70s heading for the hills - the back-to-the-land movement. or as my dad wrote in his satire of that movement the backwards-to-the-land-ers.   Well you have a song on the new album that sounds like it is very much about that place - about that part of Northern California where you grew up Just A Child.    Way out West there is a place where nothing changes. If you are born there you will always be a child. Just veer off the highway 40 miles from Ferndale a long and winding road will take you there.  How much autobiography is in this song?  That song really was a gift. I dreamt it. And in that way it is totally honest and does come out of my childhood and is very autobiographical. I wrote it after I had been on a long camping trip with my father. I think it is a song about father figures and what it was like to grow up. Most of it is language about my childhood - the landscape and what it was like to grow up sort of feral and unsupervised in many ways.    See the cherry blossoms drifting down the valley like a snowstorm in the middle of the spring. Every day emerges from the ashes of the past that is disappearing as we sing sing and sing - of the past that is disappearing as we sing.  You know it sounds so idyllic the way you are describing it. But I wonder - as a kid as you were getting older - if you dreamed of getting out of the country - going to a city - making your name in music.  Yeah it is an interesting question. It was actually quite chaotic. And you know there were the same dysfunctions that so many families have. My parents were continually splitting up for the first 10 years of my life and then they did split up. And music was a peaceful place for me.    You were never ever there when I was little. I have only spent three days with you so far. Are you just another father-figure drawn to as my family drifts part? But you called me up and you told me on the real deal something that my father'd never say.  You talk about this father figure basically telling you things - giving you assurance or confidence in the song at least in a way that your father never did. And I do wonder what is going on there.  It was a hard song to sing for my father. I remember when I did for the first time I was nervous about him taking it completely literally and me publicly saying you have not supported me enough. You have not loved me enough. You have not you know validated my choices and had my back enough - or something like that. Now my father has heard it many times and he does like the song. And I have sung it for him in public many times. And I have noticed that in the last year he started saying I love you and he never did as a kid. And maybe it is because I wrote the song as a way of saying can you tell me you love me more - do you? And it is really transformed our relationship. It is not a song - my father jokingly calls this the bad dad song.   He listens to it and enjoys it and I know it must be hard. And I have a wonderful father and I learned so much from him. And as an artist I am in that tricky position of talking about difficult honest things in music and suffering the fallout from them. One of the hardest things about writing with lyrics is that. I have made many albums as instrumentalist and it was scary to come out with some true stories and some true statements. Hopefully the songs get beyond that and they are not just about Jenny and her dad and wanting to be loved more. Hopefully they are about something bigger than me and him.    I do not have to go back there. I just shut my eyes and breathe.  That is Jenny Scheinman. Her new album is titled The Littlest Prisoner. Jenny it is been a pleasure. Thanks so much.  Thank you.    You would see me as a child. It would be like lifting up the covers - an awkward little girl in a rodeo of outlaws where the men humiliate you and the women talk around you. But you know that none of this matters 'ecause you are still just a child. You are still just a child.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 