 It seems like Bilal is everywhere. His vocals have enhanced the work of everyone from Beyonce to Kendrick Lamar. And in his own music he is everywhere at once. He is soul he is jazz he is hip-hop.   Bilal's new album In Another Life feels like it is coming from the future the present and the past all at once.    Just another day in another life I am a satellite watching...  This song Satellite has the view from an alien intelligence returning to Earth after eons. And the record overall has an old-school production style right down to recording gear from the '60s.  Everything was analog. Nothing was digital. It really brought a grungy kind of vibe to the music that kind brought something else out of me.    When I left you from the other time - oh it is not what I remember.  Well people who like do not know about this like the ones who are pro-digital say like you know analog is just noisy. Analog people say no that is warmth. That is like real...  Oh my gosh.  ...Detail.  Yeah my last album that was my major thing. Like I kept saying the whole time we were in the studio recording it - God it is so clean like because I read in a Miles Davis book that Miles had that same problem. When he went and did his Live Evil album he opened up all of the doors in the studio because he said that the doors were compressing the sound. So I started having that same vibe like yo this stuff is too clean. I opened up all the doors. I was like Miles said open the doors.   Everybody open the doors. I just love dirt. Like you know I did not realize that that is what I was missing - to just be able to shout full-on into the mike. I was able to scream a lot more because of that.  Tell me like a song that really reflects that on this album.  Love Child.    I see your mind's made up. I see you had enough. Unruly love - she cannot take my heart. Something you cannot plan like a love child. The backgrounds on that - I am singing at the top of my -  love - that loud character it lends so good to that analog situation.    Love child.  I want to talk to you about the musical mix that you grew up listening to in Philadelphia. We had Tootie Heath the great jazz drummer on the show.  Oh.  Yeah he was awesome. And obviously he grew up at a different than you but he talked about the amazing diversity of the music scene in Philadelphia. I am kind of wondering how that compared to what you experienced.  Oh absolutely you know I grew up in two different worlds musically. Musically I grew up in the church. And from a very little boy I have been singing in front of people because I was always into Michael Jackson so at home I had the glove. I had everything so they were like yeah put him in the choir. But my dad was not Christian. He was Muslim so when I would go to spend you know the weekends with my dad I would be like dad I am singing now. I am in the choir. He is like what? No God no you know? So like his best friend owned a jazz club. My dad started taking me to the jazz clubs. I was sitting in the coat room you know listening to jazz. And I fell in love with that you know? So it was like two worlds coming up.  I am speaking with Bilal. His new record In Another Life comes out on Tuesday. Let us talk about Money Over Love.    Never again oh oh.  You have got some lessons learned in this song. Talk about that.  People want you to be at a certain level of success before they feel they can have a kid or they can start their real life you know what I am saying?  Right.  The thirst for money has really kind of overshadowed love.    Money over love - you know how much you love the finer things. Money over love - fast cars diamond rings. Money over love - the best things in life as not free. Money over love.  Its nice to see one time you know Bilal featuring Kendrick Lamar instead of the other way around.   Yeah.  I have thought this before listening to him. But listening to him with you reminds me like of a jazz instrumentalist the way that he raps.  He is. His - his understanding of timing is incredible. It is impeccable. You know he swings.    Shirking and jiving wasting my time and I say never ever again. We will never be friends. You can bet your bottom dollar that you will never mistreat my kindness. I say never you could pretend that while I defend it...  The way he was playing off of that  never - most rappers would have just rapped right over everything. But he like got inside of the music.    I do not want to love love until I can afford to love love. And I rock that box on credit on credit.  You know something that I love about your music and I think this record in particular is - and this is something that I - some of my favorite soul singers even my favorite classical composers do - that there is a groove and there is a joy to some of these songs but there is reality too. There is a little bit of darkness at the same time.  That was the whole concept of the album. We wanted to marry really pretty moments with darkness you know? So if the music was really pretty then we would say something really dark.  And not to keep this too heavy on the theme of darkness but maybe it is the violence is in the headlines lately but the song Lunatic really jumped out at me on this record.  Absolutely.    Yeah. When we wrote that Lunatic song it was right after a guy went into a movie theater...  So this is the Aurora shooting at the Batman screening.  Yeah.    The next time on the dance floor a crazy lunatic I am knockin' down the door. Shouting again sounds like music to my ears. Why is everybody running? I just wanted to dance. I am addicted to mayhem. When I am up high I take this whole thing down. I am counting the days now. What am I gonna do now? I am a twisted vigilante. Looking for the medicine... I am just trying to get in the mind of a - of a twisted killer or the people that think what they are doing they are very justified for doing but it is very wrong you know? That is one of the reasons why I named this album In Another Life because I was speaking about a lot of different things and then from a lot of different perspectives.    Yeah you turn me up. Turn me down.  Is that something that - I mean are you watching the news a lot while you are writing or...  Absolutely you know because I feel like as much a platform to - to profess my love for a woman as it is my platform for me to state my opinions on things that is happening right now you know and to try to get people to really think about things in a different manner. You know I think that is the charge of an artist to kind of make people think.  Bilal's new record In Another Life comes out on Tuesday. Bilal it is been a blast speaking with you. Thank you so much.  For sure. Thank you.  