 A jazz singer for the hip-hop generation - that is how Jose James was described after he released his first album last year for the famed Blue Note record label. James has now released a follow-up. It is called While You Were Sleeping. And reviewer Tom Moon says the 35-year-old shows phenomenal growth.    Shadows long upon my face. Shadows long upon my face.  Catch up with Jose James now because he is a rarity - an artist evolving at warp speed.    Oh I have been here. The love affair is over. And I know...  James' first album for Blue Note showed promise but it was all over the place. There were explorations of hip-hop and neo-soul flirtations with alternative rock and a few killer 70s-style hooks. But those influences sometimes sounded hastily grabbed. Now he is massaged them into a totally personal supercharged sound.    Take me to the sun. I am not anyone. I am not anywhere. I believe in something.  In the 18 months since recording his last album Jose James spent some time streamlining his art which lives at the intersection of jazz harmony pop song craft and hip-hop production. It is a fertile area and he goes into it at some depth. His new songs are intricate sweet-like compositions. He says this one best shows his growth.    Anywhere you go. Anywhere you go.  James has not left jazz behind exactly just the cliches associated with jazz singing. His vocals have great spontaneity and looseness about them. Listen to the way he gently leans into this earthy groove.    I have been dreaming of. Baby I will whisper that should take my breath away. Oh. Everywhere I turn everywhere I go you are never far. You are always close.  Even when he goes all high concept Jose James does not clutter the frame with acrobatic singing. He lets his melodies ripen naturally. Before his songs were crammed with cleverness. Now they are more subtle. He is learned to take his sweet time emphasize only what is essential. And as a result his music breathes.    Whisper and wondering something. Dreams that I miss so long ago.  Jos James. His latest album is called While You Were Sleeping. Our reviewer is Tom Moon.    Tell me which way should I go? 'ecause you do not have to tell me that I feel so alone. Twisting and broken in toil. Break every rule they throw your son. Already done.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 