 Welcome back to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Guy Raz. This year Merge Records a small independent label based in North Carolina is celebrating its 20th anniversary. And at a time when the record industry as a whole is struggling Merge really is celebrating. What started as a tiny outlet for local bands has grown into one of the most respected and successful independent labels in the music business. Its roster includes M. Ward Arcade Fire and Spoon and the label's releases have even begun to crack Billboard's Top 10. Jacob Ganz tells us about the label's simple formula for success.   This is the sound of the garage North Carolina 1989.  Mr.   Here I go again. I pretend I do not know about the complications. Here I go again. I pretend I do not remember all the frustration.  The band is Superchunk. In the spring of '89 two of its members Mac McCaughan and Laura Ballance were looking for a way to release seven-inch singles of their band and other local groups. Mr.  We figured you know why not put these singles out so at least there is some record of these bands that we really like. Ms.  And some chance that someone outside of Raleigh and Chapel Hill would get to hear them and something they could take on tour with them.  So they launched Merge. Today starting a small label can be as simple as firing up the laptop pressing record burning CDs and then posting samples on MySpace. But 20 years ago the process was a little more mysterious. Mr.  For me growing up and looking at my dad's record collection I did not know how stuff got from being music that was played by the Rolling Stones somewhere to being on a record you know to being in my dad's living room.  Getting music into living rooms can still be kind of complicated especially when you are dealing with physical CDs.  Once you have actually made them you still have to get them into stores - mostly small independent ones. Then comes publicity and radio play and touring to let fans know the records are out there.  Mr.   I I I went to Tokyo. Only in my dreams because they are all I know. Neon colored lights flashing in my brain. Cruising through the city on a bullet train.  What continues to set Merge apart from other labels doing this is that it has not built its rep on a single band or sound. Alex Ross writes about classical music for the New Yorker magazine. Mr.  It is kind of like a cross-section of the entirety of pop music or at least indie music of the last 20 years.  The names include Lambchop  Mr.   To whom can I speak today? The brothers they are evil. And the old friends of today they have become unlovable.  Magnetic Fields  Mr.   I do not want to get over you. I guess I could take a sleeping pill and sleep at will and not have to go through what I go through.  Neutral Milk Hotel  Mr.   When you were young you were the king of carrot flowers and how you built a tower tumbling through the trees. In holy rattlesnakes that fell all around your feet.  Arcade Fire  Mr.   People say that you will die faster than without water. But we know it is just a lie scare your son scare your daughter.  Even if the music does not all sound alike there is a unifying sensibility says Rich McLaughlin. McLaughlin runs The Alternate Side an indie music show on ograms one of the station's HD channels. He says FUV gets over 100 CDs a day all vying for attention. Mr.  There are very few labels I think that you can trust their entire roster of artists. So I think when you see a Merge Records envelope coming in it is something that you set aside because you have a pretty good idea that you can trust the label and trust their output.  Every one of those Merge bands is hand-picked by Laura Ballance and Mac McCaughan who still run the label out of North Carolina without any investment from a major. They say that the exposure that comes with a release by Arcade Fire brings new listeners within their reach. But working on a small scale does not mean that each new record is not a gamble. Ms.  Oh they are all gambles every single one. Mr.  It is just that we are gambling with very small amounts of money. Ms.  Yeah.  Even so McCaughan and Ballance have to be tough. Ms.  It does not always make bands happy to be told we are expecting your record will sell maybe 2000 and that is how we are going to market it. But I guess you know running a successful business sometimes involves saying things that are not always nice for people's feelings. Mr.  They are not going to spend tons of money on the things that are not really necessary. They are very frugal.  Britt Daniel is the singer for the band Spoon which signed with Merge in 2001 and has stayed with the label ever since. Spoon is now one of Merge's biggest successes but at the time the musicians were signed they looked like damaged goods. They had just been dumped by Elektra Records and were anything but a sure bet. Mr.  There was a small amount of investment on their part and it was not necessary that we sold you know 100000 records in order for them to turn a profit. So I guess sort of the long term it was just about the ability to just put out records at our own pace the kind of records that we wanted to make and do exactly what we wanted to do.   If there is anything you want come on back 'ecause it is all still here.  A big part of the label's anniversary celebration this year is a 14-CD mail-order-only box set. Mac McCaughan admits it is ridiculous but insists that it is exactly the kind of package  extravagant mysterious and lovingly curated  that he dreamed about when he and Laura Ballance started Merge 20 years ago. Mr.  I think that we have always run the label as music fans you know and I think that our customer base is music fans. We started a label and we run a label counting on there being people like us.  For two decades at least they have been right. For NPR News I am Jacob Ganz.  Later this month Merge is throwing itself a birthday party right down the road from where the label pressed its first seven-inch records five nights of live shows 25 bands celebrating 20 years. You can hear some of their music at npr.org.    That it do not mean nothing at all. That it do not mean nothing at all all all. 