 One of the great songwriters of our time has died. Ellie Greenwich was a rarity - a woman in the music business who found great success writing and producing hit after popular hit. Greenwich died this morning at a New York City hospital. She was 68 years old. NPR's Neda Ulaby reports.  Along with Phil Spector and her then-husband Jeff Barry Ellie Greenwich created this song.    So will not you please be my be my baby. Be my little baby. My one  And this one.    So I whispered I love you he said that he loved me too and then he kissed me.  And this one.    I met him on a Monday and my heart stood still da do ron ron ron da do ron ron.  Just because Ellie Greenwich earned 25 gold and platinum records does not mean she could predict a hit. Here she is a few years ago on WHYY's Fresh Air. Ms.  In my whole career of being in the studio producing there were only two songs that I literally walked out of the studio and said either these records are gonna be zippidy do-nothing go-nowhere or No. 1 records. That was Chapel of Love and Leader of the Pack.    I met him at the candy store. He turned around and smiled at me you get the picture? Yes we see.  That is when I fell for the leader of the pack.   Ellie Greenwich started her career writing songs for her cheerleading squad on Long Island. Her music would help define the American teenager in the 1960s. Ms.  It was not that accepted back then a female being in that end of the business.  Honestly it is not even all that accepted now. Women break into the industry as singers. Greenwich was a good singer but her Midas touch as a writer and producer earned her a perch in the Brill Building New York City's famed pop music factory along with Carole King. Ellie Greenwich told NPR that the girl groups she produced were not always happy about a woman being in charge. Ms.  At first it was like well who does she think she is giving us orders here or telling us what to do? But on the other end if you just were very open with them they saw they could be your friend and then it became an asset to be a woman dealing with the girl groups.  The Ronettes The Crystals The Shangri-Las.    He do not hang around with the gang no more gee he does not smile like he did before.  Ellie Greenwich's music sold in the tens of millions. But she felt upstaged like many other American songwriters by the British Invasion. She endured a painful divorce and a nervous breakdown. Both were part of an autobiographical Broadway show that opened in the 1980s. Jimmy Iovine is the chairman of Interscope Records. Mr.  Very few people have as many classic songs as Ellie Greenwich did. She was incredible.  Iovine says Greenwich discovered Neil Diamond and worked with Cyndi Lauper Desmond Child and Ike and Tina Turner. Iovine says if he had to pick just one favorite Ellie Greenwich song it would be River Deep - Mountain High. But Ellie Greenwich left us dozens upon dozens of songs. Neda Ulaby NPR News.  Ms.   When I was a little girl I had a rag doll the only doll I have ever owned. Now I love you just the way I loved that rag doll but only now that love has grown. And it gets stronger in every way. And it gets deeper let me say. And it gets higher day by day. 