 Music critics and old-school country stars been taking aim at a certain national culture that is all over the radio right now. They say there are too many songs about dudes with trucks guzzling beer talking about scantily clad women.    Yeah girls 'round here they all deserve a whistle shakin' that sugar sweet as Dixie Crystal.    Yeah when I first saw that bikini top on her she is popping right out of the South Georgia water. Thought oh good lord she had them long tan legs.    I hope you are wearing those frayed-out cutoffs makes me want to get lost down in the moonlight. Drop the tailgate down on a turn road. Watch the corn grow baby that is a good night.  There are songs that have been dubbed bro-country and two 18-year-olds are getting a lot of attention for taking on the bros.    Bein' the girl in the country song - how in the world did it go so wrong? Like all we are good for is looking good for you and your friends on the weekend nothing more to do.  The song is called Girl In A Country Song and the singers are Maddie Marlow and Tae Dye. And they join us now. Welcome ladies.  Hello hello.  Thanks for having us.  Yes you should have seen us when you were playing those clips. We were in here jamming out.   Well the references in your song are so specific that obviously you are fans of this music. And I understand that when you sat down to write it you were doing it in a writing session and you made a kind of bro-country checklist? What were some of the things that were on the list?  This is Tae and I think it had trucks tailgates cutoffs tan lines...  Tan lines and tan legs.  ...And tan legs dirt roads and the most important one - the girl.  Yes.  The smoking hot girl.    I hear you over there on your tailgate whistling saying hey girl but you know I as not listening.  And I noticed right away at the top you have got that hey girl line. Do you have beef with that term a little bit? I mean do you think that in particular gets overused calling women girls?  This is Tae and there is absolutely no beef with that line or any of the lines in fact. It is just a trend that kind of became irresponsible in its view of women so we wanted to come at it from our perspective.  Definitely. This is Maddie and we are like you know if you love us as much as you say you do should not you know our name? I mean...    'ecause I got a name and to you it as not pretty little thing honey or baby. It is driving me red red red red red red redneck crazy.  Now the thing is you both are - and I hope you do not mind me saying this - extremely attractive. OK?  Oh thank you.  You are beautiful young women long blonde hair. I do not know if I saw any cut-offs in the promotional photos but you definitely kind of have the look of the ladies who might be in these songs. And did you actually identify with it?  Yes Tae and I - both of us love a good pair of cutoffs. I mean we are from Texas and Oklahoma it gets pretty hot down here But you know looking good for the boys is not all we have to offer for them. And you know we are bringing a voice for the girls in country music. And that is why we came at this topic with a different perspective.  Now you guys obviously love the music and are having fun with some of the clichs of it but you said it was getting to the point where they were irresponsible. Is there a little bit of a mixed message here? Like on the one hand you are saying we love it on the other hand you are saying well it treats us poorly.  The thing is we do feel like this trend has been you know it is been very very consistent. And we want to give this girl that these guys love singing about a voice.    Well I wish I had some shoes on my two bare feet. And it is getting kind of cold in these painted-on cut-off jeans. I hate the way this bikini top chafes do I really have to wear it all day?  That girl's got a tough gig let me tell you.  She does.  But wait a second she is sitting on a truck in a bikini - like it does not sound like that tough a gig.  Well we say it is a tough gig because yes we wear bathing suits and we wear cut-offs but we do it when we want to not necessarily when the guy puts us in that place.  Yes.  It is a tough gig because you have to look a certain way to be looked at as a beautiful girl. And that is one message that we want this song to put out there is that every woman should feel beautiful whether you are in cut-offs whether you do not have tan legs.  Do you think that this - by calling it out - do you think that you are getting people to - the men writing these songs - to rethink how they are talking about women?  You know this is Mattie and I hope that we are a little bit because as women we - you know - do not want to be thought of as one-dimensional and that is kind of how the songs have been portraying women. And so we hope that that kind of changes the game just a little bit.  Well Tae Dye and Maddie Marlow thank you so much for speaking with us.  Thank you very much for having us.  Oh no thank you for having us on. We appreciate you all so much.  Maddie and Tae a new duo telling us about their new single Girl In A Country Song.    We used to get a little respect now we are lucky if we even get to climb up in your truck keep our mouth shut and ride along - and be the girl in a country song. 