 Deadheads - Grateful Dead fans for you youngsters - used to follow their favorite band from city to city with a cult-like devotion. People used to say it was the kind of scene you just could not replicate with another band. Then came Phish.    You have got to run like an antelope out of control.  The Vermont-based band enjoyed a similar cult-following throughout the 1990s. Then in 2004 an abrupt halt. A press statement from the band said they are done. It took five years before Phish would be ready to climb back on a stage together. One of the most reliable and workman-like touring bands of the '90s has become more of a rarity these days. So for fans every new album is a treat. And for their latest coming-out on Tuesday Phish even recruited Pink Floyd's producer Bob Ezrin to tweak the knobs for them. The new album by Phish is called Fuego.    You lift me up you hired me and light my day you fired me. But then you stole the sun delighted me. Now the day is gone you knighted me. It is dawning on me how it starts. Your wisdom must be why it smarts. Some wholes sum as many parts. Sing sing Monica sing your song. It really did not last too long. Sing sing Monica sing your song. Can you admit that you were wrong? Go back home where you belong. Sing Monica. Sing Monica.  I spoke with keyboardist Page McConnell and guitarist Trey Anastasio. And I asked them when they knew it was time to make a new album.  Interestingly we started with a genuine desire to just hang out together. So we actually - Page you will remember this probably - but we told everyone in our management and people around us we are not making a record. We are not making a record. Do not ask us to deliver you anything you know. We just wanted to get together. And you know we used to live together in a couple of houses when we were young. And we spent so much time together. And then we traveled on a bus together. That aspect of being in a band has become harder with our families to you know - it is been harder to find that time with just the four of us. And so we went into the barn and just locked the door.  Now this is the famous barn in Vermont where you guys get together and jam and where a lot of the magic happens right?  Yeah. And a lot of long meals and sunny afternoons with the doors open. It is beautiful up there. It is right on the hillside. And I just absolutely love those times as much as any other part of being in a band.  So you guys were just going to get together and were just going to hang out. It is not going to be about music but the music came.  Well we wanted to hang out and I think the other desire was - we are not talking about an album. Let us just see if the four of us can write songs together in a way that we had not before or in a way that we might have just barely scratched the surface but not really completely embraced.    Woah.  Let us talk through that process with one of the songs and probably Fuego the title track. It is the first song on the album. It is probably a good one to start because it is the longest - probably the most complicated in terms composition.  I was just going to say one thing and then Page you tell the story.  Go ahead.  One of the things that we did that was so funny - and we will use Fuego as an example - is that we would sometimes pull up a picture - a photo. We said let us take a photo of someone. We will write about this guy or this gal. And so we found this photo online of this I do not know it was like almost like a cosplay kind of thing. Somebody leaning on a tree with this weird costume on. Page tell the rest of the story.  Very goth. Very goth.  Like a goth.  And I think it was a girl.  I think it was a girl.  It was sort of hard to tell. It had sort of an asymmetrical haircut that was jet-black and sort of swept across her face. And she had sort of this little skull of like a little animal on her belt. And she was carrying a sword and leaning against a tree. And she sort of looked like a Viking warrior or something like that. And so part of the lyrics were inspired by her. And then part of the lyrics were inspired by coffee mugs.  All of a sudden the song makes sense.   Yeah.   We would start debating like you know it became - it took on a whole life of its own. Suddenly we knew who this person was. And everybody's kind of trying to figure our what the story was when we would write about it. It kept morphing though.    Viking warriors with animal heads. The girl begins to levitate. Rolling. Rolling.  You guys sit down in the barn. You put up that picture and say let us just play that?  We did a writing exercise. We each had a pad and we had a timer on. And everybody said you know look at this photo and write for - was it five minutes Page?  Five or 10 minutes.  Yeah and the bell would go off - bing. And then each person would read to the other three what they had written. And if there were certain lines that the other three really - it resonated with the other three. We would put them on a fifth pad until they were all intermingled and we could not remember who had written what. And then we kind of worked from that pad to start forming out the lyrics.    I am a sailor's girl. The best is yet to come. Rolling in my Fuego. I do my own stunts. I see guilty people angels blowing horns.  A lot of stuff got tossed aside too that we are remembering Page that we - like we spent a long time working on this song about a chance meeting at a 7-Eleven. And then when Bob Ezrin got there - he came much later in the process. He kind of walked in and we had 28 songs. And he kind of pointed at 12 that he wanted to work on very quickly.  More than 28 song. It was closer to 40 I believe -  Yeah you might be right.  - That we had on the list there. And within the first hour of being there he cut it down to about 14.  He said play me everything and do not tell me who wrote it. We said OK. We started playing it. He would start a song and go about 45 seconds into it and say nope - next. And then we would play another one. And he would say yup. And within about - like Page said - within about half an hour it was down to 14 songs.  Bob Ezrin's really if you are a rock 'n roll fan a legendary record producer - you know produced The Wall produced Berlin by Lou Reed. Could you give us an example like what one of the songs - what are some ways in which we could hear the Ezrin fingerprints on the production?  The one for me that I thought was a really nice moment on the album - the last song is Wingsuit. And right before it goes into sort of this altro-jam guitar solo there is a little bit of a break. And just a little bit of maybe some backwards vocals here very faintly in the background.    Time to put your wingsuit on. Time to put your wingsuit on.  That to me was something that he addressed that - that little transition and sort of made it special. And that is one of my favorite parts of the record.  It is funny you mention that one because on that track is not that - Trey there is a little reference to Pink Floyd on that song right? Sound like Comfortably Numb.  You know that was not a conscience effort but I definitely agree with you.  Yeah?  And I was joking about that with someone. And I said if it sounds like Pink Floyd record it.   Phish has this tradition - you guys have been doing it for a while - where once a year I think it is a Halloween show you will play a concert where you do another band's album all the way through. This year you did not because you did the new album Fuego. I am curious if there is something you have been dreaming about doing but you have not performed yet.  You learn a lot from learning these you know these other albums. I mean we did Remain in Light by the Talking Heads one year. And we did Exile on Main St. and we did a Velvet Underground album. But I think everybody kind of got a little sick of it -   -To be perfectly honest. So the last couple of years it started to feel like a trap we had built.  I think in a lot of ways - I think doing our own album was a little bit of a liberating experience for me. I kind of wonder if maybe we will look to start a new tradition.  That is Page McConnell and Trey Anastasio of Phish. Their new album called Fuego comes out on Tuesday. Trey Page thank you.  Thank you.  Thanks a lot.  And for a few more days you can stream Fuego in its entirety at NPRMusic.org.    Up all night and I am waiting for you to come home. Waiting all night. Waiting all night.  And for Sunday that is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR West. I am Arun Rath. 