 Music documentaries are generally pretty straightforward but critic Bob Mondello says The Sparks Brothers a rockumentary  about the group Sparks feels as if it is trying to reinvent the form.  If you are going to begin with a fanfare and you are Sparks you sing it.    Fanfare.  And you clear your throat...   ...And clarify it a little.    Documentary film fanfare.  And mention the director.    Edgar Wright film fanfare.  Edgar Wright is the guy who made the comic zombie flick Shaun Of The Dead. He is always pushing whatever envelope is handy with cinematic tricks. And for his first documentary he is got a lot of celebrities to help him including singer-songwriter Beck.   Throughout all the years that I have been making music if you get on a tour bus and you sit on a long drive with a bunch of musicians eventually the conversation will go to Sparks.   My good friends Sparks.  Sparks.  Sparks.   Sparks is glam rock - the brothers and back-up - arguably every band's favorite band says indie producer Jack Antonoff.   All pop music is rearranged Sparks. That is the truth.  They are celebrated worldwide says Beck.   They may have given birth to other bands who do not even know that the lineage goes back to them.  They have had a five-decade career were at one point billed above the Red Hot Chili Peppers on a concert tour and yet you say you cannot place them?   They were a bit much for most people.  Well you are not alone as the director himself acknowledges at the outset.   How can Ron and Russell Mael be successful underrated hugely influential and overlooked all at the same time?  To provide an answer he takes us through their 25 albums chronologically from the first produced by Todd Rundgren a producer for whom their weirdness was a big plus.   It is sometimes like butterfly hunting. You are looking for some species that nobody has ever discovered before .  This unleashes a flurry of butterfly imagery probably to cover a lack of footage from that period but also because it is just fun. Later when there is concert video the director gives us lots including their breakthrough moment in Britain. Russell the willowy androgynous vocalist who Icelandic singer songwriter Bjork remembers strutting around in pastel mod suits...   I loved his voice. You know I guess it was quite feminine yes? It definitely was not like rock 'n' roll.    Zoo time is she and you time.  And on keyboards scowling and motionless older brother Ron with a distinctive toothbrush mustache that if you were feeling charitable made him look like Charlie Chaplin. On a 1960s talk show Shelley Winters had a different take.   There was somebody dressed like Hitler playing the piano on the BBC.  The Who is Peter Townshend clarified.   He was born looking like Hitler actually.   The thing is everybody in Britain watched the show they would been on - Top Of The Pops. And these two California brothers were suddenly on top of the charts.   The following day I remember going in and one of the sales guys saying we have done 200000 singles today already. We...  Did not last but hey stardom is a roller coaster - cue jump cut to their song in the movie Rollercoaster. And these guys are nothing if not the comeback kids. There were disappointments along the way. Big fans of art films they spent years working on ones with directors Jacques Tati and Tim Burton only to have them fall through. But by being weird artsy sardonic and very funny they managed to stay ahead of the curve for five decades and sometimes ahead of their audiences too.   People think they are making fun of something when they are deadly serious. But they are kind of inscrutable those guys .  Never far away in this portrait is the feel of Christopher Guest's This Is Spinal Tap a mockumentary about a fake band. But the brothers in The Sparks Brothers are demonstrably tenaciously real from that fanfare they created for the start of the picture to the coda the director has fashioned for the end of it about Annette a movie musical that will open the Cannes Film Fest in July starring Adam Driver Marion Cotillard and a score by Sparks. I am Bob Mondello.    So may we start? May we start? May we may we now start? So may we start?  And if you are feeling Sparks curious you can check out the seven Sparks song playlist at npr.org.    So may we start? May we start? May we may we now start? So close all the doors and let us begin the show. The exits are clearly marked thought you should know. The authors are here so let us not show disdain. The authors are here and they are a little vain. 