 Khaled is Algeria's best-known singer and a pioneer of the music known as rai which means opinion in Arabic. His upbeat opinions on partying pleasure and romance rankled religious conservatives in 1980s Algeria. That is why he spent most of the past 20 years in exile in Europe. His first new recording in five years is called Liberte and it looks back on his history as a merry rabble-rouser. Reviewer Banning Eyre thinks it is Khaled at his best.  Before everything else  reedy robust elemental at once agonizing and ecstatic - in short one of the iconic sounds of world music.     Since moving to France in the '80s Khaled has traveled many roads. He is collaborated with reggae legends in Jamaica and with Grammy-winning producer Don Was in L.A. He is made songs with a Bollywood star with rock legend Carlos Santana and controversially for some with Algerian Jewish artists. After all this adventuring Khaled returns to form with a rocking rai session essentially a live concert in the studio.     The CD Liberte was produced by Martin Meissonnier who first encountered Khaled as a popular wedding singer in Algeria and produced his international debut in 1987. Now the two reunite on an album free of guest artists and crossover gimmicks a session that showcases Khaled's versatile band and essential rhythms. In amongst the anxious rai beats two songs channel Gnawa trance music from Morocco one of Khaled's earliest musical loves.     Most of these tracks were recorded in single takes rare in this age of fussy production. But if the no-nonsense method is a throwback the band's sound rich with flavors of jazz funk reggae and Arabic classical reflects Khaled's remarkable journey through life and music. The song Liberte or Freedom was written back when Khaled was a young man yearning to escape what he saw as an oppressive society. The remake is an exuberant celebration of the freedom he is enjoyed ever since.     These days Khaled once again performs in Algeria where he is received as a returning hero and an ambassador to the world. Liberte is the best work of his career and perhaps the most accessible Arabic music CD to reach the U.S. market in years.  Banning Eyre is senior editor at afropop.org. The new CD from Khaled is called Liberte.    