 NPR's Bilal Qureshi reports.   From the very first beats in Soul Kitchen you know you are not in for an evening of art house European fare.   The film opens as chef Zinos throws frozen fish and chips in the deep fryer jamming to Quincy Jones in his dingy kitchen - a grungy very hungry crowd waiting outside. The camera zooms out to reveal the inside of a warehouse in the industrial quarter of Hamburg.   The film is a love song to director Fatih Akin's hometown and a restaurant called the Taverna where he spent much of his 20s.  It was more than just a restaurant. It was like a home base for the whole neighborhood so artists were hanging around there - but like artists who never really created something you know?  That restaurant belonged to Akin's best friend the Greek- German actor Adam Bousdoukos who stars in Soul Kitchen as Zinos.  He was putting like one turntable in it and then a second one and he asked people to D.J. there. I was D.J.ing there. But I was there like every day.  That nightly routine inspired Akin to work on a story about the imaginary homes we create as young people - homes that are less about geography and more about friends strong drinks and of course the right mix of music.  A really good D.J. you see he is able to mix tracks and you do not realize it as the audience. He is really surfing on the beat. And I was wondering if this is a possible with a picture you know if you can - like I do not know - create mixes.  And for Akin that meant creating a film that echoed what he would hear when he would go out in Hamburg in the '90 clubs filled with American black music from two or three decades earlier.    Tell the world sisters and my brothers.  We came from an American-occupied country - what Germany was. So we are very influenced by America.    We got more soul.  And for Akin's crowd the children of immigrants and interracial relationships soul music always carried an additional layer of meaning.  When Dyke and the Blazers sing We Got More Soul you know when we talk we got more soul we felt like they speak about us. They speak about people with backgrounds. We have more soul than the white Germans have. You see that was this identification.    We got more soul.  Fatih Akin spent more than two years collecting the music for Soul Kitchen and almost 300000 buying the rights. He then wrote the script based on those songs.  What I do is I put the vinyl out I listen to the track and I read the scene that I have written. And if it makes sense I keep it.  The result is almost 60 songs on screen and a two-disc soundtrack which includes tracks by Curtis Mayfield and Donny Hathaway but also Greek pop songs and German hip-hop electronic music.   It is basically an extension of personality.  Garth Trinidad is talking about mixing music. He is a D.J. and a radio host in Los Angeles and he says spinning records can also tell a story.  What is it that makes you an individual? And I think that all of us have our own journeys and we pull from those journeys from the past or from you know five minutes ago. There is always the individual aspect of what is going on in somebody's life that serves that purpose.     But he says he felt critics became obsessed with asking what additional light he could shed on Europe's immigrant problems. And so for him Soul Kitchen was an act of defiance.  It really was liberation in a way to not be the slave of a certain success to not be the slave of expectations people have.  Some have called Soul Kitchen frothy Fatih Akin-lite. But he says that' to remain true to all of his creative impulses.  Soul Kitchen will always have a very important - it might not be important like yeah like saving the world or stuff you know? But for me it was in so many terms important.  Important because it is a tribute to that now-gentrifying corner of Hamburg that set the course for all that is followed in Fatih Akin's films.    Get down.  Bilal Qureshi NPR News.    Get down. Get down.  And you can see clips from Soul Kitchen at our website npr.org.    Baby when you reel I can feel so much desire. Take my soul baby. Life unfolds...  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 