 In its own time it was the soundtrack to a shattered United States of America the title track inspired by police violence against protesters in Berkeley Calif.    Mother mother there is too many of you crying. Brother brother brother...  This week Rolling Stone magazine updated its 500 Greatest Albums of All Time and Marvin Gaye's 1971 record What is Going On landed at No. 1.  More than 300 people from journalists to industry veterans to Beyonce and Billie Eilish voted for this list. Jon Dolan is the reviews editor for Rolling Stone.  We originally did the list in 2003. And the sort of sense of how big and how sort of different and diverse the canon of great albums can be kind of expands. And it just needs to be kind of readdressed.  In the new list 86 of the albums are from this century. And there is a lot of hip-hop and RB like Frank Ocean's Blonde at No. 94.    Round the city round the clock everybody needs you. No you cannot make everybody equal...  And Kendrick Lamar's To Pimp A Butterfly at 19.    If these walls could talk they would tell me to swim good. No boat I float better than he would. No life jacket I am not the God of Nazareth but your flood can be misunderstood...  Like every such list this one has sparked criticism. The uptick in Black music has been seen as performative a response to Black Lives Matter protests. But for Rolling Stone's Jon Dolan this timeliness is not necessarily bad. He says the Marvin Gaye album was an overwhelming favorite.  While we were asking people to send in their ballots it was you know 2020. I think that the sense of kind of like relevance and people maybe even playing that record for kind of solace during this time influenced the fact that it made it that high.  As for the previous No. 1 the Beatles' Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band has dropped down to 24. It is now below two other Beatles albums. But for a band with nine albums on the list it is just a day in the life we suppose.    I read the news today oh boy... 