 Today Germans are quite proud of the band Kraftwerk.  They are now kind of paraded as the best of Germany. And look how we influenced the entirety of popular music across the globe. There are only two important influential bands in the world of pop music. That is The Beatles and Kraftwerk.  That is writer Uwe Schutte.  I think it is true . But of course I am supposed to say this .  His new book is called  Future Music From Germany. And yes he argues the band helped bring about the rise of hip-hop and electronic dance music and theirs was an unlikely success. Their U.S. breakthrough was a 22-minute electronic ode to driving called Autobahn.    Wir fahren fahren fahren auf der Autobahn. Wir fahren fahren fahren auf der Autobahn.  Kraftwerk is now considered a pioneering electronic band but Schutte says that was not quite how things started. In the '70s they were just experimental artists from Germany's art capital Dusseldorf.  They had this idea to use machines and to work with everyday sounds you know with the noises of driving on the motorway with the noises of car engines of car horns. So this was electronically simulated though ultimately it turned out at the end they just took some library records. And so they took the sound effects of that. In a sense Kraftwerk were not that electronic in the beginning. This was also experimental in the sense of how do you build a drum kit if there are no such things as a drum kit? You go to the scrapyard and you buy various other things knitting needles. And then you try to build something out of these sort of odds and ends of this debris of this stuff from the scrapyard. You try to build an electronic music machine.  You know you are writing about the idea of Kraftwerk representing an effort at the kind of rebuilding of Germany in a way culturally.  Yeah.  And I think you even say to quote a political cultural and moral rebuilding of Germany.  Yeah. Yeah.  What do you mean by that? How does a pop act do that?  The band members all belonged to the first generation of Germans being born after the Nazi period after the Second World War had ended in 1945. So they were Germans who grew up in the rubble who saw the destruction of German cities. They inherited the trauma of being born into a collective of perpetrators of mass murderers of people who attempted a genocide.  And they try and define this identity it sounds like through art culture and technology.    Wir sind die Roboter.  Technology art culture but harking back to a previous age to an age before the Nazis to the great age of German culture and art and cinema expressionism - the Weimar period the interwar period. So they have to look back to find German traditions they could associate with not something that was tainted by Nazism.  Right. And they embraced the European project right? They sort of embraced the idea of Europe.  Absolutely. Of course being German meant to be a European from then on.    La musica ideas portara y siempre continuara.  Nationalism was obviously too close to racism and so a new German identity could also only be developed in the European framework.  You talk about their way of looking to the future and their 1981 album was called Computer World.    Computer world.  And in the music they actually even talk about people - like basically the widespread future use - right? - of personal computers.    I program my home computer.  Was that part of this kind of futurist mindset? Were they reflecting broader thinking at the time?  Yes but broader thinking at the time in the German context in for example the use of computers by the equivalent of the FBI in Germany to track down left-wing terrorists. As it happens Duesseldorf was also home to the headquarters of IBM so they arranged a meeting or a factory visit at IBM headquarters to try to find out about these new machines that were coming up on the market. Interestingly Computer World is an album made 95 devoid of computers. It is all analog. Only the vocals - there was some electronic or digital treatment to them. But Computer World as prophetic as it turned out to be is still an analog record.  How does the music make the leap meaning - for instance two U.S. burgeoning electronic movements - I mean does Kraftwerk and their music inspire and spread other kinds of electronic movements that we are familiar with but may not realize their influence?  Obviously there are too many routes and avenues of exchange to list them really. But the most important I think because it happened so early was Planet Rock by Afrika Bambaataa...    Yeah just hit me. It is time to chase your dreams up out the seats make your body sway.  ...Where you can clearly hear the two Kraftwerk samples - Numbers being one of them and the other is the melody from Trans-Europe Express.    Come play the game. Our world is free. Do what you want but scream.  In Detroit Kraftwerk are considered kind of godfathers of Detroit music and are treated like well German gods who every time they visit...  It is funny because the music is still sampled right? Like Frank Ocean Dr. Dre - I have been surprised at the artists who reach for those albums in particular...  Yeah. I was going to say yes.  ...Because it does not seem like a natural point of reference right?   It is true. It is true. I mean the big discussion of course is would techno have emerged without Kraftwerk? And that is in a way also a silly discussion because yes of course it would but maybe would have sounded differently because someone had to - Kraftwerk were the first to kind of realize this to put it to tape if you like. But of course these ideas float around. And it is the times that produce these ideas particularly the influence on Detroit techno music which is so close demonstrates that you cannot really and should not really consider music in national - terms of national constraints or national definitions.  Right. But you are saying that there is a kind of cross-pollination that was happening.  So we do not really know but the point is that Kraftwerk demonstrates that music is international...    L'enfer du Nord Paris-Roubaix Tour de France Tour de France. La Cote d'Azur et Saint-Tropez Tour de France Tour de France.  ...Or that music is not strictly speaking the product of a specific national or cultural background but that it emerges and that pop music is a global language. And indeed music is the global language despite the differences in vocals of course. The sound of music is something that can be understood globally.  Well Uwe Schutte thank you so much for speaking with us. This was a really fun conversation.  Thank you very much. It was a pleasure.  Uwe Schutte - his new book is called  Future Music From Germany.    Galibier et Tourmalet Tour de France Tour de France. 