 In 2010 Vic Mensa almost died. He was trying to sneak into the Lollapalooza music festival in Chicago. He got an electric shock from a transformer and he fell off of a bridge. A year later the rapper was headlining one of the stages at Lollapalooza. He was a teenager. Vic Mensa's now 24 years old. He is worked with Kanye West Jay-Z and Pharrell. And he has a new album out today called The Autobiography. Mensa says telling his own stories has helped him work through some hard stuff like addiction drug use and violence. The album starts in his childhood.  One of the first songs is called Memories On 47th St. where I speak about growing up on the South Side of Chicago and the way I grew up which was in between two worlds.  I want to listen to a little bit of Memories On 47th St.  Cool.    I am the first son of Betsy and Edward Mensa made love and made a legend. Woodlawn and 47th gunshots outside my window drug deals out by the Citgo but mama always made sure the tooth fairy found my pillow... My mother is from upstate New York. She is of Irish and German descent. My father is from Ghana. And I live in this two-parent household that is supportive and educated and outside there is kids selling crack and homicides you know? So as I start to get older I am kind of hit back and forth like a ping-pong ball because on one hand America views me as this general blanket term black. But at home I am me. And I am half African. I am Irish. I am German. I am all of these things. But the police do not know it. And teachers and schools are treating me differently. And I am put in individualized education programs IEPs just because I got this brand on me. I got the black brand.  And then in the song you say that age 12 you learned the difference between white and black.    Between white and black. Police pulled me off of my bike I landed on my back.  What happened when you were 12?  Well that is around the time America removes child from black youth. So around age 12 when I am riding my bike the police pull me over and start questioning me about running from them the day before which did not happen. And when I told them that they were like well do you have a twin brother? And you know I am pushed off the bike slammed to the ground. And I realize like oh OK I am black you know? And I am dissecting being told by police if I have my hands in my hoodie you know take your hands out your  hoodie before I punch you in the  face you know? There was a certain aggression that came to me from being pushed around and labeled and marginalized. And I took it out on other people.    Memories on 47th Street. One day you will be mine all mine all mine all mine all mine all mine.  Chicago of course is all over the news these days and not in a good way.  Right.  The news out of Chicago is violence gun violence killings. And you have described yourself as a voice for Chicago. What do you mean by that? And how do you - I do not know how do you approach that?  Well my perspective for Chicago is empathy. I think that often Chicago is portrayed as being purely violent. And I wanted to humanize these people on all sides of the equation. Like for example I have a song on the album called Heaven On Earth which is dedicated to my big brother Dare who was murdered on the South Side of Chicago. And in the song I speak to him.    What up Cam? It is your little bro. Been a while since we spoke but it is hidden for. Yeah the other day I saw your sister bro sad it had to be at another funeral. I speak as him back to me and in the third verse I speak as his killer because a lot of people are pushed to violence and murder through desperation. So I wanted to imagine you know maybe his killer just had a child. Maybe his killer was afraid. And maybe his killer is remorseful every night you know?  And you do not just go into the mind of the killer. You like re-enact the killing of your friend. Let us listen to that.    It was a dark night. I got a call from this broad right? She said I am hitting you about this  because I know you got stripes like off white. I got a lick for you. You got a car right?  So - yeah so it like in detail imagines the story of what happened sort of why people would want to kill him how they did it. And then you know at one point the killer's like I know it as not right. I did not mean to take a life. We are living in the streets where blank as not free. So you are like trying to empathize with this guy who killed this really close friend of yours. How did you do that? Like how did you get into his head space?  I had to get into his head space to be able to let go of hatred for him because holding hate in your heart hurts you more than it hurts anybody else.  Throughout all the stuff that is happened in your life you know you talk about a lot of hard stuff in your work I mean addiction and thoughts of suicide obviously violence. And yet you say you are a romantic.  One hundred percent.  Yeah. I want to listen to a little bit of the last song in the album. It is called We Could Be Free.    We could be free if we only knew we were slaves to the pains of each other. One thing I believe - I could learn to see my enemy as my brother. Then we could be free truly. We will make a better today than tomorrow.  We will make a better today than tomorrow. I mean this is different than the other songs on the album. It is really aspirational I guess. How possible do you think a world like that is?  I ask myself the same thing. Often times I feel like I can through the music paint a picture of something that I cannot look anywhere and see in my real life. But I think that it is very possible just with empathy. I cannot really stress that word enough because very often we generalize people as being one thing. He is a Republican. He is bad. He is a Democrat. He is bad. When we are all bad good - like there are so many different emotions and characteristics to every human being. And if we can start to recognize that and acknowledge that then I think we can be closer to freedom.  Vic Mensa thank you so much.  Thank you.  Dick Mensa's The Autobiography is out now.    Love... 