 Bob Dylan has got a new album out - Rough And Rowdy Ways. This week it rose to No. 2 on the Billboard albums chart making him the first-ever artist to have a Top 40 album in every decade since the 1960s.    Key West is the place to be if you are looking for immortality. Stay on the road. Follow the highway sign.  Dylan is getting all kinds of critical acclaim and this is his highest-charting album in a decade - pretty good for a guy who will be 80 next year. Now Bob Dylan is not alone in making vital new music well into what some might call his retirement years. There are also new projects from Neil Young Willie Nelson and the late John Prine this summer and they have all accomplished something similar. NPR Music critic and correspondent Ann Powers joins us to talk about these still very relevant elders and I hope play a lot of their music for us. Hey there Ann.  Hey.  All right. So let us start with Bob Dylan and this new album. How remarkable is it that it seems to work in 2020 when it is hip-hop and pop that are so dominant culturally and commercially?  Bob Dylan is in a way a world unto himself. As he said in one of the songs on this record he contains multitudes. And he is managed to make an album here that seems to reference his whole career.    I have never lived in the land of Oz or wasted my time with an unworthy cause. It is hot down here and you cannot be overdressed. Tiny blossoms of a toxic plant.  What I have noticed about Rough And Rowdy Ways is that it gives us so many of the Bob Dylans that we have known and loved over the years - you know the Dylan who free-associates long strings of poetic phrasings the Dylan who can write a really pure and direct love song or the Dylan who likes to play the mythical adventurer or even the crooner who is covered Sinatra. It is like he is curating his own life.  It is a balancing act though for someone in their late 70s pushing 80 to feel relevant in this era. How does he pull it off?  Dylan is just himself. His personality just shines through so much. Bob Dylan is also a lot like a rapper. He interpolates. He samples. And then yet there he is at the heart of it - his strong personality. And sometimes he is just very direct like when he writes a beautiful love song.    I met no other traveler there. Lot of people gone a lot of people I knew. I have made up my mind to give myself to you.  That song - I have Made Up My Mind To Give Myself To You. He still sounds like Bob Dylan. Let me turn you to another relative whippersnapper - 74-year-old Neil Young. He put out an album the same day Dylan put his out. Tell us about Homegrown.  Neil Young is also always making new music. But this new release Homegrown is actually an album from 1975.    I need that girl like the night needs the day. I do not need you getting in my way.  You can hear so much of what current rock bands or even country or Americana bands are doing now. It all stems from this sound that Neil Young and Crazy Horse made back in the '70s.    Vacancy vacancy.  All right. So there is Neil Young. Let me turn you to another artist Ann who is releasing his 70th solo studio album this week. I am talking about Willie Nelson. And that blows my mind - 70th solo studio album.  And that is just part of his catalog. I mean Willie Nelson's done so many collaborations live albums. Willie Nelson is like a music industry unto himself.    We are just riding on the wind.  Eighty-seven years old 70 albums in - is there anything left for him to explore in this new album?  Willie Nelson is such a craftsman and an artist. And the nuance of his singing and his guitar playing is just unparalleled.    I will be the blue star on your ride .  And on this new record the First Rose Of Spring you hear Willie singing kind of in a jazz standard style. You hear cowboy songs. He has some beautiful ballads. And it is - really Mary Louise this music is relevant because musicmaking itself always captures the present moment. And Willie Nelson is showing us what it is like to be a vital person at nearly 90. It is astounding.  Do their voices sound different to you than they did 20 30 40 years ago?  Both Bob Dylan and Willie Nelson - they really are not afraid of showing the age in their voices. But the power is also still there. And that for me is what makes this music the most relevant because - let us be honest - we need guides to the later phases of life. We need these beacons from our elders. And I am grateful for their voices with all of the warts and you know the halting phrases. And they still both sound beautiful but this is just what I want from these artists.  Before I let you go Ann let me ask about one last artist who sadly is no longer with us and that is John Prine. He died just in March of COVID-19 but his label just released a posthumous song. It is called I Remember Everything. Before we hear a taste of it what should we know about it?  John Prine remained relevant until the last day of his life because he too always kept growing writing songs. It is just a perfect final statement from John. It is - you know it is got that humor and humility and joy in life that he carried to his very last days.    I have been down this road before. I remember every tree. Every single blade of grass holds a special place for me.  Ann Powers is NPR Music critic and correspondent. The music we touched on here was Bob Dylan's Rough And Rowdy Ways Neil Young's Homegrown and Willie Nelson's First Rose Of Spring a soundtrack for this summer of 2020.    Got no future in my happiness though regrets are very few. Sometimes a little tenderness was the best that I could do. I remember everything things I cannot forget - swimming pools of butterflies that slipped right through the net. And I remember every night your ocean eyes of blue. How I miss you in the morning light like roses miss the... 