 Mr.   Oh Cash n dubs. Busta-bust. Oh ether boy O'Neal  We are listening to Champagne Red Lights Part 2 produced by DJ Cassidy. When Jay-Z celebrates his birthday he calls DJ Cassidy to provide the soundtrack. He is DJ-ed the weddings of J.Lo and Beyonce. And now his bona fides are just about complete. DJ Cassidy is now unofficially being called President Obama's DJ. He spun records at an inaugural ball. And last week he picked the playlist for the president's Welcome Back to Chicago bash. DJ Cassidy is 28-year-old Cassidy Podell and he joins us from our New York bureau. Welcome to the show. Mr.  Hey. How are you?  Good. Before I ask about your playlist Mr.  What an intro by the way. Thank you.  Tell me... Mr.  My head just swelled.   Tell me what is more stressful for you. Is it more stressful trying to put together a playlist for you know President Obama or you know for Jay-Z who is arguably the most powerful man in hip-hop? Mr.  Neither are stressful.  Neither are stressful? Mr.  Neither are stressful. I have been DJ-ing since I am 10 years old. I love music. I know music. I do not really prepare. I do not really think too much in advance. I guess that kind of inherently eliminates some of the stress.  So do you just come like armed with all these albums records CDs files different pieces of music and then you just sort of decide what you are going to play when one song is playing? Mr.  Yeah. Well technology has helped that somewhat. For years I carried eight crates of records.  Mr.  Why eight crates? Because that is what fit in a cab. You fit like you know six in the trunk one in the front one in the back on your lap. And if you had a cab driver who was not so nice you waited for another one.  Okay DJ Cassidy we are going to throw a couple of challenges at you. okay? Because we got a couple of events coming up here in Washington and some hypothetical ones too I should say. All right Judge Sonia Sotomayor she may be confirmed by the full Senate in the coming weeks. What would you play if she had a post-swearing-in you know gala event? Mr.  Celebration by Kool and the Gang. What else?   Perfect. All right. This week Henry Louis Gates Jr. and Sergeant James Crowley met at the White House for a beer with the president after you know their run-in. If you were asked to make a playlist what song would you pick? Mr.  Oh woo. Maybe Stevie Wonder Sir Duke.  Mr.   Music is a world within itself. There is a language we all understand Mr.  It is truly a feel good song and fits really in every occasion. You can play that at a young person's like you know birthday party. I can play that after a speech at a corporate like you know Christmas party. I can play that in a nightclub. So that would have been a good song you know?  Good for reconciliation event as well. Right? Mr.  Yeah right.  Okay before we let you go DJ Cassidy one more song to go out on.  All right.  Give us a tune. Mr.  What we are going to do here is put on one of my favorite party records of all time any setting any city any people Kiss by the legendary the one and only Prince.    You do not have to be rich to be my girl. You do not have to be cool to rule my world. As not no particular sign I am more compatible with. I just want your extra time and your kiss.  That is Cassidy Podell also known as DJ Cassidy. He joined us from our New York bureau. DJ Cassidy thanks for stopping by. Mr.  Thank you for having me. 