 Mr.   I want to be around to pick up the pieces when somebody breaks your heart.  This summer we' What is your favorite summer song? And today we get an answer from the man with that legendary voice Tony Bennett. He is introduced dozens of songs to the Great American Songbook including this one I Wanna Be Around also The Best is Yet to Come and I Left my Heart in San Francisco. Recently Tony Bennett joined me from Manhattan to talk about his favorite song that makes him think of summer. Mr.  I did record a song called It Was Me which was my version of what I think the most beautiful summer song that was ever written. It is a beautiful love story about how people fall in - what happens when people fall in love and it is usually in the summertime. If you happen to have that recording I think you might enjoy it.  We do. Let us take a listen. This was from your album I Wanna Be Around released in 1963.  Mr.   Who is the one you would find on the beach every day lying there on the shore while his friends swim away lying there in the sand only inches from you watching you ever day till the summer was through? It was me.  This was a song originally written in French right C'etait Moi? Mr.  That is right. It is a gorgeous song because it is the signature version of what honestly happens when people fall in love for real and it is unforgettable.  Mr.   Who would help gather shells for the bracelet you made? Who would find you the cups for the pink lemonade? Who was always beside you whenever you would swim when you sat by the sea as the daylight grew dim? It was me.  It is beautiful. This Mr.  Thank you.  This is a very young love I think. You are talking about you know pink lemonade and stringing shells together to make bracelets. Mr.  Yes because it happens to everybody you know? It happens - it is the essence of what really happens when people really fall in love permanently.  Mr.   And the warm skies are cold and the soft winds are crisp.  Well Tony Bennett it is been a pleasure talking with you. Thank you so much. Mr.  Well thank you very much.  Mr.   Do you ever think back on the night?  That is singer Tony Bennett with the song It Was Me. And you can hear all our stories of summer songs at the new npr.org.  Mr.   I know I never will. Who is the one next to you in the group photograph? Who is the one with the face too unhappy to laugh standing there looking down so uncertain and shy like a boy who is in love so in love he could cry? It was me.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 