 And this means an extra second of celebration today for ballerina Misty Copeland. She was promoted to principal dancer of the American Ballet Theatre - the first African-American to hold that position. NPR's Mandalit del Barco has more.  The 32-year-old ballerina has inspired huge diverse crowds to see her perform at Lincoln Center and the Metropolitan Opera House as recently as last week in Swan Lake. Misty Copeland has been with the American Ballet Theatre or ABT for nearly 15 years. She was a soloist but as she told NPR last year she is always wanted to be a principal dancer the top prize in a ballet company.   Before I knew that there would never been a black woman that was always my goal. I wanted to dance Odette-Odile and Kitri in Don Quixote and Aurora in Sleeping Beauty. Knowing that it is never been done before I think makes me fight even harder.  Fight even harder she said because of some of the challenges she faced. First as one of six children with a struggling single mother. Copeland told NPR when she first started ballet lessons at 13 they were living in a motel. When Copeland started dancing professionally she found that being biracial - half black half white - became an issue.   I was the one brown girl up there and some people just thought that I kind of ruined the aesthetic of the group.  As she moved up the ranks at the ABT Copeland publicly called out the racism of some dance critics who questioned her body type.   Saying that you know African-Americans are too muscular or just are not lean enough. When people meet me in person they are usually surprised at how petite I am.  Copeland has been active in promoting herself and ballet for all. She wrote a best-selling memoir and a popular children's book. She made the cover of Time magazine and was featured on TV's 60 Minutes. She is the subject of a new documentary and has more than a half-a-million Instagram followers. A commercial she did for Under Armour sportswear went viral. Copeland performed in concert with Prince and she even judged contestants on a TV dance competition. Mandalit del Barco NPR News. 