   Sitting in a park in Paris France reading the news. And it sure looks bad. They will not give peace a chance.  That is the unmistakable voice of Joni Mitchell. That song California is from her 1971 album Blue. And we are playing it because earlier this week NPR Music released a list of the top 150 albums by women albums made between the years 1964 and 2016. Joni's Blue was number one.    California I am coming home.  This list was chosen by a group of nearly 50 diverse music critics and music lovers all of them women. Also near the top of their list? Aretha Franklin Carole King and Lauryn Hill.    Girls you know you have got to watch out. Some guys some guys are only about that thing that thing that thing.  Greatest-album lists are subjective and there are always going to be what you could call - what we will call - shocking omissions. To tell us more about NPR Music's Turning the Tables project which is part of a collaboration with Lincoln Center we have Jill Sternheimer. She is the director of public programming at Lincoln Center. And Jill is co-creator of the list along with NPR's music critic Ann Powers. Hey Jill.  Hi there. How are you?  We also have Paula Mejia who was lead editor on the project. Paula thanks for coming in.  Thank you so much for having me.  Jill let me start with you. What were you trying to say about the place of women musicians in the landscape of musicians of all genders?  Well in all of these lists you know you have the famous Rolling Stone lists the famous Pitchfork lists and so many lists through the years. Women they are on the list but they are sprinkled in sort of as an afterthought. And after four albums by Bob Dylan comes a Joni Mitchell album or three albums by the Beatles then there is Carole King. They feel like an afterthought and not the main meal.  What album Paula did you really want included on the list that did not make it?  I personally was really rooting for Sister Nancy's One Two a seminal reggae album from 1982 that I was really pushing for. It did not end up making the cut so that was one that I was really hoping would make it.  Let us listen to a little bit of Sister Nancy. This is Bam Bam.   .  We just happen to have a little Sister Nancy lying around. Why do you think this album in particular deserved to be on the final list? I had never heard of Sister Nancy to be honest.  I think that she is a voice that has always been present but she has not quite gotten her due. I was actually just reading a story that came out last month in The FADER about how she finally is starting to get royalties from Bam Bam. Like and this was recorded in the early '80s.  Whoa.  And this song has been sampled so many times over. It is been used in commercials but she was shut out of that. And so she is finally taking ownership of that. She was a DJ. And she got her start in dance halls in Jamaica in a very heavily male-dominated sphere. And a lot of people would tell her like you know your voice is too fragile. Like you probably should not do this. And she just kept pushing on.   .  These days she tours full time so glad to see her out there. I saw her a couple months ago and she was amazing.  And Jill what was your number 151 or 152? What do you wish had really made it?  Well I am still kind of reeling that Dionne Warwick is not on this list .  We are all reeling.  I know. I know.   We happen to have some Dionne here as well. This is Alfie from Here Where There Is Love.    What is it all about Alfie? Is it just for the moment we live? What is it all about when you sort it out Alfie? Are we meant to take more than we give?  Everyone in studio here is swaying . I could listen to that all day. How did Dionne not make the list?  There is no good reason or explanation that she did not make the list. And to me she is a core person so yes.  Agreed. I think that it was just an oversight on our part.  Yeah so.  I know that you have got a lot of feedback about this list. And people on Twitter seem to agree with you about Dionne in particular. What else did you hear from people? I mean I do not know if either of you are on Twitter but I would imagine your feeds blew up if you are.  Absolutely. And you know and instead of taking it as a criticism I think that we are all taking it as that this is a big accomplishment. This - we are trying to expand this conversation. And the fact that everyone is arguing about more great women and more great albums that did not make the list we think that is the beginning of some good work and some ground break.  No definitely. I saw everything you can imagine on Twitter. I saw Joan Armatrading Francoise Hardy Nancy Sinatra - which is someone I was very bummed did not make the final cut either.  Aimee Mann.  Aimee Mann yeah.  Diana Ross's Diana.  Oh yeah. I was blown away. I mean I am Coming Out the quintessential gay anthem is on that album. How is that not on this list?    I am coming out. I want the world to know got to let it show.  This is fairly inspiring. I mean it sounds like what you have motivated people to do is say no I think you are wrong but let me tell you what is right. And that is probably a pretty good feeling.  It is a very good feeling. And I feel like we have woken people up to look at things that are in their daily musical life and see them in a different way. I think that sometimes girl singers got marginalized as oh that is the girl singer with this incredible producer and these amazing musicians and songwriters. Well we have had a few conversations about voice as a form of authorship.  Paula NPR Music is working on a Shocking Omissions project. What can you tell us about that?  The Shocking Omissions project is going to be part of this editorial sort of vertical that we are doing with Turning the Tables along with the list where we have different writers coming together and talking about albums that they not only wish would have made the list but have a rightful place in this canon that we are building.  One of the things that I know that we are really excited to talk about are the forebearers. I am sure that that is going to come up 'ecause there sure are a lot of incredible artists pre-1964 that we are all going to want to talk about.  I saw a lot of that on Twitter too people saying like well what about Billie Holiday and Patsy Cline. And I think that was just unfortunate that we started in 1964 that we could not include those artists because it was a little bit after their time but we will have tributes and different essays to them and talk about what they contributed to this canon as well.   Paula Mejia and Jill Sternheimer. They worked on NPR's Turning the Tables project. You can see a full list of the 150 albums by going to our website npr.org.    Crazy. I am crazy for feeling so lonely. 