  Now time for music.    Keep on taking your medication lock that that temper behind those pills. Your brain is flying insanely frying. Just remember it is bad to kill. I go with a psycho.  The song you are hearing is called Psycho and it is from Irish singer Imelda May's new album Mayhem. She discovered rock and roll and blues as a kid Buddy Holly was her idol so was Billie Holiday. Over the years she is honed a trademark rockabilly sound. That is right. She is an Irish rockabilly singer. Imelda May joins me now from London where she is currently on tour. Imelda welcome to the show.  Thank you very much for having me.  So you are on tour right now but you began touring when you were just 16. What was that like?  Yes. I do not know if it was touring because it was not that far away from home.   I would have loved to go on tour but I began singing in the basement of a pub called Bruxelles in Dublin and it was all blues rockabilly country all roots music and some traditional Irish. And that was it. I was smitten.  Were you even old enough to be in that club?  No absolutely not.   They used to sneak me in. But my parents were okay with it because they knew I was crazy about the music. I loved it. Actually one night that I was there Ronnie Wood came in and jumped up and played guitar and I got to sing.  Ronnie Wood is the - that is The Rolling Stones guitarist.  Yeah. And I got to meet him again recently.  Did you tell him?  I said we - yeah. I said we met before. And he says no way. So I tell him and he remembers.  He remembered you?  I swore he would not remember. Yeah I swore there was no way he could. And then he described the night at the club and he said it was weird a little kid singing the blues in this little basement in Dublin.    He got me with the hook with those big bass notes. Thunder in my chest mmm stuck in my throat. Pulling me down like a rumble in the ground crawls up from the depths with a deep down sound. Johnny got a boom boom. Johnny got a bam. He got a...  Your music which is a mix of rockabilly and blues is not what you hear on mainstream you know music radio right now. Has it been hard to get a label to get behind you?  Initially yes. I talked to some record companies. They did not understand it. They said I need to choose one music or another. And actually I was told by a few people to cut the rockabilly bit out and you will do fine. So I decided to hell with them anyway and I am going to make my album anyway. And I made the album and then I was on a TV show called Later...with Jools Holland.  What we did not get about Imelda May last month or whatever we get now. Can we speak? And I said absolutely.    Gonna make you wanna make you wanna oh. Johnny got a boom boom. Johnny got a bam. He got a...  Not all of your music is rockabilly and one of those songs is Kentish Town Waltz which is a little bit different than some of the other tracks on your new album Mayhem. Let us listen to it now.    Do you remember we traipsed around from pub to pound shop through Kentish Town. Only a fiver to our name the drunk on the doorstep had more to our shame. Living over the offy had its trials.  This is one of my favorite songs on your album. What is this about?  This is just about my life me and my husband's life in particular. We were madly in love still are thank God and we did have really tough times. The gigs were few and you know trying to get work but we made the most of what we had and we stuck together. And you know my mother taught me well and I could make a good stew on a fiver that can last three days if you keep adding to the pot you know?  He plays guitar in your band.  He plays guitar. His name is Darrel Higham. But I was concerned that we were married. Touch wood it is all been great. It is brilliant to see the world together and it is wonderful.    But you are the one for all my life my true love I have found. Yeah you my love I have found.  You are featured on a new tribute album for Buddy Holly that is coming out next month and you sing his song I am Looking For Someone to Love. Let us listen to some of that.    Staying at home waiting for you just will not get it 'ecause you say we are through. Well I am looking for someone to love. I am looking for someone to love. Well you are not here but baby I do not care 'ecause I am looking for someone to love.  He is one of your heroes. What was it like singing on a tribute album for him?  Oh it was absolutely wonderful wonderful. I was very very happy to do it. You know I am a fan of Buddy Holly's music. I think music has to be purely from your heart. You have to be able to put your heart and soul into it and Buddy Holly was one of those people. And he was an inventor of music. He was a pioneer of this type of music. And also a lot of people do not give him enough credit for he was a terrific producer. So to be asked to be on such a CD - I did try and get True Love Ways but that was already taken. I think that is one of the most beautiful love songs ever written. And also I did a recording of Ollie Vee just for the hell of it. We were having such a great time in there we just kind of kept recording.  That is Irish singer Imelda May. Her new album Mayhem is out now. Imelda May thanks so much for joining us.  Oh thank you so much for having me.    Well you are not here but baby I do not care 'ecause I am looking for someone to love yeah. 