 If you are honest about it you are probably not the same person at home that you are at work. Mitski Miyawaki says she is most comfortable at work which for her often means being on a stage in front of thousands of people.    My God I am so lonely. So I open the window to hear sounds of people to hear sounds of people.  This is from Mitski's forthcoming record. She is 27 years old and this is her fifth album in just a few years. It is called Be The Cowboy. She says the title is a reference to an inside joke that she has with herself.  I just kept telling myself be the cowboy you wish to see in the world kind of a play on be the change you wish to see in the world because there was a friend of mine - a performer friend of mine in college who was just so charismatic onstage just swaggering like a cowboy. And he was a white guy and there is just something incredibly electric about his playing live. And I have not seen him in a while but I just missed seeing him live. And so I thought well if I miss seeing that live then I should embody that onstage. I should be whatever I want to see onstage.    Nobody nobody nobody nobody nobody nobody nobody...  Do you think that swagger that kind of casual power that a cowboy exudes - do you think it is harder for a woman to wear that?  Yeah. And when I say a cowboy I am talking about like the Marlboro myth of a cowboy...  Yeah.  ...Very kind of strong white male identity. And so as you know an Asian woman I sometimes feel I need to tap into that to achieve things that maybe I do not believe I can achieve.  When you are up there performing and people are admiring you and watching you how would you describe your relationship with your audience?  You know what is really weird is when I am onstage I finally feel like myself. I finally feel like I can be myself. And maybe that is because I am pretending or I am performing.  It sounds like it is easier to have a relationship onstage than one on one with someone offstage. And that is so interesting to me. I mean I relate to that in a way. It is easy for me to be outgoing and sociable on the radio. But I also need a lot of time alone and it is harder for me to be available in a relationship often. If my boyfriend's listening right now he would totally agree with that.   Maybe there is just something about there being clearly defined roles in that situation and being more comfortable in a situation where you know your role and you know what your job is. Maybe out there in the world it is so unclear who you are supposed to be in any situation.  Yeah.  So when you are onstage it is very clear what you are there to do. And so you can be free within that limitation.    You are my number one. You are the one I want and you have turned down every hand that has beckoned me to come.  You have said before that this song is about a woman who cannot contain it any longer who will explode if she is forced to hold it in. What is it that she wants to let out so badly?  I think I was just very fascinated with the idea of a woman who feels she has no control over her life over her place in the world. And she feels she has no power and her way of feeling like she has power is to be maybe icy or cold. But if you are someone who is soft on the inside I think eventually something inside you would find a way to get out.    Though I am a geyser - feel it bubbling from below. Hear it call. Hear it call. Hear it call to me constantly. And hear the harmony only when it is harming me. It is not real. It is not real. It is not real enough. Puberty 2 and all my previous albums were very kind of adolescent or expression a lot of adolescent emotions. But now that I am 27 in my later 20s I am understanding much more about love and maybe much more about being an adult and being in relationships. And I...  Yeah.  ...Wanted to write more songs about all the different kinds of love that are not just you know you are so hot on the dance floor.  .  And I am more interested now in maybe nostalgic love maybe old love maybe love that is been going on for a long time that it is no longer what it used to be but it is become something else you know?    Does it smell like a school gymnasium in here? It is funny how they are all the same. It is funny how you always remember and we have both done it all a hundred times before.  You know when I listen to you talk...  Yeah.  ...About relationships - relationships with other people with your audience with lovers relationship with yourself - you sound so much older than 27 to me.   You know what? I - I am definitely young and stupid...  .  ...Very much so still.  Yeah.  So do not worry. But I think it is because I have moved around so much. And when I was younger it was just right before social media was what it is now. And so I essentially got to start over and be somebody new. And no one else would know my past. And so in a way I have - I got to live all these different lives and I got to realize how many different people I am in one body. I think maybe that is why.  How fascinating.  Yeah.  You like kind of reinvented yourself each time.  Yeah and it messed me up a little bit to tell you the truth. But in the long run it is made me realize that you know I am all of those people. There is no such thing for me anyway as like one identity.  I totally agree with that. That is Mitski Miyawaki. Her new album is called Be The Cowboy. Thank you so much for speaking with us.  Thank you so much for having me.    To think that we could stay the same to think that we could stay the same to think that we will stay the same - but we are two slow dancers last ones out. 