 And to end this hour we have All Tech Considered...   ...Straying from our regular theme music to bring you a recent Tiny Desk concert.   That is Icelandic composer Olafur Arnalds and a string quartet. What you cannot see is Arnalds playing a keyboard over a tiny laptop. Behind him are two upright pianos. They are playing along keys moving by themselves almost like a ghost is playing.  There are no ghosts here on these pianos. I can tell you that.  No ghosts just software - artificial intelligence. Arnalds and a friend invented the STRATUS piano system. Think of it as a modern take on those player pianos from old Westerns.  The first time I saw them I was in Asia in a hotel lobby. And it was playing Yesterday by The Beatles. And  - and I just looked at it and I said OK that is very silly. That is  - that is a very bad idea. But I wonder if there is something there we can work with.   The main thing is the brain that is in the computer. It is a software that I created with a friend of mine who is a coder. And it senses what I play. Usually I am sitting on a grand piano and I will play a chord. That chord goes into the software which manipulates it and then sends it out as rhythmical textures to these two pianos.  So show me what happens when you play.  So when I - I am going to play you C major chord now.  OK.  And when I do that it goes into the computer which is the brain and then the keys on the pianos are playing on their own...   ...In that rhythmical texture that the software generates actually by very dumb AI like very not advanced AI.  Very dumb AI.  Yeah. It is like AI that people who do not really know AI make.   Which is this - your software the very dumb AI. OK.  Yeah.  How dumb is it? I mean is it learning? If you were to play that chord again would it play something different?  It always plays something different. It is never the same twice. That is due to very complex rhythmical calculations that are called Euclidean rhythms. And then it adds random things as well. So we have like this slider here. When I turn that...  You are sliding a little slider on the left up here.  Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.  And that is going to change what comes out of these pianos behind us.  Yeah. It will maybe do more of the upper octaves or more of the lower octaves and dance around the keyboard a bit more.  So you can influence what is happening on the pianos behind you.  Yes. It is fully - like nothing happens if I am not there. I can control how much random. I can control the rhythms. There is no real AI here. There is no real learning here. It is just an instrument.   Why? Why does the world need this?   Because as creative people we get so accustomed to the tools that we have. I am mostly a pianist. I compose by playing the piano. And I found myself in a rut. Like I am composing the same pieces of music over and over again. So how do you break that pattern and how do you manipulate your creative impulses in a way? Like the response I get from playing the piano - I wanted that to be different.  Something you could not anticipate.  Exactly.  Why is that better than playing with two other human musicians who might also do something that surprises you?  Well that is just my - me being particular and  not liking people in general .  Better to play with a robot. They do not get drunk after the show.  Yeah.  I guess there is that.   No there is something fascinating about technology. And if we look at the history of music every time we heard a new type of music coming out was when somebody came up with a new way to play an instrument. We would not have any rock 'n' roll music if there was no electric guitars. And I am not saying that what I am doing it is the new rock 'n' roll but at least I am bringing my own compositions to a new place where I would never have brought them if I did not have this.   Last thing I wonder about is you are surrendering a certain amount of control here in the sense that if you come up right now with some song that you love that you think is like the greatest thing you have ever played you cannot replicate that 'ecause it is going to play back something different the next time.  Yeah. That was the biggest challenge making the album. When I was writing if I was not recording as I was writing and something - a great accident would happen - you know like the software would accidentally go into like a weird loop and come up with something great - I could never replicate that. But I think that is also an interesting part of the creative process right ?  One moment - enjoy it.  Just find - yeah enjoy that one moment like it is - we are all here and we are watching a concert that will never be replicated exactly the same. So we are all living in this unique moment in time which will never happen again. And I think that is interesting.  Me too. Olafur thank you.  Thank you.   That is composer Olafur Arnalds who plays not one but three pianos thanks to his very dumb AI. You can watch him do it at npr.orgmusic. 