 This is ALL PR News. I am Melissa Block.   Trent Reznor of Nine Inch Nails defies the rock musician stereotype - first by scheduling our interview for the early morning and then by showing up 15 minutes early.  It is a promptness. It is a thing of mine.   a meticulous composer and manipulator of sound - lots of sound layers upon layers of it.    If I were you I would not trust a single word I say.  From the start of Nine Inch Nails 25 years ago Trent Reznor has been known for songs of deep menacing pain rage and self-destruction. Now his dark days of alcohol and drug abuse are behind him. And he finds himself at 48 with a wife and two young kids. Reznor told me he sees his latest album Hesitation Marks as a response to that earlier self and how he is changed.  I felt like I was achieving honesty you know and just trying to be as truthful as I could be. The process of reflecting back on a younger version of me provided more insight to who I think I am now. And the writing process felt fairly effortless and refreshing and I felt inspired because I did not feel like I was - it was not forced. It just kind of came from a place that felt truthful.  You know I am thinking about your new song Everything which starts with this really - kind of triumphant declaration right? What is the first line of this song?  I survived everything.    I feel bad everything. I have tried everything...  And in the course of this song you say I have become something else.  Yeah I meant that song to feel kind of absurd - you know as an arrogant bold statement that might appear defiant but is actually in my opinion kind of self-destructive. And it is a sense of you know getting what you asked for you know? My life has been many examples of shortsighted goals that I thought would fix things. You know if there is something broken inside me if there is a hole in there  If I could just write a good song someday then I would be OK. You know if I could just be on stage in front of people I would never seen before and be validated by them. I feel very fortunate I have been able to achieve those things. And it is been moments of feeling good about it but it did not fix things you know? It was not the solution to me feeling spiritually complete or whole.   This song does start out in such a sunny way with all these joyful harmonies. And you know that there was a disgruntled fan I guess who thought this was entirely too poppy maybe a softer happier side of Trent Reznor and put together a video of you an animated you riding a unicorn under a rainbow with birds flying by. You are saying though that is ignoring what is really going on in this song.  That certainly was not anything that crossed my mind when I was working on this. But again you have been around for a while and you have created a - essentially a brand - right? - that has a certain level of expectation. And it encourages you to not color outside the lines if you pay too much attention to what you expect that fan base wants from you. You know I think many many artists have suffered an artistic death by doing just that.  I am talking with Trent Reznor of Nine Inch Nails. You are known for really intricately composed crafted layered songs. And let us take a listen to the song Copy of A.    I am just a copy of a copy of a copy...  And let us just walk through what is going on here - because it starts out with this repetitive synth pattern right?  Yeah that is five 16th notes with a rest in there so it is hard to tell where the downbeat is.    Assembled into something into something into something...  Are you trying to sort of be destabilizing with that with playing with rhythm here?  Yeah. I like the way it flips around and does not always land on the beat in an expected way.  And what is being added as we listen here?  Well this song is really about just repetition and hypnotically starting to layer small elements of rhythm percussion and treatment of vocal into something that is meant to feel hypnotic but slightly unnerving.    You need to play your part a copy of a copy of a. Look what you gone and done. Well that does not sound like fun. See I am not the only one a copy of a copy of a...  And somewhere in here there is - on guitar - Lindsey Buckingham of Fleetwood Mac.  Yeah. He is playing this part right now actually.   I bet that there are lots of things in these songs - tucked-away sounds that you are really really pleased by - that are layered so deep in that we may not really hear them but you know they are there. And I bet you love that.  I aspire to make a record that sounds better 10 listens in than it does after two and still at 50 listens you are picking out things that add a depth and a thoughtfulness to it there is enough in there that you can still be extracting pieces out of it.    So I am not the only one a copy of a copy of a...  When you are on stage now and you are doing old Nine Inch Nails songs from the dark days - right? songs full of hurt and pain and anger - how do you pull that off? I mean does it feel very different from where you are now and that it is painful in a really visceral way like peeling off a scab?  You know I have kind of watched with amusement as the press has latched onto oh Reznor now 48 happily married with two kids and Oscar winner as if I can be summed up as that now. I am not the same person I was 20-some years ago and I am happy to not be that person. When I am on stage the songs that we have chosen to play from the back catalog are things that still resonate with me and matter to me. And the songs that I could not be a part of we do not play anymore.  You mentioned your two kids - very young kids your sons. Are they on the road with you when you go out on these tours?  Yep.  What is that like?  So far - I mean we are just at the beginning of it but so far it is been great. I said I was not going to tour if it meant missing them growing up and I mean that. To be able to wake up and hang out with your family and be around that sense of emotional normal aspect of living - and be present for them that is really what it is is being present for these guys. And that matters. I find that quite centering. You know it adds to an interesting duality where then I can kind of switch that off and kick into now it is show mode and I am - you know several hours before the show I am gearing up for the show. And it kind of keeps things so far feeling kind of sane. Ask me in a few months and we will see what the answer is.  Trent Reznor thanks so much. It is been fun to talk to you.  Thank you.  Trent Reznor of Nine Inch Nails. His new album is Hesitation Marks.    I am just trying to find my way... 