 There are dozen of apps for your smartphone and tablet that help you find out about live concerts or to keep track of your favorite bands. So which to download and which to dismiss? For advice we brought in some in-house experts.  How many shows did you see last year?  Last year - I go by bands - last year I saw 463 bands. And I keep a spreadsheet. It is the only way I can keep track of this all.  That is Bob Boilen and Robin Hilton from our NPR Music team. Bob is the one with the spreadsheet. And here's their review of two concert apps you might want to check out.  It used to be you would go to the newsstand you got the Village Voice or some paper or something. But of course now there are great apps and there is a couple of really amazing apps. You type in the city named agency all sorts of bands that are playing and often tailored to the music you like. There is one app called Timbre actually they pronounce timber 'ecause nobody can get it right. The company says they now go by timber. It is free and you can see everything that is play. It knows immediately where you live and it shows you so many of the concerts that are in your area. If you go into another town you type in the city - bam - you see all the ones. Scroll by date. It is really elegant.  What if you do not know what the band is?  Well that is a cool thing. This is also a music discovery app. If there is a band playing in town you have never heard of them you just swipe and you start to hear the music.  Well Bob you are what I would call an extreme concertgoer. You see so many bands every year. I do not have the luxury of time. I have got a toddler at home. I am busy. I do not get out a lot. And I am certainly not going to travel to another city and go and discover a band that I have never heard of in a live setting.  You are pretty much going to go to a show that you know a band you want to see them.  Right I just want to go see bands that I already know I like. And Timbre is a really beautiful app. It is very elegant. You can scroll through it very easily you see an infinite list of bands. But there is no filter on it. It shows me everything - pretty much everything that is showing in the area. And I just want to go see bands I already know. The best app that I have seen for that is BandMate. It scans my library - my iTunes library. It shows me who in my library is playing in the area. And of all the apps that I have tried it seems to do the best job of curating a list of shows for me to see based on what it knew I already liked - had a great interface. The one downside to BandMate is I am cheap. It costs a couple bucks. A lot of these other apps are free. I had to create an account. I do not like creating accounts. And BandMate's a little slow. It took a long time to create a database based on what was in my library though admittedly there is something like 30000 songs in my library.  Yeah I think worth the time. It does take a little longer. And the other thing you can do with these things is you know you can buy tickets. You can share the concert with your friend. I love the fact that in both of these applications the BandMate that you love and I love too and Timbre you can put it on a calendar so you know you are sitting there scrolling oh what can I see next week? What can I see the week after? You throw it on your calendar so you do not forget. And both of them you can also see videos of the bands and read bios of the bands and things like that so it is pretty cool.  So how many shows do you think you will end up seeing this summer?  This summer if I do 10 bands a week - and there is how many weeks in a summer? You do the math.  That is Bob Boilen and Robin Hilton of NPR Music with their concert app picks. 