 We are going to stay in California for our next story and keep it retro. Set the way-back machine for the summer of 1964. New York and San Francisco saw the first big student protests against the Vietnam War. The entire country was infected with Beatlemania and here in Los Angeles the biggest hit of the summer was also a major cultural breakthrough.    Farmer John I am in love with your daughter.  The Premier's version of Farmer John would hit number nineteen on the national charts. It was also one of the first mainstream rock hits by a Mexican-American band. And as NPR's Becky Sullivan reports that made it a momentous twist on a classic formula of early rock 'n roll.  Before we get to The Premiers actually I should explain that like a ton of other hits in the '50s and '60s the original Farmer John sounded totally different from the one that blew up.    Farmer John I am in love with your daughter.  Don Bowman and Dewey Terry were two black musicians who made up the RB duo Don and Dewey. They wrote and released the original Farmer John in 1959.    I dig the way she walks the way she talks. She really knocks me out. She starts me to shout.  Now the standard story behind a lot of early rock 'n roll hits goes like this a black musician does a song. It is great. Then a white musician covers it and it is the white version that becomes the huge hit. Here is an example is germane to the story. This song was written by the black performer Richard Berry.    Louie Louie well well me got to go.  But the version you probably know is by a white band called The Kingsmen.    Louie Louie oh no saying we got to go.  The Kingsmen's Louie Louie came out in 1963. It was huge and it immediately caught the attention of a 23-year-old Angeleno named Billy Cardenas. Billy was an East LA guy trying to make it as a record producer. He would been trying to come up with a good way to redo that Don and Dewey song Farmer John.    Farmer John.  Because I danced to it a lot and I used to do a lot of swing dancing. And that was a song that was complete as far as its beat and swing.  But he thought he could make it even better. The Kingsmen's Louie Louie had a great guitar sound and this three-chord pattern.   So Billy proposed the idea of combining it with Don and Dewey's Farmer John to his newest group The Premiers. Here's the thing The Premiers were not white. They were Mexican-American. And like a lot of early Chicano rock bands they were just a handful of teenage kids - two brothers two of their friends. They would been playing a mix of pop covers and traditional Mexican tunes at neighborhood parties in their Eastside suburb of Saint Gabriel. They would gotten so popular their mom hired Billy as a manager. The Premiers liked the idea of a Farmer John- Louie Louie combo. So the guys practiced the song for a few days. Then Billy drove them to Hollywood to record it adding in some canned crowd noise to make it sound like a live performance. He even puts himself in this silly intro to the song.   Has anybody seen Kosher Pickle Harry?  No.  If you see him tell him that Herbert is looking for him.  Herbert.  OK ladies and gentlemen here we go - The Premiers.  Billy had a good feeling about it.  You put in the ingredients like when you cook. You put in all the ingredients you know and you hope that it is going be a good-tasting pie. This was a good-sounding piece of pie .    Farmer John I am in love with your daughter.  At the time Chicano civil rights and Chicano rock were exploding in California. But this was 1964 still two months before Lyndon Johnson would sign the Civil Rights Act. For white performers there was no trouble at all finding success in covering black musicians songs. But Mexican-Americans were having a harder time with that formula. Other songs like Tequila and La Bamba had been hits. But they were almost always either instrumental or sung in Spanish.   .  Record companies just were not convinced yet that Chicano bands like The Premiers could really play and sing in English.    Farmer John.  The first time I went to a particular record company they told me no we will not even listen to it because we do not put Mexican records on the radio. I said it is not a Mexican record. You misunderstand. They play rock 'n roll.  But no dice. So The Premiers released Farmer John on a small LA label. Local DJs like Huggy Boy and Art Laboe had huge Latino followings and they played Farmer John constantly. Billy says it was not long before the big labels saw the potential.  Warner Brothers called to pick up the master. Thirty-thousand records sold in the first week.  It took off. Less than a month later The Premiers were on national TV on American Bandstand.   And this of course I guess is certainly one of the hottest records of the last few weeks. Ladies and gentlemen here are The Premiers with Farmer John.  Farmer John spent over two months on Billboard's Hot 100 peaking at number 19. And it is lived on well after its exit from the charts. In the U.K. a musician and artist named Billy Childish was just 4 when the song came out. He does not remember hearing it 'til the '80s. But even 20 years after its release he was taken with it.  It is well-played well-sung well-produced everything about it is sublime.  Billy Childish wanted to pay homage to Farmer John. But he did not want to do just a straight cover. So instead he wrote a song called Davy Crockett. It even included a tribute to that hokey intro that Billy Cardenas recorded.   Hey Lily if you see Davy tell him Calamity Jane's looking for him.  There is no point in doing a bad version of Farmer John when you can do a great version of Davy Crockett pretty much like the producer decided he might as well do a great version of Farmer John rather than a substandard version of Louie Louie 'ecause all you have got to do is throw your own bit in the mix and you are away.    Oh Davy Crockett. What you got in your pocket?  Billy Childish told me he thinks modern pop music is too produced too obsessed with perfection.  Because when you hear things like Farmer John you know that is what it was. Farmer John is impressive because it is not impressive.  Farmer John's progeny is definitely impressive. It is been covered dozens of times from this Billy Childish take to a grungy cover by Neil Young and even a Christmas version by The Sonics called Santa Claus. And its legacy goes beyond even that. Though The Premier's run ended when 2 of the 4 members were drafted and sent to Vietnam their producer Billy Cardenas says the hit alone was momentous enough.  Farmer John was the beginning of a lot of things for Hispanics in East LA.  And across the country. The next year Chicano bands would release the classics Wooly Bully and 96 Tears and another even toured with a little group called the Beatles opening for them at Shea Stadium. Becky Sullivan NPR News. 