 Remember like 20 years ago when you would buy concert tickets online and pay a lot of fees like to process your order or get your ticket mailed to your house? Even if you do not remember it Ticketmaster does. In 2013 the company settled a class action lawsuit about those fees. And now people who are eligible can access their piece of the settlement. NPR's Rose Friedman reports on how that is going.  Free tickets - that was the buzz online this week. But how to redeem them and for what shows - it is a little unclear.  They are just really making this so hard for us.  Candace Armstrong Koman of Washington D.C. is eligible. So she went online to look at the list of shows available.  Some of them were things I might have interest in. Like there were some artists on there that I like but they were in cities that I do not live in.  And she found the system clunky. There are three forms of reimbursement. Two are discounts which you can use the next time you buy concert tickets. There are also some vouchers for free tickets. Candace had both free tickets and a bunch of those little discount codes for 2.25.  And I was like they could not have made life easier for us and given us like one like 20-coupon or something like that? Like you have to enter these codes individually.  Well but hold on a second.  Steven Blonder argued the case against Ticketmaster. He says those little amounts are not insignificant.  This person who gets 2.50 their whole claim may have been worth less than that. So they are getting real value for their claim.  And Ticketmaster hopes people will see it that way too. According to the settlement the company has to pay out 42 million over the next four years. They are actually supposed to do it through those little discounts. Remember the whole lawsuit was over fees which people paid in small amounts. So if you are someone who bought concert tickets online between October 1999 and February 2013 go on the Ticketmaster website. You might have discounts or even ticket vouchers in your account. Tickets are available on a first-come first-serve basis to Steely Dan Pitbull Blink-182 Gwen Stefani Weezer Snoop Dogg and others including the Barenaked Ladies which means if you act fast this...    It is been one week since you looked at me...  ...Might be in your future.    Cocked your head to the side and said I am angry. Five days since you laughed me saying get back together come back and see me.  Rose Friedman NPR News.    I realized it is all my fault but could not tell you. Yesterday you would forgiven me but it will still be two days 'til I say I am sorry. 