 It used to be that you would have to wait years for your favorite band to remaster an album or release some bonus tracks that did not make the first cut but now reissues of popular albums are common. And as NPR's Sam Sanders reports they often come just months after an album's first release.  In April 2006 RB singer Beyonce released her second solo album B'Day. It was a hit though not her biggest and it produced this number one single.    Talking about how I will never ever find a man like you. You got me twisted. You must not know about me. You must not know about me. I could have another you in a minute. Matter fact he will be here in a minute baby.  There used to be a time when a few singles from a release would run their course and the album would be over but not this one. Beyonce and her record label Columbia reissued B'Day just months after its first release. They threw in a few new songs and a music video for every track on the album. Although it was not the first of the current bunch of reissues it was one of the biggest. The re-release produced a 903-percent jump in sales. The record industry saw dollar signs. Mr.  Basically anything to motivate the consumer to go out and repurchase an album which is kind of what it comes down to.  That is Keith Caulfield. He is senior chart manager at Billboard magazine. He says record labels are looking for anything to prop up album sales sales that have already plunged 17 percent this year. Labels are honing in on audiences who will buy just about anything from their favorite artist. Mr.  Some fans and customers really want to pay a lot of money or extra money for extra content. There are some fans that are just -have insatiable appetites for this kind of product.  Of the 10 best-selling albums last year eight had official re-releases. Taylor Swift Beyonce The Black Eyed Peas Eminem even Hannah Montana they found fans who will buy the same product or at least similar products twice. But at Melody Records in Northwest Washington D.C. Anreus Woods was not one of those fans. Mr.  What have you really done? You have not really added any more content. You are showing me DVD of stuff that I have seen on VH1 MTV. It is like what is the point?  He even offered a sort of challenge to record labels. Mr.  If your album's so great put it out right the first time. Do not wait until the second time. Oh gee bonus reissue oh - that is a bunch of garbage.  Or is it? Indie band Passion Pit recently re-released its debut album Manners. Lead singer Michael Angelakos admits the band did not get it right the first time. Mr.  I did not actually end up submitting the correct lyrics nor did I settle on artwork that I was completely happy with.  It seems Passion Pit was in a rush to meet a record deadline. After the album came out the musicians went back to the label and asked to reissue it with proper lyrics new artwork and some new songs like this Cranberries cover.    I know I felt like this before. But now I am feeling it even more because it came from you.  The musicians say sales did not matter. They just wanted to well get it right. And they have been pleased with the reception. Mr.  It really has not like spiked sales. I mean they have gone up a little bit but I mean just - they have basically stayed the same since about the second month of its release. It is been pretty consistent so it is been great. It is been really wonderful.  Angelakos has no reservations about reissuing the album. Mr.  Why the hell not? Why would you not do that you know? And the fact that a label was willing to reprint the album and do it having released the album only a year ago is just fantastic.  Especially if it sells a few more records. Keith Caulfield of Billboard says we should not expect reissues to die anytime soon and we probably should not be surprised by such record label tactics. Mr.  Now when someone's album comes out there may be the iTunes version the Amazon version the CD version the one with the DVD the one that comes bundled with the T-shirt the one that is in the special velour box with a piece of someone's hair inside for 150 the one that has Mick Jagger's signature inside. There is something for everyone.  So we will all have multiple opportunities to buy our favorite music at least twice if any of us care to buy it at all. Sam Sanders NPR News.  