 Over the weekend we got a snapshot of where part of the music industry stands right now on LGBT issues. The music festival Lollapalooza dropped rapper DaBaby from its lineup after he made homophobic remarks. And at the same time the top two spots on YouTube's music video charts were both held by Lil Nas X an artist whose videos unapologetically embrace queer Black sexuality. Those two singles are a big shift from his first viral chart-topper this earworm from 2019.    Yeah I am gonna take my horse to the old town road. I am gonna ride till I cannot no more.  This shift in his artistry may also be part of a bigger change in the music industry. Jazmine Hughes explored that in a profile of Lil Nas X for the New York Times magazine. I asked her how Lil Nas X is paving the way for longevity.  At some point during our time together we were sitting at lunch and I asked him how much of your life is dedicated to proving people wrong? And he said almost all of it right?  Almost all of it.  So I think that it is easy to look at Old Town Road which we know is a huge viral success because he recorded the song attached it to memes went viral on TikTok and then it sort of blew up. It is easy to look at that and think that this was all a lucky mistake right? But he did this all incredibly intentionally. What is funny about Nas is that like before he became a successful musician he was a Barb. He was like a soldier and a Nicki Minaj online stan right? So he spent all of his waking hours online. I mean there are some points in high school where...  Like learning the rules of social media battle.  Kind of like forming the rules of social media battle. But there were times where he was spending like 18 19 hours a day online so he knows the internet better than I think most people in this world do. So yes he had like this incredible stroke of luck when it came to Old Town Road and everything that came with it but I do not know. There is a lot of intention there that I think that...  Yeah.  ...Sometimes people discount.  Let us talk a little about his latest video Industry Baby.    Baby back ay. Couple racks ay.  Can you just briefly describe it in a way that is safe for public radio?   Yes. So for a video he released earlier this year called Montero a promotional item he released were these Nikes called Satan Shoes which purported to have a drop of human blood in them. He made 666 pairs. And so this newest music video Industry Baby is about like what happens after Lil Nas X like you know pretends to lose this lawsuit and then he goes to jail.    I blew up. Now everybody trying to sue me. You call me Nas but the hood call me Doobie. Yeah. And this one is for the champions...  And has a lot of sex in jail.  We are all familiar with like what might happen to people particularly men when they are in prison with a bunch of other men. So you know what Nas has done over the course of his admittedly short career is to take what seems like a punishment and turn it on its head and say what if I actually had the best time?    You was never really rooting for me anyway. When I am back up at the top I want to hear you say he do not run from nothing dog. Get your soldiers. Tell them that the break is over.  I mean you talk about turning punishment into celebration. That is also what happened in his previous monster hit video this summer Montero where he like goes to hell and gyrates on Satan's lap.    Call me when you want. Call me when you need. Call me in the morning. I will be on the way. Call me when you want. Call me when you need. Call me out by your name. I will be on the way like...  So Nas grew up with the church being part of his life right? His father is a gospel singer and there was a point where he was going to church every Sunday. And so he is no stranger to the variety of outcomes that queer people are often told by homophobes or you know like quote unquote people who really care about what might happen to him - whether he goes to hell whether he will go to jail or he will do this that and the third.    Champagne and drinking with your friends - you live in the dark boy I cannot pretend. I am not fazed only here to sin. If Eve as not in your garden you know that you can. Call me when you want. Call me when you need. Call me in the morning. I will be on the way.  And so what he has done with Industry Baby and also with Montero is again to say like what if I took the thing that all these people have been you know warning me about my entire life and then carried it on to its logical end? It is almost like he is saying homophobes do not actually have that great of an imagination and I do. So yeah you can tell me I am going to go to hell but you have not told me what is going to happen when I get there and that is for me to fill in.  He is young. He is only 22. And you spent a lot of time with him. Did you get the sense that the facade of being impervious to all the homophobia and hatred - that it ever drops? Like do you get the sense that it ever actually gets to him?  Oh absolutely. I think that he has an incredible team of people around him. He has you know a few older Black women who I think are really sort of like big sisters to him that are in his team but are also his best friends that keep him humble. But also he is like a 22-year-old living in Los Angeles right? So he is like doing all the healthy mindfulness things that I think...  .  ...You and I would do if we were like 22-year-old gazillionaires . So he like reads a lot of self-help books and he like spends a lot of time with his family. And he is like a really thoughtful generous well-grounded person almost to like an astounding degree. So while I think it bothers him as it would bother anyone - and I have had like a peek at the sort of reactions he gets online - I really do think that he has a solid protective measure against this.  You mentioned that he honed his social media skills by being part of Nicki Minaj's online army before he became famous. And he is been using those skills on Twitter all summer long. I want to read something that he wrote in response to a person who has since deleted their tweet. But this person basically listed a bunch of artists who were not as vocal about their sexual orientation from Elton John to Queen Latifah and kind of said you know why cannot you be more like them? And Lil Nas X said this - many if all of these artists had to hide their sexuality for the majority of their career. You seem to only respect gay artists when the gay part is tucked away. You do not like me because I embrace my sexuality instead of hiding it and never speaking on it for your comfort. What does that tell you about the kind of pop star he is trying to become?  I think there is been all this undue attention paid to whether or not he is a one-hit wonder. But what I actually think is really phenomenal about Lil Nas X is this particular thing - right? - where he is a gay pop star who is come out at the height of his fame or - you know for all we know he could somehow get even bigger.    Man I snuck into the game - came in on a horse. I pulled a gimmick. I admit it. I got no remorse.  But people like Elton John - you know Elton came out towards like the tail end of his career. George Michael came out way at the end of his career. We have so many gay pop stars but so few openly gay pop stars and even fewer gay pop stars who are explicitly sexual.    And I am sexy. They want to sweat me.  We have people like Sam Smith or we have people like Troye Sivan who make their queer identity part of their art. But what Lil Nas X does is he makes gay sex just as part of his entire persona as a you know name literally any straight pop star ever.  Jazmine Hughes is a staff writer for The New York Times magazine. Thank you so much.  Thank you.    It is another way. All my hittas  on go and I hope that you know it. I cannot even close my eyes and I do not know why. Guess I do not like surprises. I cannot even stay away from the game that I play. They gon' know us today. Yeah. Man I snuck into the game - came in on a horse. I pulled a gimmick. I admit it. I got no remorse. Nobody tried to let me in. Nobody opened doors. I kicked them down. They did not have a choice. Dun dun dun . They tried to next me ay but I am blessed see. Ay no flex but my checks giving vet tease. 