 Today is the last day for this summer's interns here at NPR. For two months dozens of interns have helped get interviews on the air articles on the Web and yes piles of mail opened. They have also been working on their own stories and commentaries. Our intern at ALL SONGS CONSIDERED had this to say about pop music.   My name is Lindsay Sanchez and I have a confession to make -rather a statement. I am a fan of pop music. And I am not ashamed. I bet there are plenty of Top 40 radio lovers who have sung along with Bieber Gaga and Usher but only in the privacy of their own homes because they are afraid to admit to it at the risk of being judged by people who roll their eyes and dismiss anything mainstream.  Mr.   You make me want to say oh oh...  I used to be one of those high and mighty who weigh exclusivity against popular appeal on the coolness bell curve who proudly list a well-rounded roster of poetic singer-songwriters politically driven rappers and avant-garde electronic artists but avoid pop hits to ensure their status in the aristocracy of cool. They qualify their preferences saying I liked MGMT before the Electric Feel video when they were still called The Management.   They scoff on the sideline as lesser uneducated music listeners sweat on the dance floor to infectious beats by Rihanna Beyonce and Britney.  '  Sick and tired of hearing all these people talk about what is the deal with this pop life and when...  Yes. The songs most people love to hate are heard repeatedly on FM radio but I cannot deny myself anymore. I really am powerless against smooth melodies sing-along choruses and synthy hooks. And I refuse to file these songs under guilty pleasures. I am blurring the lines breaking down the walls and ending my silence. I have sung along to Baby by Bieber loudly and proudly.   Lindsay Sanchez wraps up her internship with ALL SONG CONSIDERED today.   Deshawn Joanie and Friska's sound effects Neeley.   You can find all of our interns' work at npr.orginternedition.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 