 Today the country music legend Connie Smith releases her 54th album - at least that is what she understands to be true.  I am not very good on time 'ecause time just do not mean a lot to me .    My heart's heart it all before.  To be fair Connie Smith's music often feels timeless. She is a standard-bearer for traditional country sounds. It was actually her collaborator for 25 years her husband Marty Stuart who did the tabulation.  We used to do three albums a year and a single every three months you know for years and years. So - but I just - if I find the songs then I think I want to sing that you know? And then Marty will say OK let us start a record .  More on Marty in a bit. That new record The Cry Of The Heart extends a career that began with a debut single in 1964. She reached country stardom shortly after that took a hiatus for about 20 years in the middle and reemerged with a new album back in 1998.   So you just might as well relax in who you are and enjoy it.  That is when Connie Smith last spoke to NPR. And when I talked to her recently I asked her if she is still feeling relaxed.  Well I am learning to be.  .  I think I even like me a little bit and I did not for years . Maybe I am just accepting more.  So this is a way you feel not just about music but outside of music too in other parts of your life.  Oh of everything. Oh no I have got to get better at my music. That is for sure.   So I am not a very competitive person except with myself. So it is hard to please me for me to please me.  Yeah. No I can relate to that. Well when it comes to music and trying to stay comfortable with who you are how do you balance that comfort with also wanting to try new things out as an artist - new sounds new ideas?  I love anything good. If it is a good song and I think I can sing it I do not care what you call it I just want to sing it and I want to do it well.  You just feel it. You just know when it is the right song.  For me yes.    How many teardrops have I cried over you? A million and one tears a million and two.  You know you represent to so many people what traditional country music sounds like. I mean people praise you for the fact that your sound has remained so consistent over the decades. But I am curious. Do you think that you have evolved and changed more than people give you credit for over the decades?  I hope I sing better but I...  .  You know I have those that say why do not you sing it like you used to? So it is - you know it is all a matter of how you are today. I mean 'ecause I know I have changed so probably in some ways my music has changed. But I still love the traditional sound so much. I love the steel guitar.   But when I am singing I am just into it. And if I cannot get into it then I do not want to do the song .    I do not haunt the same old places we used to hang around. I cannot take the chance of seeing you with the new love that you found.  Well I want to travel back in time to when you first arrived in Nashville. It was 1964 and you had said very early on that your favorite female country singer was Loretta Lynn. She is one of mine too.    Well I was born a coal miner's daughter...  You know one of my favorite stories I read about you is how you first met Loretta. Can you tell me that story?  Yes. Actually it was my first trip to Nashville and I had never recorded or anything. But I came in and I sang a song. And this guy came up to me and said my wife wants to meet you and there was Loretta Lynn right before she had the twins. She was back there sitting and resting before she went on. And she told me - she said you are going to make it you got what it takes. And it is just something that - there is no way that she had to do that but she did. And of course we have been friends now for about 56 years something like that. And - but she was my favorite singer before I got here. And I could not believe that I got to meet her on my first trip.  How did her advice pan out over the years as you navigated the music industry?  I have to honestly say I never really thought of singing as a career. And - but it is great to have a job that you love. And what they say is if you...  Absolutely.  ...Work in a job you love you do not ever work and I think that is about it.  Well now I want to you know fast-forward a little bit to 1997 because that is the year that you got married to Marty Stuart. You and Marty have been musical partners in all the years since writing and recording songs. He is all over this latest album.    I know you have had your troubles and your heartaches. I know how long that we have been on the mend.  When I was reading about your love story I thought God what is that like to share what you do with the person you love when your life partner is also your professional partner? What is that like?  Well it is gotten better and better and better because well we have gotten to know each other better not only know each other as person - as people as wife and husband but to know each other musically. And I trust him more. I was not sure at first because he was so current and all and I was so old-time. There is nobody - I mean we just get in the car and go down the road and listen to music together and we love that. So we have a lot of the same likes of music and we get a lot of the same things out of it and the same things out of the people 'ecause we both love people. And it is just a - I think it is just one of the greatest things there could ever be.  I mean it sounds like you have everything that matters.  That is right. That is right. I am very very blessed Ailsa.    All the time - yes darling all the time tenderly constantly.  You have said that country music to you is the cry of the heart. It is the title of this new album. What did you mean by that the cry of the heart?  Well I just really feel like country music is a gauge of the people. But ultimately down inside we are all basically the same. And when you write these country songs it is like Hank Williams said you know? I do not write the songs I just hold the pen. You know basically it is got to come from within or you know - the songs that touch my heart are the songs that came from my heart. They are not the songs that came from my head.    But do not let that bother you. When you connect with someone how your heart feels then they do not feel so alone when they identify with you.    I will never be untrue.  Connie Smith - her new album is called The Cry Of The Heart. Thank you so much for being with us today Connie.  Oh I have enjoyed it Ailsa.    All the time - yes darling all the time. Through the years through smiles or tears I will love you. 