 Finally this hour music from a tenor saxophonist and composer with a few firsts to her name. Last fall Melissa Aldana became the first female instrumentalist and South American musician to win the Thelonious Monk International Jazz Saxophone Competition. Among her prizes was a recording contract and her album is just out. Our reviewer Tom Moon says it signals the arrival of a bold new talent.  Melissa Aldana is not the average talent-contest winner.   That is her on the tenor saxophone which is unusual enough by itself. Jazz is still mostly a boy's club. She is got a big fierce sound that carries echoes of nearly-forgotten swing-era players like Don Byas. And she is got her own style. Check out these long cleanly-executed melodic lines.   One significant thing about this record is what is missing. There is no piano or harmony instrument. Melissa Aldana said some of her favorite musicians recorded in similar settings. She believes it is an important step in her evolution. She likes the responsibility of outlining the chords and also the freedom to change them.   Aldana began playing at age six first taught by her father a well-known saxophonist in Santiago Chile. She spent her teen years participating in her hometown's jazz scene. She went on to graduate from Berklee College of music in Boston and then moved to New York. There she recorded several albums on Greg Osby's Inner Circle label. That led her to the Monk competition. And around that time she formed Crash Trio with Chilean bassist Pablo Menares and Cuban drummer Francisco Mela. They connected immediately. You can hear that on this track.   Melissa Aldana and Crash Trio are clearly dialed into each other's thoughts. They will venture back to the smoky taverns of a bygone era where tenor players howled their seductions and then abruptly pivot into more agitated modern rhythms. While it is not a radically new direction there is boldness in the steps. You can hear Aldana and her group tapping into the jazz tradition but they thrive in the hyperlinked global present.   Music from the new album Melissa Aldana and Crash Trio. Our reviewer is Tom Moon.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 