 A new film called Nico 1988 tells the story of the final years of singer and songwriter Nico who first came to attention in 1967 with The Velvet Underground. The movie cuts back and forth in time as she struggles to kick her drug addiction regain custody of her only child and win respect as an artist in her own right. Rick Karr has more.  Director Susanna Nicchiarelli encountered Nico's work the same way most people do - when a friend made her listen to a debut album that is become a cultural landmark - The Velvet Underground  Nico.    And what costume shall the poor girl wear to all tomorrow's parties?  I mean when I first listened to it it was one of the major events of my life  and I started to be fascinated by the voice of this woman and wondering what her story had been before and after that.  The before part of Nico's story goes like this. She was born Christa Paffgen in Germany just before World War II. As a child she watched Berlin burn during the Allied invasion. She started calling herself Nico as a teenager when her ice-blonde hair and stunning features landed her a modeling career. She started appearing in films - Fellini cast her in La Dolce Vita - then moved to New York and became one of Andy Warhol's superstars.    'ecause everybody knows - she is a femme fatale - the things she does to me. She is a femme fatale. She is just a little tease. She is a femme fatale. See the way she walks. Hear the way she talks.  The biopic Nico 1988 picks up her story 20 years later shortly before she died but long after she died her hair black traded in designer outfits for an all-black wardrobe and become addicted to heroin. In a scene based on a true story Nico who is played by Danish actress Trine Dyrholm stops by a radio station and the interviewer makes the mistake of bringing up her past.    So here we are with Lou Reed's Femme Fatale...   Do not call me that. I do not like it.   So do you want to tell us something about your experience with The Velvet Underground?   No I do not. I started making my own music after these periods with The Velvet Underground in 1968.   1968? I mean those must have been some of the best days of your life.   Well we took a lot of LSD.  Director Susanna Nicchiarelli says that exchange sums up what she loves about Nico's character.  She was very very funny and ironic and the way she said well do not treat me like a survivor. I am this now. This is what I am doing. This is what I am. And I like what I am now.  Nicchiarelli interviewed Nico's manager her son Ari and several of her bandmates to write the film. Actress Trine Dyrholm says one of the things that attracted her to the role was how conflicted Nico felt about the physical beauty that had defined the early part of her life and career.  I think she really wanted to be respected for her art and not her beauty. And I think she struggled a lot with that.  She also struggled to find an audience though critics and Nico's fellow musicians loved her often bleak work. Sometimes her voice is accompanied only by the drone of a harmonium and sometimes nothing at all.    My only child be not so blind. See what you hold. There are no words no ears no eyes to show them what you know.  In the film actress Trine Dyrholm sings all of the songs herself. She says each one represents a turning point in the film's story. The pivotal moment occurs when Nico and her band head across the Iron Curtain to play a now legendary illegal concert in Prague.  It is a liberation for the character in a way. I mean she cannot get any drugs. Then when she goes on stage she is ill. She is exhausted. She is angry. And then she starts to realize that she loves the music.    My heart is empty but the songs I sing are filled with love for you.  By the end of the film Nico has her drug addiction under control. She is regained custody of her son and they are living on the island of Ibiza. She died in the year of the film's title 1988 just before her 50th birthday. Actress Trine Dyrholm says it is tragic that Nico did not live to see the fall of the Berlin Wall a year later especially given something she once said in an interview.  She says that every time I close my eyes I am back in bombed Berlin and I think it haunted her in a way.  Nico's artistic reputation has continued to grow in the years since her death. She is widely recognized as the mother of the gothic music movement and her work influenced two generations of artists including the late Elliott Smith Bjork and Zola Jesus. For NPR News I am Rick Karr.    My heart is empty. 