 And if you are just joining us this is WEEKENDS on ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Guy Raz. And it is time now for music. NPR classical producer Tom Huizenga is back again with some new recordings that have caught his ear.   This is one of those recordings. It is by the young Israeli-born pianist Inan Barnatan. He is playing Maurice Ravel. And Tom is with me in the studios. Great to have you back.  Hey. It is great to be here Guy.  Tell me about Inan Barnatan.  Well he is not a superstar pianist I mean at least yet but he sure plays like one I think. He is originally from Tel Aviv. He now lives in New York. He is in his early 30s. This is a new record I really like. It is called Visible Darkness. He plays music by Ravel Debussy and the contemporary British composer Thomas Ades. And the thread that ties all of them together is literature.  Literature.  Each piece is inspired by a poem or a story. And what we are hearing now is from Ravel's Gaspard de la nuit a very tricky piece to play but based on a set of poems by Bertrand.  OK.  But now let us get a little rowdier and show off a few of Barnatan's chops. Let us - if we can rack up track 10 it is called...  Track 10.  ...Le Valse.  All right.  The Waltz. And it is Ravel's ode to the Viennese Waltz but Ravel turns it and twists it into a sinister type of thing. The waltz just kind of grows and grows and bloats and wobbles and it eventually just implodes under its own weight.   It almost sounds like it is drunk Tom. Sounds like a wobbling...  I think you are right. Yeah. It is kind of like this drunken dance of death at the end a very nice playing by a pianist to keep an ear on Inan Barnatan.  I will indeed. It is excellent stuff. All right. What else you got for us?  How about some atmospheric choral music?  OK.   This is called Summa by Estonian composer Arvo Part sung by a terrific chamber choir from Estonia called Voces Musicales.  This is great. I love this. It is beautiful.  Yeah it is good.  It - the music sounds you know old but Part is a contemporary composer.  Right. He is definitely - he is alive and well but he is got a very old school sound. Back in 1968 he surprised all of his colleagues by dropping out of the composing scene. And he left this kind of challenging atonal style behind and went into a period of self-imposed silence. And at the time he studied old choral music came back out of the silence about eight years later and his new music was practically unrecognizable. It was like this spare elegant often haunting and often very religious.  Why did he make that change?  Well I just think he was a composer that was searching for a voice his voice and by dropping out he actually found it.  Is this entire record compositions by Part?  It is all Part recording anchored by the piece we will hear next. It is a half-hour long Te Deum which he wrote for three choirs piano tape and string orchestra. It is sung in Latin and here's a little section where the choir is just in glorious full choir.   That is just beautiful.  It is great is not it?  It is. It is the chamber choir Voces Musicales from Estonia with Te Deum by Arvo Part. My guest is Tom Huizenga classical music producer here with NPR Music. Tom what do you got next?  Well let us go from Estonia to Brooklyn where we have got here kind of a curious combination of pop music electronics and classical music from William Brittelle.   I like this. And we have talked about this before. You have brought music like this before.  Yup.  And I guess sometimes you even call it indie classical.  I think you could call it indie classical definitely. I mean Brittelle William Brittelle actually calls this electroacoustic chamber music. This piece is called Future Shock. He wrote it for a string quartet and then he does his own synth and drum programming. But I like the integration of the electronics - some are very kind of retro-sounding - along with the strings. I think it sounds really quite fresh and natural to me. But let us skip ahead a little bit.  OK.  We are going to hear this mega Phat beat kind of just hijacked music.   So Tom when you say mega Phat do you say P-H-A-T or...   Oh the capital P.  The capital P Phat.  Capital P yeah.  This is very cool stuff. I am just curious though who is the audience for this? Is it an electronic crowd? Is it like the young club scene people or is it people going to see chamber music in downtowns across America?  Well I think it is definitely younger people. I mean it is not the people that go hear Haydn's string quartet at a museum. But there are more and more people paying attention to this kind of music and it is making headway into a lot of different places. I mean you are going to hear this music in clubs rather than concert halls.  Wow.  But you will hear it in concert halls too.  Tom we have time for one more. How about some you know just kind of straight ahead.  OK. How about some soothing gorgeously played music by Anton Bruckner?  Perfect.  All right.   Now I would just sit in a very comfortable chair...  Mm-hmm.  ...if I did not have to look after two small children...   ...and hours and hours to just lie back with my eyes closed. I think once - I can do that one day. I am going to listen to this music.  Well time is what you do get in Bruckner because this is a 82-minute symphony. But you would be kind of bounced out of your chair after a while because it is not all this soothing. The kind of a well-known muscular beefy side of Bruckner is all over in this symphony especially in this scherzo that we will hear now where Bruckner builds incredible tension and relief. It is very kind of in your face super great playing by the Berlin Philharmonic with Simon Rattle. And I recommend turning the volume up on this one.  Up to 11.  Up to 11.   It is kind of a head banging thing going.  Head banging yeah.  Yeah.  My visions of that comfy chair have been quashed by that.   It is great. That is the scherzo from Bruckner's Ninth Symphony in a new recording by the Berlin Philharmonic and conducted by Simon Rattle. That is one of the picks Tom Huizenga brought in this week. He is of course NPR's classical music producer. You can find more of his picks today at the blog Deceptive Cadence. You can find it our website nprmusic.org. Tom thanks so much.  Always a pleasure Guy.   And for Sunday that is WEEKENDS on ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Guy Raz. Thanks to producer Sanaz Meshkinpour for her help this month. Check out our weekly podcast. Search for WEEKENDS on ALL THINGS CONSIDERED on iTunes or go to npr.orgweekendatc. We are back on the radio next weekend. Until then thanks for listening and have a great week. 