 A music video dropped yesterday that is been generating some buzz - more for the Trump dossier and Kim Jong Un references than for the quality of the music.    You really got me. You really got me. You really got me good.  The star of the video actually has ties to the Russia investigation playing out in Washington. For some insight into the music and the politics of this we asked NPR's music editor Andrew Flanagan and national security editor Phil Ewing to get together and discuss.  Hi Andrew.  Hey Phil.  So this is a video by a guy named Emin Agalarov. His father's Aras Agalarov this billionaire Russian developer. Young Emin is a pop star if you want to call him that. Tell us about what we are seeing in this new video.  Sure. Pop Star is a strong word but the video for Got Me Good opens up with a hacker facing several screens in a very darkened basement. And it slowly cuts into footage of a Trump lookalike and Emin making their way to a hotel room. There is cameos by a Paul Ryan lookalike who is actually supposed to be Jared Kushner. There is Stormy Daniels. There is Ivanka Trump and Hillary Clinton cheek kissing before taking shots at a club. And the hacker at the end is revealed to be Kim Jong Un chomping on some popcorn.  Ripped from today's headlines.  Uh-huh.  So this is not the first time that Emin has actually made a song about Donald Trump.    In another life...  They made a record together back in 2013 because his father Aras helped Trump put on the Miss Universe pageant in Moscow. Donald Trump actually did a cameo in that video.   Emin let us get with it. You are always late. You are just another pretty face. I am really tired of you. You are fired.  In the new video they are reminding everyone that the Agalarovs are part of this story part of these headlines with Stormy Daniels and Kim Jong Un and Paul Ryan and Jared Kushner. It may sound familiar to people because Emin Agalarov was one of the links in the chain that the Russian government used to offer help in the presidential campaign to Donald Trump Jr. Eventually the Russian government sent a delegation to New York City in 2016 in June to meet with Donald Trump Jr. and Jared Kushner and the then-campaign chairman Paul Manafort to give some political tips about the Democrats. This has clearly been a big deal in terms of the Russia investigation and whether any Americans were involved with the Russian attack on the election in 2016.    I wish that you would told me the truth.  Andrew you are a professional music journalist. Give me your take about this song how good it is and how good the video is.  Yeah. I guess the takeaway musically would be it is kind of - it is vaguely Ed Sheerany . It is got kind of a clippy bossa nova acoustic guitar beat. These are things that you can probably load up in GarageBand on your iPad pretty quickly and sing over. But honestly I could not understand. Maybe you can help me with this. Like there is a couple different takeaways I felt like you could get from it right? There was be careful Trump we have something on you or this is just us joking around we are still tight bros from way back when.  Both messages could be true. That is what is so fascinating and maddening about this story. It is kind of what I bang my head against the wall doing every day trying to cover it. Trump probably does not want us to talk about this video because it reminds everyone of all those connections to the Russia investigation and these powerful Russians from his business life. So you can imagine the Agalarovs might be saying we are no longer friends. Or maybe what they are doing is saying we actually do still have a relationship and we are just trying to fool people into thinking that. By making fun of you we will then get you to break with us publicly.  So he may or may not be willing to perform another cameo in another Emin music video.  That remains to be seen correct.   OK.    You really got me. You really got me good.  That is NPR's music editor Andrew Flanagan and national security editor Phil Ewing.   . 