 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block.   If you hear African pop music in the U.S. you can in part thank King Sunny Ade. Back in the 1980s the Nigerian musician toured across the country bringing his traditional vocals and percussion blended with electric guitars and keyboards a type of music called juju.  Mr.  .  King Sunny Ade was back on U.S. stages this summer and our music reviewer Banning Eyre the editor of afropop.org met up with him as he recorded a new CD in a studio outside Philadelphia.  It is been nearly a decade since King Sunny Ade released new music outside Nigeria. His touring band is a little smaller and younger but based on what I heard in the studio the music has not changed.  Mr.  .  Something else that has not changed is Ade's playful commitment to musical ecstasy. Asked what he is up to with his new recording he did not miss a beat. Mr.  First of all it is for the people to come to the dance floor. Let us do it together. Let us dance together. It is for you to draw your baby closer to you and then dance along with me because the whole world is full of stress. Let us blow it out. Let us allow the stress to go at least for a while.   After decades working the music scene in Lagos one of Africa's biggest and toughest cities Ade knows a thing or two about stress. One of his biggest headaches is Nigeria's music pirates who have perfected the art of flooding the market with cheap inferior CD copies within days after a big release. Ade says he is given up fighting the pirates and now seeks to woo them to his side. Mr.  Instead of fight each other  Why do you do this? Actually we do not call them pirates to their face. We call them special distributors.  Whether this counts as tact diplomacy or making the best of a hopeless situation Ade's approach to piracy echoes his musical philosophy which he calls his synchro system. It is all about cooperation harmony and working together to create something beautiful.  Mr.  .  .  Ade formed his first band in 1967. He is made dozens of recordings since but the real heart of his artistry is the way he connects with a live audience. His band can electrify a festival stage with deep grooves and graceful moves. But to really understand Ade's connection with Nigerians you have got to experience one of his African parties like the one he hosted this summer in a fluorescent-lit basement auditorium at a Brooklyn high school.  Mr.  You are going to dance and dance and dance tonight.  The audience was mostly well-heeled Nigerians who came to listen and dance but also to spray. That is when you go on stage and make an offering to the singer generally cold cash pressed on the forehead. Mr.  They will come close to you shower some money on you and if they have a gift they will tell you there is a gift. Some people can give cars refrigerators whatever whatever.   Mr.  .  At this Brooklyn party Ade and his band did not take the stage until 2 a.m. and when I left almost two hours later they had been playing nonstop without so much as a pause between songs. No cars or fridges were offered that night but loads of dollar bills and a few 20s and even 50s in the mix. Giving money to a musician is a way of showing off in a social setting but Ade does not like it when things get competitive. Mr.  It can cause a row or a fight and I do not want that. I want everybody to be my friend. That is why I do not sing political songs. I do not use my songs to abuse. I sing free song that we are all going to be happy.  Mr.  .  Ade knows his audience but he does not pander. Other African singers have changed their style to please foreigners and ended up losing the home crowd. Ade made his mark on juju music early on but since then he is resisted the fads and fashions of four tumultuous decades. That confidence and fidelity is what makes him a king not a mere politician. For NPR News I am Banning Eyre.   You can hear a concert by King Sunny Ade from his U.S. summer tour at nprmusic.org.  Mr.  . Thank you.  