 In the new film The Wife Glenn Close plays a woman who has silently stood in the shadow of her husband a famous author played by Jonathan Pryce. For much of the film her emotions are only undercurrents and only expressed by the musical score. That music was written by Jocelyn Pook an English composer who first came to international attention for her music to Stanley Kubrick's Eyes Wide Shut. Tim Greiving has her story.  Most of us got to know Jocelyn Pook's music at one of the weirdest parties we ever attended - the masked orgy in Stanley Kubrick's Eyes Wide Shut.    Good evening Sir.   Good evening.   Password Sir?   Fidelio.   Thank you Sir.  Jocelyn Pook's weird started back in London where she made up tunes as a kid.  My mom was very encouraging. And my first song was called If A Man Was Dead Alone  and I even performed it at my local church.  She went on to play viola in London pop bands and write music for theater and dance. A cassette landed in the hands of an ad agency and music for a TV commercial led to a record deal. Her first album Flood was released in 1999.   At the same time choreographer Yolande Snaith was working on the masked ball scene in Kubrick's film and playing Pook's music during rehearsals.  And that is how he had my music. He walked in at the right time. And I got called. I was on the other line and I had to put Stanley on hold . So I go back to the other person and say I have got to go 'ecause it is Stanley Kubrick.  Kubrick was famous for his use of music but he often preferred to use dead composers.   Christiane Kubrick says that is because her late husband needed to live with a piece of music for a long time before he knew it was right for a scene.  There was not the amount of time you want to let somebody write the music and then listen to it and say no I hate it do another one. And so if he had found a piece on the radio or wherever whether it was classical or modern he said well at least I know this one goes.  But when Kubrick heard a piece Pook had originally written for a dance about homophobia using a backwards sample of a Romanian priest he knew he would found the music for his masked cult.    Auov uad auon acnurop ias iicinecu ertac iulunmod asiz.  Then he did something he rarely did. He asked Pook to write original music for several scenes.  And I tried not to freak out but  - because it was my first feature film. There was a big worry about giving me the video. And they were talking about somebody sitting in my house every day and taking it back. There was so much secrecy around Kubrick. But in the end they trusted me and they left the video with me.  Kubrick trusted her to score a pivotal monologue by Nicole Kidman's character.    That afternoon Helena went to the movies with her friend and you and I made love.  When Eyes Wide Shut came out in 1999 a bunch of directors took notice of Pook's music.  But interestingly more art house films not Hollywood's kind of movies - yeah the weirder ones .  She scored several French films. And in 2004 she was hired by director Jean-Xavier de Lestrade to score a true-life mystery.   The Staircase is a serial documentary about the death of a female executive in North Carolina and the murder trial of her husband. Pook says her job was to play the emotional undercurrents of a real-life crime drama.  It was never about telling the audience what to think and I generally try and stay away from that. And I think I am generally not asked to do that. My music usually uses another voice and it is not usually used to underline what is happening in the scene.  That is exactly what Swedish director Bjorn Runge wanted for The Wife a film about the simmering emotions of a brilliant woman who is been muzzled most of her life.  I think her music is emotional in a very good way and it is also not written on your nose. It is complex music. It is not about bright music or sad music. I think Jocelyn's music has a little bit of a tone of melancholy.   In a way the music in all these stories is connected. The Wife is about a woman forced to repress her emotions and accomplishments. The Staircase is about a successful woman who is now merely a silent corpse at the outset of a man's ordeal. And Eyes Wide Shut deals with the objectification and disposal of women. Jocelyn Pook expresses what all these women cannot and she feels their pain too.  Yeah. With every project I had to bleed you know ? You have to really feel like you are immersed in it emotionally yeah.  When she is not channeling the emotions of characters on screen she is expressing her own in concert music opera and onstage with her group the Jocelyn Pook Ensemble. For NPR News I am Tim Greiving.  