 The rapper R. Kelly released a song today called I Admit. It is 19 minutes long and it addresses more than two decades' worth of allegations of abuse and sexual misconduct against the 51-year-old singer. NPR's Anastasia Tsioulcas has been reporting on the story and joins us now. Hi there.  Hi Ari.  This is the first conversation I have ever had about a song that we are not playing. Explain why.  Well Ari this is something I have grappled with and we have grappled with in the past when it comes to musicians who have been accused of very serious allegations like this of sexual misconduct. And in this particular case it is a 19-minute song and a little short snippet would not give a lot of information or context about what he is trying to say here. But also there is an issue about whether playing a song publicizes it in some way or seems to promote its message. So we like other media outlets have chosen not to play it on air.  So this song as we said is almost 20 minutes long. It is called I Admit. What does he admit to?  Well he runs through a lot of things though he never quite says what the it is. And what he mostly says - and it is a very sprawling widely meandering 19 minutes - is mostly a list of personal challenges. He talks about having been sexually abused as a child. He talks about being broke now and only touring because he has to make the money. He talks about not being literate enough to read a teleprompter. He says that he has not seen his own children in years. And he also says quote I trust people too much and quote I just need a hug. He sort of references various allegations especially the allegations that he has been involved in sexual relationships with underage women and girls. And he says he gets with quote all the ladies both young and older but he says he is not a pedophile. And he makes a point of saying that in every case women have chased him and he has not chased them. And he lashes out. He calls all of this - and this is now two decades' worth of allegations - a huge conspiracy. He says a quote big- conspiracy and a setup. And he refers to the accusations as quote opinions.  Even though the song is called I Admit it sounds more like I Accuse. He is going after so many people in this track. What is he doing?  Yeah he is very specifically going after a number of organizations and individuals. For example there is an online campaign called MuteRKelly which is meant to force major entertainment companies to cut off their relationships with R. Kelly. And here he says only God can mute me. And he talks about Spotify which took his music off its featured playlists. He refers to John Legend who has supported the MuteRKelly campaign. But he really reserved some special criticism for a Chicago journalist named Jim DeRogatis whose role has really evolved from reporting on R. Kelly to being an active advocate for his alleged victims.  How are people responding to this song? R. Kelly has not released music for a while. And it is difficult to treat this as just music because it is so loaded.  Yeah. And interestingly enough this only dropped on SoundCloud. It appears on the account of a very little-known record label owner and artist manager. And it is not on services like Spotify or Apple Music. And there is a lot of media today that have not linked the song in the - their reporting I think for reasons similar to ours. And there are also quite a few people on social media - celebrities music fans and musicians alike - who are responding very negatively to him and saying that they are surprised to see new music considering everything else that is going on that that was the last thing that they would expect to see.  So if he was hoping to do any kind of image rehab through this track it does not sound like it is working.  I think it is going to backfire yeah.  That is Anastasia Tsioulcas of NPR Music. Thanks so much Anastasia.  Thanks for having me Ari. 