 The record industry has been in trouble for years but it just passed a dubious milestone. Last week was the worst week for album sales in two decades. NPR's Zoe Chace reports that hip-hop has an alternative for artists who still want to make albums the old-fashioned way.  It feels like everyone in this crowd knows this song.  Oh my God.  The arena is packed to see some of the biggest names in hip hop.   But whats unusual here isnt the turnout its the setlist. A Tribe Called Quest Snoop Dogg KRS-One the Wu Tang Clan are all playing the albums that put them on the map twenty years ago from Track One to Track 12 just like you used to hear it on your tape deck. Mr.  Hey yo how many of you all bought Doggystyle when it came out? Did you buy it on cassette or CD?  Snoop Dogg takes the stage in a jumpsuit made out of a giant bandana. In 1993 Doggystyle was a best-selling album. Back in the early '90s all you needed was an album like this one on a cassette tape to throw a party. Ms.  We had the double album and I think it was you me and Kai.   Stacy Glover and her friends are nostalgic. Ms.  And we just we played it. We blared it and just danced and just celebrated.  We had no furniture down there. Ms.  We had no furniture.  That was perfect. We did Soul Train lines.  The reason they loved to listen to the whole record says DJ Jay Smooth says  a DJ an artist and a producer at a minimum. Mr.  This mythological team like sort of a team of superheroes that had their own really strongly defined persona and brands and when you had an album-length representation of that persona and that mythological character it gave you a whole world.  Those days are over. Now it is not uncommon for each song on an album to have a different producer. Mr.  So albums do not really represent one particular artistic statement just sort of the artist buying 12 lottery tickets hoping to get that one platinum hit single and they might not really have that much in common sonically.  Make no mistake. Hip hop artists still make their name by releasing a collection of tracks that tell a story they just are not called albums and they do not make any money.  Mr.   .  This mix tape was the first of a series by the rapper Lil Wayne and DJ Drama. Its 29 tracks long each track leading to the next unified by one DJ kind of like an old school album except its downloaded for free and passed around online.  Mr.   Everything is everything. We are gonna do it for you all. We are gonna also do it for us but we gonna do it because we need to do it.  A they do not really have a choice and B it raises the profile of their artists. When Lil Wayne puts out a mixtape hosted by a high profile DJ like DJ Drama and it gets passed around on the internet it is free publicity.  If you have that DJ pedigree if you have that stamp on you that is like being in Oprah's Book Club for hip-hop and you know I think theory is at least that your next album should have much more credibility because of that.  Aspiring artists still dream of making that classic album a collection of tracks that announces who you are to the world. Mr.  I will probably make an album with an artist. That is what I am kicking towards right now.  Marte Garner is 17 years old. He feels that even though a mix tape gets his name out he will tell his story on an album. Mr.  For me I like to tell what my album will be about so you can know what to look forward to and basically like if I do that I think more people will actually buy the album.  The success that Garner wants is old-school inspired by someone old like Snoop playing to a sold out crowd that knows every word of the album that put you there. Zoe Chace NPR News. 