 For a lot of immigrants it is not as hard as it used to be to stay in touch with family and friends back home but making connections in their new home in the U.S. can be difficult. A DJ collective in Washington D.C. has found a way to help though. Anne Hoffman reports that it all grew out of a family tradition.  Maracuya means passion fruit in Spanish and for the DJ collective Maracuyeah it is all about a passion for music and connection.   At the collective's fifth anniversary party the dance floor is packed with a diverse crowd from punk artists to recently arrived immigrants and button-down office types. Nohora Arrieta Fernandez a Ph.D. student at Georgetown University who identifies as Afro-Colombian says there is something for everyone here.   Something that is really interesting about this dance night is that the music - the tone in the music allows for a dialogue.  And that is how Maracuyeah began - with a dialogue between cousins who lived on different continents.   .  That is the sound of an audio letter that Maracuyeah DJ Kristy Chavez-Fernandez got almost 20 years ago from her cousins in Peru. They were singing one of their favorite songs and letting her know that one day soon she will be back in Peru with them.   .  .  Back then Chavez-Fernandez and her family were living in Northern Virginia. Calls to Peru were around a dollar a minute so Kristy's mom decided the best way to reply was by buying her kids a Fisher-Price tape recorder to send their own little audio missives back across the thousands of miles that separated them from their relatives.  We did a kind of radio show-style podcast-style. That is where we would be putting different recordings from our surroundings and doing messages and singing music.  But they were more than that.  I think that those tapes were kind of these weird projects about our own stories which for me felt fragmented. And I think that those tapes were like a way to heal that.  She carries that feeling to the DJ sets she curates a blend of reggaeton chicha music merengue and American pop with an ear toward providing a home for the Washington D.C. area's many immigrant identities.   Fuego.  And some of their musicians like D.C.-born Dominican-American singer Fuego.   .  I think at Maracuyeah we try and invite and respect and document complex stories in the space where people can be maybe more whole.  Kristy Chavez-Fernandez's DJ partner Carmen Rivera agrees that a sense of family translates to the dance floor and extends to queer people and all people of color.  Our intention is for it to be as safe as a living room dance party you know at your parents' house with your favorite songs. Do whatever you want. Move however you want. Sing as loud and off-key as you want. Be there with all your friends. Enjoy it.  DJ collective Maracuyeah's next dance party takes place on June 10 for pride weekend. For NPR News I am Anne Hoffman.   . 