 Veteran jazz guitarist Peter Bernstein created one of his best pieces of work more than 20 years ago. It is called Signs Of Life. Now music reviewer Tom Moon says Bernstein has released a riveting update Signs LIVE!   Peter Bernstein was a college student when he was discovered by the jazz guitar legend Jim Hall. It was the summer of 1990. And after performing with Hall on several festivals Bernstein's career took off. Within a few years he recorded Signs Of Life the album that established him as an important voice. It featured Bernstein playing his originals and standards with pianist Brad Mehldau bassist Christian McBride and drummer Gregory Hutchinson. The new album documents that same band playing live 20 years later.   Signs Of Life was hailed by critics but the group never performed live. Even then Bernstein remembers it was impossible to find an open date. These four musicians were already on the jazz fast track touring and recording with big names headlining clubs. He made another attempt a few years later and it was the same story. He persisted. And in January 2015 it finally happened - a three-night run at Jazz at Lincoln Center. The two-disc Signs LIVE! captures the third night.   The new album which took two years to get released is something more than a reunion. It is a perspective on the evolution process in jazz. During that 20-year interval each of these musicians were refining their skills as improvisers honing their instincts on gigs with legends and upcoming firebrands. When they met again on the bandstand they were fundamentally different musicians.   Bernstein plays with more rhythmic assurance than he used to. No matter how technical his lines might get they are executed with a smooth authoritative precision. Christian McBride and Hutchinson show new appreciation for clean burning nothing-fancy swing. And Mehldau appears determined to tear up every last jazz convention. He develops intricately knotted lines with a freewheeling abandon.   The songs on this live record are super long. Most last over 12 minutes. Not every solo belongs in the highlight reel. But when these guys are playing together using all available resources to chase new musical vistas what transpires is often riveting. Here's hoping we do not have to wait 20 years to hear them do it again.   Peter Bernstein's latest album is called Signs LIVE! Our reviewer is Tom Moon.  