 The other good friend to the toys in Toy Story is someone they would never go anywhere without - their musical voice Randy Newman. Tim Greiving has that story.   Play it.   One more. I am sorry. I misled you by taking it too slow. My arm will not go that fast.   Newman conducted the strings and woodwinds as they recorded a piece of the score for Toy Story 4 on a scoring stage at Fox in March on the Newman Scoring Stage. Named for his uncles Newman was destined for this. But back in 1995 when this adventure all began the 52-year-old veteran singer-songwriter was known more for songs that told stories often sung as a character.    Let us drop the big one and see what happens.  But some of them were heartbreaking ballads.    You are still the same girl.  Newman was also a multiple Oscar-nominated composer of grown-up scores for films like The Natural.   But if you are of a certain age you might only know Randy Newman as the Toy Story guy.    I was on top of the world living high. It was right in my pocket. I mean there is no competing with Toy Story in terms of the reach of it. It inevitably appeals to you know hundreds of millions that I would not appeal to.  As we sit at the piano in the small studio behind his Pacific Palisades home Newman - now 75 - remembers getting the call for the first Toy Story.  Because it started a terror in my stomach you know that was so different from what I would done.  He would never scored a children's film or an animated film before. Pixar wanted Newman partly because of his warm Americana sound. They were worried that computer graphics might feel too cold without an orchestra but also because of his bite.  Pixar was almost the anti-Disney that they did not want to do musicals or princess movies or have magic and those types of things.  Tom MacDougall is the executive vice president of music at Walt Disney Studios. Toy Story was the first movie he ever worked on.  I would say Randy is as important as Tom Hanks or Tim Allen. You know like if we did not have his music in there you would feel it for sure and you might not even want to make it without him.  Newman wrote several unforgettable songs for Toy Story but he entered the Disney song hall of fame with this.    You have got a friend in me. You have got a friend in me. You know I am very literal I think sometimes too literal. They said they wanted the friendship between the boy and Woody realized that that is a special friendship. So I wrote You have Got a Friend.  Newman's score for Toy Story was all bouncing and scurrying because he felt that was only natural that when the toys moved the music should move too.   As the series evolved the characters stopped to reflect more. In Toy Story 2 Newman wrote When She Loved Me for Sarah McLachlan which went with a montage about losing the most important person in the world to you.    When somebody loved me everything was beautiful. Every hour spent together lives within my heart.  In Toy Story 3 Woody and the gang suffered the heartbreak of losing their kid Andy to adulthood.   And in Toy Story 4 - without giving anything away - there was ample opportunity for Randy Newman to tug our hearts. When Woody confronts the loss of his very purpose in life Newman was there to express some very adult emotions.   It is a very adult sort of problem that Woody has. Geez.  He recalls the first conversations he had about the characters.  You have to take their feelings their emotions seriously. It is not like unimportant when somebody's feeling bad.  So even though in 1995 Randy Newman may have seemed like an odd choice for a cartoon about a bunch of sentient toys these movies have let him explore the full range of his humor and his heart maybe none more than this latest one.  I have a hunch that it might be the best one I did for Toy Story.  Still if Randy Newman is only remembered as the Toy Story guy...  Well I would not like it. You know I want them to know other movies and that I write songs you know. When I step off I think it will be the songs that are mentioned more you know. When the obituary and the Courier-Journal is there I think it will be singer-songwriter and - but I am not sure. I will never know.  My guess - it will probably be both. For NPR News I am Tim Greiving.    Sail away. Sail away. We will cross the mighty ocean into Charleston Bay. Sail away. Sail away. 