 If you pull up in your car to a red light this summer and the car in the lane next to you has the windows down they are blasting music there is a pretty good chance this is the song you are hearing.    Where are you now that I need you?  That is Where Are U Now by the DJ duo Jack U with Justin Bieber on vocals. The song is one of the biggest summer hits of 2015. And another contender for that title...    All we need is somebody to lean on.  ...Lean On by the group Major Lazer. OK one more inescapable hit this summer...    I will never dream of your love to take me there to take me there.  ...Take U There with Kiesza on vocals. So what do all three of these tracks have in common? They were all created by the same producer-DJ music mastermind - Diplo. His real name is Thomas Wesley Pentz. Musically he kind of owns this summer and he joins us now from our studio in New York. Welcome.  Hey.  OK those tracks that we just played - they are not only different vocalists. They are different albums collaborative projects. And tell us about - how do these collaborations take shape?  Well I guess people like me - DJs and producers - have a bigger say and a bigger voice than we have ever had before you know? I am not a superstar per se. I am not like on the radio myself. I am not like in the press shots but I am like a musical creator a producer in the same vein as what Quincy Jones or Pharrell and Timbaland were. But this year people like me are able to go perform the records we play live. And I think that it gives me leverage to bring artists to me to you know produce records and kind of be in control of the way it sounds.   Well speaking of big artists you also collaborated with Madonna or her latest album this year.  Yeah.  Let us hear one of the tracks that you produced for her latest album. And because this is public radio I think we have to call it something else like Madam I am Madonna.  Yeah.  . What do we call this?  Ms. Chick I am Madonna.    We go hard or we go home. We going to do this all night long. We get freaky if you want.  I am Madonna.  So how do you take what you bring to the party and make that harmonize with what Madonna has established as her identity over all these years?  Well with Madonna it was really special for me because I became really close with her and friendly with her that I never would expect. And even when I first got the notion that Madonna wanted to meet and maybe do something I was like OK I will do this because I want to get an Instagram picture with Madonna at least.  . That was the motivation?  Yeah you know I did not expect to even see her more than one afternoon. But with her she is already getting more comfortable with me. Then this song happened because we were like getting a little drunk in the studio and she is like well what is the craziest thing you have on your computer right now? Like what is it? And literally it was this crazy noise - this buzzing sound . But she loved it and it almost feels like the kind of buzziest record for her album. And it does sound like a Diplo-Madonna song together you know? The other songs were kind of me trying to find like the Madonna from the future or something you know? And this one was kind of like we just threw caution to the wind and made something as obnoxious as possible which is what - kind of what her career's always been like you know?  It is funny that you mention trying to find the Madonna of the future. You told Rolling Stone when people come to me they do not know what they want to sound like. They just want to sound like something from the future.  Yeah.  I wonder if you can pinpoint what the future sounds like.  You can never figure out what the future sounds like. As soon as you make it it is the past so you are just constantly chasing it. You want to find something that just - you have not heard before. There is a great story of I Can Feel It Coming In The Air Tonight Phil Collins you know? Like the drums on that are just literally the talkback mic. You know what I am talking about right?  I love that your example of a great musical experimentation is Phil Collins which I think most people who are like of-the-moment trendsetting would be afraid to site as a musical reference.  I love any music that makes me feel something you know? I want music to give me goose bumps. And when I make a song like that then I know it is good you know?  Can we do sort of anatomy of a song? Because Lean On is such mega-hit this summer I would love it if you could break it down for us and tell us what is going on in there.  Well it started as just a really slow reggae song. And the funny thing is - about it is that MO was fan of ours. I did not know who she was.  She is the singer on this track.  Yeah. She is a Danish singer who has a very jazzy voice.    Do you recall not long ago we would walk on the sidewalk?  She came to our shown in Amsterdam and she introduced herself. And she forced me and the other guy in Major Lazer to go to her room to play music for her. Like she came to this city. I was like OK I will give this girl a chance. And I left her this record - the instrumental - and she wrote like four songs in a week.  Wow.  And we just sat down and we tried a lot of ideas. And I eventually said look we need something fresh so I turned it into a hip-hop beat. And then the main thing of the beat is this reggae drumbeat called a dembow. And you hear it underneath the song the whole time right here.   . It is like a - it is one beat that they used in reggaeton and dancehall records in '90s for like 10 years. So we just put that in there and compressed it and made it sound very thick and rich.  And so when you sent that to her what was her reaction?  She did not like this at all.  You are like this is the biggest summer hit of 2015.  Yeah. Eventually I convinced her. I was like this is - trust me this is going to be big.    All we need is somebody to lean on.  I want to rewind the clock. You were born in Mississippi grew up in Florida. What is your earliest memory of making music?  I would probably say - this is kind of funny because I hope it counts as making music but I used to just record the radio on cassette tapes and just make little mix tapes like a pastiche of different things. Like I would record a lot of - I remember pop music like stuff like Physical Attraction by Madonna. I used to love that record and I recorded it and listened to it a lot.  How old were you when you were making those first mix tapes off the radio?  Like 8 11. I do not know. Something like that.  It is so funny because you know most people start with piano lessons or violin lessons or something but like you were a DJ from day one.  But it is funny. In South Florida DJ culture is so big you know? Like in the neighborhood I lived in Fort Lauderdale was like - there was just so many street parties. I think that that area was like the most diverse place I had lived in. It was - my neighborhood was like - literally I went to bar mitzvahs. I went to like Haitian kids' birthday parties. And you know my family - cousins would come down from Orlando. They are all rednecks. It was like...  So it was like a young Diplo in the making...  Yeah.  ...Where you can hear the sound of it.  It was everything. It was every music there. Until I moved to Philly then I realized how segregated music was you know? When I went to Philly we started a party called Holotronics and we played like really crazy music. And that was kind of the inspiration for me to quit my job and go full time. You know it is crazy because when I was in Philly I never thought you could make money making music. I was trying to keep any job I had because there was not any DJs that had a living doing that you know? So I had to do it all myself. I am like an older guy in this DJ world you know?  You are 36?  Yeah I am 36 years old so you know I am lucky I am still doing it and still excited by it.    You show me there is something more to us than the same old thing - no usual affair.  Well Wes in the middle of your crazy-triumphant whirlwind summer thank you for taking the time to talk with us.  I appreciate it. You have been a great interviewer. You knew a lot about my music. I appreciate that.  Thomas Wesley Pentz is a DJ and producer better known as Diplo. 