 Nigeria's Fela Kuti created Afrobeat in the '70s a funky brassy fiercely political music that earned a worldwide following. Fela Kuti died in 1997. Two of his sons the oldest and the youngest have carried on his musical tradition. Both Femi and Seun Kuti have a new album out and reviewer Banning Eyre says they strike their own balances between expressing themselves and honoring their father's Afrobeat tradition.    Start with Femi Fela's oldest son 48 years old and leader of his own band Positive Force since the late '80s. Femi comes out charging on his new release Africa for Africa. Check out the ferocity of the Positive Force brass section.   Femi started out playing sax in his dad's band Egypt 80. His break to start Positive Force was an act of rebellion. Femi rejected Fela's leisurely 20-minute songs in favor of short sharp arrangements. He is experimented with rap rock and pop elements in his sound. But Femi has always embraced Afrobeat' its message - an unvarnished critique of corrupt African leaders.    Nobody beg you to be president. Nobody beg you to be governor. Nobody beg you to be senator. Nobody beg you to be councilor.  The 14 songs on Femi's album are bracingly efficient and relentless in their call for Africans to reject failed leaders and find African solutions to their problems.    Remember the things Martin Luther taught you .  Africa for Africa is a tsunami of surging organs spitfire volleys of brass and righteous rhetoric from Fela's firstborn. When it comes to Seun Fela's youngest son the mood is decidedly different.   Twenty years Femi's junior Seun was just a kid when Fela died yet he wound up leading his father's old band Egypt 80. This CD  Rise is just Seun's second release but the experience of these veteran musicians and co-production from Brian Eno make for exquisitely deep grooves as trenchant and funky as Fela's own. And the message? Well as I said that is non-negotiable.     Africa soldiers.  When Fela lampooned African soldiers in the 1976 song Zombie he suffered a brutal military attack on his family compound. Neither Femi nor Seun is likely to be tested so harshly. Seun in particular exudes the cocky confidence of invulnerable youth.    .  Like their father neither Femi nor Seun is a star-quality singer. But where Femi sometimes strains Seun proves better at working within his vocal limitations. Listen to the way he emphasizes rhythm over range like a good rapper.    .  With fewer and longer songs Seun's CD may not match the breathless fury of Femi's but its majestic groove and flamboyant lead vocals make it easily as satisfying.  Fela Lives.   Banning Eyre is senior editor at afropop.org. He reviewed Femi Kuti's Africa for Africa and Seun Kuti's  Rise. 