 How do you make pop music that means anything in the middle of a pandemic and civil unrest? How do you deliver that music to your fans when they cannot come to see you when you cannot sing to them in person? Well we are going to hear next from an expert. Miss Alicia Keys how are you?  I am good. How you doing?   OK. Welcome to our brave new world of trying to do the radio from our houses.  Absolutely.  Thank you for agreeing to do this .  No problem.  Alicia Keys has a new album out today her seventh in a storied career. It is called Alicia. She spoke with us from the car in the middle of a jam-packed day promoting her new music.  Yes. It is definitely a good wonderful busy day.  You are a good person to talk to today because many of us are not feeling great. I feel like you are making the most of 2020.  Thank you.  Tell us about this album because I have heard you say that this is the most truthful most authentic. I think for people who already describe your music that way why do you think this one is?  You know I just feel like I have gotten to know myself much better than I ever did before and know all the sides of me because we all have many sides to us. And I think in a lot of ways we get used to only showing a particular side or one version. And I have been really personally interested in going even deeper than that and getting to know the parts that I am not even - not comfortable connecting with as readily as the parts that I am.  Is there a song on this album that speaks to this idea what you are talking about?  One of the ones I am thinking of now is a favorite for me. It is called Authors Of Forever.    We are lost and lonely people and we are looking for a reason and it is all right. And what I really love about the song is it goes on to talk about how we are builders and we are breakers and we are givers and we are takers. And I think that at one point in my life I was just like well why does there have to be any takers? Why cannot there just be builders? Or why does there have to be any breakers? Why cannot it just be givers? And I realized that you have to have all these sides. You cannot have one without the other.    We are born on our own and we die on our own. And we are here to make meaning of what happens in between. We could hate. We could love.  One of the things I think has been excellent about this album is the way that it is been speaking to the moment everyone's in. The most obvious of that might be Good Job which is a kind of message of encouragement to people who are struggling. When I first heard it I was like oh she is speaking to me. And then I realized...  Yes.  ...Like oh right. Obviously there are health care workers and other people in far more intense positions. But talk about trying to write a song that speaks to this very strange moment.  I mean that is the part that I think has been the most fascinating to me - is that I wrote that song almost a year ago Good Job when no one would have ever in a million years imagined the world would be the way that it is now.    You are the engine that makes all things go. And you are always in disguise my hero. I see your light in the dark smile in my face when we all know it is hard. And it was really for people like my mother people for - like you people like my dearest friends who really work so hard to keep it all going together and a lot of times wake up and just feel like I am not even doing it right. And I just realized we do not get the chance. A lot of people do not hear the word good job. They do not hear those words.    You are doing a good job a good job. You are doing a good job. Do not get too down. Nobody's sitting there telling them wow. Look just waking up again and putting one foot in front of the other is a good job. Like you are doing your thing. Look how you are taking care of your daughter or how you are juggling two jobs or how you are dealing with whatever emotional state you are in whatever the case. So it was so - kind of put me in awe to recognize that during these times the song did apply to all of those people as well as you know the essential workers and people who just you know have become so important to just the survival of our daily existence you know?    The mothers the fathers the teachers that reach us strangers to friends that show up in the end - from the bottom to the top the listeners that hear us this is for you. You make me fearless. You are doing a good job a good job.  Is it different this time around because you are an artist that loves to tour - right? - and a great live performer but we are in this time when we are not able to connect with people that way and are not able to connect with artists in that way? So are you on social media more right? Like are you looking at TikToks?  I mean the amount of you know - it is true that we do have the ultimate superhighway of information and we can connect at a moment's notice. And I definitely have embraced that more during this time. I think before - you know I am a real in-person type of person. Like I love being in front of people's faces. I love that connection where you can just be spirit to spirit. But I really have embraced a lot more the power of being able to connect in an intimate way during these times.  You are still hitting the pavement though right? I mean am I hearing a car in the background ? It sounds like you are...  I am.  ...Still dashing from place to place.  I am dashing from place to place.  Mask in hand I assume.  I am dashing from place to place mask in hand. I mean I am luckier - a little bit luckier because I do have to sing so you obviously cannot sing with a mask although I have tried to sing with a mask. It is not...  You have? .  It is possible. It is possible.  Where? Like in your house or - what happened?  You know like if I am doing a sound check or I have to you know just try a thing out and I already have my mask on I will just put the mic to my mask. And I will just sing...  Rough.  ...Which is not the worst. I mean it is a little muffly  but it works.  You are making it work. I like it.   Can I ask one last question? I mentioned the idea of Fallin' having come out in 2001. We are heading into 2021. Looking back what would you say to that young woman who was entering the industry?  You know I think the part that I would want to make sure she was aware of the most about is really understanding that she is the creator of everything that is happening around her. And even though there is a lot of great people who support her and are going to continue to support her to - because it takes a village to do everything - that she is the unique special ingredient that makes it what it is and to not for one second ever doubt that or be afraid of that either and just like know that and treat it accordingly so that people recognize and you yourself recognize the value that you bring. I think I would have wanted to talk to her about that.   Give me the beat.  Alicia Keys thank you so much for speaking with us. Best of luck with the album.  Thank you for allowing me to have this opportunity and I will talk to you soon.    Now you falling for a person that is not even me. Now you falling for a person that is not even me 'ecause I forgot about the person that I used to be. 