 More than once it seemed like Madi Diaz was on the verge of a breakthrough. In fact the singer-songwriter has been on a longer journey. Jewly Hight of member station WNXP says Diaz has made her way through breakups with the industry and a partner to arrive at her sharpest perspective by far on her first album in seven years History Of A Feeling.  Madi Diaz did not always know how to show the unraveling of complicated emotions in her songwriting but she does now.    Cannot be a new person in an old place.  In the video for that new song she rides with her past present and future selves in her own squatty blue-green 1997 Toyota Tacoma. That is a metaphor. In real life she looks back on signing a publishing deal at the age of 20 as...  Making my first bad decisions in my music career . Hooray.  Diaz jokes that she spent the next 15 years figuring things out and offers to retrace some of that journey on a drive. Her first act as tour guide is to retrieve pliers from the floorboard of her pickup truck and adjust her manual windows.  I do not know where my passenger-side window crank is so there is so many things that can go wrong.   Diaz navigates to a corner cottage her first Nashville home. Both backyard hangs and songwriting appointments let her see that friendships could free up creativity.  Like it really taught me the importance of like - I do not know - just being able to like sit still or like have like a conversation with somebody or like a song comes out of like something real that you are talking about.    What a strange day. For once not lost in a bad way.  She landed songs and TV shows. And just before she released what was expected to be her breakthrough album her label folded. At the moment she is steering us down a winding tree-lined road in East Nashville that she finds serene. Back then in search of new experiences she signed a lease in LA and tried doing a more danceable version of singer-songwriter pop.    I just want you all alone standing in my danger zone.  It was good but did not really help Diaz's voice stand out. She wondered if she was meant to be a musical partner and joined a couple of bands. She also had a serious romantic partner.  I had never really you know allowed myself to kind of like go there on the level of like hey get married. Have kids.  But when a fire drove Diaz and her partner from their home she took it as a sign. Their relationship was already disintegrating and her partner who she would first known as a man was transitioning into living as a trans woman. After they split Diaz could not see herself staying on the West Coast and loaded up the Toyota in 2017.  I absolutely hurled myself across the country. I mean I just kind of kept my head down and got back to Nashville as quick as possible so that I could physically and mentally unpack.  Diaz found a place where she could do that in Shelby Park. It is a hill with a sweeping view.  Man I came here on so many like lonely full-moon moments and just like pulled my sad truck into this parking lot and backed my sad truck bed up to the edge of the hill and set up my sad blanket .   Curled up in her truck bed Diaz recorded her thoughts as voice memos and later fleshed some of them out as songs. She did not have a record deal or publishing contract just a bartending gig. For once what she did with music was entirely up to her. She worked her way through as many as 200 songs repeatedly chiseling on the same themes until she had the 11 that became her album History Of A Feeling.    I know why I lie to myself.  Diaz turned to the co-writer she knew and trusted including Jarrad K.  I feel great with her being able to say like that is wrong. That is not actually how you feel.  A breakup always involves more than one person. Diaz was writing about an especially complex one and focused on which parts of it were hers to tell. What she was after and achieved was emotional clarity.  There are no sides. There is just like this story. And like I am not trying to be right . I am just trying to say you know what I experienced.    There is a woman in my heart.  Diaz had not recorded an album in a while and she took a new approach favoring the immediacy of her first takes. And the music sounds and feels so different than what she is done for the last decade and a half.  All of these years have been so like disastrously important  - crucial.  Crucial to Madi Diaz collecting necessary insight on her way here. For NPR News I am Jewly Hight in Nashville.    There is a woman in my heart. 