 Three Israeli sisters make up the band A-WA.   .  They are Jews of Yemeni descent who have become known for eye-popping music videos that challenge gender stereotypes. Picture women in traditional robes - which happen to be neon pink - off-roading across a barren desert. Their sound is just as distinctive. The sisters' last album reworked traditional music from their ancestors' home country of Yemen. To give you a sense of how these songs used to sound here's a recording from the 1960s of a tune called Habib Galbi.   .  A-WA's version of the tune has tight harmonies and electronic beats.   .  This Habib Galbi became their first big hit four years ago.   .  I am Tair. I am the oldest.  And I am Liron. I am in the middle of the sandwich.  And I am Tagel.  Tair Liron and Tagel Haim recently came here to NPR headquarters to play a Tiny Desk Concert. That is where a band plays a few songs in our offices for an online video. They performed tracks from their new album Bayti Fi Rasi which is mostly original material. I sat down with A-WA right after their set. Tair the eldest sister did most of the talking.   I never get to be behind the tiny desk. I am always on that side. It is really exciting.  Exciting right?  Yeah. I want to ask about the song Hana Mash which you performed. It imagines a conversation.   .  Tell us who these two people are talking to each other and what they are talking about.  The song like the rest of the song on this album are inspired by our great-grandma. She was traveling from Yemen to Israel as a single mom and this specific song talks about her arrival in Israel.   .  They put all the Yemenite Jews back then in transition camp or tent camp. I do not know how to call it.  Yeah.  It is called in Hebrew maghaba . And we talk about all the mixed emotions she felt.  This song is funny and also a little bit tragic. One voice says...  Yeah.  ...I will build a house. And the other voice says you will have a tent. I will get a job. You will pick up trash.   .  This is sort of the dream and the reality.  True. Yeah. It is like two voices in her head or maybe she is saying something and the people in the camp like answering her.   .  The entire album is about your great-grandmother's experience coming from Yemen to Israel in 1949. What do you want people to know about this story? Why was this a story that you wanted to explore through these songs?  She was a feminist you know before she even knew what a feminist is. And she was so strong. Her journey was so courageous and she did not have any help from anyone. But thanks to her we are generation born in Israel. And our future and our present are better. We have a better life thanks to her.  What was her name?  Rachel.  And did you know her?  .  Was she alive when you were born?  No no. She passed away before we even born.  My understanding is that in Yemen traditionally music is passed down generationally through women. Is that right?  Yeah. The Jewish music in Yemen was divided. Like the men sang a lot of religious songs like the Torah. And women could not read it or write so they had to invent their own songs - all secular - and they passed it down from one woman to another from generation to generation.   .  So you are taking what you have inherited from older generations...  Yes.  ...Harmonies and melodies and Yemenite traditions - and you are yanking them into the 21st century and blowing them up and adding beats and production effects that your great-grandmother would never have heard of.  Yeah.  What appeals to you about doing something wildly new and different with the tradition you have been given?  For us it is not interesting to put the tradition as it is because we want to bring something new. We want to bring ourselves. And we also have three voices as young women. So in the album for instance we sort of blended her voice - things that she could not say back then - with our voices.  Can you give us an example of something on the album that you think your great-grandmother would have said if she could but you are saying it instead in 2019?  I can tell you something that she used to say. She said . And it means I am a woman and I am a man. And she meant that she can do any work and she is equal. I mean she can do whatever she wants to.  Does that appear on the album somewhere?  On the song Bayti Fi Rasi which is the title track.   .  Which means my home is in my head.  My home is in my head - another statement that she used to say - very strong and powerful.  This album speaks to the experience of a woman fleeing a Middle Eastern country as a refugee in 1949.   .  And now there is another global refugee crisis with women and their families fleeing whether it is from Syria or Iraq or Afghanistan. Do you think that this music speaks to the people who find themselves in a place today similar to where your great-grandmother found herself in 1949?  Yeah I guess so. I mean we felt that this issue is so relevant. That is why we wanted to take this story to put it out there.   .  Can I say something?  Yeah yeah.  Yeah please.  This is Liron by the way.  Yeah. It is a story about like one woman but it is actually a story of so many other refugees around the world. So for us it is a story that we wanted to tell for years.  Thank you so much for talking with us.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Tair Haim along with Liron and Tagel - the three sisters make up the band A-WA. And their new album is called Bayti Fi Rasi which means my home is in my head.   .  The music we are listening to was recorded at A-WA's Tiny Desk Concert and that video is up at npr.org. Tomorrow we will have a conversation about the humanitarian crisis and civil war that are happening in Yemen right now.   . 