 For most artists choreographing a Beyonce music video might be a career peak. But for Teyana Taylor who did it when she was just 15 years old it was only the beginning. She was signed to Pharrell's label around that same time. And since then she has grown up in the entertainment business acting in movies modelling starring in reality TV shows directing and dancing in music videos. And now she is out with her third record which is called simply The Album. She chose today for the album's release Juneteenth. It is a day that commemorates the end of chattel slavery in the U.S. I talked to her this week about why she decided on Juneteenth for the release. But first we started our conversation where the record starts with her family.    ...Fire. What is your emergency?  Oh she is having a baby.  Because the album begins with the birth of her first child. Taylor did not have time to get to the hospital so this is the actual recording of the 911 call where her husband basketball player Iman Shumpert is learning how to help deliver their baby.   I have my daughter in my hands.  Oh my God. Every time I hear the intro I feel it every single time like it happened yesterday. It is crazy because that night was like - it was such - it was scary and like a blessing at the same time. Everything happened so fast. I pushed one time she came out.  Amazing.   Is the baby breathing?  Yes.  It felt like a movie. Like as soon - she was not crying. She was just staring at me looking around the room.  Wow.  That is how crazy it was.   Is it a boy or a girl sir?  It is a little girl.  It is a girl? Congratulations.  Taylor says she originally wanted to have that 911 call on her last album - K.T.S.E. - which was produced by Kanye West. And she is been public about being really unhappy with her lack of creative control on that project. She says this new album is quite different.    Girl you are working with some class yeah. You are bad yeah. Make a fella spend his... This is really the one you know? Like I feel like my fans and followers have been on a long journey with me. And I feel like when people hear The Album they will understand what my frustration was with K.T.S.E. Trying to put a lot of emotions within seven songs is tough. So now to have a full album 23 songs you get to literally express yourself and every single part of you.    Girl you made it. You made it. Oh yeah. You made it. You made it. Baby girl you made it. You made it. Oh yeah. You made it.  You have been in the music industry for a long time. I mean you were choreographing a music video for Beyonce when you were like 15 years old which is so incredible to me. I mean you claimed a place in this industry very early. So why do you think it took you almost a decade and a half to be like OK I am ready to call the shots now?  I mean me coming out that young I felt like all my mistakes was kind of on an open platter you know where you have other artists that you know it looked like they became successful overnight but they would really been grinding it out behind closed doors for nine 10 years.  I mean do you wish you could have had the chance to make mistakes without people watching?  You know I do not regret it I think because the people was able to watch me grow.  Yeah.  So now I feel like it will make them appreciate this body of work even more because it is like we watched his girl come so far. You know I do not regret anything and like I say I do not question God you know and I do not question his timing you know. And like I said time's definitely get hard where I get a little frustrated and a little disappointed. But you know I eventually pull through.   You have said that you wanted to release this record at the right moment. So I want to ask what made you decide that today Juneteenth was the right moment?  I personally felt like it was only right because it is a celebration. You know it is a celebration for my culture my people you know...  Yeah.  ...To show that no matter what we go through we always pull through.    Play catch with the hundreds. Love is the new money. I am just chilling with the homies. Home is where the heart is. We got love love love. You better believe it. That is what I stand for. I stand for Black power. I stand for Black magic. Like I stand for that.  You have posted pretty openly about how police violence against Black men how community violence against Black men those are things you think about every day. I saw that you wrote about your husband on Instagram. Can you read that post for us?  OK. So it says  though you are the love of my life my king my husband and an amazing father you are still a Black man first before anything. And that is the risk that I take as you leave my side and walk out the door every single day. I could have lost you yesterday. I could lose you today. Or I could even lose you tomorrow.  Can you talk about that some more? Like what is it like to raise a family feeling that all the time?  It is tough. It is tough when you really sit back and realize that it does not matter - no amount of wealth no amount of fame no amount of anything. When you are asleep and I wake up and I am just crying just staring at you like I am looking at a Black man. I am not looking at an NBA star. I am not looking at a champion. I am not looking at anything else but a Black man. You know I look at my daughter and I am not looking at anybody else but a Black young lady.  Yeah.  And I even look at myself in the mirror and I am a Black woman which I feel like you know sometimes even Black women voices go unheard or go unnoticed.  Yeah.  It is just Black people and I feel for my people. And it is been the most emotional thing to even - trying to find the balance of staying strong you know for my daughter and spreading knowledge to her and then like being very enraged being upset...  Yeah.  ...Because clearly they do not hear us.   .  Even though yes you have been experiencing a lot of anger and pain during this time that we are all in when I listen to your album there is a lot of joy that I am hearing.    Wake up love - wake. These sheets will not comfort me. Please wake up love.  In a lot of the songs here you sound like you are in this really good place now with your marriage your family. Does it feel like you are still able to be in touch with a lot of that joy right now?  Of course you know because...  Yeah.  ...Even with all the painful things going on in the world we just got to make sure we are all doing our part to help but all still making sure that Black people are celebrated 'ecause I feel like we are not celebrated enough and it is always some type of negativity that somebody brings. And then it is like they make us stereotypes as if we are always upset and we are always angry and that is not that. We are just tired. So in the midst of when everybody's kind of tired I just want to show them that like you are loved you are appreciated even through the toughest times.    We got love love love. You better believe it - love love.  Teyana Taylor's new album is called The Album. It is out today. Thank you Teyana so much for sharing this time with us.  No problem. Thank you.    Play catch with the hundreds. Love is the new money. I am just chilling with the homies. Home is where the heart is. Play catch with the hundreds. Love is... 