 Thanks for sticking with us here on ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR West. I am Kelly McEvers. When she was young Chrissie Hynde moved from Ohio to England at like the perfect moment - the dawn of the British punk-rock scene. She played with people who would later form bands like The Clash and The Damned and then went on to form her own band - The Pretenders. Let us be clear here I am a pretty huge fan of The Pretenders so when I got the chance to talk to Chrissie Hynde about her new solo album I was psyched. She was not super psyched. By that point she would already talked about the album a lot and she was just kind of done. And in true punk rock fashion she was brutally honest.  Sorry if I do not sound joyous but I have now told the story to the point where I am just about to cut my wrists.  So let me tell you the story of this album Chrissie Hynde started writing songs with Bjorn Yttling one of the members of the Swedish band Peter Bjorn and John. And she ended up recording these songs as an album with him in Stockholm Sweden thus the album's name Stockholm. Of course do not ask Chrissie if this is a solo album or not. She says it is not - but putting her name on it was just a marketing thing. So I figured I could not go wrong by asking about the songs right? Like this one with a pretty provocative first line.    I have become what I criticized oh oh oh. Oh oh oh. The porn queen in my deck of lies. Where was you?  I feel like there is like a therapy session in that line. That is from a song called Down The Wrong Way. What is that song about?  What is it about? If I have to explain to you what it is about then I feel as a songwriter I did not really succeed with the song. So I would just say do not listen to it anymore.  Well I mean we did listen to it and it is interesting you know you say I have become what I criticize the porn queen in my deck of lies where were you in a caravan next to a fairground ride. I mean yeah the lyrics it is not a mystery to unlock but I do not know what are you saying to yourself in this song?  Well now this is going to turn into therapy session. I have become what I criticize actually comes out of Vedic culture probably the jewel in the crown of Vedic culture is called the bagovekeda . And that is a reference to something in the Vedas that you do become what you criticize. And then the where were you was a reference to a film I love called The Bad Lieutenant with Harvey Keitel. When he is walking through a church and he is sort of hallucinating because he is really got himself into trouble and the statue of Christ comes to life and he is crying and he is going where were you - talking to God. That is the reference to that. And you know if you really want me to go on with every line in the song you know it is going to take a long time.   There is another really great thing about that song right and it is Neil Young.  Well I think that is a little overrides the lyrics in my estimation.   I mean you cannot miss his guitar his style. How did that come about? How did you guys end up working together on this album?  Well when I was writing with Bjorn we were working on this song and I kept referring to it as the Neil Young song because it sounded like that. And then just kind of get a reaction out of Bjorn I facetiously once in a while would say of course I could always call Neil and get him to play on it. But I would have never done that if it was really a solo album because I mean I would not dream of calling on God and say can you do me a favor? But I did because I did get a rise out of Bjorn and then after about six months I thought God I actually could call Neil. I have toured with him he is a friend of mine. I like to think it is the best of Neil Young on one song - in his solo.   And he is not the only one on this album the only guest appearance. John McEnroe tennis player John McEnroe is on this album. How did that one happen?  Well he also plays guitar and he is been a mate for many years. He is very spirited and as you can tell if you listen to his playing on the album he is got a lot of personality in his playing.   You know exactly who is playing the guitar when you hear him. And Bjorn Yttling is a big tennis fan so that was another way I was trying to  with him. Because these Swedes are real stoic you know you cannot get a reaction out of them very easily. So when I saw a tennis racket in his studio I thought oh OK. So the next time that McEnroe was in town doing one of these Masters of Tennis Championships I left a message and said I am in the studio. So he was in the studio within 40 minutes of course Bjorn was losing it. I managed to get John to hit a few balls with him so you know he sort of owes me for life and that is where I like my men.    Looking now this is where you are - a big blue sky and a plan too far. Pretty baby oh we should not stop with big blue sky with a plan too far.  You have had a difficult relationship with people who seem to be more interested in fame than in making the music you know. I know that the Rock 'n Roll Hall of Fame for instance is something that you just do not have a particular love for. Do you not like being famous?  It is OK. Let me talk about the Rock 'n Roll Hall of Fame. I mean see the thing is when I got in this game again we are really going back now - because I am old school now. But I am very traditional and I think you know there is rules but there is no rules. So in being traditional as far as rock 'n roll to me it is anti-establishment. So what happened with the Rock 'n Roll Hall of Fame is it was put together by people who wanted to be in the Rock 'n Roll Hall of Fame and wanted it to be an establishment. And if you are trying not to be part of the establishment like that does not really fly. We are living in a Grammy culture where everyone is clinging to their little statue crying. And I kind of cannot handle that very well like I get embarrassed very easily. So you know I have to bite a bullet and you know go along with it because if you decide you are not going to go and collect your little award or you are not going to be inducted then you have made a stand and I am not even trying to make a stand. I just do not want to go.  That is Chrissie Hynde. Her new album is called Stockholm. It is out now. Chrissie Hynde thank you so much for keeping it real.  I guess.    Wasted behind your dark sunglasses. Wasted behind your dark sunglasses. 