 Gary Peacock has played bass with a lot of jazz greats - Bill Evans Miles Davis Keith Jarrett. I could go on and on and on. Peacock has covered a lot of territory musically and geographically. His journey has taken him from Idaho to LA Japan New York City now upstate New York where the 80-year-old master of the bass lives. Karen Michel has this profile.   When Gary Peacock plays the bass sitting on a stool arms wrapped around its girth his fingers are like antennae - his left hand seeking the notes his right plucking the strings.   May I touch your hands?  Yeah.  They are so soft.  Yeah well these are calluses but what happens is that there is a direct - I cannot go into physiology with it that much but what I notice when I am playing is that when the finger comes down on the strings it is not just the finger on the string because this is a sensation that goes this way up to the brain throughout the whole body.  It is not that Peacock cannot discuss the physiology. He can. He studied biology during college in Washington state and Eastern medicine in Japan. But he does not like to overthink or overspeak. That is not an issue for pianist and longtime Peacock collaborator Marc Copland.  In 1960 '61 Gary Peacock was arguably one of the tiny handful of a vanguard of innovators on his instrument OK? In 2015 you can make the same argument and I have been saying this for years. Now this is a stretch of 55 years. There is not a whole heck of a lot of musicians you can say that about.   Gary Peacock's journey goes back much further to a moment of awareness that playing jazz was his life's path.  It was a realization that was so powerful and so strong that I did not even question it.  Peacock was a teenager who would already migrated from his native Idaho to Oregon and from playing piano to playing drums.  The actual incident that happened that was performing for the graduating class of 1953 which is when I graduated from high school. I was playing at that time drums and had the experience of being played rather than playing. And I realized that something transformative had happened and there was a certainty from the bottom of my feet to the top of my head. It was totally clear. It was like oh this this is the direction to go.  So Peacock went to music school in Los Angeles where he studied both drums and piano then he got drafted stationed in Germany. He was playing piano with a trio. The bassist left and he picked up the instrument something he would never played before. When Peacock got back to New York the novice bassist found himself playing with one of the greatest pianist of all time - Bill Evans.   His sense of harmony was exquisite. The harmonies and the way he would voice the harmonies made a melody not only believable but you were to fall in love with it. And because he played low whatever the bass played it could be heard be an integral part of the music.   But by 1969 Peacock gave up the scene completely. He would dropped acid with Timothy Leary. It changed his life and not necessarily he says in a good way. So trying to figure out who he was Peacock moved again to Japan. There he studied medicine philosophy cooking and the Japanese language.  There is a great lack of personal pronouns. And the effect that has if you are thinking with the Japanese language - what happens is after a time there is a sense of spaciousness that opens up internally and externally.  Peacock retained that sense of space when he returned to the States in the '70s and join a trio with pianist Keith Jarrett and drummer Jack DeJohnette. That is been a part of his life ever since.   Peacock's composed for that trio and his own. Pianist Mark Copeland says that a tune from the new album called Requiem is a good example of the bassist's approach to composition.  It is like a little haiku. And to me that is the best jazz tune of all when it is not overwritten but it creates this wide-open framework which you can do anything with. You can play together but what frequently happens is each of us solos individually and it just creates a certain vibe. It is a big part of who Gary is.   Peacock insists that he is a reluctant composer in the same way that he is a reluctant soloist.  I would say the main activity that I have been concerned with all these years is how do I get out of the way of myself? What do I need to do to get out of the way let it happen let things be just the way they are?  You could say that sounds very Zen and in Peacock's case it is. For the past 15 or so years Peacock' been a Zen Buddhist - a daily meditator - and it shows in his music.  My whole orientation was more of service more of wanting to contribute to the welfare of who was ever playing the solo. In other words what can I play so that this person just plays the best he is ever played?  Meditate on that. For NPR News I am Karen Michel. 