 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Audie Cornish. And now we are going to introduce you to a pair of rising stars in the world of jazz. They riff like a pair of old friends but they only met a couple of years ago.  Our first meeting was 21st century through Skype.  Oh yeah. I forgot about that.  So we did not actually formally meet until several several months later.  So my imagination that you met in a smoky jazz club somewhere. I am making that a little too romantic. It was Skype.  It was Skype.  Yeah.    I did not know what time it was when I met you. Oh what a lovely time it was...  Cecile McLorin Salvant and Aaron Diehl have both racked up major industry awards but they traveled radically different paths to get there. Diehl a pianist was performing church hymns at mass from age eight. He went on to Julliard. McLorin Salvant studied baroque music in France before a professor there convinced her to try singing jazz.    Grand to be alive to be young to be mad to be yours alone.  Aaron Diehl plays piano on the new album by Cecile McLorin Salvant. It is called WomanChild. At the ripe old age of 23 she plucks tunes from the early days of jazz a long way away from her own teenage tastes.  I was in a group of friends we used to listen to a lot of grunge so that was a little odd too because it was kind of 10 years old already. We would go to Soundgarden concerts and things like that.  Funny enough I did not really listen to a lot of jazz until my teenage years. I loved classical music from when I started playing which was about six or seven years old. So I was sort of kind of that weird nerdy kid who loved to listen to Bach and Brahms and Vivaldi. Yeah no grunge music for me.  Wow. So do you think about that now as you are producing music yourself? Are you conscious at all of trying to do music that those kids might want to listen to you know to draw people in?  It is funny. I was talking to Aaron about this the other day. I actually try to routinely go back to my 15-year-old self and I try to make music that will also draw that type of person in all the while still being very authentic and trying to be excellent at it.  Yeah I like how Cecile used the word authentic because for me I want to create an insatiable appetite for jazz where the music can be accessible to a wider audience but the music should always have a high level of quality and authenticity. I really like that word authentic.    When life seems full of clouds and rain and I am filled with not but pain who soothes my thumping bumping brain? Nobody. When winter comes with snow and sleet and me with hunger and cold feet who says here's 25 cents go on get something to eat? Nobody.  It seems like on this album you are not afraid to kind of go back and reach for works that people may look at now as controversial. In particular a song like You Bring Out the Savage in Me.    My blood boils with the tropic heat and the rhythm of my heart has a tom tom beat. You bring out... Well I heard that song because I was listening to Valaida Snow who was this great singer bandleader trumpet player. She was an amazing woman who was most successful in the 1930s. And she sang a bunch of novelty songs. She sang songs like I Cannot Dance I have Got Ants In My Pants and You Bring Out The Savage In Me which when I first heard it I could not help but laugh because I thought goodness how racist to be you know a black woman singing you know you bring out the savage in me you can be my ape man.    Just like Tarzan be my ape man. I am getting so ferocious and I cannot escape man... And I just immediately wanted to sing it because it was so completely absurd and outrageous. And I wanted to be able to laugh about it too you know.    My blood boils with the tropic heat. The rhythm of my heart has a tom tom beat. You bring out the savage in me. Primitive love gods move my ears with the pressure of a hundred millions years.  Playing a song like You Bring Our the Savage In Me you guys are both kind of reaching back into a sensitive time for black America. And you are both young you are both black. What is it like for you to try and reclaim these works?  Well I feel that it is important to capture as much of the language of jazz as possible in order to create my own unique identity. And so even more so than the social connotations associated with certain pieces or certain periods I think about the music as a language and how I can study and use the evolution of the language to my benefit and then distill that in an emotional way that reaches the listener.  For either of you does it put you in the heads of these artists who were doing the same work you were doing but just under such different circumstances?  You know when you read about some of these musicians' lives and the context in which they were playing and learning and studying the music it is pretty amazing and it is pretty sobering you know and humbling. You know just reading about someone like Bessie Smith or I do not know Charlie Parker.  Bud Powell.  Bud Powell. Just hearing the amount of stress and difficulty in which they were playing inspires me to work even more.  And what they sacrificed in their lives. I mean I feel like it makes the responsibility even greater for me to be a steward of the tradition of jazz.  Exactly.    Just like a beggar what can I do? Hungry for kisses and starving for you. Press your lips to my lips. Oh have pity on me.  Pianist Aaron Diehl and singer Cecile McLorin Salvant. Diehl's latest album is called The Bespoke Man's Narrative. And this song Baby Have Pity On Me can be found on the debut album by Cecile McLorin Salvant. It is called WomanChild. 