 Beatlemania returns to America this week. The Beatles complete collection is being reissued on Wednesday in a re-mastered box set the same day as the release of The Beatles Rock Band videogame. And the biggest fans of this week's releases may actually be the littlest ones.    We all live in a yellow submarine yellow submarine yellow submarine.  This is a clip from YouTube. It shows a classroom of five-year-old kids in Miami Florida singing of course Yellow Submarine just in case you could not make that out.   .    We all live in a yellow submarine yellow submarine  Dr. Deforia Lane has an idea of why the kids go gaga over the Fab Four. She is the coordinator of the Toddler Rock program at the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in Cleveland and she joined us from WCPN in that city. Dr. Lane welcome. Dr.  Hi.  Now you have spent years sitting in circles with small children toddlers as well singing this music with them. What is it about The Beatles that attracts children? Dr.  The Beatles have repetition predictability and rhythm. And in certain cases it literally paints a picture for children. And quite frankly the beat makes you want to move. There is a concept in music called entrainment and that means you literally synchronize with the music. So children can be slow in early morning at the rock hall but the minute the music is on the child is too.  You know I have to tell you when I hear Abbey Road I really think it is a children's album. I mean Octopus's Garden Mean Mr. Mustard Maxwell's Silver Hammer. I even actually put most of the songs on that on an iPod mix for my six-month-old son. Dr.  Aww. Well it is amazing how the sing-songy melodies that The Beatles' music definitely is attractive to them. And The Beatles' voices are rather high and babies and children tend to respond best to that timbre of voice.  Let us listen Dr. Lane to one of the songs that your kids love to sing She Loves You. Let us listen to a kids' version of this song.    She loves you yeah yeah yeah. She loves you yeah yeah yeah. She loves you yeah yeah yeah.  Dr. Lane why do you pick this song for kids? Dr.  Well number one children like to sing along and they do not pick up an awful lot of words at the same time but I can cue them or they can hear that yeah yeah yeah and they come right in with it and the lyrics - she loves me - every child wants to hear that.  Sometimes the songs seem so childlike that as I said I mean it sounds like they are almost written for kids like Octopus's Garden from Abbey Road.    I would like to be under the sea Dr.  When you look at the imagery created in that we would sing and dance around. I would like to be under the sea in an octopus's garden in the shade. It is one of those imaginary ways a child can enter into a song just the words alone.    We would sing and dance around because we know we cannot be found.  What about some of The Beatles' songs that you know sound innocent enough like Lucy in the Sky With Diamonds? Some believe that there are drug allusions in that song. Is it ever strange to hear kids singing along to songs like that? Dr.  No I am going to be honest with you. I never even thought twice about lyrics meaning or having symbolism outside of the actual words and maybe that is my childlike nature too.  What is your favorite Beatles' song? Dr.  Oh what a question. I Want to Hold Your Hand.  Dr.  You know the part that goes whoo? I mean that drove the teenagers crazy. The kids love it too.     And I say that something I want to hold your hand. I want to hold your hand.  Dr. Deforia Lane is the coordinate of Toddler Rock program at the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum. She is also the director of music therapy at University Hospital's Ireland Cancer Center in Cleveland. Dr. Lane thank you so much for your time. Dr.  My pleasure.    You let me hold your hand. Oh let me hold your hand. I wanna hold your hand. And when I touch you I feel happy inside. It is such a feeling that my love I cannot hide I cannot hide I cannot hide.  And that is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Guy Raz. Have a great week and happy Labor Day. 