 Lee Fields is one of soul music's most eclectic and prolific artists. His 15 albums have ranged from James Brown-style funk to contemporary Southern soul. Reviewer Oliver Wang says that Fields' latest it is called My World finds a solid middle ground among his many styles.  North Carolina's Lee Fields has always been a challenging singer to place in time.   As a young artist in the 1970s his style was so similar to James Brown people called him Little J.B.   If you heard his 1979 debut you would be forgiven for thinking it was recorded a decade earlier.  Mr.   She is a love maker. She is all right.  Fields more or less disappeared during the 1980s but resurfaced in the early '90s as part of the Southern rhythm and blues scene. You could still hear traces of Otis Redding and Wilson Pickett in his crooning but musically he updated to cheap synthesizers and drum machines.  Mr.   I want you to meet me tonight. The same place   Meet me tonight. Mr.   same time.  Despite a lucrative career in Southern soul Fields' Little J.B. days were a persistent itch. By the end of the 1990s Fields found a band that could help him scratch it.   Many of the same players who are now part of Sharon Jones and the Dap-Kings recorded with Fields for his 1999 Let us Get a Groove On nailing a pitch-perfect funk sound that evaded Fields even a quarter-century earlier.  Mr.   Come on girl let us get our groove on before we got to get a move on. Come on.  For the last decade Fields has kept his career firmly planted in the venerable Southern RB scene while raising his profile amongst the retro-soul hipsterati in Brooklyn Paris and beyond. His latest release My World is another rewind to the 1960s and '70s but more so than any of his other albums it finds an ideal middle ground between the slow grind of Southern blues and the faster funkier stylings of retro soul.  Mr. FIELDS  When I saw you walking by girl you blew my mind. The way you looked and smiled at me girl I saw a sign. And when you pass me by you are like candy to my eyes. You are sugar spice you are everything nice. A man is incomplete without a lady in his life. You can take a bad day and make it turn out right. You can take a blind corner and make him see the light. You can take a broken heart and make it new again. You can break his heart and make him less than a man. You can take a man and make him feel like a king. What a man wants only you could ever bring. Lady beautiful lady  Lee Fields' voice has lost some of the fire of his youth but its graceful aging lends itself well to the album's sublime slow jams.   His impassioned pleas now resonate with a poignant fragility so familiar to generations of great balladeers. In a curious case of musical evolution the older Fields becomes the closer he gets to perfecting the sound of soul that he grew up with as a young man.  Mr.   Do not leave me like this. Cannot go on for my love for you girl is going going going strong. And if you leave me baby no I will not I will not last for long. Without you in my life oh my life is gone.  The CD is called My World by Lee Fields. Our reviewer is Oliver Wang. He is a professor at Cal State Long Beach. And he writes the blog soulsides.com where you can see a picture of Lee Fields and listen to some of his music. You can also hear Lee Fields in concert at nprmusic.org.  Mr.   It could be like it was. The only thing we need is just a little bit of trust. 