 Now mainstream country music lyrics have taken their fair share of knocks for sounding all you know kind of the same. Like...    Beer beer truck truck girls in tight jeans beer truck beer truck America America ooh.  Now that is from a TikTok video made by Erynn Chambers in October of last year. By day she teaches music to elementary schoolers in Charlotte N.C. But Chambers has also amassed over 700000 followers on TikTok. She is known for social justice content but that is not all she posts about.  So it was talking about how like a lot of men's country is you know the beers and the trucks and that kind of thing. And then women's country is like revenge songs on their cheating husbands. And I tend to prefer the women's songs to be quite honest. I do not know what that says about me.  I prefer them too. Enter George Birge. Last winter he was thinking about giving up on trying to be a country singer.  I had an artist career that was almost there but had not quite taken off yet and I had started getting traction writing songs for other artists and had kind of considered giving up live music myself and just focusing on songwriting.  And his colleague told him he could use TikTok to get his songs out there. So he downloaded the app and he went to the country music hashtag - you know as one does - and found the video from Chambers.  My first reaction was like yeah she makes a really good point. But my second reaction was kind of like OK. It would be fun to take this as a challenge and see if I can write a legitimate song using her hook off the top.    It as not all beer beer truck truck girls in them tight jeans small town riding around. Girl I hope you miss me.  George Birge never meant to complete his little exercise but then his TikTok blew up. So he finished the song. Then his phone blew up with offers from record labels. And you know the rest.    I know you think I am crazy out here just living slow. No I cannot blame you baby - just thought you should know it as not all beer beer truck truck.  The final song takes that hook - beer beer truck truck - and spins it into a tale of a girl who moved to the city and the guy she left behind in the country. And yes Erynn Chambers does get a songwriting credit.  I mean it is really an honor and a privilege and a shock to see something that I came up with on the fly like really connect with people and really really go out there like that.  I stumbled across Erynn's video and it changed my life. And I feel like we have got a hit song on our hands now. So life comes at you funny.  Beer Beer Truck Truck was one of the top 10 most added songs to country radio this week to which we can lift a can and lower a tailgate.    If you ever get to thinking thinking about coming on back girl you know where I am at. It as not all beer beer truck truck girls in them tight jeans. 