 Colombian writer Gabriel Garcia Marquez once said that his book One Hundred Years Of Solitude was a 400-page vallenato. That is a traditional music of Colombia's Caribbean coast. The songs are mini-epics filled with local characters and the style stretches back 200 years. Betto Arcos went to the vallenato festival in Colombia and has this story.  It is high noon in Valledupar the capital of vallenato and a traditional trio takes the stage.   The vallenato festival has been held in this city that gives the music its name for almost a half a century. Its goal is to promote the traditional elements of vallenato which is played on three instruments - caja or drums guacharaca or scraper and the diatonic accordion.   In addition to a competition the festival also includes daily concerts held in a 25000-seat amphitheater.     Among the headliners this year was superstar singer Carlos Vives who helped popularize vallenato around the world in the early 1990s.   For me vallenato is connected to the countryside to the cattle rancher to the farmer. That is vallenato. And then there is us the new generation who have reinvented it. But when I talk about vallenato we have to remember the minstrels.  And they go back to the early 1800s when troubadours traveled from town to town singing songs about local and regional news. Tomas Dario Guttierez is a vallenato historian and composer.   Back in the day the news was spread through songs news that today could be transmitted in a matter of seconds - for instance an epidemic.  In One Years Of Solitude one of the main characters learns of her mother's death through a famous vallenato accordionist. Guttierez says people may think Gabriel Garcia Marquez wrote about a fantasy world in the novel.   No no. He takes the history the social and cultural reality of our people and runs it through the sieve of fantasy and creates that monumental work. Many times the same phenomenon happens in vallenato songs. For instance the song called  I am Going To Make You A House In The Air it is the same thing.   The song tells the story of a man who wants to build a home for his daughter up in the air to protect her from unwanted suitors so that only the one who can reach that high can win her hand.   .  Up until the late 1800s vallenato was played on Colombia's indigenous flutes called gaitas. When the accordion came to Colombia from Germany in the mid-1800s it became the primary voice playing four distinct airs or rhythms - paseo...   ...Merengue...   ...Son...   ...And Puya.    Puya Puya.  Last December UNESCO declared vallenato intangible heritage in need of safeguarding. Efrain Quintero vice-president of the Vallenato Legend Foundation says that acknowledgment brings with it a big responsibility.   To promote and support music that does not stray from the melodic and literary structures of traditional vallenato - that said I am a firm believer that we have to evolve. We cannot restrict or stigmatize new musicians. We just have to make sure that they have all the necessary elements of traditional music and based on that create new work.  The vallenato festival recognized accordionist Emiliano Zuleta and his brother singer Poncho Zuleta for their efforts to preserve the music.   We must follow the rules and parameters of traditional vallenato to conserve its essence. That is the recommendation we make to new generations so they do not distort the truth about vallenato.  Singer Carlos Vives agrees. It is important to continue recording vallenato and encouraging younger musicians.   It is also important that minstrels continue to thrive like Emiliano Zuleta the elder or Carlos Huertas - composers that were born free of the recording industry who were not born to make records but to carry messages from town to town.  Vives says it is the peasant and the popular poet who will keep vallenato alive.   .  For NPR News I am Betto Arcos.   . 