 And finally this hour music that honors the golden era in Ethiopian popular culture. In the late '60s and early '70s funk and soul fused with local traditions in the country's capital. Now the Debo Band from Boston takes inspiration from that music and updates it as we hear from reviewer Banning Eyre.   The sunny swing of a brass section playing in march time echoes the military bands of Ethiopia's regal past. Bruck Tesfaye's lead vocal brings in an element of the Ethiopian folklore and a shot of American soul.   This is the sound that made Addis swing until a military coup in 1974 put an end to an extraordinary music scene.   Debo Band's founder Danny Mekonnen was born in Sudan and grew up in Texas learning about the golden age of Ethiopian pop through recordings. He says Debo Band aims to reinvent old sounds not just reproduce them. The band adds sousaphone accordion electric guitar and violins to the lineup and the players are very strong capable of improvising their way to the edges of free jazz.   Debo Band can extend into full rave mode an ecstatic place beyond even the wildest hybrids of Addis in the '70s. But at its core this group remains true to that lost Ethiopian sound.   Debo Band is as much an orchestra as a dance band. Its brass section can rally with Tower of Power force and polish and lock into grooving hooks worthy of Nigerian Afrobeat but the distinctive scales and harmonies are unmistakably Ethiopian. Listen to Bruck Tesfaye's ornamented lead vocal passionate and haunted as he sings about a surrender to love.   Almost no band on the international circuit plays this style of music and it is a potent niche. But too much fidelity to a 40-year-old pop style can be limiting. If this CD leans more towards reverence than revolution that is appropriate for Debo Band's first outing. Given their energy and talent these musicians have room to grow and there is no telling where they will take their magnificent sound next.   Our reviewer Banning Eyre is senior editor at afropop.org. The album is the self-titled debut from the Debo Band.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. 