 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block.  Mr.   Your heart's on the loose. You rolled them sevens with nothing to lose. And this as not no place for the weary kind.  Ryan Bingham won an Oscar for that song from last year's movie Crazy Heart. And like the lead character Bad Blake Ryan Bingham also used to be the singer fighting to be heard over the din of a bowling alley. Now at age 29 he is out with his third CD called Junky Star - songs about people down on their luck or out on the road.  Mr.   The moon keeps on shining and the rich keep on dining. And oh how I love the highway sun. Out to the back the poet writes his songs in blood.  Ryan Bingham grew up in New Mexico and West Texas. His family lost their ranch. They moved around a lot. Before he found music Bingham found the rodeo - bull riding. Mr.  You can almost kind of compare it to you know driving down the highway about 50 miles an hour and throwing the steering wheel out of the window. It is just - because you are dealing with you know Mother Nature and it is not really something you can control. It is just something that you are trying to stay a part of and stay with. And it is - I know it probably seems like it could be something very physical but it is really more of a mental thing than anything else. Just having your mind in that right place and kind of having the confidence to get out there and kind of make it happen.  The physical part must come in at some point too. I am sure you got pretty banged up. Mr.  Yeah. I mean it definitely helps if you are in shape and everything because you do get beat around quite a bit.  Did that happen to you? Mr.  Yeah a few of them knocked all my teeth out and broke some ribs and broke a leg and a wrist and...  Knocked all your teeth out? Mr.  Yeah mainly just the front tooth and bit my lip off in the process and they sew it all back on and they put me back together.  You talk about that as if that is no big deal. It sounds like a pretty big deal. Mr.  Yeah I mean I guess it is. I just - I try not to think about it too much.   Well when did music start coming into your life? Mr.  Music started - I learned how to play the guitar when I was 17. My mother bought me a guitar and there was this guy that my parents knew that would come over and hang out afternoons and he played the guitar. And so one day I just got my guitar out and he showed me how to play this old mariachi song called the La Malaguena. And I would practice it until I learned the whole song and it seems ever since then I could not really put the guitar down.  Do you remember that mariachi song you learned? Mr.  Yeah I do.  Can you play a little bit for us? Mr.  Yeah I can play a little bit for you.  Mr.  Yeah that is pretty much most of it.  That is so great. He taught you well. Mr.  Thank you.  I have been thinking that the first lines of the title song of the new CD Junky Star the first few lines of that are just like a little - it could almost be like the opening chapter of a Cormac McCarthy novel or a Western. You know it is got everything folded into those few lines.  Mr.   The man come to shake my hand rob me of my farm. I shot him dead and I hung my head and drove off in his car. So I am on the run with a smoking gun looking for the coast. And yeah I think about it at times. You know I would get these kind of images in my head of West Texas and just kind of - these visions of these endless sunsets and things like that that come through in the songs as you are trying to describe something. It is almost kind of cinematic in a way.  Hmm.  Mr.   And here we will have . And when  too far I would say...  The character in this song moves out from wherever he is - it sounds like West Texas to me - and heads out for the coast. And pretty soon he is on the Santa Monica Pier sleeping there. Who is this guy do you think who is narrating the song? Mr.  It is kind of a lot of different people. Traveling around a lot you see people all the different walks of life. And especially you know in the early morning hours you see and meet a lot of characters that you usually would not usually meet earlier - you know in the daytime.  Mr.  And I am - I have kind of always had this soft spot in my heart for the you know the homeless community and mainly like homeless kids that live on the streets and growing up. And I guess in some way or another that could have easily been myself and some of the guys in the band as well. And so I think I really kind of - over the past couple of years that you are traveling around and seeing the condition of the - that the country is in and the condition that the people are in and I just really had to take all of that into consideration when I was writing all these songs.  Ryan Bingham you have your guitar there with you. Would you mind taking us out with a song? Mr.  Yeah. And well this is a song called Lay My Head on the Rail.  Great. Mr.  Would that be cool?  Sure. Mr.  Okay.  Mr.   Well I am back on that road again. Nothin' slows me down. I as not seen a single smile since I left the old town.  The new CD from Ryan Bingham and the Dead Horses is Junky Star. At npr.org you can hear another song he played for us solo in our studios.  Mr.   The headlights are blindin' and the diesels are on fire. Haulin' ass down a mountain pass to the California state line. If you could see my bleedin' feet my hangin' head and cry. But do not you shed a tear my dear for I am comin' home tonight. And oh there is home. Layin' my head down on the rail singin' my way back home.  Ryan Bingham thanks so much. Mr.  Thank you very much. I appreciate it.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 