 We have a winner in the 2020 Tiny Desk Contest from NPR Music. Our all-star team of judges reviewed more than 6000 entries from across the U.S. and they chose Linda Diaz who submitted this song Green Tea Ice Cream.    Cherries in the spring long walks long nights green tea ice cream - it is all so good so good so good to me.  And Linda Diaz joins us now from Brooklyn. Welcome and congratulations.  Thank you so much Ari.  OK so just - what is today been like for you since it was announced this morning?   A lot of emails text messages phone calls. I had to turn my phone on do not disturb which is not a slight to anybody. But I...   It is been overwhelming but in the best of ways.  Give us the backstory to this song.  I wrote this song a while ago like a little over a year ago now. And it came at a time wherein I was just starting over. My grandfather passed away and we were super-close. We shared a birthday.  Oh I am sorry.  In that year I had a lot of wonderful things happen. Like I got this really great job and I was dating somebody new. But all of that kind of came crashing down at the same time. Like my boyfriend broke up with me. And then I went to work the next day and I got fired from work. So ...  Wow.  At the moment it felt like everything was being taken away from me. But I think this song was a realization that like I had an opportunity to build something new. And if I was going to do that I needed to be honest with myself about what I value and what I love and what I need in my life.    Like how can I...   How do I manage expectations...   While I...   ...While I manifest my greatness?   Can you tell me...   Just how long I will be waiting?  Even though this song came out of a tough time in your life it lists things you love. It feels like a song of joy - I mean cherries in the spring writing letters to old friends. Tell me about making that choice to sing about joy when you are feeling pain.  Well I think it is an intentional choice that I make about my music. Something that has been healthy - a little unhealthy - is when I am dealing with difficult things I think oftentimes I am like OK well there is nothing I can do to change what happened. So how do I want to move forward? Obviously I think that there is a lot to be said for sitting in your emotions and I did a lot of sitting in my emotions before I wrote this song. But I also wanted my fans to hear you know like if you are going through something difficult no matter like how little or how much you have you always have yourself. And you always have your values and you always have your morals. And so how can you lead your life in a way that best aligns with that so that you are successful like by your own standards you know?  You told our colleague at NPR Music Sidney Madden Black joy is radical. And this song seems to be an expression of that.  Definitely. I think especially now I do think that it is a radical thing to do to be like you know I am happy. And I am focusing on my joy and I am focusing on my purpose and I am not necessarily focusing on an audience or what other people want for me. I think in that way it is super-radical to both love yourself as a Black person in this time but also just like loving other Black people and like finding your community in that and finding your joy in other Black people.  You submitted your entry early in the contest so you have got a full band in the room with you. There is six of you. Can you tell us about your bandmates?  Yes. I guess I will just start off by saying that all my bandmates are my friends. I have played individually with all of them but this was the first time we were playing together as a group. And...  Wait. Really? This is...  Yeah.  ...The first time that you all...  The first time.  ...Played together as a band?  Yeah.  That is wild.   I mean they are such incredible musicians. I am so lucky to know so many incredible musicians and I think that is a big part of it. Like so many of us myself included have experienced playing in many different band formations you know like in many different positions. Everyone in the band has other projects that they are working on. They have their whole other careers.  You know past winners of the Tiny Desk Contest have gone on to be major headliners. They have won Grammys. Does this moment feel like a reassurance that you are where you are supposed to be?  Definitely. I  - like so much that when you asked me that it hit me.   I think this is my first big moment in music. And I have had big moments as a person - you know putting out my first EP performing at my first like big venue and like performing my original music with - accompanying myself. You know like I have had big moments for myself. But I think that this is like a public acknowledgement also from NPR and NPR Music which I love. And so I just think like this team of people specifically acknowledging my musicianship means a lot to me at this stage of my career especially.  Well we are so happy to be part of this moment with you. Congratulations Linda Diaz on winning this year's Tiny Desk Contest.  Thank you. Thank you so much.    It is easy to feel like you do not matter when you are...   You are...   ...What you make and nothing more. 