 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block.     This is a story of boy meets girl.  The opening narration from the new romantic comedy 500 Days of Summer.     The boy Tom Hanson of Margate New Jersey grew up believing that he would never truly be happy until the day he met the one. This belief stemmed from early exposure to sad British pop music and a total misreading of the movie The Graduate.  You get an idea of the dry humor of the movie which is very funny and sweet and infused with music. That should come as no surprise since the director Mark Webb got his start directing music videos and he joins us to talk about his debut feature film and the music behind it. Mark Webb welcome to the program. Mr.  Thank you. I am going to start off with a correction right off the bat.  Uh-oh did not get your start directing music Mr.  No no no you got all that right. I do not know if this is a romantic comedy. To me romantic comedies are always aimed towards you know like exclusively towards women especially lately and this is a movie that is sort of made by guys. It is certainly well you know what? Maybe it is the best genre probably because it is romantic and I hope it is funny. But it is well it is a coming-of-age story masquerading as a romantic comedy if you want to get technical.  Well whatever we are going to call it whether it is a romantic comedy or some other hybrid Mr.  I give you license to call it whatever you want.  Okay okay. It is the story of two 20-somethings Tom Hanson and Summer Finn and they both work at a greeting card company and he is immediately head over heels when he sees her. The first time they meet is in an elevator and he is listening to his iPod. Let us listen to what she says.   Ms.   I love The Smiths. Mr.   Sorry? Ms.   I said I love The Smiths.  Mr.   And if a double-decker bus crashes into us Ms.   You have good taste in music. Mr.   You like The Smiths? Ms.   Yeah. Ms.    To die by your side is such a heavenly way to die. I love them.  And that is all it takes right? Mr.  Well I think we all can relate to this idea that you know when someone likes the same music you do it can be a very powerful thing.  Right. And he thinks well this is a sign. They have everything they need to know right there. Mr.  Exactly and it is The Smiths. So that is a sort of an ominous sign in terms of romance.  Why is that? I am sorry why is that? Mr.  Well you know The Smiths have a you know - Morrissey has this reputation of being the sort of voice of heartbreak you know and if there is a girl who is as into The Smiths as you are well you know you can imagine where that is going to lead.  Mr.   So please please please let me let me let me let me get what I want this time. Mr.  I feel like you can say things lyrically where you are using the singer as a narrator that you cannot - that the characters cannot say in an explicit way. They can only say it implicitly you know what I mean? That you can say it through subtext but when it comes to the lyrics of a song somehow it just bypasses your conscious brain and lets the audience know what is going on.  Mr.   So for once in my life let me get what I want. Lord knows it would be the first time.  Was there ever a time when you had a song that you wanted to include so badly that you ended up changing something in the script or in the storytelling to fit the music? Mr.  Sure. I mean I think that there was this - there is a montage near the end of the film and I was shooting a video in Budapest and I was listening to my iPod and there was this song from Wolfmother called Vagabond. And the song that was scripted in there I felt was a little bit soft. And I mean Tom is a you know he is a guy and he has - there is a sort of a muscular component to his character that I thought this song Vagabond really hit.  Can I tell you I love this scene because Tom is a - he is in you know the depths of despair. He is lying in his bed. He is bouncing a tennis ball on the floor right? Mr.  Yeah.  And it is in perfect synch with the music and you sort of do not realize at first that the music is the beat as well as the ball being the beat.  Mr.  Well I love this idea you know and the way that the image and the music dance is a really - it is something that you can do only in the movies and I love that. I mean that is what I did in videos for a long time and I love that. It is a really fun language to play with. And I think that sequence is a - it is sort of the most music-video-ish sequence in the movie but it is also telling a very important character beat. You know he is picking himself up by his bootstraps.  Mr.   You do not need to know what I do all day. It is as much as I know watch it waste away 'ecause I will tell you everything about being free. Yes I can see you girl can you see me?  Would you be playing this song on the set while you were filming? Mr.  Well we had to play it for the tennis ball gag. And then  To match the beat. Mr.  Yeah exactly. And what was sort of surprising I was talking to Joe about this when we were shooting the movie he is like  Joe the lead actor. Mr.  Joe Joseph Gordon-Levitt of course the lead actor playing Tom and he said they do not normally know what the music is before you shoot. And that to me just seems strange because it lets them know the tone that you are after. And I think that is a really important thing for an actor to know or to feel before you shoot a scene.  So what would you do in scenes with dialogue? Would you have music playing and then you would go back and redub the dialogue after? Mr.  Before we started shooting we - I gave Joe and Zooey - Zooey Deschanel who is playing Summer - little iPods with all the days broken down with songs that I had listened to sort of when I was breaking down the script. It conveyed to them a sort of feeling that I was going after and we did not always use the songs that I put on the iPod but it was certainly a good tonal example.  Okay I know I said the scene with Tom bouncing the ball is my favorite but I have another favorite and you know what it is.   It is the dance sequence when Tom has just had a stellar night shall we say with Summer. Mr.  Yeah.  And he comes out of his house and this sort of low-key guy all of sudden has this incredible spring to his step and swagger. And as he walks around everybody else has the same swagger. Everybody's smiling. They are you know giving high-fives and fist bumps. And it turns into this incredible dance routine with everybody who comes by construction workers and marching bands. Mr.  Yeah.  And the song? Mr.  Hall  Oates You Make My Dreams.  HALL    What I want you have got and it might be hard to handle Mr.  This is - I mean listen this song is probably overused in movies which is exactly why we used it because it expresses - it is like a shorthand for joy. And it says - part of the joy of this movie is like we are trying to relate what is going on inside somebody's head not the objective reality of it. We are trying to get how somebody feels and we have all been there where you feel sort of this triumphant joy. And how better to express that than you know a massive dance sequence I guess.  Especially after a night like the one he had. Mr.  Especially after a night like that yeah.  HALL    Oh yeah you make my dreams come true girl yeah. On a night when bad dreams become a screamer  Well Mark Webb thanks so much for talking with us. Mr.  Thank you. I really appreciate it. It is great. I think my parents will be proud of this appearance.   Glad we can get you in good with your parents. Mr.  I appreciate it.  Thank you very much. Mr.  Thank you Melissa.  HALL    I as not the way that you found me.  That is director Mark Webb. His debut film 500 Days of Summer opens next Friday.  HALL    You make my dreams come true oh yeah well well well you  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 