 We are back with ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Kelly McEvers.    Why do not you sit in my lap kiss me and give me a hug. You know that I am thinking of...  You are hearing some of the latest music from the New Rhythm and Blues Quartet that is NRBQ for all you diehard fans out there. The band has been around for nearly 50 years. But do not try to go looking for one big signature hit song. That is just not how NRBQ does things. They are known as a band's band more concerned with making good music than fame. They have a huge following including rock legends like The Rolling Stones and Bob Dylan. The new record is called Brass Tacks and it pretty much stays true to NRBQ form which means there is no form. We asked NRBQ founding member and bandleader Terry Adams to go to a studio in his hometown of Louisville Kentucky and tell us how he would describe the music.  Brass Tacks has a spirit to it that I think is more important than the songs themselves. The spirit of the band is at an all-time high right now.  Yeah. Describe that. What kind of things are going on?  Well it is a positive spirit. It is a love for the audience love for the music love for each other.  Definitely definitely you guys are having fun on this record. I mean we hear some of your signature piano playing on songs like Places Far Away. You know it is kind of weird it is kind of Sun Ra. Can you tell me a little bit about that song?  I wrote that when I was 15. and it was fun to play it and it is fun to play now. Maybe I wrote it 'ecause I was in Louisville at the time and I was thinking I should get away.    And take us far away from here.  So wait you wrote this song when you were 15 so - but it is only now you are putting it out?  It is never been out before. I have a lot of songs that have never been out. And sometimes the timing is better than others so it is good to wait.  I mean that is just amazing to think about because you have written so many songs you have put so many songs and so many albums that there are still more to tap into. That is exciting.  Yeah still going on as long as I am alive and loving life. I love the music.  At one time you had talked about I think how it would be difficult to change the members of the band. And yet now you know you have got three new band members. And you are basically the only original member of the band left. Did you think about changing the name at some point? Or was it important for you to maintain the sort of an NRBQ brand?  Well I believe in the band that I am in so it is hard to imagine changing anyone. And it always is difficult but then it works out to be better.  You mean changing of the members of the band itself?  That is right. I am the first member. And I am in charge of the direction of the band and so keeping the name is important to me.  Around 2004 the band took a hiatus. You announced that you had stage-four throat cancer. Can you tell me about that experience a little bit?  The experience was good. It is good to have change. And so I wanted to learn from it rather than be a victim of it. And I opened up my spirit to new possibilities. And that is what happened. That is how I met the new players. When I came through it the other members had lost their enthusiasm. So I wanted to keep going so I opened up my spirit to meet the right people.  Were you worried about - I mean it is your throat It is your voice. Tt's your music maker. Were you worried about that?  Yeah they told me I would never sing again and that did not turn out to be true.    Fighting fighting fighting back. Thought you were the best I ever had....  You are a notoriously hilarious performer on stage. Your band has been called you know virtuosos of fun willfully casual. You can really hear that in the final track on the album Love This Love We Got.    I love this love we got. I love this love we got. Love love love this love we got.  I guess I just want to ask like how do you - how do you keep up the silliness even though you know you are older? I mean surely you had to kick some of the bad habits of the past.  Well it is just a happiness. It is a happiness to be here maybe that is part of it. The more I love life the more happy the music is so it is fun. That song Love This Love We Got was made up on the spot and recorded as a demo so we would not forget it but then I thought the demo sounded good enough. So we just let it go because it was spontaneous. .   I will be as sweet as you want me want me to be 'ecause my heart belongs to you. I am so happy you found me and honey I am not going to lie.  As you look back at almost 50 years of doing this just how do you think about this experience of being in a band? I mean it is basically been your whole life.  It feels like one big day to me. I do not really think of phrases like way back then anymore. It is just one nice beautiful day.   That is Terry Adams founding member of NRBQ. The band's new album Brass Tacks is out now. Mr. Adams thank you so much.  OK.  And for Saturday that is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR West. I am Kelly McEvers. 