 Berta Rojas wants us to listen to Latin American music.   Rojas is a classical guitarist teacher record label owner competition organizer. She is recorded nearly a dozen albums of Latin American music for guitar most of them on her own. Well now she is taking on one of South America's best-known forms tango. Berta Rojas's new recording is called History Of Tango. That is a piece by the great Argentine composer and performer Astor Piazzolla. Rojas says she wanted to present the music in a different way using guitar and string ensemble.   Berta Rojas joins us from Asuncion in Paraguay. Berta Rojas welcome to the program.  Thank you so much for having me Robert.  And first why an album devoted to tango?  Well you know as varied as our accents are in Latin America it is also our music.   It is so interesting and so rich that I wanted to do a musical trip through Americas. And it was just natural for me to embrace the tango. Tango also allows the guitar to sing with a lyricism that we know that the guitar can express so beautifully and also the passion that is so intrinsic to the genre of tango music.   The first track on the album is called Taquito Militar. Is that military? Is that what we are talking about?  Yeah we are talking about the shoes that were used - the military personnel. And half of that shoe is what they used to dance the tango. That is why they call it the military heels. The Taquito Militar was probably one of the first tangos that was performed at the Teatro Colon in Buenos Aires marking the entrance of popular music into that theater that was reserved only for classical music. So it created quite a controversy when it was performed for the first time at Teatro Colon in Buenos Aires.  Because this was considered popular music not fit for the concert hall by some?  There you go.  When does tango become music to listen to as opposed to music to move to?  I believe that Astor Piazzolla is greatly responsible for that transition. When he started to blend elements of classical music into his tango the tango became a music to listen to.   You play Astor Piazzolla's four movement History Of Tango on this album. He wrote it for a very small ensemble. You have more instruments involved than that.  Yeah historical tango was originally written for flute and guitar. So I visited Carlos Franzetti who is an amazing arranger from Argentina and I told him if that intimate setting of the flute and guitar was possible to be enlarged for this ensemble with a  which is the ensemble that accompanies me in this production. He said that of course that the piece was suitable for that arrangement - keep in the nuances that Piazzolla had written for the intimate setting of the flute and the guitar. And about two weeks after I visited him I started receiving the arrangements of this piece History Of Tango.   There is another piece by Piazzolla Oblivion that is really a lovely beautiful piece to listen to.   Oblivion is the most lyrical piece in the whole album and the arrangement that Carlos Franzetti did of this piece is superb. The way he works with his string ensemble re-harmonizing the piece and bringing all the possibilities of singing to the guitar I believe it is just simply beautiful.   Now originally the part you are playing on the guitar here in Oblivion Piazzolla wrote it for voice or violin or who is doing that?  Well for the original version of Oblivion we hear Astor Piazzolla himself playing the bandoneon.  The bandoneon of course is an accordion-like instrument that is what Piazzolla played. Was that very challenging to listen to music being played on that instrument and figure out how it should sound on a guitar?  Yeah especially not forgetting that a guitar has its beauty as an instrument and you want it to be the best guitar it can be. And of course you go to the bandoneon to try to find a reference and to try to find some answers to phrasing but you do not want to forget who you are as a guitarist.  But you are a very accomplished classical guitarist and instead of playing tango you could be playing the pieces that Segovia transcribed for guitar a century ago or you could be playing Bach. I gather that this - it is a cause for you to expose us to the music of Latin America.  Well I also transit through that repertoire which I respect and I admire so much because it is the essence of classical guitar. But I also want to dedicate my attention to this music that has not been heard that much and try to focus also on the emerging composers of the Americas. There are so many composers whose music we have not heard. And with tango music I wanted also the guitar to be the leading voice of this orchestra that plays tango. And the sensation of being the little voice of an orchestra is a really beautiful one because the guitar captures the essence of Latin American music in many many ways.   The album is History Of Tango and the guitarist is Berta Rojas who spoke to us from Asuncion in her native Paraguay. Thanks for talking with us.  Thank you very much for having me. 