 The pop artist Betty Who got a big boost early in her career. In 2013 her single Somebody Loves You was the soundtrack to a marriage proposal.    Who is around when the days feel long?  The video of the engagement checked every box. It had choreography grandparents tears and as of now more than 14 million views on YouTube. When Betty Who visited our studio the other day to talk about her latest album she told me this was not an obvious song to launch a life of wedded bliss.  Somebody Loves You ironically enough was actually a breakup song when I wrote it because I was kind of seeing this person who they were like I am not ready to be loved. And I was like that seems like an ish-you  not an ish-me  and like I have lots of love to give. And like I am sending it your way babe. And like if you are not down like I do not know why I am still here really. And then of course the video happened.   And I would be honored if you would be by my side for the rest of life.  That video's so moving.   Will you marry me?   To see these two boys - in a Home Depot which is the most random but also so funny. But their entire families are there. They have people on Facetime on iPads as they are all coming in. And it is really - I have goose - I could cry right now . If you have like a purpose on this planet - my purpose is I want to provide a space that people feel joy in people feel safe enough also to cry in and to be themselves in. But like the No. 1 compliment anybody can give me is they are having a bad day and they listen to my song and it makes me feel better.    Somebody misses you when you are away. They want to wake up with you every day. Somebody wants to hear you say ooh somebody loves you.  Let us talk about your latest album Betty.  Sure.  Your third album.  Yeah.  The first one that you released independently without a major label behind you.  Yeah.  Do you think we can hear that in the music or is that just bureaucratic behind-the-scenes?  I can. I can totally hear it.  Where do you hear it?  I hear it in The One.   The One for me is a song that I was always wanting to make. It is very Britney and 'N Sync-esque. I wanted to feel like Britney Spears every night. That is why I wrote the song. And I think if I had been signed to a label this song would have either not come out or it would have been totally misunderstood for something else than me being like I am a 27-year-old who is literally living 10-year-old me's actual dream. Ten-year-old me had a dream and it is this.  .  And it was to be Britney Spears. And I am an adult now and I am an independent artist and nobody can tell me what to do. So I am going to make a song that I get to every night I feel like I am in 'N Sync.    If I am not the one good luck finding something better. Give you all my love. Are you crazy? Boy you would better recognize.  You recently did a Tiny Desk Concert at NPR - when an artist shows up and does a few songs usually kind of unplugged.  Yeah.  And you performed one of your new singles Taste. First let us listen to what it sounds like on the album.    You know the worse they are the better they taste. All my cravings come at me. This as not love. It is sacrifice.  And now let us listen to how it sounded at the Tiny Desk.    You know the worse they are the better they will be. All my cravings come and...  What listeners cannot see is that you are accompanying yourself on the cello here.  I am.  And this was the first time you would ever done that publicly?  Yeah. I was so - that is why I did it first. I was really nervous. You know I play guitar and piano all the time but I have never played cello publicly.  But that was your first instrument. That is what you grew up playing.  I know. It really...  You were not just taking lessons. Like you went to the Interlochen Arts Academy. You have studied at the Berklee School of Music. You were really serious about it.  Yeah. I really played.   Why did you hold off? Why did you wait until now?  Because I had a very specific vision of the kind of artist that I want to be. And I did not want to be the girl who sang and played cello because that girl felt so far away from the girl that like gets up and like dances and kills like this huge pop show. And I wanted to dance. I wanted to establish myself as a performer first because I think so much of my life had been taken over playing cello and all I wanted to do is sing.  So do you think it is a sign of the point you have reached as an artist your maturity as a singer-songwriter-performer that you are now integrating these two versions of yourself?  I think so. I always knew I wanted to do it. And I am very very proud of how far I have come.    Better they taste.  Tell me about the song All This Woman.  Yeah.  .  Yes happily. I love this song.    I think I need attention. I think I need your touch. Do not have to say a word 'ecause you know what I am thinking of. I feel inspired by artists who make me feel certain ways right? So like when I listen to a really sexy Beyonce song or when I watch her live and she goes like are you flawless? I am like yes Beyonce. Like there is a tear just rolling down my face. I am like I am flawless.  .  And so I really especially - like I think women can especially make other women feel that way. And so All This Woman is basically about like my level of confidence is pretty high and I have - we have a joke with my friends where so many girls like if a guy's playing hard to get they are like oh my God. I have to have him. If a guy plays hard to get with me or anybody plays hard to get with me I am immediately like so out. I am like no. If you do not - if you are not obsessed with me I do not have the time for this. .    Hope you are ready for all this woman all this woman. Boy you are mad if you have got all this woman and do not want every inch of all this woman.  OK. We started talking about a marriage proposal.  Yeah.  And you have a track on this album called Marry Me.  I do. I love that song.  So are you trying to fill a niche here?  Send a message? .  Yeah. I mean...  Me like writes Marry Me and sends it to my fiance?  No no no. I mean like use my music at your wedding? Use my music for your proposal?  Oh my God. Are you kidding? I was like the amount of gay weddings I want videos. Like people hit me up. Like I need to see this.  And straight ones too I would imagine now that you are getting more popular.  Totally.  Yeah.  Yes.  Straight people can also get married.  They can. You know? I have heard.  .  I have heard it is legal.    You and me and this feeling. Do you want to take it all the way? Yeah yeah yeah. It is funny. I got engaged then lost like all of the interest in being married. So now I have been engaged for like three years.  .  I am a little busy so I kind of - I am just like we will get married whenever. It is not about that. But I was so in love and I was so excited about like the prospect of the fact that I found the person that I even wanted to spend the rest of my life with. That was so - it happened so much earlier than I expected it to. I thought I was going be like a clean 33. I thought I was going to hustle. Like by choice. Do you know what I mean? I thought I was going to like take my 20s and work my butt off. And it was not even on my mind. Which is of course how it happens. I know. So yeah you best believe that when I wrote the song of course I sent it to my man . And I was like just a cute little hint here and there.  This was before you were engaged?  Before I was engaged. Yeah sent it over. He was like OK. .  Subtle.  I get it now.  Really subtle.  Yeah. I hear you.    You think that we are meant to be. So I am like do you want to marry me?  Betty Who thank you so much.  We could just do this all day. Thank you.  I would love to.  Yeah.  The latest album is called Betty.    Know you want to marry me. I get tired. I get crazy. 