 Christian Tetzlaff is one of today's most in-demand violinists.   He says he plays music so the listener can commune with the composer. On his latest album the German violinist performs concertos by Bela Bartok. NPR's Tom Huizenga has this review.  Christian Tetzlaff is not interested in glam glitz or hype. He does not do social media nothing to promote himself. You wonder if he really cares if he is popular or not. What he does care about - and it is clear in this new recording - is what Bela Bartok is trying to tell us in his two violin concertos.   That is Bartok's first violin concerto. He was only 26 in 1908 when he wrote it for a beautiful young violinist who did not return his amorous feelings and never performed the concerto. It premiered more than a dozen years after Bartok died. On the surface the concerto is a portrait of her. It opens with her theme a four-note strand of musical DNA that will return in many guises.   But the concerto was also a musical document of the young Hungarian composer searching for his voice. Christian Tetzlaff actually helps Bartok find that voice with a dramatically detailed performance. Like a great stage actor Tetzlaff does not want to be the superstar. He is the conduit. He becomes all of Bartok's frustration and passion.   In the second half of the Concerto No. 1 Bartok portrays his love interest as a playful virtuoso. And while Tetzlaff's not a show-off this music does allow him to calmly flaunt his agility range of color and deep understanding behind the notes.   Tetzlaff never draws attention to himself. You can tell by his choice of violin and what he does with it. He does not play a multimillion-dollar Stradivarius and he does not try to project a traditionally huge violin tone. Let us do a little comparison with the beautiful opening of Bartok's second violin concerto. First we will hear a performance by Anne-Sophie Mutter. Her tone is massive and luxurious lots of calories and her phrasing says look at me I am nailing this.   Now here's Tetzlaff. His tone is lean yet strong and he does not get in the way of the music.   Bartok may have been searching for his style and for love when he wrote his first concerto. But by the time he wrote his second 30 years later he was a veteran composer and husband and father just like Tetzlaff. Style-wise earlier in his career Tetzlaff looked like a typical classical music nerd - clean-shaved short hair and rectangular wire-rim glasses. These days he looks more like a classic rocker - leather jacket goatee and wavy locks that fall past his shoulders. It is a more relaxed look that says I am comfortable in my own skin or the skin of just about any composer Tetzlaff chooses to play.   The album is Bartok's Two Violin Concertos played by Christian Tetzlaff with Hannu Lintu conducting the Finnish Radio Symphony Orchestra. Our reviewer was NPR's Tom Huizenga.  