 On this date in 1994 a trio of famous opera singers - Jose Carreras Placido Domingo and Luciano Pavarotti - gave a one-night only show in Los Angeles. It was a massive spectacle watched by more than 1 billion people around the globe. And it permanently changed how a large amount of classical music is presented packaged and sold. NPR's Anastasia Tsioulcas tells us more.  The critics did not think much of the show. But that did not matter. Twenty years ago today on the evening before the final game of the 1994 World Cup 56000 fans headed to Dodger Stadium.   But the spotlight was not on soccer. It was on The Three Tenors. An even larger audience watched it on TV in more than 100 countries.   After the television special the CD and DVD of their performance sold more than 8 million copies worldwide.   Carreras Domingo and Pavarotti became the fathers of a new genre - popera - also called stadium classical. And it was a hugely expensive endeavor. Hungarian-born impresario Tibor Rudas dreamed up a Hollywood set - enormous columns lush greenery and waterfalls. All supposed to make the audience forget they were inside a baseball stadium.   The LA show was also very profitable. It sparked years of tours albums and television specials for the trio. Each singer earned about 1 million for the Los Angeles show alone. And you can thank these three for the legions of imitators who have followed from The Irish Tenors to Il Divo and even to Andrea Bocelli.   20 years later the performances sound loose even sloppy.   Far from the rigors of the opera stage these three tenors hammed it up. Pavarotti was even chewing gum on stage through most of the evening. Still you cannot help but get drawn in by the power of those voices.   Back in 1994 the conductor then working with The Three Tenors Zubin Mehta called the group a phenomenon like a comet. Instead it turned out to be one of the industry's longest burning stars.   That was NPR's Anastasia Tsioulcas. To read her full essay and see some of the performances you can go to npr.org. 