 David Johnston is a banjo player for the Yonder Mountain String Band. We invited him to participate in You Must Hear This in which musicians talk about a piece of music they love. And he chose a band that started his career in music.  In June of 1993 I was listening to a radio show and it was the first time I heard the sound that I loved. I was in college and my girlfriend had left for the summer so I spent my afternoons laying around and drinking coffee. My radio was tuned to a bluegrass station. Every once in a while they would spin something that sounded like it came from a bygone era. It turned out to be The Foggy Mountain Boys.   I went to the record store and I will admit that I picked the one that had the most songs on it for the best price. All these years later here' I get home and in the evening when the crickets are going and the lightning bugs flashing I shut my bedroom door and listen. Pike County Breakdown comes on and from the first four notes I feel a golden rhythmic imprint pressed across my head and I have this huge smile. This is the stuff.   Doing My Time comes next. I was doing my time too  they call me by a number but not a name.    On this old rock pile with a ball and chain they call me by a number not a name.  But it was more than just those two songs. My life had elements of all these things that The Foggy Mountain Boys were describing with their words and music my girlfriend had baby-blue eyes. I swore I would never love another. I was preoccupied with Blue Ridge vistas and my cabin home where everything could come out right. A couple of years later I traded in my guitar for a 40 credit on a Kay Banjo and got a job washing dishes at the Cracker Barrel to pay off the rest. Because of The Foggy Mountain Boys I became obsessed with learning how to create that same kind of sound. And their music still informs what I do today. You must hear Lester Flatt and Earl Scruggs and The Foggy Mountain Boys.    Gotta do my time with an aching heart and a worried mind.  David Johnston is a banjo player for the Yonder Mountain String Band whose new album is called The Show. His pick for You Must Hear This is The Complete Mercury Sessions Lester Flatt and Earl Scruggs and The Foggy Mountain Boys. To check out more You Must Hear This picks go to the new npr.org.    Gotta do my time with an aching heart and a worried mind. It will not be long just a few more days. 