 A shocking moment from pop music history now. It is about a scandalous song that created a wave of imitations that we would call today a meme or we would say it went viral. The song was entitled I Love My Wife But Oh You Kid.    Now Jonesy was a married man oh yes he was. Jonesy stopped and spoke to girly just as old friends often do. And he said I am married but my dear that means you. I love I love I love my wife but oh you kids.  I Love My Wife But Oh You Kid. And those clicks you heard were from the wax cylinder it was recorded on on 1909. For this we are indebted to Jody Rosen the writer who has posted a long and entertaining multimedia meditation on this song this week on Slate. And he joins us from New York. Welcome to the program.  Thanks Robert.  What is a landmark in pop music represented by Oh You Kid?  Well you know prior to 1909 and the release of this song there really were not any adultery songs. There were many many sons of romance and songs that discussed  very euphemistically and coyly of subject of sex. But in this song though the dramatic situation is clear. There is a guy named Jonesy. He sees an attractive comely young woman on the street and he says oh I love my wife but oh you kid you are something else.  Oh you kid. We have to deal with this phrase now. This was a pickup line in 1909 I get it.  It was a pickup line. You know Tin Pan Alley was a cutthroat environment where people were constantly ripping off each other's songs. There was not really copy right law as such back then. So there was a previous song that sort of inspired the song called Oh You Kid. It was a minor hit of 1908. Then another pair of songwriters wrote a song called I Love My Wife But Oh You Kid.    I mean every word I have ever told you. Kiss me quick or else I will have to score you oh you kid.  Which came out 10 days before the song were discussing. And 10 days later Harry Von Tilzer and Jimmy Lucus were better songwriters and who were obviously sharp entrepreneurs. They said oh there is something in that phrase. We are going to write our own version. So they wrote a song whose technical title is I love I love I love My Wife But Oh You Kid. In other words they just added two more I love's to the title but the phrase oh you kid obviously suggested sauciness and adultery. Prior to this period when the subjects were discussed if they were ever discussed in popular music the subject came up in novelty songs and songs that were written for ethnic impersonators. So mainly for blackface impersonators that is for people who would get on stage and imitate African-American characters. And the suggestion was that that kind of romance was something that only the other participated in. And the novelty of this song was that quote-unquote normal white Protestant mainstream Americans lusted after people other than their spouses too.  And the story you tell obviously proves that imitation was the sincerest form of songwriting at the beginning of the 20th century.  Yes in fact the first great hit by Irving Berlin was called My Wife's Gone to the Country Hooray Hooray which was a spinoff song from I Love My Wife But Oh You Kid. In fact it alluded to that song in it is lyrics.    My wife's gone to the country hooray.   Hooray.   Hooray.   Hooray.  I love my wife. But oh you kid. My wife's gone away.  Ultimately perhaps inevitably the tables were turned by the sexes. Sophie Tucker recorded her version of this kind of song.    Oh my husband's in the city. About a hundred miles away And he only stays 'til Sunday.   Hooray hoorah hoor-oh.  For those who have never heard of Sophie Tucker she was known as the Last of the Red Hot Mamas.  Yeah and you can hear why right?  We are talking about 1909 or 1910 whenever these songs were coming out. We think of the roaring '20s.  I did not know that it was roaring so much in those days.  Yeah that is one of the things that I found interesting about this song. And what I find really interesting about this period in American popular culture in general. We have this sort of image of - this kind of sepia-toned image of this period and we think of it as quaint. But in fact a lot of the transgressiveness and salaciousness that we associate with rock and roll and hip-hop and all that stuff happened in this period in the progressive era. In fact it was not just that these sorts of songs were being written and were incredibly popular. And young people were going to dance to them in dance halls and things like that. It is the reaction of social morality to the same kinds of moral panics that greeted those of the later forms of popular music. The same thing was going on in this period. So for instance the song I Love My Wife But Oh You Kid was met by thunderous denunciations from pundit-clergy. It was indeed a viral hit. But it was also - it also drove you know these guardians of public morality a little crazy 'ecause they were concerned about its toxic effect on public morality. And especially on young women.  Well Jody Rosen thanks for talking with us about it.  Thanks for having me.  Jody Rosen's article in Slate includes the sound files you have just heard and pictures of sheet music. It is a terrific multimedia story about Oh You Kid.    Just think when I get home tonight there'ill be no wifey there. And right across the table I will see your vacant chair. I love my wife. I love my wife. I love her more each day. I love my wife. I love my wife.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 