 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. Fans of the TV medical drama House know actor Hugh Laurie as the sardonic limping Vicodin-popping title character Dr. Gregory House.    What would you want a doctor who holds your hand while you die or a doctor who ignores you while you get better? I guess it would particularly suck to have a doctor who ignores you while you die.  Well now a different side of Hugh Laurie the Englishman with a deep passion for New Orleans and Delta Blues. On his debut album titled Let Them Talk he is romping through the music he loves best with his piano playing front and center.   I wanted to appear if you do not mind me saying I wanted to appear naked because I am surrounded by wonderful wonderful musicians. I did not want to hide behind them. I wanted to sort of come out and just appear as sort of as nakedly and as honestly as I could and say well this is me doing this. This is what it is going to be. This is what I love and this is how it sounds and take it or leave it. Well take it. Please do not leave it.    I went down to St. James infirmary. Saw my baby there. She was stretched out on a long white table. So cold so sweet so sweet so fair.  You start the liner notes of the CD with just a bold disclaimer. You say I was not born in Alabama in the 1890s. You may as well know this now. I have never eaten grits cropped a share or ridden a boxcar.  Yes.  All true.  All true. Although by the reference to the 1890s I was slyly trying to make it clear that actually no one currently making records was born in the 1890s. But yes I am perfectly well aware of the fact that I am not conventionally qualified to play this music. It is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to make a blues record.  But you have done it.  Well I have done my best. I have done my best.    With a 20-dollar gold piece on my watch chain. So the boys will know I have got...  Well Hugh Laurie how far back does that love for the blues go for you?  Really as long as I can remember. But that is not saying much because I cannot remember more than about an hour ago. But when I was a small boy 10 11 12 probably somewhere around there when I first heard a blues song on the radio it was a jolt of electricity. It grabbed me by the throat it made me shiver. And I knew from that moment that this was for me and this would be with me for the rest of my life. And so it has proved to be. I have never really moved on but then I have not moved on from 10 years old in all kinds of ways. I know that.  So at the time that you heard that song you already were a piano player right? You started playing when you were a kid.  Well no I was driven at the point of a sharp stick through some token piano lessons as lots of children are. I absolutely hated it. I actually went on hunger strike for three days which again does not sound very long. That is not exactly suffering is it? But you know at 10 or 12 probably...  That makes a statement yeah.  Yeah that - three days is quite a long time. And then eventually my mother cracked the warden cracked and she allowed me to give up the piano. And I did not come back to the piano 'til sort of late teens and then just started fiddling about on my own.   Your version of the Stephen Foster song Swanee River which we might think about as a really sort of melancholy lament you turned it into this incredibly fun Barrelhouse stomp.  We let rip yeah.  And we hear you kind of cackling in there.  Hootin' and a hollerin'.  I was having a very good time. Could not hide it. Back in the far-off distant past when I was struggling through these piano lessons which I did not enjoy the only song in the book that we were working from that I thought even vaguely resembled a blues song was Swanee River. It kept me going. It was the oasis on the horizon and we crawled across the deserts of these awful French lullabies and polkas that you have to learn to get there. And when finally we arrived my piano teacher she turned the page and she looked at it and went a negro spiritual slightly syncopated. No I think we will leave that.  Really?  And we skipped it. And that was the moment I knew that classical music was not for me so this has always been with me this song for that reason.  I am talking to the actor Hugh Laurie. His new CD is Let Them Talk.  The actormusician.  Actormusician. Actor slash musician.  Or musicianactor.  One or the other.  I do not know. An underwear model. No I am not.  That is not - I made it up. Not true.  I thought you were naked.   I am.   Okay.    You are nasty. You are dirty. Take it away. You are terrible awful. Take it away.  Hugh Laurie when you sing a swampy kind of song like Buddy Bolden's Blues which has all these great vocal expressions in it all these voices that you are doing I wonder if you are sort of diving into a character in sort of the same way that you might slip into the role of Dr. Gregory House on TV. Does it feel like that at all sometimes?  I suppose a little bit but less conscious I suppose. I feel when acting I am sometimes overly self-conscious I think going no do not put your eyebrow back where it was and you know turn to the left. You know I am sort of very consciously adopting this character. But with music I do not know. I found it was a question of just closing my eyes and just sort of letting things come out. Acting is largely about putting on masks and music is about removing them.  It sounds liberating really.  It is.  And actually I do every day. The truth is I get home after a day's work acting shouting and limping and pulling faces and I go straight to the piano and that is where I can sit for 10 minutes or five hours sometimes without even being aware of the time passing. But it is immensely liberating. That is where I sort of let everything go.  Well Hugh Laurie it is been a pleasure to talk to you. Thanks so much.  Well thank you for having me. It is been great talking to you.  And you can hear more of my conversation with Hugh Laurie and songs from his new album Let Them Talk at NPR music.org. 