 It is hard for me to believe a voice like this could ever go silent.   .  That is magnificent tenor that voice cutting right through the tempest is Jon Vickers. This weekend London's Royal Opera House released a statement from Vickers' family. Jon Vickers has passed away from what they called a quote prolonged struggle with Alzheimer's disease. Jon Vickers was born in rural Saskatchewan Canada in 1926. He was a natural singer.  I have always sung from the time I was a little boy. My family was very very very involved in church activities and most of my early singing of course was in churches. But I never ever thought not in my wildest dreams that I would ever be a singer.  That was Jon Vickers in an interview with documentary maker Jon Tolansky released in 2010. Vickers had everything you could want in a tenor - superb technique raw power and a fantastic emotional range. From grand opera...   .  ...To intimate songs...    Was soll ich laenger weilen dass man mich trieb hinaus? Lass irre Hunde...  And he was always his own man. Vickers famously pulled out of the production of Wagner's Tannhaeuser because he found its treatment of Christianity offensive. That was Vickers the fighter. But let us go out with Vickers the lover. Here he is as Cavaradossi in Puccini's Tosca.   .  Canadian tenor Jon Vickers who died on Friday - he was 88.  And before we go this evening I am sad to say this is our last show with our senior editor Muthoni Muturi. She is headed back to the NPR mothership in Washington to take over as NPR's congressional editor. It is hard to convey what an editor like Muthoni means for a show like ours. It is not just making sure we get our facts straight write well and report fairly - though that would be monumental enough. Think of it this way - imagine having a brilliant advisor by your side all the time someone who stops you and makes you think before you say something stupid. Even better - someone who also gives you a push when you should go for it. Now imagine that advisor was invisible and only you could hear her so everyone you encountered just assumed you were naturally poised and clever all the time. That is the magic of a great editor. Muthoni on behalf of everyone who is worked on this program we will not be the same without you and you will be deeply missed. 