 The musician we are going to hear about goes by the name Destroyer. You might expect heavy metal. Well not exactly.    You make a plea for me to come to my senses just like the time before the time before that. Visit the symphony and I smell a rat. Well midnight meet the rain.  Destroyer's real name is Dan Bejar and he is from Vancouver Canada. Reviewer Will Hermes says the destruction this singer manages is in his remarkable and sometimes ironic way with language. Here's Will's take on Destroyer's latest album. It is called Poison Season.    Jesus is beside himself. Jacob is in a state of decimation. The writing on the wall was not writing at all - just forces of nature in love with a weather station.  Dan Bejar is a great rock 'n' roll musician in part because you sense he thinks the whole enterprise is slightly ridiculous. Perhaps never in the music's history has the sound of quotation marks around lyrics come through so clearly...    The writing on the wall said Jesus saves. The writing on the wall mentions honey playing a game with the waves. You can follow a rose wherever it grows. You can fall in love with Times Square. Times Square.  ...But one of the reasons I think Poison Season could be Bejar's best record is how completely he sounds invested in these lyrics. Part of it is his phrasing which has always been flamboyant but it takes on a new sort of precision here.    Baby it is dumb. Look what I have become. Scum. A relic. A satellite. I was born bright. Now I am dark as a well a kite washed up on the shoreline. It is hell down here. It is hell. It is hell down here. It is hell. It is hell down here. It is hell. It is hell down here. It is hell. It is hell...  Part of the record's gravity is also in the extravagant arrangements kind of a hallucinatory channeling orchestrated 1950s balladry and classic rock radio. But what I like most about the album is how it balances irony with a giving in to the seduction of the music. It suggests a person for whom the apex of emotional expression inescapably and maybe embarrassingly might actually be a pop song. And that is a person I think a lot of us can recognize.    So bring out your dead bring out the light and bring out your dog. Birds in flight. Bring out your red roses too. Hey what is got into Sunny? Bring out your dead bring out the light and bring out your dog. Birds in flight. Bring out your red roses too. Hey what is got into Sunny?  The new record from Destroyer is called Poison Season. Our critic Will Hermes is the author of Love Goes To Buildings On Fire.    Hey what is got into Sunny? Bring out your dead bring out the light and bring out your dog. Birds in flight. Bring out your red roses too. Hey what is got into Sunny? 