 If you have a young child you probably will not be surprised to hear that the top-selling album so far this year is the soundtrack for the Disney movie Frozen. That got us thinking about the people behind the voices on some other children's albums. As Blake Farmer of member station WPLN reports sounding like a kid is its own art form.    Do you want to build a snowman? Come on let us go and play.  If this does not sound familiar well where have you been? It is one of several ubiquitous tunes that have emerged from Disney's animated hit. These are actual kids singing. In fact one is the eight-year-old daughter of the married couple who wrote most of Frozen's original music. But in much of the music business the young voices you hear belong to people a little older.  Do you remember this one? OK good.  Dale Richardson passes around some sheet music. It is a praise song for the United Methodist Publishing House. It will be used at church schools around the country. After one run-through the singers step into the recording booth. The instrumental track plays through their headphones D.  One two three go.   Come along and light a candle. Pray with me.  Richardson cuts off her little chorus. D.  Can you get younger? Really young.  As a middle-aged mom Richardson is by far the oldest in the studio during this session. Her singing troupe includes teenagers and college students but they are shooting for a seven-year-old sound.   What a special time to be a family.  Adult voice actors have long portrayed little tikes from some of the Nickelodeon Rugrats to Bart Simpson whose voiced by a 56-year-old women. Teenage girls seem to have the easiest time coming off as kids but some people can keep it up. D.   Jesus loves me this I know.  Dale Richardson says she is been singing like a kid since she was a kid. D.  You know you just start learning to manipulate your voice and  it is a little bit more in the mask of your face and a little bit sweeter.  Sounding like an untrained child takes real skill but it is a talent voice coaches discourage. Richardson says sometimes they will send her a teen who wants some studio experience albeit singing like a kid. She says she has to force them to forget American Idol. D.  And so I will have a great little singer come in and audition for me and she is like trying to sound like Beyonce or somebody and you know it is like just sing straight pure -  Jesus loves me. And they are like  Jesus loves me this I know. And I am like I did not ask - I said just please sing it straight.  Richardson's star protege is her daughter Maggie who now studies music in college. Together they have performed as a younger version of themselves on everything from Veggie Tales albums to baby lullabies.   The itsy bitsy spider went up the water spout. Down came the rain and washed the spider out.  Maggie Richardson says they work hard to be convincing.  Instead of  twinkle twinkle little star.  Twinkle twinkle little star. And see it had a little - it had a little glitch in it because kids are not perfect.  So perfection is not the aim. Why not just wrangle some neighborhood kids and embrace the imperfections?  It is a lot harder than it looks because it looks because it is like precision singing.  Producer Dennis Scott has won a Grammy for a Mr. Rogers tribute album. He tends to employ adults to get the job done otherwise time gets wasted with take after take after take. And in a studio time is money.  Live you can get away with so many things and if somebody goes off to a wrong note or does not end at the same time it is forgivable. But when you go into a studio everything's under the microscope and little things that you would not hear live - you hear everything.  Even modern recording software can only fix so much.  Alright is everybody here? OK excellent.  Scott readies the soundboard for another take.   We are gonna rock the ark. We are gonna party floating on the sea.  Richardson and her singers huddle around a single microphone. She stands in the back. Her secret ingredient to a true child sound is an actual seven-year-old - a blonde haired girl sitting on a stool closest to the mic. D.  Can we just push her chair up just a hair?  Richardson says having at least one kid in the mix makes all the difference. D.  Just because of that young timbre - you can fake it only so much. That pure just - sweet innocent bright - it is hard to emulate.  Even for the grown-up pro kid singers it is tough to beat real thing. For NPR News I am Blake Farmer in Nashville.    We are gonna rock the ark. We are gonna party floating on the sea. 