 Here's something you can' it was initiated by a 6-year-old.  the piano and the dobro. The dobro is a guitar. It is played with a steel bar. It is most commonly used in bluegrass and country music. Craig Havighurst of member station WPLN explains.  Veteran music teacher Michael Alvey spends his days in an elementary school in Franklin Tennessee   with little children Mr.  Not too loud back row.  and a room full of instruments. Mr.  Ready?    .  Alvey says a couple of years ago one of his students brought him a CD by her father a relatively common occurrence in this affluent suburb of Nashville. Mr.  A lot of times I get things from parents done in their home studios and they sound okay. But when I heard this  This guy is like a world class musician. Why have I not heard of Rob Ickes?   The easy answer is that Alvey has never closely followed bluegrass where Ickes is a star. He is been named dobro player of the year a record 10 times by the International Bluegrass Music Association largely for his role as a founding member of the band Blue Highway. But he is also a prolific sideman and solo artist with four CDs to his credit. That does not mean he is above a good old show-and-tell session. Mr.  I had done that at their preschool and other of their classes. And I kind of come in and show the kids what a dobro is and how it works and what it sounds like. And Michael was sitting at the piano  Well you want to  play a blues or something?  Mr.  So we started playing and Michael just blew me away. I mean I could not believe that this you know elementary school music teacher  Mr.  I felt like I was getting the history of jazz just in that one song. Mr.  The connection was immediate.  Pianist Michael Alvey. Mr.  And that is the way it is with musicians. You know you almost know after about eight bars. From then forward it was more of a discovery process.   Dozens of after-hours rehearsals here in the music room of Moore Elementary School let them explore a mutual fascination with each other's genres. Ickes grew up near San Francisco and was inspired toward a career on bluegrass dobro by Flatt  Scruggs and dobro master Mike Auldridge of the Seldom Scene. He is always loved jazz but never really studied it in depth. Mr.  So as we started getting together Michael just would really teach me a lot of great things. I remember one time he told me we were playing Caravan or some Duke Ellington piece and I kind of know the melody and I was kind of jiving my way through it.  Mr.  And after we are done  You know with a lot of these standards and stuff you can embellish and tweak your way around it. But with Ellington you really have to play it note for note.   Pianist Alvey originally from North Carolina studied classical music and picked up a passion for jazz in high school and college. A job as a music director at Busch Gardens theme park in Virginia led him to Nashville where he worked at Opryland USA by day and jazz clubs at night.   Since he shifted to classroom work almost 30 years ago he is done more teaching than performing so he says this collaboration with Ickes has been an unexpected learning experience. Mr.  This is a discussion Rob and I have had many times about bluegrass versus jazz.  How do you learn all those different chords and inversions and how do you harmonically move around these songs and improvise and make all this makes sense?  How do you play a song with two or three chords and make it sound like a symphony when you are all over the place? And after about eight bars I have run out of ideas.   That said Alvey seems to have found his way through the album' Hank Williams' You Win Again.   Road Song marks the first release on Rob Ickes' own record label reflecting an impulse to take his instrument in new directions. Mr.  Personally I do not feel like an iconoclast or somebody who breaks down barriers really aggressively. But I do feel like that is what I am supposed to do you know as a musician on this instrument is learn the standards and study the great players that came before me. But I do feel like part of my deal is expanding where the instrument goes.  He is doing that with a mix of received knowledge curiosity and playfulness which is really not so different from what Michael Alvey tries to cultivate every school day in the classroom where he and Ickes first met. For NPR News I am Craig Havighurst in Nashville.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 