   As not too proud to beg - yes you know it. Please do not leave me girl. Do not you go. As not too proud to plead baby baby. Please do not leave me girl. Do not you go.  Who else could that be but The Temptations - one of a handful of groups whose songs were part of the soundtrack of American life in the 1960s and '70s? There is a new musical currently playing at the Kennedy Center in Washington D.C. that tells the story of the group's founding and rise to superstardom. It is called Ain' The Life And Times Of The Temptations. And the musical is told through the eyes of its co-founder and sole surviving member Otis Williams. We talked with Otis Williams yesterday. Today we wanted to hear from the playwright - a Detroit native herself - Dominique Morisseau. She is a rising star in her own right with previous works that include a trilogy of plays set in Detroit that explore the jazz era through the 2008 recession. Morisseau's varied career also includes a stint writing for the hit TV show Shameless. And Dominique Morisseau is with us now. Welcome. Thanks so much for joining us and congratulations.  Thanks for having me.  So why did you want to do this project?  Well first and foremost I am from Detroit. And if you are my generation you grew up on the - your parents' music you know? There is not a Detroiter that did not grow up on some kind of Motown sound. And so I just was so moved by the story of these young African-American men at a time - you know figuring out their lives and their identity and their role as artists while the world and the country was in great civic unrest. And that feels so now to me that I just - it was my way in. I wanted to tell that story.  I have to ask did you have any nervousness about taking on a story about - I cannot think of any other word to use except iconic...  Yeah.  ...This iconic group that is so important to so many people? Probably your parents all their neighbors...  That is right.  Everybody...  That is right.  ...Listened to The Temptations. I have to ask is there a part of you that was nervous about thinking OK I am going to tell this story now?  Oh absolutely. I was shaking in my boots. I mean  - you know. Anytime I have anyone's story in my hands it feels like you know a big call. To be able to tell someone's story while they are still living is - it is a great burden I think and a great responsibility to that. And Otis Williams - he was so amazing. I got to meet with him and talk with him even though you know I was nervous to share the work with him. Actually I was most nervous to share it with him - and maybe like with Detroiters because they will be your toughest critics.  .  Honey they all felt like they knew The Temptations very well and they are going to tell you every way that you should have done this that and the other . So - but I feel like getting Otis is a blessing - kind of makes me feel like come on give me your best shot. I have got Otis behind me.  How do you understand Otis Williams now that you have had a chance to immerse yourself in his story?  I just marvel kind of at who he is and the man that he is. It takes a lot to be able to stick with this group as long as he has - to be the glue to be the backbone of this entity to not really be the one in the spotlight. You know and we focus on that in our show too. I mean that sort of takes a really special human being. What he is made of - when you are around him and you can feel it it is just magic really and it is vision. He is a visionary. And you realize that in order to do that you kind of have to step - it is like when - a really good leader knows when to be a follower - that is what I get when I am around him.  You know Detroit obviously is very important to your work as a writer and you have written about different time periods like the '67 riots the '40s jazz era now The Temptations. But you have been quoted as saying that all plays are about now right now.  Yeah.  Would you talk a little bit about that?  Yeah. Whether you are dealing with Shakespeare or whether you are dealing you know with a new Katori Hall play or a Tarell Alvin McCraney story you know we are all writing about the themes of love and power and power struggle and economics. I mean these tales have been the tale  as old as time and why all stories feel like right now is because of those themes. They all feel like 2018 stories. The Temptations' story is - you know starts in 1963 their group starts. You know and everything about 1963 '64 '65 could be mirrored right now - which is scary but it is also profound that art gets to do that - to catch up to the time and give us a way of looking at something differently and get in dialogue about it.  I read that you actually started writing plays in college because you actually were studying acting...  Yeah.  ...And that you started writing because there were not the roles...  Absolutely.  ...For you that you wanted to perform. Is it getting better?  You know I think yes and no. I think a lot - you are going to see a lot more artists of color. You are going to see - you know right now there is a lot of African women artists in New York who are getting their work produced. And so I always say that we cannot allow ourselves to be cherry-picked you know or to be the flavor of the month you know because that is - flavors come and go. And I think that it feels like we are being flavored right now as opposed to being institutionalized and grown up from the bottom up you know. And so...  What would that look like?  We are not in administrative roles in theater and we need to be in more leadership positions. People of color need to be more - there needs to be more artistic directors of color there needs to be more executive directors. I mean that we really have to do it all the way throughout the institutions and not just you know on the program on the brochure on the stage.  Well before we let you go I want to mention that you have one of the most epic wedding dance videos ever...   ...One that has been seen at least a half a million - by at least a half a million people on YouTube. It was actually to a song from Dirty Dancing which is the...  Yes.  ...Piece that is . So I have to put you on the spot. Did you play the Temptations at your wedding?   Oh of course we played Temptations at our wedding. We had a whole Motown segment at our wedding.   My husband - his name is Jimmy Keys but he is a hip-hop artist - he goes by J. Keys - and so we had an epic wedding dance  of music history really because of that. And The Temptations are all day through our wedding.    This little girl of mine I wanna say she is so fine.  That is the award-winning playwright Dominique Morisseau. She wrote the book for Ain' The Life And Times Of The Temptations. It is showing at the Kennedy Center in Washington D.C. and will travel to other cities before it heads to Broadway. Thank you so much for speaking with us.  Thank you for having me. 