 And finally today one of the definitive songs of the summer so far has been Old Town Road by Lil Nas X.    Riding on a horse - ha. You can whip your Porsche. I have been in the valley you as not been up off that porch. Now cannot nobody tell me nothing.  Is it rap? Is it country? That is the question that is been playing out for a while now sparked by the song's removal from Billboard's Hot Country Songs chart back in March. And then along came a new song.    Go'n and do the two-step then cowboy boogie. Grab your sweetheart and spin out with 'em. Do the hoedown and get into it. Take it to the left now and dip with it. Gon' throw back and take a sip with it. Now lean back put your hips in it.  That is The Git Up by Blanco Brown. It is country but also rap and the song is currently number two on the country charts. So what makes one country enough and the other not? New York Times pop music critic Jon Caramanica has been thinking about that question and joins us now. Welcome Jon.  Hello.  So first tell us about The Git Up. What do we need to know about the song or the artist?  The Git Up is an instructional record right? It is basically a dance craze or a kind of an invented dance craze. And this is kind of a good moment for that given how a lot of music spreads these days which is virally on apps like TikTok or Triller. So it is a song that is literally just a litany of instructions for I guess what you would call country adjacent dancing.    Slide to the left slide to the right. Now cool down have a good time.  Yeah. And as you wrote in your piece there are several elements that make The Git Up more traditionally country music it seems. What are they?  Well it is really the ear of the beholder. I think if you are looking at it through the lens of Old Town Road Old Town Road can feel ironic distant a little gestural whereas there is something inviting about what is happening in The Git Up. And you see Blanco Brown who is teaching people how to do the dance inviting them into the phenomenon.  Yeah. I want to talk more about that. I mean The Git Up did not stir up the kind of controversy over genre that was such a big deal in Nashville with Old Town Road as it climbed the charts. Why not? I mean you talk about being invitational but what does that mean?  Yeah. I found that - to be honest I still find it a little bit strange. There was such an immediate kind of stiffening in the face of Old Town Road. I think The Git Up has a couple things going for it. One Blanco Brown is signed to a country label. He signed to BBR so I think it smooths the entry a little bit. I also think Nashville kind of has this persistent anxiety about are we open to new ideas? Are we open to people who are not - we do not think of as conventional country performers? What is our relationship with race? These are things that Nashville is kind of always struggling with and always kind of being critiqued about. And so in the wake of what happened with Old Town Road I think taking an opportunity to basically embrace something like The Git Up which is a little bit more accessible - it is sort of a feel-good moment for them to say oh we are OK. See we are OK. We like this. Maybe we did not like the other one but we will take this.  And one more question Jon. I have to ask how much time have you spent learning how to dance along to The Git Up?  I promise you I dance much better than anybody who dances The Git Up does.  Is this going to be like the next sort of like every single wedding has this as the routine you have got to do? Because I feel like this is what happens with songs that have a dance baked into them.  I mean it does have a little bit of the hustle the Macarena in there. And very strangely like I was recently at the Louis Vuitton pop-up store on the Lower East Side of Manhattan and I am there looking at sneakers and what is coming over the speakers but The Git Up?    That was not so bad. That was - that was not so bad was it?  Well that is one to watch for and maybe dance to in the months to come. That is Jon Caramanica New York Times pop music critic and host of Popcast which is the New York Times weekly podcast about pop music. Thanks so much.  Appreciate you.    Go'n and do the two-step then cowboy boogie. Grab a sweetheart and spin out with 'em. Do the hoedown and get into it. Take it to the left now and dip with it. Go'n throw down take a sip with it. Now lean back put your hips in it. That was not so bad. That was - that was not so bad... 