 Here's some music by composer Christopher Rouse.   This is the start of Rouse's third symphony which is on a new album. The symphony operates on different levels. It is an homage to the Russian composer Prokofiev. It is also an encoded musical portrait of Rouse's wife and it is a very engaging piece of music for a listener who is unaware of either of those levels of meaning. Christopher Rouse is a Pulitzer Prize-winning composer. He was composer in residence with the New York Philharmonic which we hear on the album. And Mr. Rouse joins us. Welcome to the program.  Thank you very much.  Your symphony as I mentioned is encoded. Can you explain that one?  Well I have a system that I use sometimes not in all of my works but in some that equates letters of the alphabet with musical pitches. And so if I wish to spell out names or places or events or whatnot I just take the letters of the words and convert them into musical notes.   Right here my wife's name Natasha is spelled over and over and over again.   I kind of call this a games for me. It is a way of setting myself a kind of - an almost artificial challenge and then seeing if I can fulfill it successfully if I can make music out of it. For example the letters of her name are the letters of her name and so I have to use the pitches that come out of that. And it is just something that kind of keeps me on my toes a bit more. I do not expect anyone to hear the messages or understand what is going on. It is just a little challenge I set for myself.  I mentioned Prokofiev. Your symphony is structured like his second symphony and like that piece yours begins with a series of brass notes as we heard at the beginning of the conversation. And let us move to another section of that piece.   Christopher Rouse what is happening here in the symphony?  Well my wife's name Natasha goes through the entire piece and the set of variations actually was intended to be a - kind of a physical portrait of her. This particular one you are playing refers to her eyes.   Another composition on this album is called Odna Zhizn Russian for A Life. Here's how it starts.   Again the Russian title now makes me assume Natasha's life.  Yes. I have never actually fessed up to that but I will now because we did get married earlier this year. So she seems to be willing to let me  - let the cat out of the bag.  It is not the most always pleasant piece of music. It suggests a life has been you know a turbulent time.  Well she has had a very difficult life. Particularly her early years were very hard. She was sexually abused as a child so she ran away from home at 16 and decided to hitchhike out West. One of the people who picked her up held her for three days and raped her repeatedly. She ended up in Arizona in Tucson and she was homeless so she was living under a bridge and eating out of dumpsters and all of that you know before the age of 18. It is a kind of nightmare that I think most people - I certainly could not have survived that. I do not think - and I am not sure most people could either. But that is why the fact that she is this warmhearted wonderful person is all the more amazing.   And the difficulty of the music the struggles that we hear - I hear what you are talking about now.  That is what I hope. You hope to write something that even people who would come in cold without any knowledge - you still hope that somehow the music will speak to them.   The New York Times said that you write  some of the most anguished most memorable music around. Memorable is a wonderful word. Anguished - you do not sound at all anguished to me as a person.   Well there was a time of my life particularly the later-80s and early 1990s where it seemed that every time I had a new piece to write somebody died whose death really had a big impact on me. And so there is a whole series of pieces that are responses to deaths. And those are generally pretty dark works. Some of the music that I was writing in the earlier-80s was known for being fast and loud and violent. That was kind of my shtick in some people's eyes. You know if you do something three or four times even though you may do it in different ways each time some people will begin to typecast you as well he is the doom-and-gloom composer or the - kind of the wild-child composer. So it is good sometimes just to stand back and say do I really want to be typecast in that way? And if not you make a conscious attempt to go at what you do in a different way.  So now you are the 67-year-old newlywed composer.   That is right. Yes the old guy with the new wife.   Christopher Rouse thank you very much for talking with us today.  Thank you Robert.  Composer Christopher Rouse - his new recording is with the New York Philharmonic Alan Gilbert conducting.  