 Stevie Wonder comes prepared for an interview.  .    Wheel of '84.  That is from the newest episode of What is Good With Stretch And Bobbito NPR's podcast. Here to tell us about what it was like talking with Stevie Wonder is Bobbito also known as Robert Garcia. Hey there.  Hi Ari. Thank you for having me on the show.  Tell us what we are listening to right now.  Well Stevie Wonder is in my estimation not just the greatest artist of our era. He might very well be the greatest artist period. He is sold a hundred million records. He is got 25 - I mean the list goes on. But forget about all the accolades and all the critical acclaim. I mean the manner in which he speaks to one's soul is just - it is unmatched. And then like by the grace of the universe he happens to have a piano. And then he also plays.  And he did not just play his greatest hits but he played stuff that we have never heard before.  I mean he was improvising on the spot. My jaw was literally down for at least 72 hours.  So when you got home that night what did you tell your wife first about what Stevie Wonder told you that day in the studio?  Yeah. I just say -  oh little lady oh - well actually no no.   This is not going to make sense to people until they hear this.    Oh little lady oh little lady - oh little lady. What the - man that would have never made it.   That would have never...    Golden lady golden lady I would like to go there.   You are writing. You are composing both... I am like interviewing Stevie Wonder with Stretch. And I do not know what - I started singing for Stevie.    You have killed all our leaders. Pardon me for singing. I just cannot help it.  You are in the wrong key .   And he told me you are out of key .  Oh no. Wow.  Imagine that. I mean it was great you know 'ecause he is so love and peace right? He does not really shoot anybody down but he shot me down in a beautiful way.  You have been immersed in his music for decades.  Sure.  So what insight did you get from talking to him about it that you did not have before?  What I think was profound was the manner in which he is been so consistent for 50 years in terms of extending his mind his thoughts his consuming of what is wrong in the world and being able to filter that into his lyrics. And even when you do not hear him singing you can still feel the emotion in the chords.  What did he tell you about the connection between his music and his political activism?  He shared a lot in terms of his advocacy to get Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King supported as a national holiday.   I just felt that a man who had fought for the economic social and civil rights for all people should be recognized for the greatness that he did. And for those like himself who lived and died for that should be recognized. And when people would say to me hey a black holiday I said no this is a holiday for everyone. He was a black man. As I said he was an African-American man. But I am not looking at a color of a person's skin but as Dr. King said the content of the character.  And he is blind. He cannot see color. And he - even if he wanted to he would not. And for someone that speaks to so many volumes of people around the world it is incredible that he has that posture.  If there are people who know Stevie Wonder's music from having heard his songs played again and again and again on the radio but they do not know him as a person as an artist the way you do what are they going to take away from this interview that they might not have heard before?  I think the most revealing for me was that he has this vast amount of unreleased music. That is uncanny to think about because he is composed so much for other people. He is composed so much for himself. And then he shares with us like oh yeah you know what? I have like however many more songs that have never been heard by public ears. What? How dare you Stevie  - holding back on the public.  So is he going to release it or what is going to happen?  He - well you can listen to the podcast and find out.  Bobbito Robert Garcia co-host of What is Good With Stretch And Bobbito NPR's new podcast it is great having you here. Thank you so much for telling us about the Stevie Wonder interview.  Thank you.    I live in the ghetto. Somebody I will move on my feet to the other side. 