 And if you are just joining us this is WEEKENDS on ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Guy Raz. And in our music segment today the story of chasing a dream. Earlier this year  a job with the Boston Symphony Orchestra.  I remember walking out on stage and thinking my gosh my footsteps sound as though I am walking in the you know in the halls of heaven. This is a place where music happens. This is a place where the ultimate of human expression through classical music is realized day in and day out. And it was exciting. I wanted to play. I wanted to play well. I wanted to enjoy every moment.  Mike had an audition for other orchestras of course. At the time he worked for several in Colorado. But this was different. This was the BSO one of the most coveted jobs in the classical music world. So how did he get there?   Growing up around the house we always had Arthur Fiedler and the Boston Pops playing. The moment I knew I wanted to do music was listening to Star Wars the first time.  And so after growing up in Boston Mike went off to study classical percussion at the Royal Academy of Music in London. And he made quite a career for himself. By last year he was in his early 30s living in Colorado working as a professional musician. How were you - I mean and you were earning a decent living or what?  Yeah. In 2011 it was around 60000. Last year it was a little bit more. Putting in a lot of hours but I am one of the fortunate ones. I get to do it - for a living.  At the time  the Boston Symphony was hiring and not just one percussionist but two.  As long as I have been in the classical music business I cannot remember one audition for two positions. This was a lightning in a bottle. And I would say at the moment there are somewhere between 200 and 300 people in the United States anyway who are willing to put in the hours and sacrifice everything for the opportunity at least to land one of these positions.  Mike of course was one of those people. After all the BSO is among the best orchestras in the country and the best funded. You can make six figures playing there benefits vacation. It would mean a real working life for Mike doing what he loved in the city he loved. So Mike got a hold of the audition repertoire and he started preparing. Describe an example of the busiest day you had during the rehearsal process. Like what would you do? You would get up...  I remember one day in particular. And I got up at 6 and I listened for about an hour to the previous night's tapes.   I was recording a video.  A video. That is because the first part of a BSO audition is not at Symphony Hall. It is a video you have to send in.  The video was a 10-minute run-through of 14 different pieces.   So after working a full day playing patchwork gigs Mike would head to a rehearsal space where he would stay practicing as late as 1 in the morning.   At around 1 oclock I figured that was enough got in my car drove home and I was asleep by 2. And I think I got up at 6 the next morning.   Now this was more or less his life for about a year.  flawless on snare drum flawless on cymbals flawless on a Bach cello piece.   And remember Mike is a percussionist.  Yeah. The - it is very common for orchestras to ask transcriptions of Bach's solo pieces on marimba. And so they asked for the first 16 bars of that Cello Suite No. 1 in G Major the  movement...   ...on marimba.   You know Bach on marimba is one of those things if you put a note out the world will know it. But more than that it is - for me anyway - it is finding a way to express the music that does not sound too mechanical.   You also had to play a Gershwin piece on the xylophone a piece from Porgy and Bess. Let us take a listen to this.   For me that is why I love orchestra music that at the beginning of that it sounds like Grand Central at 5 oclock on a Friday.   When I am playing it on my own in an audition I am as much as possible trying to hear the orchestra behind it as I am playing.   I always tell people if you sat where I sat in the orchestra you would want to do it for your life too.   Now these are some of the most challenging pieces ever written  a triangle or a tambourine like the one in Dvorak's Carnival Overture.  Carnival Overture is one of those pieces that every single percussion audition will ask you to play it.    tambourine technique it is a lot of fun to play...   ...but requires an awful lot of dexterity and coordination.   For me the tambourine part is - I have been to Rome a few times and I always picture sort of the large piazzas in Rome on a festival day and just a lot of noise and joy.   To play it feels as though you are staring down on rival band across the square and trying to make your celebration more joyful than theirs.   Mike's relationship with the music made all the difference in the end when he finally sent in his audition video. And remember this is just to get a live audition. He nailed it.  They invited to come and play live 30 or so of us.  And a few months later those 30 musicians arrived to Symphony Hall where they began to warm up in the basement. They prepared excerpts from over 50 songs on nine instruments for an elite selection committee.  And I always find that part the hardest. There is a lot of people around. Some people are just getting ready for their audition. Some people have played and are packing up to leave. There is a lot of nervous energy down there. And I have always found for me it helps to not play a whole lot but just to relax and trust my preparation and do the best I can. But once I get on stage I finally feel like  I can breathe. Let us do this now.  On stage but behind a screen.  Yes the indomitable screen.  Because these are blind auditions. Nobody can see you. Mike sailed through his first three pieces.  The next piece was marimba and it was a Japanese piece called Torse III.   It was very angular very difficult very technically challenging.   And when I got up to play it I just feel- felt as though everything was a step away from me. I did not feel as though my reaction time and my instincts and my ability to execute things the first time was really close to the surface which is what you want on an audition day. And I got to the marimba to play the Torse III and I remember thinking to myself you know I just do not feel good about this today but I would rather go for it and fall flat than try and be safe and morph and not make a mistake.   And so I went for it. And in the middle of going for it which sometimes can happen on a marimba - we are holding two sticks in each hand - one of the sticks got caught underneath the row of accidental keys. I remember when it happened me thinking oh boy. And I had actually mentally practiced something going wrong in that piece. Oh boy. But what I had not prepared for was I mean literally the stick getting stuck in the instrument. I had to...   ...pull it out.   And in the process that threw things off and I missed a few notes that made the rest of it come out uneven you know and a little hurried and sort of scattered. And so at that point I thought this is not how I drew up the plans.  Later that night Mike got the call.  I believe I was out at dinner. And I saw the phone ring and I thought there is no need to answer it. I will be polite to her and answer. And I do not remember the words exactly but what I remember hearing from the impression was the audition  we would like to thank you so much for taking the time for come out. I knew my day was finished. I regret to inform you that...  We first read about Mike Tetreault's story in the latest issue of Boston magazine. That article has fueled a lot of discussion in the classical music world about the nature of professional auditions whether the pressure is too high the expectations too unrealistic. Mike's fairly conservative on all this but he does think there is room for improvement. For instance he was cut in the first round after judges heard just a small fraction of what he was asked to prepare. Mike thinks maybe they should hear everything first and then decide later. This all happened back in January. How has it been going since?  It is been going better. If I think about these auditions and those processes and narrative in which each chapter is slightly improved than the previous then I am encouraged. You know if you do what you have always done you will get what you have always got. I am an infinitely better player having gone through the preparation. So yeah I am excited about this next round of opportunity and hope I can do my best.   That is Mike Tetreault. He is still living in Denver. He is ramping up for another round of auditions early next year although not with the BSO. After his story was published in Boston Magazine people from all over the world reached out to help offering tips and coaching. Mike says he will take a few of them up on it. And a link to that story is at our website. It is by writer Jennie Dorris. And you can find that at npr.org.  