 This past April John Luther Adams became the most recent winner of the Pulitzer Prize for music. His piece Become Ocean was commissioned by the Seattle Symphony. And a recording of the work will be released on Tuesday. The Pulitzer committee called it a haunting orchestral work that suggests a relentless tidal surge evoking thoughts of melting polar ice and rising sea levels.   When John Luther Adams got the phone call from the Pulitzer committee he was in the middle of a teaching residency at Michigan Tech University. And he was exhausted.  And it was late afternoon. And I thought well before my evening talk I would go back to the hotel room and catch a quick power nap. And I forgot to turn off my cell phone. And I had just drifted into REM and the phone rang. I heard the word and asked the person on the other end you know could I call you back?   So talk about your wake-up call.  That is a really aggravated part when you get caught right in that moment as you are falling asleep.  Yeah yeah it was. My first reaction was well this is inconvenient.   So let us talk about the commission for Become Ocean.  Sure.  First can you explain the concept?  Yeah. That is a fair question. I am not sure I can give you a fair answer. I am obsessed with place as music and music as place. And what I want to experience as a listener and what I hope for you as a listener is to discover a strange and beautiful and maybe somewhat frightening new place and invite you in to that place to find your own way and have your own experience.   I do not want to be too literal-minded about music especially that does not have words but I know that you are somebody who is very concerned with the natural environment. I have seen interviews where I know you are concerned about global warming. So with a title like Become Ocean it is sort of hard for me not to read into that - that you are thinking about a time when we might kind of become one with the ocean.  Yes indeed. I think I kind of want to have it both ways if I may in my music. I believe deeply in the inherent power and mystery the imperative for music in our lives. And it is my hope that you can listen to this music without knowing anything about what the composer had in mind including maybe even the title and find yourself or lose yourself immersed in this music and have a real experience something that touches you and moves you. And at the same time - and this is talking out of the other side of my mouth - you know like most of us these days I think a lot about the future of the present state of the Earth and the future of the human species and specifically about climate change. And as I composed Become Ocean I had in my mind and my heart this image of the melting of the polar ice and the rising of the seas. All life on this Earth emerged from the ocean. And if we do not wake up and pay attention here pretty soon we human animals may find ourselves once again becoming ocean sooner than we imagine.   Listening to it I was expecting almost something different from the title. I would have expected well this music that sort of overwhelms and you can be absorbed in it. But it do not feel like - I do not feel like I am drowning. You know I do not feel a sense of alarm you know - a siren or anything like that.  You know there is this 19th-century idea of the sublime. The idea is that there is an inextricable wholeness to our experience of the world that contains at once both beauty and terror. And I think I want to be right on that razor's edge.  The sense of awesome in its original sense of the word.  Yes. And maybe that is the Alaskan in me. You know 40 years living in the presence of raging wildfires and river ice breaking free in the springtime. I have been in touch for most of my life - pretty directly in touch - with these elemental forces that are so much bigger and more powerful than - not only than I am but than I can even imagine. And that can be both terrifying and profoundly reassuring. That is pretty close - for me that is pretty close to a religious experience.   I am a bit curious because you know being a modern composer in 2014 - it is not the easiest of professions to pick. I am curious with getting the Pulitzer is it like an independent film maker getting an Oscar? Does that open up more possibilities for you?  You know people have been asking me has it changed my life? And the answer is I am not sure. I do not think so. But the truth is Arun there is really not much in my life that I would want to change. I mean it is just such a gift to be able to do what I do as a life's work and follow the music as I like to say wherever it may lead me. So I am not really looking for the Pulitzer Prize to change my life. But if the Pulitzer Prize makes it a little bit easier for me to continue my work then that will be a wonderful thing.  That is composer John Luther Adams. The recording of his Pulitzer Prize winning work Become Ocean comes out on Tuesday. Until then you can sample every note of our exclusive First Listen. Go to nprmusic.org for that. John thank you so much.  It is my pleasure Arun. Thank you for having me.  