 The MacArthur Fellowships were announced today 24 of them and we are talking with some of this year's fellows. Each fellow recieves 625000 over five years to pursue his or her work without conditions. Michelle Dorrance's work is tap.   Michelle Dorrance is a dancer and choreographer. This is from her piece Sound Space. And she joins us from New York. Welcome and congratulation.  Thank you so much.  Through the magic of radio we have just been able to demonstrate something about your approach to tap that it is as much to be heard as to be seen. Is that right?  Indeed.  Describe that a bit.  I think tap dance is the ultimate art form at least for me. To be able to be a dancer and a musician at the same time there is nothing like it. There is nothing else like it. You are equally responsible for your movement as you are for your sonic communication. And I do not know. There is something that is really organic in your footfall. There is something organic in your biorhythms your heartbeat. And to be able to demonstrate that inside of a moving form is phenomenal.  That clip from Sound Space by the way was of a performance at St. Mark's Church in-the-Bowery in the lower Manhattan where as I understand it no metal taps are allowed on the floor. So you could have had a platform built and had the dancers work and that - but that was not what you did. What did you do?  I worked there before and we had put a few wooden tap mats if you will on top of the beautiful wood floor that we were not allowed to use metal taps on. And after doing that I decided no we need to explore this space as an instrument. And we used bare feet. We used socked feet. We used wooden taps that we made ourselves. We used a leather-soled shoe which was the original tap shoe before wooden taps were made and then later aluminum taps.   So exploring that and exploring those ideas in that space where you can hear something like this - me rubbing my hands together 50 feet away - that is exciting.  It occurs to me. I believe St. Mark's in-the-Bowery is where the last Dutch governor of New Amsterdam as it was Peter Stuyvesant is buried.  Yeah. I think that is true - in the cemetery there.  Since he famously had a peg leg I assume...  I did not know that - like Peg Leg Bates the tap dancer.  I think Peter Stuyvesant had the peg leg some centuries before Peg Leg Bates.  . I know of course.  So I think he would have generated some sound himself.  . That is awesome. That is so great to think about that as a precedent.  . You choreographed a piece called The Blues Project.    Oh oh oh yeah oh oh yeah.  We can hear you tap dancing.    It is a planet of resistance. It is a whirling flame of choice.  And the person who is performing here who is singing is Toshi Reagon. And the song she is singing Misty Mountain it actually - it was a surprise to you when she sang that.  It was a surprise to me. Every single night inside of that show she will surprise me with a different song for my solo.  So you are - I mean in that case you are not just both a dancer and a musician but you are a dancer and an improvisational jazz musician at the same time.  Exactly. Well and that is truly the tradition - the great tradition of tap. In its roots it is improvisational. That is the way it was innovated and the way it you know was communicated.  What do I do with all the associations I have of tap dancing with minstrel shows and with well certainly not a very high form of entertainment?  I - it is very interesting. It is such an important part of the tradition. And I say important in part because it reflects the great oppression and racism present in our culture and is of course reflected in the form. So I do not know. I think tap dance is an incredibly transcendent form. You know it is born of some of the most oppressed people. Our country and culture has known and you know finds its way to joy.  Michelle Dorrance once again congratulations on winning the MacArthur Fellowship this year and thanks for talking with us.  Thank you so much.    Is it up the misty mountain where wild flowers blind the ground - ha? Is it down by the rushing river where force wears those boulders down? Is it underneath my covers? 