   Yeah...  Gary Clark Jr. brings the funk. I mean funk in its original base sense - funky and dirty nasty fuzzy sound.   You know sometimes I think like maybe there is too much fuzz and maybe it is too raw maybe it is too dirty. But I do not know that just feels like - that feels really good to me.  That sound infuses his new album The Story Of Sonny Boy Slim. You might call that sound the Texas Fuzz. You hear it in acts from Janis Joplin to ZZ Top and Gary Clark Jr.'s mentor - Texas bluesman Jimmie Vaughan.  Dude you know I try to hold it back when I see somebody like Jimmie Vaughan. He kind of took me under his wing. He brought me out on the road with him when I first started to travel and kind of showing me the ropes of how to be professional and cool. But so anytime I am around him or anybody that is like in his camp you know I kind of feel weird about setting up my pedal board and stomping on them.  What is a song on this record you would be most proud to show off to Jimmie Vaughan?  I would have to say Church.    Lord my Lord I need your helping hand. Just because it is stripped-down raw and folks you know around say you know all you need is three chords and the truth. And I feel like that is what it is. It is quite refreshing to just break it down to something so simple. And I kind of had the idea and kind of had some words in my head but I just sat down and just cut it. You know I put the harmonica rack on and then it just kind of flowed out of me. And I was quite surprised when I heard it back. I would show him that no problem.  And you mentioned you have your sisters singing on this record too. Did you...  Yes.  ...Grow up singing with them?  Yeah. I mean my fondest memories growing up is being in the living room putting on records and dancing with them and dressing up and singing all the parts to you know The Jackson 5 songs and The Supremes Smokey Robinson and the Miracles and - stuff that my - my parents were listening to when they would have family and friends over.    As we grow older I become wiser. I will not let you down. I am devoted to see you shine on. Everywhere you go just know that you are a star. But the thing that really tripped me out that I forgot about was you know as professional as I was trying to be in the studio and producing the album it is like we all reverted back to being like 10-year-olds you know. And they were giving me a hard time and there was a little bickering a little arguing here. And I am like oh man.  .  I cannot take you all anywhere you know. It was fun though.  I am talking with guitarist and singer Gary Clark Jr. about his new album The Story Of Sonny Boy Slim. And you mentioned that in some ways this reflects a sort of feeling of coming home.  I kind of miss coming home and being a grown man and my mom calling me you know Sonny Boy. And after being on the road for - I mean we have pretty much been going - 2010 2011 kind of changed my life and my trajectory. I am just busy all the time. So I finally got to be able to come back home and work on this album and life-changing things - my son was about to be born. He was born in the process of recording. I was home. I was around the people that I grew up with walking in the same streets.  Well having a child - you said you had a son...  Yeah.  ...That is certainly a life-changing thing. Congratulations on that by the way.  Thank you thank you. Yeah that was a game-changer so...  And there is some of that in this record. There is this - there is a kind of thing - I know I went through this that a lot of new parents go through where you think about your own parents and you kind of go like oh I get it. And your song Hold On reflects that.    Back then I did not understand why my pops came home saying that he could not take it. But it is hard to be a good man knowing that a man's plan is to take what you making. And hold on... You know sitting around in the studio and there had been a lot of events in the news about you know unjustified killings and shootings of young people - young black men - it definitely made me think of what my father went through raising us to make sure that we you know being in those situations - or had the tools to get out of them you know and survive.    Seems like new news is the old news from a different angle. Another mother on TV crying 'ecause her boy did not make it. She is saying what am I going to do? What am I going to tell... And then thinking about my son and - you know it was just like oh man you know the world is a crazy place and I am responsible for this life. So it got very real and very deep. And so that is where Hold On comes from.  The record is called Story Of Sonny Boy Slim. But I feel like it almost could have taken its title very easily from the song that is called The Healing. You seem to have this belief that music is like medicine.  Music is medicine to me. It is like I do not go to church but I feel like you know when I was trying to figure out my way and you know as a young man I was listening to albums. You know I would listen to Marvin Gaye What is Going On? or Curtis Mayfield and you know Outkast and Tupac Biggie and listening you know lyrics of Kurt Cobain and you know Bob Dylan or Hendrix and just like take something from it. It was more than just rocking out or guitar solos. And I would really sit back and reflect and try and understand somebody else's perspective kind of understand where I was and my place in all of this.    I have got something in motion something you cannot see. It requires devotion from those who truly believe. This is something you cannot touch. This is something you feel. For me it is like if I cannot understand it or process what I am going through at a time like a song that can kind of put it all together for me and make me understand and I can move on about my day and feel like there is some sort of resolve there. So yeah it is very powerful to me. It is very important. I do not know if I - I mean I might - I am sure I would lose it if I did not have music in my life you know.  That is Gary Clark Jr. His new album is called The Story Of Sonny Boy Slim. It is been great speaking with you. Thank you so much.  Thanks for having me.    This music sets me free yeah. Yeah. We stand in formation while they test and they see. They compile information and try... 