 Even if you are not a fan of classical music you have heard Chopin unless you live in that proverbial cave. His music has appeared in countless movies TV shows commercials even video games. But you have not heard the Polish composer played this way.   Pianist Chad Lawson presents this piece and nine other Chopin works with a twist on his new album The Chopin Variations. Chad Lawson is here with me at NPR West. Welcome.  Thank you very much for having me. I really appreciate it.  So let us jump right into the music with this piece. This is your arrangement of The Nocturne in E-Flat Major.   Talk us through what is happening here. What did you hear in the original that you are trying to draw out?  He has a heart you know. Chopin's pieces can be so incredibly just captivating even in the most simplest form. And so even with this piece I mean I was almost at the point of just recording just the right hand just playing the melody and nothing else. I mean because it is so strong and so delicate and just really just connects with anyone.   I watch you sitting here getting lost in it even though we are sitting in the studio.  His writing is just spellbinding for me.   Let us go into another piece. I was going to say another one of my favorites although any of the selections that you picked for this I could say are one of my favorites. This is The Prelude in C-Minor. Let us hear an older recording. This is from Arthur Rubinstein.   Let us hear your version.   Now I have to say that you know it is instantly recognizable as the same piece. But you opened up something in this music that I would never heard before.  I love space. That is probably my favorite note - the time where you are able to actually just listen to what just happened. The melody with this piece is just - as with every piece that he does it just rings so strong. And I felt that there was kind of a vulnerability to this piece that just wanted to say hold on. Stop the world just for a second.   You have recorded this in a very intimate way as well. I can hear your hands on the keys the hammers on the piano.  In 2013 I released an album called The Space Between. I record usually late at night. And we have two small children under the age of five. And so no one wants to hear music at two a.m. And so what I did is - I had felt placed between the strings and the hammers because it really mutes the sound. I just started recording the last album that way. And it just created this really warm resonating tone. And so I knew I had to do it once more with this album. With doing that though the microphone setting - it is placed really close to the hammers inside the piano. And so you hear all the creaks and the cracks of the piano itself. So you are hearing it as a machine almost.  I am speaking with Chad Lawson about his new album The Chopin Variations. It comes out on Tuesday. And we should tell people that your performing background was mostly not classical music.  Correct. I have a fairly strong jazz background. I had a jazz trio for a number of years. And so I have a love for taking something and trying to rearrange it and trying to change its form with respect.  So you have done things to rearrange these works. Rhythmically though you do not force them to swing. Was there any temptation to make them a bit jazzier?  No. I found in trying to mix those two it was never really well-received because you have the jazz audience that says you know that is a little too mellow. And you have the audience that wants to hear this instrumental classical music. They are just like that is too jazzy.  Did you have any trepidation as you approached this that you know gosh I better not mess up Chopin?  Absolutely. I mean he is you know - he is the poet of the piano you know. Here is something that I have been playing since I was a child. And I knew that going into this that there may be some people that will say hey you know it is not really right to be doing this. But I do not know if really Chopin would feel that way. You know I know Bach was really good about - take my music and do whatever you want to with it. You know mess it up. Make something really interesting. Let it become alive. And I think to some degree I think that Chopin would be really OK with this.   Chad Lawson's new album is called The Chopin Variations. It comes out on Tuesday. Great speaking with you. Thank you so much.  You as well. Thank you very much Arun. I really appreciate the chance.  