 Finally this hour we sadly have to wrap up our summer song series. We have been hearing personal stories inspired by songs of summertime from lots of musicians and from lots of you. Today two listeners share memories of music overheard. Ms.  I am Scarlett Hepworth. I live in Oakland California. I was a little girl in Salt Lake City Utah. And this was the summer of 1958 and I would have been 5 then. My parents were musicians and my dad was a jazz musician and my mother was a classical musician. And we never listened to the radio but I had three teenagers that lived next door to us and they listened to the radio. And there was this song called Big Man by the Four Preps.    Big man yesterday boy you ought to see me now. Well I talked big yesterday but boy you ought to see me now. Ms.  And I had never heard pop music I do not think before that time. And it was the most delicious and wonderful exciting thing I have ever heard. And I used to hang out in our backyard or leave the windows open in our house so I would just by chance hear it coming over the radio.    Those bragging words that you were mine of that there was no doubt.  What do you think you were hearing when you were 5 years old listening to that music coming over the fence? Ms.  You know I had this strange sensation that I was doing something kind of naughty because this was something I did not hear in my house. And so I thought oh maybe I am not supposed to be listening to that.     If you will just forgive me dear I will never break another vow.  You know it is interesting to think about the notion that certain kinds of music would be beyond your reach because now everything is within reach. You know two clicks on the computer and you have got everything you need right there. Ms.  Yeah I tell you you know kids growing up today who can just have it right away do not really know what it was to have to wait and wait and wait for a song to come over the air. It was a wonderful experience to have that finally. Oh there it is there it is that is my song.  Or to have it come over the fence.  Ms.  Or have it come - or through a window or over the fence yeah. I think time just stood still when I heard that song. I would stop whatever I was doing and just - I was just transfixed.    Sherry Sherry baby Sherry Sherry baby. Ms.  My name is Alice Schechter. I live in Brooklyn. My summer song is Sherry or Sherry Baby by the Four Seasons.    Sherry can you come out tonight? Ms.  The year was 1962 and I was about 14 years old. My friends and I my cousins anyone who was around we would often walk to Manhattan Beach which was maybe two miles two and a half miles something like that. And one day we set out and I had bought new sandals. You know within a few blocks they were killing me. They had cut into my ankles. I had blisters. It was a total mess.    Why do not you come out to my twist party Ms.  By the time I got to the beach I had taken my shoes off and was carrying them. And we get to the edge of the beach and we have a long way to walk on very very hot sand. And I decided to basically hop from beach blanket to beach blanket and every blanket had a transistor radio and every radio was playing Sherry Baby. And it just had that soaring summer sound. It felt like the whole beach was just pulsing with that song.    You better ask your mama.  Do you remember at all what you were thinking as you were hearing that song? Ms.  We were - I knew we were looking forward to a day at the beach and I was wondering if Kenny Greenberg was going to like me. And you know did I look a little fat in my bathing suit? I am sure. You know I am sure that is what I was thinking.  How did it work out with Kenny? Ms.  Well actually the next time we went to the beach he hooked up with my cousin. And I was upset for a long time but I ended up doing OK.     Sherry Sherry baby. Sherry baby.  That was Alice Schechter of Brooklyn. We also heard from Scarlett Hepworth of Oakland California. And thanks to all the listeners who sent us their summer song stories. You can find more musical memories of summer at the new npr.org.    Sherry Sherry baby Sherry come out tonight.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 