 Lester Bangs was rock 'n' roll personified. He was only 33 when he overdosed back in 1982 but he left behind a remarkably influential body of work - not music but reviews unlike anything the world had seen.    Led Zepplin are emaciated fops. Robert Plant cons the audience with I am going to give you every inch of my love when he actually gives them nothing. The Jefferson Airplane is composed of radical dilettante capitalists. The Rolling Stones are some of the biggest pigs that ever lived. Bob Dylan faked his whole career except he used to be good at it and now he sucks. Rod Stewart makes music for housewives and Sgt. Pepper ruined the rock of several seasons by making musicians even more self-conscious than dope already had.  That is actor Erik Jensen as Lester Bangs in the one-man show How To Be A Rock Critic. The play is put on in a small space at the Kirk Douglas Theatre here in Culver City. When you walk in you feel like you are in Lester Bangs' living room. Dozens of records sprawled on ratty tables and couches along with magazines beer and pills and of course a typewriter. In researching the role Erik Jensen culled through the massive Lester Bangs archives along with his creative partner and wife Jessica Blank.  Part of the tragedy of Lester is that he never saw himself as an artist while he was alive. He always thought he was a guy that wrote about artists but he actually invented a new form of writing. He was a genius. He had a mind like no one else's and he had a voice like no one else's. And the man wrote probably 20 pages a day and had a ferocious appetite for culture and for life.  And drugs.  And for drugs - I mean for everything. You know he was a wild man so he - as a character he is just compelling on so many levels.  And you know also he was a big champion of ineptitude in art and the mistake in art and - you know at a time when there was a lot of prog-rock happening and horrible - I mean bands that I think are horrible like ELO and  like that. Oh I swore but that is Lester.  We can - we can...  Whatever I can do that. We are not live. He was a fan of noise and garage rock and the fact that rock 'n' roll was something that anybody could do. And I think Lester recognized that whole  cultural idea of picking up a piece of junk and turning it into something new was as beautiful as any symphony that a classical composer could write.  There is this line that you say - or that you say as Lester - close to the top of this play and it is very sad.    Nobody is ever going to come up to you on the street and say hey man wow you are Lester Bangs. Well that Seals and Crofts review was really far out. It changed my life man.  But the thing is if he would lived a little bit longer that would have happened to him.  Yeah.  Absolutely.  So many writers owe so much to him.  We are actually saying that with this play - Lester you changed our lives.  Well and I think the thing is that you know it may be that nobody ever came up to him in the street and said that because they might not have recognized him but I think the fact is is that he changed so many - his reviews did change lives.  And also I think the sense that he was completely flummoxed by crap.   You know I mean like we live in a world of Auto-tune now where mistakes are not respected. And I think that that sort of punk ethos is something that everybody could benefit from. Now you will have to excuse me if I am getting a little circular because having - having 32 pages of text out of the 15000 that we gleaned through to make the play but just having 32 pages of that memorized in my head creates kind of a Lester filter through which I see the world.  It is - like I mean you are physically exerting yourself in this thing. You kind of have a breakdown in this room. You sort of trashed the apartment so are you tired today after doing that?  Oh I am exhausted. I actually - I was saying to Jessica this morning you know I started off the play feeling like a young John Belushi and ended up feeling like a very-old David Byrne.   You know I just kind of want to sit in a chair and not talk to anybody now you know?  Well tough you are here.  Right on.  So this play - there are kind of words that seem like familiar from his reviews. There are things that definitely sound like Lester Bangisms. How much of this is taken from his own writing?  The play is an adaptation directly from Lester's writing. So our playwriting background prior to this has primarily been in documentary theater. With that kind of work we are fairly strict with ourselves and we are transparent about you know anything anytime we throw in a joke or you know something like that. This is not that strict. We gave ourselves a little more latitude right like because especially we are adapting the play from you know 15000 pages worth of primarily criticism right so criticism is not inherently inherently in narrative form right?   So we had to construct a story and tell the story of Lester's life as well as you know sharing his writing with the world. So you know there are places where we constructed some connective tissue sort of in the style of Lester et. cetera et. cetera but largely the play is adapted from his body of work.  So I am curious Erik about this transformation you said about having - having Lester Bangs in your head and living as him because there is the funny side but also he was kind of a self-destructive - well not kind of - he was a self-destructive person.  You know it is - when I am in Lester mode it is hard to be a - Jessica and I are married - it is hard to be a husband. It is actually pretty easy for me to be a parent because he is fairly playful. And I am like not the most method guy in the world. I can go in and out. But your whole metabolism changes when you get a guy like this in your head. You know I am exhausted at the end of the show. I could not get to sleep until 2 in the morning last night. I think that Lester's brain was switching radio stations often loudly. I have become a lot more sensitive. I am a lot more paranoid right now. I want to do a lot of drugs but I do not.  Stay away from the cough syrup.  Yeah exactly. And there is a lot of like self-questioning the goes on when Lester's in my head that I do not usually engage with - is this good? Am I doing the right thing? Does this have value?  Well that is the critic.  That is the critic yeah. But I think I would like to get back to the point where I can have a conversation with my wife that does not circumnavigate the globe...   ...Certainly.  That is Erik Jensen along with his wife Jessica Blank. They have written a new one-man show How To Be A Rock Critic about the rock critic Lester Bangs. Thank you both. It was a real pleasure speaking with you.  Thanks for having us.  It was a pleasure being here.    If I ventured in the slipstream between the viaducts of your dream.    We build them up. We tear them down. We encourage artists in their disintegration because we really do want someone else to live our lives and our deaths for us. It is cultural cannibalism.    Could you find me. 