 And finally today...    Can you hear me? SOS. Help me put my mind to rest.  New music by deejayproducer Avicii. It is an album full of songs he would been working on before he took his own life last year. The tracks were not quite complete so Avicii's family turned to a group of his close collaborators and friends to finish what he left behind. One of them is Swedish producer Carl Falk. He spoke to NPR about the emotional and creative challenge of finishing his friend's last album. It is titled Tim a tribute to Avicii whose real name was Tim Bergling.  It was almost impossible to go to the studio the first couple of weeks because I would open a song and I would play the song. And all of a sudden you are like oh this piano. That was recorded on this keyboard in Tim's house. And these vocals - oh I remember. It was so many memories that came up. And it did not take me long to realize that OK I cannot - what should I do with this? I cannot take anything away. I cannot add anything to this. I do not have the right to do it. This is like Tim's work. This is Tim's legacy right here that I am looking at. So I decided to like OK I am just going to listen to these tracks and then I am going to go home.    Can you see my emotions sinking away in slow-motion? Like a break in the ocean just getting lost out at sea...  I realized for me that all the songs me and Tim have done has been a little bit of Tim and a little bit of me which was an eye-opener for me because I realized that I can actually make decisions. I can finish this without the team as long as it is done as a celebration to him and feel like Tim's sitting there with me.    'ecause it is going to follow me follow me I know.  I felt really confident on what I think or what I would have guessed that Tim would have wanted based on working so much with Tim in the past but also since I knew him so well as a person. It was more sad. It was so sad to sit there and finish the songs without him. He wanted this to be Avicii 2.0. - slower tempo more organic instruments lot of African influences lot of darker lyrics - you know stuff like that. So this is new ground for Tim.   The last track on the album Fades Away - and that was one of those songs that were not finished because Tim could not decide what should be the verse and what should be the chorus. So I came back to Sweden with this piano track. It was the original piano. It is still on the intro. That is Tim's original piano. And it is also Tim's words - and I cannot go on and I cannot go on. Do not you love it how it all just fades away?    Do not you love it how it all just fades away?  Those were Tim's words. And I still have the text message in my phone with Tim saying like oh my God. Those lyrics are so good. And all of his songs instantly had a new meaning for us songwriters after what happened.    Do not you love it how it all - it all just fades away. It all just fades away. All of the...  To finish the songs it was some mixed emotions because it was - one was the whole mission to finish what we started. But it was also a really hard process because all the memories and all the happy times all the sad times and everything just came up during this process. But it became almost like a comfort to work on these songs and to have them to listen to them to remember and to think back on all the whole process how they were put together. That also became nice and positive memories.    Do not you love it how it all - it all just fades away.  That was Carl Falk one of the producers on the final Avicii album Tim.    Step out into the dawn You pray till you pray till the lights come on and then you feel like you have just been born. Yeah you come to raise me up... 