 Finally today we visit with a band that formed at Detroit is Cass Tech High School in the late 1970s and made a big splash on the local punk scene with a single 7-inch record.    Hey pretty cheesecake girl. . I guess it is all the same.  to find you   The band is called the Algebra Mothers. They also go by the A-Moms. And that first single Strawberry Cheesecake earned them a cult following. They toured around with some well-known punk bands. Then the new music stopped and they disappeared for the next 40 years - that is until Jack White's label Third Man Records reissued that first single along with more than a dozen tracks recorded in various home studios and live venues back in the '70s and '80s. The album is called The Algebra Mothers and it was released at the end of last year. Joining me now from WDET in Detroit are two members of the original band Ralph Valdez and Gerald Collins. Welcome to both of you guys.  Hey.  Hey Don. Good to be here.  So Ralph I want to start with you and an acknowledgement that we know each other.  Yes.  In another lifetime we worked together at WDET. I was doing the morning news for Morning Edition and you hosted a music show and helped raise money right?  Yeah I did. I wore a few different hats. Yeah. I was on the air and I was also behind the scenes in development.  And I never suspected that you had this amazing past life. You never said anything.  I guess I was just busy with so many other things. Yeah.  So Gerald there were four of you in the A-Moms. Is that correct - four?  It was four original members and then we picked up a drummer real quickly and became a five-piece and pretty much were a five-piece most of the time we ran. Every now and then we would go out as a four-piece but pretty much.  And you were the guitarist and the writer.  Yes. I was guitarist and one of the writers. And Ralph was the bassist and also a writer.  All right. And Gerald the name the Algebra Mothers - where does that come from?  Well it came from a dream. One of our high school classmates had a dream about some teenage unwed mothers...  Teenage moms.  ...And - that were terrorizing a school using protractors and T-squares and...  T-squares .  It seemed to make no sense...  .  But it also seemed like a great idea to just grab for a band name.  I may have had that dream.   So let us hear another A-Moms song. This one kicks off the album. It is called Car Sick.    You want to take me for a ride? Well I tell you I am tired. I do not need no trip 'ecause I have been 'round everywhere and seen everything. I do not need your black lipstick because I am carsick. I want to throw up so if you do not leave me alone I will do it in your face.  So Ralph how is it feel to listen to this song so many years later? What memories does it conjure up?  Oh it is a lot of fun. You know and it makes me think of how Detroit the band was. You know the punk scene kind of brought us together but we were always very Detroit-oriented. You know there were a lot of bands that we played with that kind of came from the suburbs and such and that is fine. But I do take pride the fact that we were all inner-city kids who kind of met at Cass Tech and brought together through this punk energy some great songs. And that song that Gerald wrote just is one of the ones that feels very Detroit to me.  Gerald you have got to help me. What are the lyrics?  You want to take me for a ride? Well I will tell you I am tired. I do not need no trip because I have been around everywhere. I have seen everything. I do not need your black lipstick because I am car sick.  Car sick . I want to throw up.  It is kind of a commentary on like trendiness and somehow like blending it into a car analogy.  .    I do not want to move. I want to stagnate. I want to stagnate. I want to stagnate.  The other thing that makes the band I think real Detroit is just he writes a lot - you know his songs references - like in Strawberry Cheesecake it talks about city bus rides. And there is just a lot of Detroit elements I think that come through in his writing. You know I think we were actually never that angry or rebellious as much as we were excited by the energy of the music and...  Yeah that is true.  ...The return to sort of the Top 40 energy that we grew up on. And you know we were so blessed to grow up in a city like Detroit that had such great diversity in Top 40 where you could hear Funkadelic next to Johnny Cash and The Temptations next to Alice Cooper. You know just all this great music made us really appreciate things. But when punk came around it was like it is time to go back to the even earlier roots of The Kinks and The Stones.  Right. I felt like it was an opportunity to get back to a time in my life when I listened and got excited about this music but I was too young to participate in - the stuff that I had been listening to when I was 8 and 9 years old. The early British Invasion stuff was all gone by the time I was a teenager and when punk came around it kind of felt like wow I get a chance to go back in time and play a music that I wish I had gotten to play in then. So it was a lot of fun.  I would like you to each kind of talk about something else. Punk rock in the - in its early days was mostly you know kind of pasty white guys from the U.K...  .  ...And you guys were very much not that. Was that just an accident or was that by design? Or is that just Detroit?  Yeah. We stood out for a lot of reasons. But our crazy chemistry of oddballs kind of mixing races and genders and nationalities and influence - it was always natural and organic and never calculated. And we had just by chance of our friendships Mexican American African American - original drummer was Filipino. We had two women. Just you know gay straight - everybody was involved in part of the mix. And you know as the years went on even more.  All right. Gerald can I get you to pick a favorite from the new album? We will play a little bit of it and then you can talk us through it. And Ralph you can jump in too at any time.  OK.  But Gerald go ahead. Pick a favorite.  Pick a favorite. Swan Song I like a lot.   So talk about what we are hearing.  This is one of the few that was recorded in a studio and it just seems to really have the right mix of catchy bouncy danceable - and yet at the same time does not sound like anything else.  Ralph any thoughts?  I have a hard time talking over that solo because it is so badass . I love Gerald's guitar playing. You know it is just unlike anything else. He just brings in so much energy grit and melody all at the same time. And yeah he is just - he is an amazing guitarist. And so yeah that song Swan Song is a perfect ending to the album. And I also like In And Out Of Order. There is just so many great songs on the album. I wish they were - some of them were you know not basement recordings or live recordings. But I think that adds to the low-fidelity punk rock edge of it all hopefully.  And the drums - I just wanted to comment on the drums to this song...  Oh yeah.  ...Are one of the things that I think everybody always gets caught by. It is just like  out of this world. I mean it is pretty wild.  It is like an octopus is playing the drums.  Yes.   I have got a good feeling about this guys. It feels like you might be coming back just when you need it the most.  Thank you.  .  That was Ralph Valdez and Gerald Collins two members of the band Algebra Mothers. They join me from member station WDET in Detroit. Thanks both of you guys.  Oh thank you Don.  Thank you.    You know I got to meet you. I always . Seen this in photographs. Now let us describe it now.  personalities. You are just an actress. I knew it all along but I am just a machine that is saying 504 504... 