 Hollywood sadcore is a term singer and songwriter Lana Del Rey came up with to describe her dark moody pop songs. They are also full of old movie references. The 27-year-old returns this week with a follow-up to her 2012 breakthrough Born To Die. That album sold more than a million copies in the U.S. The new release is called Ultraviolence. Reviewer Tom Moon says that the album is too long but it shows Del Rey developing a new take on the torch song.    And you like to party and have fun.  There is a formula at work inside the stylized music of Lana Del Rey. And it goes like this - grand funeral dirge tempos big anthemic chords and elaborate hazy atmospheres supporting a singer whose every phrase is delivered with maximum melodrama.    With my little red party dress on. Everybody knows that I am the best. I am crazy. Get a little bit of bourbon in you. Get a little bit suburban and go crazy.  Thing is a little goes a long way. Lana Del Rey does not deviate much and as a result the album can seem like one marathon brooding session. The first time through I completely missed the transfixing grace of this song.    But I cannot help him. Cannot make him better. And I cannot do nothing about this strange weather 'ecause you are invincible.  Lana Del Rey writes about the motivations and dissipations of vaguely sad beautiful losers. Sometimes she seems to be singing about herself the fatalistic sad girl who is pretty when she cries. More often she is concerned with the men in her orbit damaged lovers were lost inside one addiction or another.    Down on the West Coast they love their movies their golden gods and rock-and-roll groupies. And you have got the music. You have got the music in you do not you? You push it hard. I pull away. I am feeling hot and on fire. I guess that no one ever really made me feel that much higher. Te deseo carino. Boy it is you I desire. Your love your love your love. I can see my baby swinging. His Parliament's...  The album is too long by half and the lyrics tell fairly generic stories. On just about every track Lana Del Rey points out that she is on intimate terms with the lower rungs of despair. She need not bother because the thick exquisitely rendered music takes us there. All she has to do is what torch singers have done forever - locate some shred of poignance within the emotional wreckage.    It might not be something you would do.  Lana Del Rey's latest is called Ultraviolence. Our reviewer is Tom Moon.    You have not seen my man. You have not seen my man.  This is NPR News. 