 The Boston Symphony Orchestra is one of America's oldest most respected ensembles. But its most recent music director the legendary James Levine had to step down because of health issues and a succession of guest conductors followed. But that is about to change. Tomorrow evening a 35-year-old Latvian conductor will become the youngest music director of the BSO in over a century. Jeff Lunden has this introduction.   Andris Nelsons is a bear of a man - over six feet tall. And when he stands on the podium he moves.   Conducting - you express through your arms through your face and even the body what you want to tell so that musicians of the orchestra understand.  And this July when Nelsons made his first appearance as music director designate at Tanglewood the summer home of the Boston Symphony Orchestra the musicians understood.   First and foremost he is an incredibly enthusiastic musician.  Elizabeth Rowe is principal flutist of the BSO.  His love for the music is so palpable and there is a tremendous sincerity to what he brings that is really - it is fresh and it is very inspiring.   The BSO auditioned a number of conductors after James Levine stepped down. But Andris Nelsons proved to the unanimous choice of both the musicians and the board says managing director Mark Volpe.  This guy - the music's kind of oozing out of not just his hands but his whole body.   Andris Nelsons was born into a musical family in Riga Latvia when it was part of the Soviet Union. He was just 17 when he started playing trumpet in the opera house and eventually became the music director there. Nelsons' career in Europe has exploded. He is conducted the Berlin and Vienna Philharmonics at the Bayreuth Festival and leads the City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra in England - and now Boston.  It came very early and I am still very young for a conductor. But still I am very happy that it is been fast but gradual opportunities.  Mark Volpe says much of Nelson's appeal comes from his open-hearted approach to music-making.  It is almost a spiritual dimension that he brings and he is a fairly spiritual guy. There is virtually no cynicism.  Music is something so mystical so unexplainably - it is a thing you cannot put in the rules or boundaries. You know it speaks about our feelings about questions of life and death. It goes absolutely beyond any kind of rules.   The orchestra's musicians agree they have been adrift for the past three years and have had to pull together themselves. So Malcolm Lowe the Boston Symphony's concert master for the past thirty years says it is exciting to have somebody like Nelsons at the helm.  It is one of those times that you can really honestly say that there is something very natural and very organic about what happens with him both as a human and musically which is really great for us.   Boston music critic Jeremy Eichler has been impressed by what he is seen and heard of Nelsons. But he has questions about how much influence the young conductor can have on the BSO when he is only in town for about 10 weeks this season.  It is clear that he can lead exciting concerts with the Boston Symphony. But what exactly will be his appetite to actually drive institutional change - to kind of grapple with these bigger questions of where the orchestra should go how it can be renewing its mission you know what it means to be an orchestra in the 21st century?  For Andris Nelsons the most important mission of being a conductor is to make a human connection with his orchestra and with his audience.  It is much more than profession and a job. It is life and we musicians can influence and are responsible to influence human hearts when they perform. We have to touch them.  His journey with the Boston Symphony Orchestra begins tonight. For NPR News I am Jeff London.   And we have a bittersweet goodbye today the last day our program will be produced by Matt Martinez. For more than three years now Matt has pulled together and shaped all our stories deciding what you will hear and how. It is a job for someone with a rare mix of judgment unflappability creativity and great ears. Matt has got them all. He is not leaving NPR but he is leaving us and we will miss him so much. From all of us Matt huge thanks. You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 