 For her new album called Woman singer Jill Scott takes a deep dive into what it means to love.  It is kind of the study of a human being and what I find is that we are more like alike than we are different.  For insight and inspiration Jill Scott started by looking inward at her own past.    I have been reading my old journals checking to see where my head has been. I started journaling when I was 12. You know there were so many nuances to my existence. My body was changing. Friendships were changing. Lots of things were happening and I wanted to document them in a sense. And I am older - lots older now . And I have just been going back to see where my - where I have been and that was the beginning of this record.    Oh I am going to be super fine and I have been letting - been letting some old ideas go.  Jill Scott joined me from Nashville this week and I asked her how the songs on this album reflect Jill Scott as a woman.  One of the biggest aspects of being a woman - being an adult thoroughly and authentically - is holding yourself accountable. And going through this album I am definitely holding myself accountable. I am looking at what is been done but also what part I had to play in my own joy or demise.  What song would you say you are being kind of your own harshest indictment of yourself?    Oh silly me my dear for thinking that you would stay. Gave you my heart and then you ran away. Either I am stupid I am foolish or you are playing me. Fool's Gold is the story of I guess waking up looking around and saying I was believing things that were false. I was looking through colored glasses and was not paying attention to my own inner voice telling me that I am headed in the wrong direction.    You had me chasing fool's gold - had me chasing fool's gold. I was chasing fool's gold. Somewhere deep down inside...  Talking with Jill Scott. Her new record is called Woman. We have had on the show while I have been hosting some great representatives of the Philadelphia sound but I know you proudly represent that city. Can you talk a bit about how Philadelphia helped form Jill Scott?  Oh man.  Is that too deep?  Oh no not at all. I mean they call me Jilly from Philly. So much of who I am is because of the music of Philadelphia. My mother introduced me to a great radio station - WDAS FM - and they played all kinds of powerful retro music. She took me to Ortlieb's which is a jazz spot in Philly. And I was not supposed to be there but she put me behind a chair and kind of hid me. I watched great musicians be great musicians. I saw Patti LaBelle. I saw Teddy Pendergrass - oh my goodness - Gladys Knight and the Pips - so many live performances. Philly is definitely a place to enhance the live performance and Philadelphia audiences - they are tough. They are tough. If they do not like it they will let you know. And it is more than a boo. You might have to duck...   ...In Philly.  You have always used a very broad palette. Everything - feels like - from the past and present in soul music has been there with you. But on this album there is some songs in particular that sound especially retro like Run Run Run.    Na na na na na na .  Run Run Run kind of give me a little bit of the Beach Boys. It kind of gave me Aretha Franklin. I have been doing a lot of stewing. I have been making stews out of music and Run Run Run definitely felt like one of those songs.    Baby Mama be back in a minute. Got to hustle and hand out that business. I will be right back when I am done. I have got to run run run run baby. Got to put food on the table.  Your voices seems really suited to just belting it out like that.  Thank you. Thank you. I have been working on that amongst other things - amongst other things. I really enjoy the art of singing. I am a more of a character singer so if I hear something that sounds a little grimy I put some grit in my voice. If it is something that is pretty and light and lovely then I change my voice to sound that way. I like to tap into the emotions of things.    I got to run run run run run run run run run run run run baby.  I could go out on that but I want to get one of the most powerful songs on the record before I let you go. The song You Do not Know - You Do not Know Nothing About Love.    Did you ever know what it is to be heard?  People might be familiar with the BB King version but this is kind of transformed. I want you to talk about how this song kind of fit into this record's narrative.  You Do not Know is - in a lot of ways I think it is the difference between a girl and a woman. Love is - for girls it could be the fantasy the fairytale. You know he came and swept me off my feet and  I was so enamored of his - you know his eyes or his car or you know whatever. And I know that feeling. I felt that feeling. I have been a girl for longer than I have been a woman. But now that I am I see things differently. And if you do not know what it is like it to stay up all night and not be able to eat and to give up everything for love then you do not know what love is. You have no clue.    You do not know nothing. You do not know nothing. You do not know nothing about love. Love is not all lace and flowers. It is shaped like a fist covered in blood. Love is a powerful powerful tool that I always will believe can change the world.  That is Jill Scott. Her fifth studio album Woman is out now. Jill Scott I love you. Thank you so much.  Oh thank you. My pleasure.    You do not know nothing about nothing. You know nothing. You do not know. You do not know. You know you do not know nothing. 