 Kathy Mattea has been making music a long time. Her first gold album came out in 1987. She won her first Grammy in 1990. For a while she was putting out albums every year or two.    Sittin' on the front porch ice cream in my hand.  Kathy Mattea's new album Pretty Bird is her first in six years and it almost did not come out at all. When Mattea came by our studios to play with her longtime guitarist Bill Cooley I asked her why.  I was out on the road playing and I would play some song I have played for 20 years and I would go up for a note that I know how to hit and it would not come out. It would be kind of tight or flat or strained and I kind of buried my head in the sand for a while. And then I finally was like I am going to need to find out what this is.  What it is was age - menopause. Mattea was in her 50s and her voice was changing. A chance encounter gave her some hope.  Actually I had had a conversation with Tony Bennett one time in my life.  The Tony Bennett.  The Tony Bennett. I said I heard you sing tonight and I know how old you are and I want to know how you do it. And he was incredibly gracious and he said well my voice is not what it once was but it is a lot better than it was a couple years ago. I found a teacher and I started working again. And so I just filed that away in the back of my mind and I thought OK I am going to go and find out if my voice is at the end of its life or if it is something that I just need to like get to know in a new way.    It was the third of June another sleepy dusty Delta. So I would walk out on stage and just say having some vocal problems. We are going to find out together tonight what my voice will do and sometimes I hit kryptonite. And if I do we will just start all over.   Right.  And I have discovered my audience does not care if I am perfect. They just want me to be real.  Yeah. This is the thing - we always judge ourselves so much harshly than anybody else. I am sure when you were 25 you did not think that was perfect either probably at the time.  And a lot of these songs that I have chosen to sing I could not sing when I was 25.    Then she said I got some news this mornin' from Choctaw Ridge. Today Billie Joe MacAllister jumped off the Tallahatchie Bridge. That is a low C. I could hit it but it did not - it did not have that thing you know?   So that is part of what happened. I started to think oh well I have got this old thing. It is like an old car. It is a Volvo. It is kind of classy sturdy. And if I take good care of her I can limp along with her for the rest of my life. And my teacher Judi would say I would encourage you not to think of your voice as diminished. It is just different. Like oh I think maybe I have a vintage Ferrari on my hands and I just do not know how to drive it you know?  .   Did you ever seriously think about walking away from music? I mean did you think through what that would look like?  Well you know I was not going down without a fight. I mean really there were some ugly cry days in my living room where I was just so frustrated. I did not want to leave it if I did not have to but I was not going to do it halfway.  Another song on here that is a little bit of a different feel - Mercy Now.    Fall and rot slowly on the ground. This is an old song and I found myself just listening to it all the time. And one day I was like Bill I want to try this. And so we sang through it a few times and he was like yeah I do not think you should play this in front of anybody yet.   And we kept at it and kept at it and kept at it and I could not get it. I mean I would sing it and I would just be like I do not believe a word this woman says. And we would put it on the shelf and life went on. And about two or three months later I sang through it and he said I do not know what happened but you have got it.    My church and my country could use a little mercy now.  What is this song about? I mean I can hear the words but what is it about to you?  I think this song has healing properties. I really do. There is talk about polarization and there is talk about politics and there is talk about the culture but nobody talks about mercy. And mercy does not come from us. It comes from somewhere else. And it is the factor that heals. And I think that is why I was so drawn to this song.    And the people in power they will do anything to keep their crown. Oh I love life and life itself could use some mercy now. You know I think at moments like this especially if you are an artist of any kind you have to decide what you want to add to the conversation with your art? Songs have so much power because they do not take very long and they come in through the back door of our brain. And they get to us and connect us in ways that sometimes we cannot do face to face with words with each other. So you know I have been singing for people and saying I do not know who you guys voted for. I do not really care because I would not want anyone to walk out of my show not feeling welcome. So I get people singing and I talk about music and that is where I have decided I want to plant my flag these days.  I want to go out on a song called Pretty Bird.  Yes. This is a Hazel Dickens song. Hazel Dickens is like the voice of Appalachia. If Appalachia where I am from in West Virginia had a voice it would be Hazel Dickens' voice. And she wrote this song years ago and I have loved it. And I tried to do it. I could not get it - tried to do it could not get it. And during this process there was this moment where I was taking a shower before bed and I started singing. And I was like - I am soaping up and I am like oh my God oh my God I am singing this. I am like no really? And now I am soaking wet. What am I going to do now? So I rinse off. I am still singing. I am still singing. I get out of the shower. I pick up the landline at my house call my voicemail and sing into my voicemail...  Are you serious?  ...So I will not forget that I learned this song. So it was just one of those like you put in the work and then one day something comes out.  That seems to be your process. I mean with each of these songs you have described I tried to sing it and I could not sing it and I could not sing it for years and then suddenly something changed and I was ready.  Yeah. What was it Bill said? Bill and I were teaching last week and he - you said something about - you know you practice and practice and practice and practice and you cannot get it and you cannot get it and you cannot get it. And one day it comes to you. Well it was not that one day. It was all that cumulative practice...  Right right.  ...That made it happen.  All right.  All right. I need a G Bill.  .  How do I sing this song ? Give me an A flat. Let us try that. I will be in G by the end of the song. But I have learned that does not matter. OK.  Fly away little pretty bird. Fly fly away. Fly away little pretty bird. And pretty you will always stay.  Kathy Mattea singing the title track to her new album Pretty Bird an album that almost did not get made.   Your own tender love you would bring. Fly away little pretty bird. Cold runneth the spring. Love's own tender flames... 