 As we have been talking to artists about their favorite songs of summer a lot of listeners have written in with their own musical memories. And a bunch of you wrote to say that this song   that this song evokes summer more than any other.  Mr.   Hot town summer in the city back of my neck getting dirt and gritty been down is not it a pity does not seem to be a shadow in the city all around people looking half dead walking on the sidewalk hotter than a match head.  The number one hit song from the summer of 1966 complete with car horns and a jackhammer Summer in the City by the Lovin' Spoonful. So I wondered what the group's founder and lead singer John Sebastian would pick for his song of summer. And he joins us from Woodstock New York to tell us. John Sebastian welcome to the program. Mr.  Thanks Melissa how are you?  I am great. And you have picked another number one hit. It predates yours by just a couple of years. Mr.  That is right. I picked I Get Around by the Beach Boys.    Round round get around I get around yeah get around round round I get around I get around Mr.  Me and Felix Pappalardi the wonderful bass player  he and I were a kind of a duo that accompanied a lot of folk groups. We also had classical background somewhere or another. And when we heard I Get Around we both looked at each other and we said Bach.  Now wait a second. You are hearing this song from 1964 I Get Around you are hearing Bach in this music. Mr.  Yeah that is right.  Well tell me what you are hearing in there.    Round round get around I get around yeah get around round round I get around I get around get around round round I get around. Mr.  Right now we are sort of in familiar surf territory.  Yeah.    Get around round I get around. I am makin' real good bread. Get around round round I get around. Mr.  All right. So now it is a stop break.  First verse coming after the chorus. Mr.  Yeah.    I gotta find a new place Mr.  There is a little like a C section kind of.    My buddies and me are getting real well- known. Yeah the bad guys know us and they leave us alone. Mr.  You know it is wonderful to hear a set of changes. There is not just a verse and a chorus that there is something that leads you from one of those to the other.    I get around round round get around round. Mr.  Kind of goes back and gives you the same information again like in a chorale.    Wah wa oooh. Mr.  And now here we are at the part that everybody can sing along with. It is very much like church music that Bach wrote.  I think I am starting to hear it the way you are.    Their best girl home now on Saturday night I get around get around round round.  Although right now I am back cruising in California.  Mr.  Sure I mean you cannot you cannot help but sweep your hair back.    I am makin' real good bread. Get around round round I get around.  So you were listening to this in the summer of 1964. This was the Beach Boys' first number one hit I think and Mr.  That is right.  and you said California here I come. Mr.  Well we had just come out of this dark New York winter and huddling on Bleecker and MacDougal in leather jackets and just feeling like we were Woody Guthrie and all of this stuff. And now here is this wonderfully folk-free influence. And then when we would get gigs in Los Angeles and you would rent the car and you would turn this tune up - you know that was heaven.    Get around round round I get around. I am makin' real good bread. Get around round round I get around.  Well John Sebastian it is great to talk to you. Thanks so much. Mr.  Thank you.    Get around round round...  John Sebastian the founder and former lead singer of the band the Lovin' Spoonful. You will find more of our Summer Song series at the newly redesigned npr.org. 