 Last night in Prospect Park in Brooklyn a flash back to 1984 thousands of people got together for a sing along to the Prince movie Purple Rain. As NPR's Robert Smith reports this is what it sounds like when doves cry.  They arrived dressed in purple.  I planned to get as sexy and crazy as possible.  They brought Prince masks.  I think it is absolutely fabulous.  For some it was a pilgrimage.  I just think that tonight we have to gather around and worship at the altar of Prince.  And proof that some things never leave your brain.  Dearly beloved  we are gathered here today to get through this thing called life. Electric word life it means forever. And that is a mighty long time. But I am here to tell you there is something else.  A disco band to help people sing along to the movie. Ms.  I am Elizabeth Dotson Westphalen. Ms.  I am Joy Jagland. Ms.  And I am Carley Bruce and we are with the band Escort.  So what is your recommendation for my singalong. Do I go into the Prince falsetto or do I do it in my own voice?  Ms.  You do what makes you feel so good like wave your hands in the air. Ms.  Do the falsetto. That the grinding the stage grinding thing is a really good move too.  First let' Prince is in pain. Morris Day is vain. Wendy and Lisa wrote a song called Purple Rain. That is about it. But dig if you will  dancing hordes rushing to the front of a movie screen in Prospect Park. Of course most movies do not start like this.   Are we gonna let the elevator break us down? Oh no let us go crazy. Let us go crazy. Let us go let us go  There was no shame in Prospect Park last night. No high notes unattempted.   will always be there for you baby  So I found one man in the crowd Lenny Geller who is actually willing to sing it falsetto. You are not ashamed. Mr.  I am totally not ashamed. I have been singing probably Prince since I was 12 years old.  So you just naturally going into that high register? Mr.  I had no choice. I had no choice.  Much like Rene Demond and Alli Getz who ran to the front of the crowd to reenact the dance sequence from Darling Nikki. thrust for thrust. Ms. RENE DEMOND and Ms.   She said sign your name on the dotted line. The lights went out and Nikki started to grind.  Did I mention that no one under 18 was admitted without a parent or guardian? And no one over 18 was admitted without being able to perform a brand new dance which is called The Bird.  Wawk! Hallelujah! Whoa! Wawk! Hallelujah!  But still it just seemed like a movie until right near the end.  Purple rain purple rain  Suddenly everyone stood up. The aisles filled with people.  Purple rain purple rain  Some one thrust up there lighter then another one popped up most just had their cell phones.  Purple rain purple rain  Arm swayed and through the hands you could see Prince looking down like he could see us. Robert Smith NPR News New York.  I only want to see you I only want to see you in the purple rain. Whoa! 