 Now we remember a pioneer of blues and soul.   Bobby Blue Bland died yesterday. He was 83. He brought the elegance of jazz and big band music to Southern soul and he influenced such musicians as Stevie Wonder and Ray Charles. But as NPR's Neda Ulaby reports he never achieved their crossover celebrity.  Bobby Blue Bland was known as the Frank Sinatra of the blues.   Lead Me On from 1960 was among Bland's dozens of RB hits and it was a personal favorite or so he told NPR in 1986.   The country is where Bland was born in rural Tennessee as Robert Calvin Brooks. He dropped out of school as a third grader to help support his single mom by picking cotton. The two moved to Memphis when Bland was a teenager.   He started hanging out on Beale Street a veritable backbone of the blues.   He is the greatest male blues singer ever.  Jay Sieleman runs The Blues Foundation based in Memphis. He says Bland started recording there in the 1940s with the likes of B.B. King.  You know he had that signature squall which almost sounded like someone clearing their throat.   He incorporated that squall from recordings of Aretha Franklin's father the Reverend C. Franklin. It became a trademark.   But Bobby Bland also loved the rich brass-infused cosmopolitan sound of 1940s big bands. With his collaborator trumpet player and arranger Joe Scott Bland blended in their sumptuous sensibility and their singers' phrasing and softness.    Bland is credited with modernizing the sound of the blues. He worked steadily for most of his career as a headliner on the blues circuit but he was slowed down for decades by his struggle with alcohol. Jay Sieleman says Bobby Bland was solely a singer not a guitarist so he never got mainstream attention from blues-loving British rock stars who would invite B.B. King or Muddy Waters on stage. But Sieleman says Bland's achievements were astonishing for someone who never learned how to read music.  He would hear it and he would get it and then he would sing his heart out. It is amazing how someone with so little education and born in such humble beginnings can accomplish so much. That is the story of the blues right there.   Bobby Blue Bland died yesterday at his home in Memphis after a long illness surrounded by his relatives. He was 83 years old. Neda Ulaby NPR News.  