 And we are going to speak next with two new additions to the NPR family. Pioneering New York City hip-hop radio DJ Stretch Armstrong - hey there Stretch.  Are we doing this right now?  We are doing it right now.   I thought you said we are going to be. OK.  Yeah.  Take two.  We are going to speak next with two new additions to the NPR family. Pioneering New York City hip-hop radio DJ Stretch Armstrong - how you doing there Stretch?  Hey.  And Bobbito Garcia. Welcome to the studio.  Hola.  In the '90s their radio show on Columbia University's WKCR 89.9 helped introduce the voices of some of the most well-known artists in hip-hop today - Notorious B.I.G. Jay-Z Nas Eminem the Fugees. And Bobby I heard this crazy stat from you about the unsigned artists that debuted on your show.  Yeah well Stretch and I were on the air from 1990 to 1998. And in that eight-year time span 300 unsigned artists came through our doors and hopped on the mic. And to date in 2017 they collectively have sold an excess of 300 million records which is...  And counting right?  Yeah. So it is a figure that we came upon while creating the film  Radio That Changed Lives a documentary that is on Netflix and Showtime and in doing research for some of the stats. We had no idea back in the '90s that we had that profound of an effect on not just the artists but also the industry and also the listening audience. So it is kind of a crazy number.  Yeah. I mean you guys have joked about it being weird that you are on NPR but there has to be a moment when you realize you are professional interviewers. Stretch?   Come on.  That would be stretching it.  A little bit. A little bit.  Well I mean we have grown up quite a bit. If you were to only know us from the '90s I would think that maybe you would think twice about putting Stretch and Bob in anything NPR related.   We were on from 1 to 5 in the morning.  Yeah.  It was unscripted completely spontaneous. Humor was a huge part of the show. A lot of the humor was in the gutter. There...  And loopy as well because we were just so tired .  We - exactly. For - and for the first few years of the show I would play music until 5 a.m. And you know we were in our early 20s. The - doing the show was still somewhat novel to us. So you were just - you just had this energy. We were so thrilled to be on the radio. Once we became kind of jaded and - not jaded but we got used to it by 4 a.m. I would be too exhausted to concentrate on mixing records so we would start taking phone calls at 4 a.m. And literally we would take live uncensored with no delay phone calls from 4 to 5. That became known as Crunchtime. And that was pretty...  Bizarre.  It was bizarre.  It was straight bizarre.  The humor was often surreal. So it is very different from what we are doing  now.  That is true. That is true. We should say the new show you are doing with NPR is called What is Good with Stretch  Bobbito. And how did you approach who you wanted to talk to? Because one of the things I notice is it is not just about music but you mention both culture and identity. What about those two ideas did you want to explore?  I think the public is expecting us to do a hip-hop show. And Stretch and I we have a very vast array of friends communities that we are a part of and movements that we support. And what we want to do with What is Good is to open that up to not just the urban lifestyle that we supported and really lifted in the '90s but now like to open that up to art and politics and authors and chefs and musicians of course as well. And we have really worked hard with the NPR staff to cultivate who should be our guests. And during those interviews pointed discussions that are still very loose because it is - we are who we are and we cannot - we do not want to lose that. But at the same time we want to get to a narrative that is compelling for the audience as well.  And you get people to open up I think in such a warm way. And one of your early guests is Dave Chappelle who is obviously back in the public eye. And he talked about his past growing up in Washington D.C. including his first job.   I used to be an usher at Ford's Theater where Lincoln got shot.  Oh yeah?  Get out.  Yeah. Yeah. And I quit - like Chappelle's Show I just stopped going.   And then the guy who called me up he was like yo Dave do you want to come get your check? And I am like yeah I am not falling for that.  It is funny because Stretch you actually DJed his SNL appearance afterparty.  Right.  So you know him a little bit. This is different from interviewing unsigned unknown artists who are just trying to be on the come-up. I mean how did you approach this interview and these kinds of figures?  Well there actually is a similarity because there is a familiarity. So unsigned artists in the '90s they would listen to us every week on the radio. And so there was this sort of mutual respect mutual deference. And I think we have been blessed to have this foundation in our radio show that has sort of reverberated out through time where we can have a guest like Mahershala Ali who gave us this interview because of what we meant to him.  Right Oscar winner and...  Exactly.  Right. And you asked him about being the first Muslim Oscar winner. And I was like no one's asked him that yet. And like what - how that informed his work.  Yeah.   At the end of the day we are all spirits having a physical experience. And so when I look at those characters I have to connect to that person's spirit and go OK in this physical experience what is this person being educated about? What are they working to? How are they trying to improve? And that really comes from my relationship with Islam because it just makes me really conscious of my action.  And surely not every guest that we are going to have we are going to have that type of rapport with. But we depend on research with our production team to figure out the questions that we want to get out. And we do our research to see what have they offered to other interviews previous and then we try to go somewhere else. And then in the midst of the conversation of course you get that comfort zone and then you know that is where we start to explore other territory that is just on the spot. We also have a section of our show called Impression Session where Stretch and I because we are DJs and we are music selectors we provide our guests with a song to listen to and then we ask them to digest it and give their response. And that...  Which is still such an intimate thing I feel like sharing music with someone just playing something and being like what do you think of this?  Yeah I am much happier playing the music for someone than having the music being played for me.   Yeah it is like putting yourself out there right? You and your own tastes. And I think no matter how famous you get there is that...  Sure. Sure. Yeah.  ...Sort of vulnerable moment.  It is. And what it is provided is that people feel like they are hanging out with us in our living room. And then we have gotten some amazing responses. And the Impression Session will always be at the end of the show so it is kind of like that - the Easter egg at the end you know for our podcast listeners that we hope that they stick with it the whole way.  It is the reward.  Adrian Bartos aka Stretch Armstrong and Robert Bobbito Garcia. They host the new NPR podcast What is Good With Stretch  Bobbito. The first episode is out today. Guys thanks so much for coming in.  Aw thank you.  Thanks so much for having us.   I was going to say at the intro can you please mention my real name so that...  I will put your real name. It is still NPR.   So my relatives and everyone...  This one's for Adrian's mom.   ...All my family friends know this is real .  I have not been called Robert publicly in so long.  So you do not want the name.  I love the name Robert. But it is - you know when I emerged as Bobbito it just had a little more flavor you know?  