 And finally this hour a tribute to guitar master Les Paul. He was best known for the electric guitar that bears his name. He was also a star in his own right as a musician and a pioneer in multitrack recording. Les Paul died today of complications from pneumonia one week after his 94th birthday. NPR's Tom Cole has this appreciation.  Les Paul was first and foremost a musician. His understanding of music and especially the guitar enabled him to dream about electrifying his instrument and recording it in layers. But he could play.  Mr.  It is like a butterfly. It is just lightning speed but accurate and musical.  That is Jeff Beck who is done some pretty fierce picking on his Les Paul from a promotional CD released to celebrate his hero's 90th birthday. Mr.  I used to sit there and drool over how he did things you know just hitting the notes and letting three fingers peel off each of the strings. He could do amazing things there. He had it all.   Les Paul started on the harmonica as a kid in his hometown Waukesha Wisconsin. He was born Lester William Paulfuss and he was a born entertainer. At the age of eight he was making money as he told me in 1996. Mr.  I would go out there and stand on a table play at the Kiwanis Club and make 5 singing cowboy songs playing the harmonica. But my love my love was with Earl Hines and Coleman Hawkins.  Jazz players that he would heard on the radio. Paul moved to Chicago and landed his own radio shows playing country in the morning for one station and jazz at night for another. Mr.  When I heard Fats Waller when I heard all these other great players I knew that jazz is where I would like to go. And do you know I dropped from 1000 a week as a country singer down to 5 a week as a jazz player.  And that was Les Paul's conundrum -  popular entertainer or musical innovator? Performer or tinkerer? His father was an auto mechanic and some of that must have rubbed off. Paul traced it back even further. Mr.  Back to when I was in my crib and the train went by and I says when that train reaches that speed my bay window is moving mom.  Les Paul delighted in telling stories of his discoveries. He took the diaphragm out of a telephone handset and wired it to his radio to make his voice come out of the speaker. He made his own disc cutter out of a Cadillac flywheel. In 1941 Paul constructed his famous log as it was called - a four-by-four piece of lumber with strings and a pickup. While others were also experimenting it was his first solid body electric guitar. It did not go over so well. So he continued working on it at the same time he was experimenting with something called Sound on Sound.   Paul would record a guitar part onto a disc - then play that part back while playing a second part along with it - and record them both onto a second disc. He would repeat the process over and over. The Les Paul sound was born.   Les Paul got his first tape recorder from Bing Crosby and went to the Ampex Corporation which had been working with the Navy on developing multiple track data recording. Paul's musician's ears told him he could use it for something else.  Ms.   Dear one the world is waiting for the sunrise.  In 1949 Les Paul married singer Colleen Summers. He changed her name to Mary Ford. And in the home studio Les built they created million-selling records. The radio show they did from home ran for seven years but there was a downside to success. Mary wanted more of a home life. Les was obsessed with music. They divorced. Then paradoxically Les retired from the business for 10 years. He made his comeback in 1974 with an old friend Chet Atkins. Mr.  You see that red light Chet? Do not get it confused. That means we are on the air.  The record they made together won Les Paul his first Grammy.   A decade later at the age of 69 Les Paul began performing regularly at a New York jazz club. Mr.  All my life I was torn between being commercial and playing jazz.  It was a gig he kept almost until the end playing well into his 90s when arthritis slowed the lightning fingers. But for him the most important thing was connecting with an audience. Mr.  I never go to my dressing room. I go right off that stage and I go over and talk to them at the bar at the tables. I think the most important thing to do is to get out there and do what you were put on this earth to do. And I know mine was to love the guitar and play it and it be with other people.  And that is how Les Paul should be remembered. Tom Cole NPR News.  Les Paul died today. He was 94 years old. You could hear more Les Paul recordings and interviews with him at the new npr.org.  Mr.  Chet that is the first time I knew you were not the greatest.  Mr.  Let us go back and play again Chet. Mr.  All right.  Mr.  Look at this one.  