 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am David Greene.  And I am Robert Siegel. Violinist Hilary Hahn pointed out to me that she is - despite some confusion -30 years old. I am not sure what confusion she was referring to but it may be that it is hard to square her youthfulness with a career that included recording the Beethoven Concerto back in 1999. As you will hear this is a young woman on a fast track.  a pair of pieces from different centuries one from the standard repertoire the other composed especially for her. First there is the Tchaikovsky Violin Concerto.   I asked Hilary Hahn about playing a piece that is been performed even recorded so many times before and she said that she is learned how much of her own personality and that of the orchestra she can bring to playing it. Ms.  It is kind of more like painting landscapes with a certain given set of tools. You might have the same brush and paint and scenery as someone next to you but you could paint it entirely differently or it is like acting when you have a script and no two people say the same sentence in the same way. Phrasing is the idea of finding sentences and using punctuation in speech. I often look at the score to see what is written in by the composer to see if I can find clues to those directions like what direction did the composer have in mind and I try to incorporate those things as much as possible. Sometimes the smallest detail has a big emotional impact on how a part comes across. So I look for the original bowing markings whether something is supposed to be short or long whether something is supposed to be a crescendo or decrescendo. So there are just a lot of things to consider and I just - it is a combination of being prepared and studying and then also just going with the moment.  You have a very different relationship to the Higdon Violin Concerto - Jennifer Higdon. You do not have to go puzzling out the bow marks in this score.   She was your teacher and she wrote this piece for you to play it. Ms.  It is funny when I call her or if I see her in a rehearsal and I say well in this part what did you mean when you wrote this? Was it supposed to be a short note or was it supposed to start with a bit of a bite like you know I was not supposed to go somewhere or is it an isolated note? She will say gosh let me look at the score. I do not remember. Let me get back. What was I trying to do when I wrote that? Because she is very busy. She writes a lot of pieces. So it is kind of funny. It is really been enlightening for me to work with composers because I used to think that everything in the music was exactly what the composer meant. Well it is what the composer meant in that moment when they wrote it.  The composer might not remember exactly what she meant at that moment is what you are saying? Ms.  Right. Or play it another way that the composer did not think of initially. The composer might like that other way too. So it made me a lot less confident about what is in the score but at the same time it is taught me a lot about interpretation and structure and creativity within classical music.  Jennifer Higdon the composer of this concerto which she wrote for you to play. It is a Pulitzer Prize-winning composition. Let us hear some of it... Ms.  Okay.  ...and tell me what is going on here.  Ms.  So this is the opening. I am playing by myself. These are harmonics. So it is a trick to make the note sound really high when you are not playing in a high position.  Ms.  And that sort of tinkling ticking noise in the background is played by knitting needles on percussion. So...  Knitting needles? Ms.  Knitting needles. It is been funny in every rehearsal that we have done for this piece of every new artist I played with when she is been there - and oh here you hear the harmonics are continued by the concert master the first violinist in the orchestra and I am playing the sustained notes underneath so it is kind of this continuity and layering. But every time we start the piece she has to check with the percussionist that they have the right knitting needles because there is a certain gauge apparently that works.  Ms.  And I find her lines for violin - she is a flute player so she writes in a way that would also sound good on flute. It is not how people normally write for violin. Often there is a lot of hidden counterpoints. So there will be counterpoints when you have multiple voices kind of interweaving with each other.  Ms.  You hear how it sounds like a random line kind of like the notes are kind of going ooh...  Yes yes it has that. Ms.  Actually all the top notes are melody and all the bottom notes are melody. And it is kind of staggered.  Ms.  It helps as a player to recognize that because you can come up with phrasings that highlight that and highlight the lyricism. Even though something might seem to be quick and jumping around it could actually be very slow in nature.  I want to ask you a little bit about yourself. Ms.  Yes.  You are 30 years old. Ms.  I am.  And you finished college and conservatory at Curtis Institute 11 years ago in 1999. Ms.  I graduated in '99 after finishing my requirements in '96. Yeah.  Yeah. So people doing their subtraction right now will figure out...   ...that you in effect finished college when you were... Ms.  Sixteen.  ...16 years old. Ms.  Yeah.  To say you were on the fast track would be an understatement here. Ms.  It is just kind of a series of coincidences. It sounds like I had this big plan to be precocious but it really was not like that. I grew up without TV I grew up listening to radio I grew up reading. And by the time I - so I started first grade when I was 5. And then by the time I hit fifth grade I was getting more involved in more hours of practicing and I was taking ballet I was taking piano. I just did not have much time for myself. So I started home schooling. By the time I was 12 I was starting my high school stuff in home schooling. I talked to the dean of the Curtis Institute of Music where I was in school. I had been there for a couple of years taking lessons and doing chamber music. And he said well why do not you just take our course and get started with your bachelor's degree requirements? If it does not work you can take a break go back to the high school stuff and come back and do this later. But it worked really well. And so therefore I started my college courses at 12.  Mm-hmm. Ms.  So it just kind of happened.  Yeah. Ms.  And it was so much fun. They were like a protective family. Everyone looked out for me. I could never understand why I was not invited to the parties. I thought it was because I was not popular or people did not like me you know because...  Did not have to do with 13 years old that was... Ms.  Exactly.  They did not refer to you as the statement...  Ms.  It occurred to me when I found out what the parties were like.  Ms.  I am like oh grown-up parties. Okay. Okay. Not just cheese and crackers.   Well Hilary Hahn thank you very much for talking with us. Ms.  Thank you. It is my pleasure.  Hilary Hahn violinist has recorded the Higdon  Tchaikovsky Violin Concertos on her new album. You can hear it in its entirety at our website nprmusic.org.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 