 Michael Giacchino is one of the most successful and in-demand composers in Hollywood. He has written the scores for the TV series Lost the last two Star Trek movies The Incredibles and Ratatouille. In 2010 he won an Oscar for his score for Up and this summer three blockbuster films feature his music. One of them has extra significance for the composer as Tim Greiving explains.   You will know Michael Giacchino's music if you see the futuristic Tomorrowland.   Or the animated film about the emotions living inside a little girl Inside Out.   Or the return to the island of resurrected dinosaurs Jurassic World.   Giacchino did not always know he wanted to compose music for the movies but he always knew he was destined to spend his life inside them.  I was just obsessed with film-making. There was something just about the idea of making films that was a combination of almost every art form you can imagine.  Giacchino grew up in Edgewater N.J. far from Hollywood but he spent hours and hours inside movie theaters. And one director's work stood above the rest - Steven Spielberg's.  He was my first film school teacher really unbeknownst to him. When I was not able to get myself to a theater to rewatch E.T. for the hundredth time - or Raiders Of The Lost Ark - the only way to relieve those movies was to listen to the soundtrack. The other thing I would do is I would sneak tape recorders into the movie theaters and I would record all my favorite movies. I still have all of those cassettes and I would just listen to Raiders Of The Lost Ark over and over and over.    Meet me at Omar's. Be ready for me. I am going after that truck.   How?   I do not know. I am making this up as I go.  Giacchino decided he wanted to compose music for film while in college. But he wound up working in the publicity department at Disney which took him out to Los Angeles and eventually to an assistant producer job at Disney Interactive.  And because I knew about music they would always give me - all right here's all the demo CDs that came in. See if you like any of these. We have got to hire someone to do the music for this game. And eventually I just said well how about if I just write the music. And they are like well can you set up a music studio? And I said sure I can do that.  A few years later he ended up at DreamWorks Interactive where he continued plugging away as a video game producer. In 1997 DreamWorks was making a Lost World game for the PlayStation while Steven Spielberg was shooting the movie. One day Giacchino got a phone call.  Patrick Gilmore the game's producer called me and said hey you know we have got this meeting. Steven's coming tomorrow. Can you write a piece of music that we could just put behind the animation reel that we are going to show him? I was like all right sure.  He wrote it that night handed it in the next morning and went back to his office. Then he got another phone call.  And it was Patrick and he said hey could you come down? Stephen would like to talk to you. My head was elsewhere and I remember saying Stephen who? And he said was like Steven Spielberg - remember our boss?  Giacchino had no idea what Spielberg would say when they shook hands.  What he asked me was so when are we recording this with a live orchestra? And the CEO and the CFO on either side of him weeks before having said no we are never going to do anything with a live orchestra were suddenly then saying well I think Michael's putting a budget together for that right now are not you Michael? And I was like yes I am. And he said great 'ecause it has to be a live orchestra.   The Lost World became the first console game to have music played by a real orchestra. That led to the Medal Of Honor game series. A young writer-producer named J.J. Abrams played those games and liked the music so much that he contacted Giacchino about scoring the TV show Alias. J.J.  Michael's music was the kind of music that I would find myself listening to in headphones when I was writing. And it just felt like clearly whoever was writing this music was as obsessed with the scores that I was familiar with growing up.  After Alias Abrams asked Giacchino to score the TV series Lost and then all of his movies including Mission Impossible III Super 8 and the massively successful resurrection of Star Trek.   I think the thing that makes his music so emotional and so relatable and potent is because he has a big heart. He is got a great sense of humor. He is an incredibly sweet guy and his talent is immeasurably connected to his passion his caring his kindness. And while he can write incredibly intense and dark stuff too what I love about Michael is that it all comes from a sense of humanity and humor.  A sensibility that allows Michael Giacchino to conjure The Incredibles or Dawn Of The Planet Of The Apes or this summer's Inside Out. But it always comes back to dinosaurs so when he was asked to score Jurassic World it was a no-brainer.  It was everything that sort of launched me into this insane business. I was like yes absolutely. It was just like coming home in this weird strange way.  And it all started with a phone call and to this day Michael Giacchino wonders.  What would have happened if I had gotten a flat tire that day? .  For NPR News I am Tim Greiving in Los Angeles. 