 Mali's best-known singer Salif Keita has long spoken out on behalf of albinos. He is an albino himself and he knows the condescension superstition and fear that his condition inspires in much of Africa. On his new album La Difference Keita sings about the subject for the first time. Reviewer Banning Eyre says the album's title track encapsulates the career and biography of an African legend all in one song.  Mr.     My skin is white my blood is black but that difference is beautiful something to celebrate. Keita descends from a noble line in Mali and when he became a singer in the late '60s it was a serious violation of protocol in his traditional society. Singers entertained nobles. Nobles did not sing. But facing life as an albino in Africa Keita decided early on that he was going to make his own rules. And that is exactly what he is done ever since.  Mr.    The stigma of albinism has always been part of Keita's biography one of the things he overcame on his way to international stardom. But then he began hearing grisly stories about massacres in other parts of Africa - albinos being sacrificed so their blood hair and body parts could be sold for use in rituals. A few years back Keita started a foundation to counter superstition about albinism. But with this song he makes it personal saying not only that albinism is beautiful but that the very fact of being different is beautiful.  Mr.    Keita has traveled a long road to sing this song both in his life experience and also musically. After experimenting with jazz reggae Latin music and rock Keita had a revelation a few years back. He arrived at what he considers an ideal blend of traditional African sounds and modern musical aesthetics a sound that perfectly expresses who he is.  Mr.    This is Keita's third album since his musical epiphany and it finds him more at home in his sound than ever.  I am black and I am white and I am proud. Vive la difference indeed.  Mr.    Banning Eyre is senior editor at Afropop.org. He reviewed La Difference by Salif Keita.  Mr.    You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 