 If you head to YouTube and search '80s version or '80s remix you will find thousands of synth-drenched takes on modern pop and rock songs. That is the phrase Annie Zaleski uses in her piece about this trend for NPR Music. Hi Annie.  Hi how are you?  I am good. I want to start right off with an example.  - 80s  What we are about to hear is not part of a Jazzercise mix tape even though it sounds like it could be.  - 80s   Kiss me hard before you go summertime sadness.  This of course is the '80s remix of Lana Del Rey's Summertime Sadness. She was born in the 1980s and now let us listen to the original version of the song which came out in 2012.    Kiss me hard before you go summertime sadness.  Annie when did you first notice that everybody was taking these pop songs and remixing them to an '80s track?  You know it was a couple years ago. I stumbled upon a remix of a Justin Bieber song that sounded - it really slowed everything down. It did not really have kind of a modern electronic backdrop. It sounded more like it was a roller rink hit from like 1985.  Right. That Bieber track was What Do You Mean? Let us listen to the original one.    What do you mean oh when you nod your head yes but you want to say no? What do you mean?  And then here's the '80s version.    What do you mean oh when you nod your head yes but you want to say no? What do you mean?  Why is this happening?  I think part of it is just the music is - it is so escapist. I mean everything - everyone right now I think is feeling a little stressed out by everything that is going on. You think of the '80s. It is like hanging out by the pool you know maybe thinking about a first kiss. And it is just very - you know it is very fun. It is very low stress. And it is like being on vacation all the time.   Who are the people doing these remixes?  So there is - kind of the patient zero is a man named Jerry Shen who is a Canadian musician and a software developer. And he runs a YouTube channel under the name  has just done - he is done dozens of these.  What is your favorite one of them?  TRONICBOX did a remix of Somebody That I Used To Know.  Oh by Gotye.  Yes. It is perfect.    Now and then I think of when we were together like when you said you felt so happy you could die.  Listening to a bunch of these makes me think about how interchangeable so much pop music is even a track like Gotye which I always thought was kind of innovative and different from other things on the radio. When it gets remixed into an '80s song it sounds like just another pop song.   These remixes really do highlight how modern vocal production is very homogenous. What is interesting is that a lot of '80s production is also kind of limited in that sense. I mean I think instrumentation synthesizers were just becoming popular at that point. So there were only certain synthesizers that were available to people. There is a synthesizer called the DX7 that was kind of primitive but everyone used it.   You talked to some of the most avid '80s remixers. What did you learn from them?  You know I learned basically how time intensive they are. I talked to a 23-year-old multi-instrumentalist from Sweden named Johan Olsson because I discovered a Fall Out Boy remix he did. You know hearing his process where he found vocalist Patrick Stump's vocals that were isolated and he built an entirely new musical track around this.    We are going down down in an earlier round. And sugar we are going down swinging. I will be your No. 1 with a bullet.  He added compositions. He created you know a new vibe. And so it was very impressive by just how careful and creative and also just very smart it was. You know these are not just kind of silly Internet memes. There is a lot of very earnest creativity that goes into this.  Do you have a favorite for us to go out on?  Oh man. You know there is an Ed Sheeran remix of Shape Of You and it basically sounds like it is from Minneapolis in the early '80s.    And I am thinking like girl you know I want your love. Your love was handmade for somebody like me. Come on now follow my lead.  Yeah I could hear Prince doing this.    Do not mind me. Say boy let us not talk too much.  Annie Zaleski who wrote about '80s remixes on YouTube for NPR Music thanks so much.  Thank you.    Come on now follow my lead. I am in love with the shape of you. We push and pull like a magnet do. Although my heart is falling too I am in love with your body. And last night you were in my room. And now my bed sheets smell like you. 