 A little diversion now from politics and trouble everywhere - time to go to a festival and not just any old festival. This summer we are visiting some offbeat festivals and we start by venturing to that string of islands at the bottom of Florida.  I am Nancy Klingener on Big Pine Key Fla. reporting on the Underwater Music Festival. Can you sort of describe what happens?  Well everybody goes down the - they pipe the music underwater. Sometimes they have people that are dressed up and doing some fun stuff under the water there and it is just a beautiful reef.  Bill Becker founded this festival back in 1982.  Bill Becker. I am news director at US1 Radio. Sound underwater is a lot different than sound in the air. It travels five times faster so you feel like the sound is all around you. And it comes not just through your ears but through your jaw through your head. You feel the music as much as you hear it.  How do you choose the music?  Oh I look for music that has a nautical theme and then I also look for music that sounds good underwater.    Wishing I was knee deep in the water somewhere. Got the blue sky breeze and it do not seem fair. Only worry in the world is the tide going to reach my chair.  Tell me about what you are doing here today?  Well I do the fish-inspired-type instruments. They are all made out of copper and a little bit of brass.  Can you name some of them for me?  Here's the flying fish whistle the saxeelphone  the conch horn and fiddler crab wahoo kazoo and a sitar fish.  Can you guys kind of describe what you are doing?  Right this moment we are going to be magically transformed into some mermaids. The tail I am wearing - pretty much a tight Lycra suit that goes up to the waist and it has a mano fin built into the bottom. And it looks like - kind of like a pink disco ball.  OK guys everybody take a seat at this time. We are going to get underway. First my name's Larry . Our mermaids will be Sarah  and Nikki . Let us have a round of applause for our mermaids.   Is this your first time at the festival?  This is my first time yes and that was a lot of fun.  Could you hear the music down there?  Yes I could hear it. It was fantastic.  What was your favorite thing?  Seeing different kinds of coral that I have never seen before and tropical fish where it is in abundance and they are just swimming all around you. It is very exciting.  Plus mermaids right?  Plus mermaids yes.    Sunrise there is a fire in the sky. Never been so happy never felt...  For NPR News I am Nancy Klingener at the Underwater Music Festival at Looe Key reef off the Florida Keys.    Wrote a note said be back in a minute. Bought a boat and I sailed off in it. Do not think anybody's going to miss me anyway. 