  Among those who finally got back to work recently - the 18 musicians of the Seattle Repertory Jazz Orchestra...   ...A sign of the times in Seattle which has fully vaccinated over 70 of its residents 12 and over. You can even buy a ticket to attend in person or you could buy a pass to watch an online livestream.  I had three commission works that I completed during the pandemic.  The orchestra played a new work composed by a friend of this program international touring bassist and Jazz Night In America host Christian McBride. He wrote it when his shows were canceled and he was stuck at home.  It was really good for me to not be on the road for the first time in you know 32 years you know just to be able to wake up in my own bed like five days in a row. I cannot remember the last time that is happened you know?  As Christian was set to fly across the country to perform his new composition we caught up with him and we spoke about jazz clubs and festivals all over the world reopening but also about those that did not make it.  A couple of places come to mind - The Blue Whale in Los Angeles which was a real haven for creative music on the West Coast. And here in the New York area it was the Jazz Standard.    When Lester took him a wife...  I have some personal history with the Jazz Standard because that is where I met my wife. And so when the Jazz Standard closed that really hurt.    ...Drove them from their hotel bed. Love is never easy.  So obviously live performance is a big part of jazz. But here we were in the Zoom videoconferencing age which is tough enough for us just to talk and have like nerdy meetings. I cannot imagine actually trying to perform - right? - with the delay in the lack of eye contact and all that sort of stuff. How did you and how did the industry cope?  It got a little dicey when musicians tried to play together over Zoom because you know the technology has not quite caught up with what the music needs you know because there is a little bit of latency in Zoom you know? That is why it is so easy to kind of talk over someone - because there is always like a .5 second delay. And our friend Dan Tepfer the wonderful pianist - he is one of the people behind JackTrip this program which is still in beta testing. And we also played a live concert over JackTrip and there is no latency.   It was one of the most incredible things I had ever experienced you know? So with something like that which will I am sure at some point become standard you know you could improvise with musicians across the world. You could play a duet concert with someone in Japan. You know you could play a concert with someone in Europe or South America or wherever it is. So that was one of the very very bright spots of the pandemic.   As you said musicians obviously are still productive even without us around - right? - even without audiences so to speak. What are some of the sort of works that were released these last couple of months that were kind of remarkable and that are products of this weird time in our history?  You know so many musicians did so many great things but it is also been an interesting time for some real incredible multi-instrumentalists to sort of do their thing and flourish. Nicholas Payton...   He came to prominence as you know one of the world's greatest trumpet players. He is also a fine pianist a fine bass player drummer vocalist. He is annoyingly talented. You know he came out with a project called Quarantined With Nick.   Another great multi-instrumentalist - my friend Chris Potter.   He came out with a project called There Is A Tide where he plays all the instruments. So I do not know. I am starting to feel like a slacker.   I know that you are artistic director of the Newport Jazz Festival. That is coming in August.    My man do not love me.  What does it mean to reopen? Can you give us some sense for instance with the Newport Jazz Festival kind of how you guys are thinking about approaching this either creatively or logistically?  Well I think on the creative side we felt that all of us collectively just the entire country - you know everybody's so excited to get out again. Just put some great musicians together and people are going to want to see it.   So thanks you all for coming out once again. And I will talk to you all in a minute. We are going to play this.   But being safe and I believe being smart we are still going to have limited capacity. We are only going to go 50 in both audience and musicians. But I think it is going to have a deep impact on both the musicians and the people who come.   I know that you are a part of the sort of Save Our Stages kind of support and lobbying effort. But when you think about what live venues might be like in the future do you see us going back to all being crammed in a you know small space somewhere  getting that feel like that I think of when I think of a jazz club?  I think there will come a time where we all will be jammed up in the club again. There will be plenty of hand sanitizer handy - no pun intended. One thing I would love to see remain is the whole technology angle. With that being said I would like to see venues start to set their places up for livestreaming. That way we can see what is going on at the Blue Note in Tokyo at any given time. You know you just pay a ticket and watch the show.   I always think about my very first time going to Japan and I would see certain people walking around with face masks on and I did not understand what that was. And they pointed out that oh that is when people have a cold. They put a mask on just to be mannerly. And I thought wow how sweet is that? You know so just pure manners I hope becomes a part of our culture once we open back up fully again.   That is Christian McBride host of Jazz Night In America from NPR Music WBGO and Jazz at Lincoln Center. Thanks so much.  Audie it is so great to speak with you again.  