 Carrie Underwood was the fourth season winner of American Idol but instead of becoming a footnote she is become possibly the biggest star in modern country music. She sold more than 16 million albums and had over a dozen No. 1 hits including Before He Cheats.    I dug my key into the side of his pretty little souped-up four-wheel drive carved my name into his leather seats. I took...  Her latest LP leans into modern RB as well as country a stylistic pivot you could hear on That Song We Used To Make Love To.    Do not want to feel that bass rattle in my bones 'ecause once I do I know it will not leave my alone.  The album is called Cry Pretty and our critic Will Hermes sees an artist pushing her creative boundaries. Here's his review.  The line separating country from RB and pop have always been thin but lately that is more true than ever. Carrie Underwood confirmed it earlier this year with her single The Champion. So the mix of styles and her new album is no big surprise.    That song that we made...  I am also not surprised how great parts of this album sound. Underwood's voice is among the few worthwhile things that ever came out of American Idol and that voice owns pretty much anything it touches like this song called Drinking Alone which is one part drown-your-sorrows country and two parts Amy Winehouse soul.    We should be drinking alone together. Drowning the pain is better with somebody else who got problems. We as not going to solve them. But misery loves company. Tonight all I need...  What does surprise me about the album Cry Pretty is not just one but two songs about gun violence.    You can blame it on hate or blame it on guns. But mamas as not supposed to bury their sons.  Mainstream country artists used to weigh in regularly on controversial issues. Think Loretta Lynn and Johnny Cash. But since the heyday of the Dixie Chicks musicians seemed scared to risk it. Carrie Underwood is proving an exception. She addressed domestic violence in her 2016 hit Church Bells. And in a new song called The Bullet she charts the effect of a man's death on the generations that follow.    Through the son he will never get to raise his daughter on her wedding day wishing it was his hand she was holding till every heart that is left to break is broken the bullet keeps on going.  The bullet does not address gun laws and it does not mention the 58 people shot dead at a country music festival in Las Vegas last year. But unquestionably it conjures them. So does Love Wins a song that rhymes politics and prejudice...    Politics and prejudice...  ...With how the hell did it ever come to this? It is a good question one that Underwood does not answer. But then that is our job. Hers is making massively popular country records something she does masterfully. The fact she is engaging an issue most of her industry peers have met with deafening silence is one more reason to admire her.  Carrie Underwood's Cry Pretty is out now. Our critic Will Hermes is author of the book Love Goes To Buildings On Fire.    'ecause I believe you and me are sisters and brothers. And I believe we are made to be here for each other. And we will never fall if we walk hand in hand put a world that seems broken together again. Yeah I believe in the end love wins. 