   Time and tide will sweep all away.  That is the voice of Peter Hollens an a cappella singer from Oregon who likes the current system. In fact he credits his success as a performer to the proliferation of his music online. Welcome to the program Peter.  Hi. Thank you so much for having me.  So how are you seeing this differently from artists who are feeling like this is out of my control and I cannot really profit from it?  Yeah. It is so interesting. I think this entire thing comes down to education. So I am able to make my entire living without having to go on tour without having to go play any bars or clubs just in the comfort of my own home. And I have been able to do this as a 36-year-old dorky dad doing a cappella music in his garage mostly in his underwear. And you know I make a great six-figure living because of my amazing community online and I - I am able to do it because I believe that the future of music is one in which it goes hand-in-hand with technology.  How do you combat the online piracy of your work or does it not bother you at all?  I think I have relinquished that fight I think for a long time. In the beginning of my solo career I really tried to go after each one of those links and send them into Google and get them to take it down. But it is literally impossible. You would need an army. I think you cannot fight that and I think the better mindset is that you want your music to be out there and you want it to be as accessible as possible. So if people are going to steal it they are going to steal it. And I truthfully believe this with all my heart.  Help us understand this though. You said a six-figure income. What are the income streams?  Gosh yeah. So I need to make sure that I am having my hand in every cookie jar possible right? So whether that is ad revenue from YouTube as - is the big hot topic right now digital streams from Spotify you know Apple you know purchases of you know physical sales or brand deals because I am an influencer online. And so I can work with companies like Disney and Royal Caribbean and funding from my supporters. So it is basically like I almost have my own salary that you know 1600 people are giving me for every single video I upload.  You basically said that you know all those pennies and fractions of a penny in terms of streaming they start to add up. That is one way you make money. Also you work with brands like Disney you mentioned so companies say can you make a video where you you know mention us? And then also people just pay you directly - right? - a kind of modern patronage system.  Exactly. And I think if you want to make a living doing music now that the best way to do it is to kind of treat yourself like a Silicon Valley startup and I think this is the future.  Peter Hollens is a singer and songwriter from Oregon. He joined us via Skype. Thank you so much for talking with us.  Absolutely. My pleasure.   . 