 The band Divino Nino's new album Foam is full of dreamy beach-ready pop songs.    Seven dollars and a Coca Cola.  This is their debut but it sounds like the guys have been playing together forever which is kind of the case.  Yeah. I think I used to take the same bus. We used to call him Pavarotti because like he was singing on the bus a lot.   So...  And so that is Divino Nino bassist and singer Javier Forero talking about guitarist and singer Camilo Medina. Those bus rides were in Bogota Colombia when they were young children. The boys lost touch when Forero moved to Miami. Years later Medina moved to Miami as a teenager and another bus ride brought them back together.  Cam was getting on the bus and he saw me. And he was like wait. I think I know that kid. And I realized wait. That is Camilo. I know this guy.  They started hanging out and going to church together. They were into the message but Medina told me that there was one thing that really drew the teens to the church.   We could play music. And I - finally were able to play in a band which we did not even know what we were missing out on. I had never listened to The Beatles. And for a long period of our adolescence we missed out on listening to kind of bad boy music.  But it cemented your friendship and gave you experience in a band.  Yeah. We played live for people for the first time at the church. I think to me that was so cool.    Brighter to me you look brighter. I want to hold you all the time.  So how did you find your sound as Divino Nino?  Divino Nino started because it was our first exposure to like classic rock 'n' roll from the '60s and '70s. We did not listen to this stuff until we were 20 and until we moved to Chicago.  Do you mean like The Beach Boys The Lovin' Spoonful that sort of thing?  Exactly.    And now we sit here breezing off self-destructive ways to run through the ceiling your dog talks. Is this real?  I associate that sound with LA and you live in Chicago. So how does your music come out of the city that you are in? Or does it at all?  First of all we grew up in Colombia and in Miami and I think our personalities are a bit softer and easygoing. We are not - we have not been scarred by the winter all of our lives so...   You do not have that thick Chicago skin.  Exactly but we have been building it.  Yeah. We have also learned to appreciate it. You know it is like yeah it builds you know tough skin.  So you feel like you appreciate that chill summer vibe a little more now that you have to live through Chicago winters.  Oh without a doubt. I think that is why we made it like that because we are like this is a little heavy over here .  Let us get a specific example. What is another song we can listen to that really gives us that sense?  I think probably Quiero.   Quiero has a very summery vibe The beginning sounds like you just open up a beer about to hangout.  Sand between your toes.   .  The album has songs in Spanish and English and sometimes both. How does that work when you are writing these tracks? How do you decide what language you are going to use?  Yeah. Most of the album is in English. The songs that are in Spanish is less of a conscious effort and more of like this came out and it sounds kind of good.   .  So you are not consciously trying to appeal to an audience that wants to hear Latin music or that wants to hear English lyrics. You are just writing what feels best to you.  Oh Lord yes absolutely. I feel like the minute that I try to please any exterior person I do not know if I will enjoy it that much and I do not know if it will sound as truth. The reason I think what drives us is the fact that we can find truth in the music a feeling that feels real and I think sharing that feeling is what is really really important to us.  You know every day immigration is in the news. We hear about Colombia all the time because of the Venezuelan refugee crisis. Your music does not touch on any of that. It is not at all political. I mean these are mostly love songs. Are you trying to avoid the stuff that is in the headlines every day? Or is this just you writing about what comes out when you put pen to paper?  You know we obviously like know what is going on in the current events. But definitely I think the reason why I started going to shows is because after like shows I had kind of like a reason to believe in something. It is not like I do not want to touch on those topics and eventually maybe we will but we at this point for this record we wanted to just offer entertainment.   Does it just blow your mind that you found each other and made this music and this band together after this long winding path that took you across two continents to so many cities over so many years? It is just incredible.  It was really wild. It is very crazy that we are still buddies. It is really wild. We are kind of like brothers. Making music is extremely easy. Sometimes when I work with other people it is like I wonder do you like this? Do you not like this? And I think with Javi we skipped that step because as soon as we sound dumb we are like yeah we both are like yep this is dumb as hell man. Let us do something else. It makes it so much crazier.  Yeah. I mean I think it comes with its challenges you know? But yeah I mean I am so lucky to have a long friendship so I really appreciate it. I never take it for granted even though sometimes you know we butt heads or whatever. But I love it and I am very grateful.    Melty caramelo tender mellow I believe in you.  Well Camilo Medina and Javier Forero it is been great talking to both of you. Thanks a lot.  Thank you so much Ari.  A pleasure.  Their band is Divino Nino and the new album is Foam. 