 Today is the third of June a date marked by the song Ode To Billie Jo. In 1967 it was a number one hit for Bobbie Gentry a singer-songwriter from Chickasaw County Mississippi. For two weeks Gentry was bigger than the Beatles as her album bumped Sergeant Pepper off the top of the charts. The song has been covered sampled and even inspired a film of the same name. Yet it is confounded listeners for decades. Reviewer Meredith Ochs tells us why.  From its opening notes Ode To Billie Joe transports you to rural Mississippi to its formal life and church-based communities. It appears idyllic from outside but spend a short time in Bobbie gentry's world and you quickly realize it is filled with dark secrets.   And then she said I got some news this morning from Choctaw Ridge. Today Billie Joe McAllister jumped off the Tallahatchie Bridge.  Part of Ode To Billie Joe's enduring power is that the song asks more questions than it answers. There is a suicide in the first verse and it just gets weirder after that. Why did Billie Joe jump off the bridge? Is the girl who is singing the same girl spotted with Billie Joe on the bridge? What did they throw off the bridge? And how could you eat biscuits at a time like this?   Well Billie Joe never a lick of sense. Pass the biscuits please. There is five more acres in the lower 40 I have got to plow. And Mama said it was a shame about Billie Joe anyhow.  Of course Ode To Billy Joe's narrative is not the only story. What is really compelling is how the characters in the song deal with tragedy - making it idle talk over dinner burying the secrets behind it disassociating from its reality.   There was a virus going 'round. Papa caught it and he died last spring. And now Mama does not seem to want to do much of anything. And me - I spend a lot of time picking flowers up on Choctaw Ridge. And drop them into the muddy water off the Tallahatchie Bridge.  Bobbie Gentry is as mysterious as her Southern Gothic masterpiece. She rarely gave interviews and disappeared from public life in the mid-1970s. Gentry spoke little of her childhood except to say she grew up without electricity and did not have many toys. Perhaps that contributed to the rich imagination that yielded this enigmatic song. On this year's anniversary of Ode to Billie Joe I would like to say thank you Bobbie Gentry for igniting our imaginations and for giving us a gentle lesson in how to live better lives.   I was out chopping cotton and my brother was baling hay.  Reviewer Meredith Ochs is a talk show host and DJ at Sirius XM Radio. She gave us an appreciation of Bobbie Gentry's 1967 hit Ode To Billie Joe.   And Mama hollered out the back door you all remember to wipe your feet. And then she said I got some news this morning from Choctaw Ridge.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 