 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  And I am Robert Siegel. They Might Be Giants have been making quirky smart - some say geeky - pop songs since the 1980s. They found early success with songs like Birdhouse in Your Soul and a cover of the old novelty tune Istanbul . And more recently the group has been writing children's songs. Well now the two men who are They Might Be Giants John Linnell and John Flansburgh are both in their 50s and they have returned to writing songs for grown-ups. Their new album is called Join Us. This is the first track. It is called Cannot Keep Johnny Down.    Men piled up in the towering mound. None of them once has found the way to keep Johnny down. Spending days by myself remembering slights. I am not a monument to justice. Plus which I do not forget a face. And they cannot cannot keep Johnny down. Down down down. They have not yet built the man that'ill keep old Johnny down. Down down down.  Well joining us in the studio are They Might Be Giants. John Linnell and John Flansburgh welcome to the program once again.  Thanks for having us.  It is an impossible pleasure to be here...  That is John Flansburgh.  ...in your beautiful air-conditioned studios.   Tell me about Cannot Keep Johnny Down.  Well it is a work of fiction. A lot of people assume - and not without reason - that there is a character named John it must refer to one of us.  Someone might get that impression.  Yeah. Yeah. You might. And work - in some ways we are kind of leading people in that direction I think.  Too easy.  Yeah.    And they do not - down down down - do not know what I have seen. Down down down. They cannot know what is in here. Down down down. And they cannot keep Johnny down. Down down down.  The last time that I interviewed you both was in 2002 and you had launched the new phase of your career which was making music for - I would say children I think you said entire families.  Yes. Well no no. I mean we are happy to say it was for kids. The kids' stuff really took us by surprise. We did a kids' album as a one-off and it just was met with so much positivity from critics and real-life families that it just immediately launched us into a second career sort of a parallel career. And it came perilously close to taking over our career a couple years ago. Now we have come back to this.  One difference between making an album like this as opposed to making one for children is the themes and the words you use to describe it.  Sure. Yeah. I mean we - that is exactly right. I think we want to talk about things that are hard to talk about you know and music is a great way to open that door. And you know we really grew up in the heyday of experimental popular music you know the late '60s and early '70s. Those songs are kind of the role models for what we think pop music can be. And if you want to bring an experimental sensibility to a three-minute-long song you do not have to reference Strawberry Fields Forever. You can make up your own very-hard-to-understand music.     Dystopio Smashedtobits the keeper of dust the builder of rust. When you discover Sleep's older brother the trio is finally complete. The trio has just one conceit forged by their past first in their class. Three might be duende three might be duende three might be duende three might be duende three might be duende at last.  Three Might Be Duende.  Yeah. It is like the Three Musketeers with vocabulary words.  Yes with vocabulary words.  Duende is a delightful word that I think in at least one definition of it  It is hard to define.    a difficult-to-define word used in the Spanish arts including performing arts. From the original meaning a fairy- or goblin-like creature the artistic and especially musical term was derived.  It really means the spirit of art but in the sense of the passion inside - artistic expression.  It is like the Hispanic soul...  Yes yes.  ...of these pieces. That is just one word that your album sent me to the dictionary to look up. Cloisonne.  Cloisonne.  Cloisonne.  Yeah. This was like self-improvement at NPR today.   The vocabulary list that comes with your album.  Cloisonne was something that we did in high school art class where you have this glass dust that you melt in a kiln and it turns into a beautiful piece of jewelry that you give to your mother.    You start getting no conversatin'. Sleestak. What is a sleestak? That is your heart attack towel rack fallback.  We are not trying to send people running to the dictionary.   That is not - it is really not the point.  No I think it is in the spirit of just opening things up. You know there are other - there are interesting topics you can put into a song.    You have a friend in law enforcement. Do not go calling law enforcement. Cloisonne.  On one track you both tell a story and also give direction...  Oh...  ...to the visual...  Yes.  ...accompanying images we should be seeing at that time.  That song is called Protagonist and there is actually portions of the lyric - the stage direction part - that come directly from a how-to-write-screenplays tutorial which I changed suddenly to avoid...   ...copyright infringement issues.    She stole my air guitar. Exterior. Man on lawn alone at dawn. Packed the typewriter and drove off in her car. A battered automobile drives past state line sign. And now I know that I will rue the day I let her get away. I need a haircut. I have got myself to blame. A gloved hand spins a combination dial quickly opening a large wall safe.  So now that you have both turned 50 years old...  Yes.  ...what is so different about doing this from you know 25 years ago?  It is surprisingly not that different. Maybe we are emotionally arrested people but we apply pretty much the same spirit now that we did 25 years ago I think you know? I do not think we have dramatically changed our philosophy about it.  You know a few years ago somebody said that their philosophy is if it is not happening it is not happening. In other words - like do not...   ...when your head hits the pillow do not worry about what you have to do tomorrow because it is not going to prepare you any better. Just be in the moment and be present and things will go your way. And I feel like that was...  That is the wisdom you have come by.   I take tremendous solace in that actually.  So you have learned to accept the complete unpredictability and sometimes unreality of your lives.  Yeah. I think it is been the norm for the whole time we have been doing this.    I see that Banksy left a Post-it note for anonymous for anonymous.  John Linnell and John Flansburgh They Might Be Giants thank you very much for talking with us.  Thank you so much for having us.  Thank you.    Celebration. You are a little bit better...  They Might Be Giants' new album is called Join Us and you can watch them perform here at NPR's offices A Tiny Desk Concert at npr.org.    ...and not by yourself. 