 What do Mozart Herbie Hancock and Michael Jackson have in common? Well all of them were considered child prodigies. Now it is one thing to be a gifted musician but for kids that title can come with a whole lot of baggage. And to help us understand what that looks like growing up is Christian McBride host of NPR's Jazz Night in America. And Christian when did you start playing an instrument?  I started playing the electric bass when I was 9 years old and then I started playing the acoustic bass when I was 11 years old.  And that child prodigy label - did that come your way?  Sort of.  Do not be modest.   Well revisionist history would say yes. But the thing is I grew up with a real child prodigy by the name of Joey DeFrancesco.   And Joey was doing professional gigs by age 9 .  Professional gigs?  Yes. You know people were paying to see him play in clubs at age 9. So I mean I did not start working professionally until I was 13. So how that related to me was that I was always the Robin to Joey's Batman you know?   We actually have a clip of you two playing together. This is on a Philadelphia TV show called Timeout. The show is hosted by Bill Boggs and the guest crazy enough is Miles Davis. Now you two are part of the program's band and here's a clip of that.   Is that you pumping away back there Christian?   Great bass sound - boing boing boing boing.  . All right well here's what happens after...  It is like a big rubber band.  ...The show because Miles Davis actually takes a moment to comment on the performance.   What is your organ player's name?  What is your organ player's name?   The organ player here? Let us actually take a minute and meet the band. I thank you very much. We got Joey DeFrancesco on keyboard. Hey Joey.   Little mispronunciation there.   And on drums we got Stacy Dozier in the back.   And Christian McBride on bass.  Christian McBride on bass. Christian what happened after Miles Davis heard Joey play?  He hired him . He took him on the road with him about four or five months later. And we had just started our senior year in high school the fall of 1988 so he missed about two months of school. But I mean you know he got another sort of incredible school being on the road with Miles Davis. And he also signed a major label contract with Columbia Records. And he is 17 years old and we have not even graduated high school yet.  I cannot imagine the pressure that comes with that.  I cannot imagine either and I was there. So I mean I was worried because I did not know if Joey was going to be able to travel with a tutor or how they want to work that out. But I mean on graduation day we both were there so it worked out.  What happens at that age? Are you jealous right? Are there other students who were like hey I am pretty good. Or does everyone think you know that person's special that person's a prodigy?  By the time we were seniors in high school Joey in many ways was - I do not want to say he was old news but I mean...  .  ...He was - I mean he was a star in Philadelphia when he was 9 years old. So by the time he was 17 and playing with Miles Davis most of us were going of course he would be on the road with Miles Davis. Of course he would have a major label record contract. What took him so long?   You know what I mean? I do not think there was any jealousy involved. I mean we all expected that he would - something huge like that would happen to him.  Let us give one example though from today - an artist - Joey Alexander. He is 12 years old. He is from Indonesia. And he was discovered I guess by Herbie Hancock and Wynton Marsalis. And here is a version of Round Midnight the Thelonious Monk and Cootie Williams ballad that Joey performed at just 10 years old.   Ten years old. Do 10-year-olds even see midnight?  . They Google midnight.   Christian what are we hearing?  Very rhapsodic. I hear a little Chick Corea in there. But that is a pretty impressive sense of narrative shall I say...  Ah that is a word I had not thought of.  ...To have when you are 10 years old. Most young jazz prodigies are from major cities where they have jazz but Joey's from Indonesia. That is not exactly a hotbed for jazz so he got all of this information via YouTube and listening to records. So that is pretty remarkable.  Now we actually have the first track from his album My Favorite Things. He is releasing a debut album. I want you to point what makes his work notable I mean what makes it really striking besides his age right? Like if you did not know how old he was what would be striking about this?  Well you know before you play it that is the question that everyone has to ask themselves. Now when you give people the heads up and say this kid's only 10 11 12 years old right away they are bracing themselves for something. But if you just put it on and people say oh what is that? I like that. Then you know he is doing something.  I see what you mean. So I just biased everyone...   ...By telling them how old he is. Here's the song. It is called Giant Steps.   One question I have looking at jazz in particular - you know classical music has its prodigies it seems like all the time. And that is a genre where preciseness and the technical ability is so important. How is this different from jazz which I do not think of in the same way frankly - right? - like where being precise is not necessarily what is rewarded.  Yeah. Well I think the difference between studying that particular type of classical music you almost train for that the same way you would train for athletics. There is a defined thing that you have to do and most of your discipline does not come from self-expression as it does in jazz. In jazz it is about what are you feeling at that moment. Nobody's giving you anything to play. You have got to come up with it on the spot. You know what I mean?  Right. So what does that mean for like finding prodigies?  Their self-expression - that is the basis of jazz. And when you find someone very young - 16 and younger - who seem to have a good grasp on that that is extremely special.  That is Christian McBride bassist and host of the program Jazz Night in America. Christian thanks for sharing your story with us.  Always my pleasure. 