 Four years ago an avant-garde rock quartet from Ireland called The Immediate released its debut album to critical acclaim.  the next U2 they said.    Funny what you find fading away...  But just as quickly as The Immediate shot to fame the band split apart. The Immediate's former front man is Conor O'Brien. He now performs under the name Villagers and here's what he sounds like.    With no look upon my face I was a dreamer staring at windows. Out onto the main street that is where the dream goes.  Now if you are on the lookout for the next big thing a good place to start is Britain's Mercury Prize. That is an award handed out each year to the best Irish or British record. Conor O'Brien has just been nominated for his record Becoming a Jackal. We are hearing the title track from it. And Conor O'Brien joins me from our studios in Southern California. Hello and congratulations. Mr. CONOR O' Hello sir how are you? Thank you very much.  We are hearing Becoming a Jackal right now and there is a line towards the end of this song where you seem to be talking I think to us to the people who are listening to the song  Before you take this song as truth...    You should wonder what I am taking from you.  Is that true? Do you sort of see songwriting as reciprocal? What do you take from the people who are hearing your music? Mr. O' Well you take a hell of a lot. When you are performing songs there are moments in certain shows where it becomes almost therapeutic you know? You are singing these songs to people and you are almost using them as something. At the same time they are using you though you know? And also the song was not directly about the songwriter. I think it was more a general kind of human thing which I was exploring in all of the songwriting which is the more kind of scavenging aspects of humans and the more kind of animalistic nature which I was kind of obsessed with for years and I could not really get it out of my system except in the form of songwriting.  So can you describe what Villagers actually is because it is not really a band right? I mean it is just you. Mr. O' Yeah when I named the band I wanted to give it like the most anonymous kind of faceless name I could because I kind of wanted the songs to be the central thing which is what they continue to be yeah.  A lot of focus has been on your lyrics and I want to ask you about the first track on the album and it is called I Saw the Dead. And it is the kind of song that just grabs you just draws you into this record right away.    Have you got just a minute? Are you easily mad? Let me show you the back room where I saw the dead.  Right off the bat you are talking to us. You are saying have you got just a minute? And almost like you are opening up the story. And it is you know evocative and opaque and it is almost impenetrable. What is this song about?  Mr. O' I think it is about a few different things. I kind of wanted to write a song that dealt with life from the perspective of death rather than the other way around. I kind of wanted to see it as some sort of pact with death. And it is kind of a song about panic attacks as well because I kind of used to get them quite a lot and I wanted to figure out why that happened. There are some lyrics in the song which are about the audience laughing.    My every mistake. And it is making my neck hurt and I feel like a fake. Mr. O' It is quite sort of self-reflexive and it covers a lot of ground and it is also slightly grotesque which is something that I was just using almost as a comedic kind of getting rid of the weightiness of the whole thing. I do not know. To me it is kind of tough to talk about the songs a lot of time because they are very subconsciously written and I tend to sort of feel like they write themselves and when I am singing them I know what they mean but when I am talking about them sometimes I do not know what they mean at all. You know they are just sort of feelings and sounds and words and imagery and stuff you know?  I am speaking with Conor O'Brien of the Irish band Villagers. His new record is called Becoming a Jackal. Some critics have compared your song The Pact to something Roy Orbison might have written. Before I ask you about it let us just hear some of that.    I was lost in a forest but now I am a believer. So you be my master I will be your fever. Do what you did yesterday. Go on repeating...  I think it is hard not to hear that similarity between Roy Orbison in this track. Do you hear it? Do you hear the similarity? Mr. O' Well yeah I love Roy Orbison. So I think it seeped its way in there.  Did you do that consciously? Mr. O' No. The Pact was written very fast. I think I was going for sort of almost like a gospel vibe with sort of an idea of completely worshiping something or someone.  Someone. I mean this is a pretty upbeat song. I mean it is unlike some of the other tracks on the record. And there is a line in here that says angels are singing words written for you. Mr. O' Yeah it is. It is a joyful song but there is  I did an interview yesterday and someone said he thought it was the darkest song on the album which is because he thought it was a really strange thing  you be my master but I will be your fever. And he was talking about the negative aspects of that. And I kind of chose that word really carefully. Fever because I wanted to explore the power relationships between people. And on one level it is the most beautiful thing in the world but there is another love song on the album which looks at love in a completely different light.    My love is selfish and I bet that yours is too. Mr. O' I wanted to put them both on there to sort of give a full picture of whatever was ticking inside my head at the time.   You have had this pretty incredible year. You have this record getting all this acclaim both here in the U.S. and in Europe and then of course the Mercury Prize nomination. I read you were worried about your being nominated because you thought it might affect the way you write songs. How would that happen? Mr. O' Well to me like it is a real honor to be like nominated for prizes and a lot of stuff but if it starts becoming like an aim in your head or whatever then you have lost the battle. You know you are never going to write a good song ever again because I think when you are writing music you should be kind of completely lost in it you know? You should not even be thinking on that level. So I am just going to be like grateful for it. I am just going to go to it and have fun and everything but I am kind of making sure I am going to protect my ability to continue writing to the level that I would like to.   That is Conor O'Brien. He performs under the name Villagers. The debut album is out now. It is called Becoming a Jackal. Conor thanks so much. Mr. O' Thank you. Thanks for having me.  And you can watch a solo performance of Conor's one of our Tiny Desk Concerts. That is at our web site nprmusic.org.    You wake me when we are almost halfway I do not want to take this trip alone because I would never reach my home. No I would never reach my home. No I would never reach my home.  And for Sunday that is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Guy Raz. We are back next weekend. Thanks for listening and have a great week. 