 Finally today some sad news from London. Amy Winehouse who some say revitalized soul music was found dead in her apartment. It is still not clear how she died but her struggles with drugs and alcohol were almost as well-known as her powerful and soulful voice. NPR's Sam Yenigun has this look back.  Amy Winehouse was not one to apologize for her substance abuse. In fact it is a big part of what made the singer so famous - or infamous. Winehouse released her first album Frank in 2003 but three years later she shot to super stardom with this song.    They tried to make me go to rehab. I said no no no. Yes I have been black but when I come back you will know know know. I as not got the time...  Rehab hit the top 10 in the U.K. and the United States. Her album Back to Black shot to number one and won her five Grammys. Rolling Stone contributor Claire Hoffman says that Winehouse was unlike any other of her time.  It was basically like this like scrawny little you know tattooed white girl from working-class London who somehow when she got on a stage sounded like you know these great soul singers of the '60s.    And I tread the troubled track my odds are stacked. I will go back to black. We only said goodbye with words. I died a hundred times. You go back to her and I go back to I go back to us...  Born on September 14 1983 to a Jewish family with a history of jazz musicians Amy Winehouse was critical of her pop diva predecessors. And as she told the BBC in 2003 she made music in reaction to what she saw as a packaged cheap sound in pop.  I think when I was growing up the music that was in the pop charts or the you know the music that was - that people were releasing at the time I just thought this is not music. This is watered down or this is you know just crap. Someone else has written it for you and you have to sing it. It is very much the case in some music today.  Winehouse said that she wanted to write something that she could call her own. And though it sounded different it did not always sound great. As YouTube rose in popularity so did videos of train-wreck performances from a drunken and belligerent Winehouse. The singer did check into rehab in 2008 2009 and then again earlier this year.  fighting with fans marriage problems substance abuse. Claire Hoffman says that this was the essence of her celebrity.  It seemed like it went hand in hand that she was both so troubled and you know so talented.  For a time it seemed there was hope. Rumors of a follow-up to Back to Black buzzed in the music press for much of this year. She is also featured on a duets album with Tony Bennett set to be released in September. But last month she canceled a European tour after a botched performance in Belgrade Serbia. Amy Winehouse returned to London to recover but was found dead today. She was 27 years old. Sami Yenigun NPR News.    When you walk in the bar and you dress like a star rocking your F me pumps. And the men notice you with your Gucci bag crew cannot tell who he is looking to. 'ecause you all look the same. Everyone knows your name. And that is your whole claim to fame. Never miss a night 'ecause your dream in life is to be a footballer's wife. You do not like players that is what you say...  And for Saturday that is WEEKENDS on ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Guy Raz. Thanks for listening and have a great night. 