 The Spotify catalog includes music from the venerable Motown label. Everyone has heard of Motown right? Well few may remember its Los Angeles offshoot MoWest Records. That label did not last long just two years. Most of its releases have been out of print for 40 years. But now a new anthology brings some of them back to highlight the label's life and odd legacy. Oliver Wang has our review.  The early 1970s found Berry Gordy and Motown Records in transition. They had weathered the 1967 Detroit Riots and the fractious departure of songwriting team Holland-Dozier-Holland and were now riding high on Diana Ross' solo career and the youthful sounds of The Jackson 5. Gordy wanted to expand his empire especially into TV and movies and as a beachhead he founded MoWest Records in Hollywood in 1971. Its first release became a surprising top 10 hit.  Mr.  What is segregation?  I do not know what segregation is. Mr.  Ah what is bigotry?  I do not know what bigory is. Mr.  What does hatred mean?  I do not know what that is.  The audio collage of found-sound snippets set over a syrupy arrangement of Burt Bacharach's What the World Needs Now helped set the tone for what would be the label's short and often strange history. Unlike Motown's other subsidiaries the RB-focused V.I.P. or rock-oriented Rare Earth Records MoWest was wide open. It collected a motley crew with both new and veteran artists that included Frankie Valli  The Four Seasons...   ...huge pop stars of the early 1960s. A decade later they sounded less like teen idols than a funkier Crosby Stills  Nash.  Mr. FRANKIE VALLI    You have only given me a flower. I wish I had the whole bouquet. If I should ask you for an hour is there a chance that you would stay and maybe spend the day?  Though the label art prominently featured a sun setting into the Pacific the MoWest sound was less geographical than experimental. This was Motown's chance to get away from the weighty baggage of its Hitsville legacy. One of its great discoveries was the local Los Angeles band Odyssey whose sublime Our Lives Are Shaped by What We Love also gives a title to the new anthology.   Where are you today? Do you know your way? Are you searching for  lost? Just wanting your win at any cost? Our lives are shaped by what we love.  At the height of MoWest's activity its roster included everyone from then newcomers the Commodores to Stevie Wonder's musical and marriage partner Syreeta Wright to Motown's first Asian-American artist Suzee Ikeda.  Ms.   Here's a promise you made to me of the tomorrow that I will never see and then you are free to go. But I cannot give back the love I feel for you.  Despite all of that diversity MoWest could not mint another hit to save its life. By the summer of 1972 Berry Gordy moved the entire Motown operation from Detroit to Los Angeles making MoWest more or less redundant. It shut down the following year and most of its catalog went quickly out of print. This new MoWest anthology cannot fill that vacuum on its own it features less than half the total number of artists who recorded for the label. But what it does do is provide a long-needed window back into this era when Motown gazed westward towards a beckoning California dream.    Yellow skies red sun blue trees how I want...  The anthology is called  Motown's MoWest Story. Oliver Wang teaches sociology at Cal State Long Beach and writes the audio blog Soul Sides.    Take your time no questions live your life caressing time. You cannot be alone...  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 