 It is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block. You know you are listening to a song from the band Fountains of Wayne when it starts like this.    They opened up a bar called Living Hell. Right from the start it did not go too well. They did not have the vibe or quite the right clientele.  A good dose of wry humor has helped power Fountains of Wayne for about 15 years. Adam Schlesinger and Chris Collingwood started the band. Their latest album is Sky Full of Holes. And I talked to them about the musical influences we hear. As Adam explains they fold in favorite sounds from the past.   '60s '70s '80s and the '90s stuff that was going on when started the band. So we genre-hop in the sense that we incorporate these different eras and try to put our own spin on them.  Chris does it feel like genre hopping to you?  Era hopping maybe. I am pretty sure that even bands from different eras that we listen to all are derived in some part from the Beatles and the British invasion stuff that was happening around that time.  We definitely gravitate toward stuff that is melodic and where the melody is the most important thing as opposed to a guitar riff or a drumbeat. So in that sense you know yeah it probably does go back toward The Beatles more than I do not know blues or RB or something.  Yeah. Well let us take a listen to the song Acela which certainly has a lot of Beatles overtones to it.    There is a train on a track painted silver blue and black. Heading to Massachusetts and then it is coming back. And it is entertaining by New Haven. Once you have had yourself a drink or two ooh ooh...  I think it is really there especially on those notes those ooh notes that I am hearing. Wow. That really feels like the Beatles. That sounds just like the Beatles to me.   That actually is the Beatles.  That is.  We did not want to tell you.  You channeled them.  That song has a blues influence in the sense that it is the way the Beatles did the blues which honestly was my first exposure to any kind of blues writing. But I think one thing that is important for us in any song is some kind of surprise or contrast. And so you know that is like taking a retro-sounding blues-pop kind of thing but then telling this story over it that is in a modern setting. I mean the song is about the Acela which is this commuter train on the East Coast.    When they come all aboard you were nowhere to be found though you swore you were sure you would come with me out of town. And I looked at all the stars...  And Chris you are the lead vocalist here. Would you go back and listen to Beatles' records at all to think about what they were doing? I mean obviously they are in your head anyway. But how conscious is that do you think?  This song not so much. I mean there are other periods during our career where the John Lennon sort of ripping off was a lot more obvious in my head. This song I think that a lot of what you hear that sounds like the Beatles is just the production techniques.   What really brought this song to life was we left a lot of the first-take instincts when we recorded it. I mean Brian's drum take is really loose and kind of fun. And Jody's playing all these Beatles-inspired stuff on the guitar. But also Chris and I have always harmonized well together. And when we put our harmony vocals on songs that is when they really get a sense of that sparkle. So the hook of this song is just these little harmony stabs.    For your information 22 ooh ooh.  I think it is also true that you know when you bring a song like that in and you are trying to describe to the band what you want it to sound like you know it is got all the obvious reference points for things that Brian and Jody are just as familiar with as we are. A lot of it just kind of falls into place based on what your common experience is of those early songs.  Well I was curious about that. When you go into the studio say with the song Action Hero do you already have in your mind what it is going to sound like? Not just what the words are but you have the feel of the song in your head too. Adam?  I think that varies from song to song. I mean there is times where Chris or I will bring in a song and we will pretty much have it mapped out in our mind already. But there is other songs where we really just bring in the melody and some chord changes and it takes on its own life in the studio.    He is searching for his keys at a small Vietnamese place on East 11th Street.  Action Hero was not a song that I had so mapped out in my head. I guess the one idea that I had for it was that it is about this guy who is - he is got his real life and then he is got his imaginary life in his head and I wanted the music to show that contrast. So the verse is very intimate and it is just based around this acoustic guitar arpeggio. But then when it hits the chorus and it talks about him imagining himself having this life as an action hero that I wanted the music to sound more anthemic and sort of stadium-like. It is like a Guitar Hero line as opposed to action hero. Like I do not know you know maybe a U2 or a Coldplay kind of influence for a second.    ...in his mind...  There is those big bursts of guitar and drums. And I am sort of picturing Adam at this point. He is almost like a cartoon guy. He is sort of popping right out of the cartoon frame with his fists in the air you know flying.   That was kind of the idea yeah. It is nice sometimes when you can let the music do the explaining for you in terms of the story. There is actually not a lot of lyric in the song. There is just two verses. I am trying to leave space like that for you to imagine the rest of the story without having to actually say it. You know what is interesting to me about that one? I seem to remember that the heartbeat sound which is just like some kind of muffled kick drum was not there to begin with. And now when I listen back to that it strikes me as a really central part of that arrangement.  Because this character along with - in his mind being an action hero he is actually got some heart trouble. He is hooked up to monitors and there is this sort of almost beeping kind of monitor sound I think going on in there too.  Yeah. I mean there is a keyboard that is kind of percolating under the verses.    I suggest you get some rest try to cut back on the stress because I do not like what I see. But the action hero swears he feels just fine. He is...  When you think about the album as a whole are you thinking that you want fans of your music to be able to listen and think immediately oh this is a Fountains of Wayne song I know what I am listening to. Or is it more like you want them to be surprised to hear sounds that they would not have expected? Adam what do you think?  I think we want to be able to evolve as a band. We want to be able to try different things. But I do not know if we are thinking out in terms of maintaining a sound that we have already established. But even when we think we are doing something radically different usually people hear it and say oh that sounds like Fountains of Wayne.   I mean I think Chris' voice is very distinctive. And I think there are certain things that we tend to do with our songwriting that we have become associated with you know the kind of lyrics that we write and the kind of stories that we tell. I do think this record sounds fairly different from some of our other ones within the context of what we do but it still sounds like the same band.    I promise it will not be too long. I know it is not what you would call necessary.  Adam Schlesinger and Chris Collingwood thanks so much. It is been fun talking to you.  Thank you. Thank you very much.  And you can hear more songs from Fountains of Wayne's latest album Sky Full of Holes at nprmusic.org.    I am still writing you a road song that you can call your own. Ooh-ooh-ooh-ooh ooh-ooh-ooh-ooh oh-oh-oh.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 