 In his 28 years in the jazz and RB world singer Will Downing has sold more than 4 million albums. His latest Black Pearls is an album of all cover songs from some of RB's greatest female voices...    Meet me on the moon.  ...Including singer and actress Phyllis Hyman's 1977 hit Meet Me On The Moon.    How I hate to wait.  Here's Downing's version.    'ecause you are so great. Fly into my love. That is what...  Will Downing joined me in the studio to talk about this latest project and the challenge of covering songs by women without changing the essence of the music.    Everlasting moment of love.  Now this is a very old thing. It is not new - covering songs of first hits by others but often when men sing songs that were made hits by women or women sing songs that were - they re-engineer the song. They change the lyrics. Yours is a straight-up tribute.  Well yeah absolutely. I mean they are hits and they were hits for a reason. So you know why - if it is not broke do not fix it. Is that the old saying? So it was right the first time sing the melody just sing it beautifully and represent yourself and the male interpretation of a lot of these songs that were done by female artists.  Do you have to find a way to make it your own while still paying respect to the the integrity of the original hit?  Well it automatically becomes my own as soon as you hear those songs done an octave down.   Automatically that puts me in my own lane but also just the definition of a lot of the songs - it takes on a whole new thing when you hear it coming from a man's perspective. So it becomes very interesting with some of the subject matter on some of the songs.  Well yeah. Well it - love and relationships. Did it always work? Was it always a comfortable slide to start singing these songs and think would a man really say this? Would a man really say it this way?  Well I think that is the way it should be done. You know my sister with the first single that we have released Everything I Miss At Home a song originally done by Cherrelle - it is a song about a woman who is not satisfied at home and saying hey there is someone else out there who would be more than willing to do everything that you will not do.    You give me attention. You are someone who understands my needs someone who is sensitive. You give me everything thing I miss at home.  I cannot remember hearing a sweeter more endearing song about having an affair.   That is a good way to put it. Yeah that is a very good way to put it.  Or maybe the justification for having...  There you go yeah yeah. I would not do wrong if you would do right. I got to write that down. That could be a nice song title.    At home.  Are you risking that the fans of these great artists coming back at you and saying hey come on not this?  Well from a fan's perspective I mean it should be interesting to find out what people feel about the interpretation of a classic song because people know these songs for what they were and what they are. So it should be interesting. I do not expect all the feedback to be 100 percent positive in my direction but you know it gives you something to talk about.  You came up in Brooklyn.  Yes I did.  And the '70s and early '80s - things were going in a lot of different directions with the early days of hip-hop along with some of the classic times of RB. How does a guy who wants to be in this business who wants to be a creator figure it out for himself?  Well I did not figure it out. It kind of fell into place. Primarily when I started in this business I was a background vocalist so I did whatever was required. I also came up in the era of club music and house music The Sound Of Chicago. I would put these records out under assumed names so I have been a guy named Wally Jump Junior and the Criminal Element on Criminal Records. I was RT and the Rockmen Unlimited. I was a group called NV . So I did all those things before I kind of found out what I wanted to do musically. And when I did find out in 1988 I released my very first solo project. And the first song that I released was actually an artist that I covered on this latest record which was Deniece Williams.    Black butterfly sailed across the waters tell your sons and daughters what the struggle brings.  What is changed about RB in the mix of the music world since those days?  Oh what has not changed? You do not hear as much instrumentation as you used to hear. Back in the day you would hear live drums keyboards strings horns. Those days you know - not so much. I do not know if it is a cost factor or just the sound of the world has changed but I have kind of gone back to my roots on this recording. So on this recording you get to hear live strings.  So real people?  All real folk. Folks got - they have got employed and they played well. So that is the job. That is the way it used to be and I am bringing it back.   You mentioned The Jones Girls. This song...  Nights Over Egypt a song originally done by The Jones Girls so...  How do you make it your own?  Well I have just always loved the song. And it is funny like when you interpret these songs the way you think you know a song and then when you sit down and you have to do it and perform it is like I never knew what the lyric was . I did not realize what OK - well what does that mean? So it kind of made me do a little bit of homework and I hope I did it some justice.    There is a star in the east over pyramids at Kingstown where there once lived a girl. She ruled the world. Then down the Nile she came with a smile.  He was the king. She was the queen under the moonlight. Was not there - I cannot remember the rest. But  nights over Egypt nights over Egypt. There you go. My music teacher would be happy I put that T at the end.  .   Egypt.   Will thanks for coming on the show.  Thanks man.    I live the street life because there is no place I can go. Street life it is the only life I know. Street life...  That was singer Will Downing. His latest album is called Black Pearls.    Until you play your life away. Other people see just who you want to be. And every night you shine. 