 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block.  Ms.   I will never be a part of your polite society.  The new album Echo from Maia Sharp.  Ms.   I have been looking from the outside in and it seems so good to me.  This is Maia Sharp's fourth album but mostly she is made her living writing songs for other performers.  Ms.   So do not come around here tonight. But that does not mean forever.  Cher recorded a Maia Sharp song.  Ms.   I trust you to spare us a fight. And humor my endeavor. There was something  So did the Dixie Chicks.    Not a night goes by I do not dream of wandering through the home that might have been.  And Bonnie Raitt has recorded three.  Ms.   I am holding steady. I am holding steady this crooked crown knowing I will lose it if I look down.  Maia Sharp's says having Bonnie Raitt cover her songs was her dream. Ms.  It was kind of the holy grail of songwriting. And apparently I had been kind of on her radar for a while. I did not know this until we met in '05. And on her record Souls Alike she sang a few of my songs on that and it just you know the validation of that. I was such a fan of hers and then she comes forward and says that she is a fan of mine too and then sings that hell out of these songs - was amazing.   Well Bonnie Raitt is featured on one of the songs on your album. This is Death By Perfection. Tell me about that song. Ms.  It is trying to appreciate the imperfections and maybe even celebrate them and being okay with something just being what it is and there is no need to change it if you love it.  Ms.   Used to be so innocent and wild with the light all its own. This tragedy could have been avoided. If they just left alone. No they took something beautiful straightened the curves and they filled in the cracks Ms.  It felt like the right palate for Bonnie Raitt's vocal on it. And she came in and I actually - I had a melody already for her and I sang it to her and she is like okay well let me just kind warm up and she sang something else.  Ms.   I am  wide open to rejection. Does not sound so glamorous I know Ms.  And she is like okay so - sorry I did not quite sing your melody. How do you sing that? And I am like do not ever sing what I sang you. Sing what you just sang because it blows away mine.  Ms.  But she just owned it as she always does.  Ms.  Oh that is just no way. That is no way to go. Oh this is something beautiful Ms.  It is also you know quite a relief to meet somebody that you think so highly of and then realize that they really are a really good human as well. You know how sad would that be if it was a bad experience? But it is been wonderful.  Ms.   When I first shook hands with John Q Lonely he was sitting in a room  The song John Q Lonely Tell us about who you are imagining this man is he is turning 50. He home alone with a cupcake. Ms.  Well you do not find that until the end that he has lost in love. But his attitude is why would I ever want to go there. Who even needs that? I have everything I need alone. What could I love more than my freedom?  Ms.   It is these people like you and never complete without a ring on your finger dog at your feet a house on a suburb street named after a tree. Not me. Ms.  And you do not find that until the end that he is only thinking this because it did not happen for him in the past. And I feel for this guy - I am happy to say that I do not feel like him.   when I first shook hand with John Q Lonely. Ms.  Well I figure that I had to meet him in order for me to write a song about him. And it just felt like more of a personal encounter.  The last song on the CD The Girl On Her Way is just you and piano. Ms.  Yeah.  And it is a really poignant crushing song in a way about expectation and people who are expected to do great things and maybe fall short. Ms.  Well this album of all of my albums I feel like it has the most truth in it. I feel like there is some truth in every song. The last song is the truest of all but I feel great having written it and gotten it out of my brain and my stomach  Ms.  and onto the album. It is really the most cathartic song that I think I have ever written.  Ms.   How long can she be the girl on her way for she is just a woman who never got there. How far can she ride dreams of some day Ms.  I have been hovering under the radar for a long time now. My first record came out in 1997 and I have seen a lot of close calls a lot of them.  Ms.   Seeing everything that almost came every spark that never made a flame. Are they saying what a star or what a shame? Ms.  There was a tour about two years ago where I heard it I think three nights in a row - Portland Maine and upstate New York and Pittsburg -and it was like oh wow you are on your way you are on your way you are on your way. And  Ms.  like Yeah? Okay thanks.  Ms.  But it is time to arrive I think. And there is something about this record the whole vibe surrounding it. This is more of an arrival than an on-the-way. And so it felt right to finish the record out with that.  Ms.   Oh oh oh  Maia Sharp - her new CD is Echo.   This is NPR National Public Radio. 