 Zanes has a new album out today and Stefan Shepherd has our review.  When Dan Zanes became a father he thought hard about which song to play first to his newborn daughter. He chose the 1968 Jamaican hit Little Nut Tree.   Now his daughter is 16 and after more than a decade of recording music for families Zanes has a new album called Little Nut Tree.    I have a little nut tree. Nothing would it bear for me but a silver nutmeg and a golden pear alone.  He is known for recruiting guest artists from far and wide. And for this version of the title track Zanes enlists the Sierra Leone Refugee All Stars.   After his Grammy-winning 2006 album Catch that Train Zanes took a few musical detours producing a Spanish- language album a collection of spiritual and gospel music and a Broadway-themed album. While there were good songs on those records none of them had the eclectic melting-pot mixture of his earlier work.   On the new album though Zanes brings back that big grab bag moving from Jamaican rock-steady to children's folk songs and from Middle Eastern sounds to indie rock with Andrew Bird.    Hey there duchess do not you know a little rain is going to come and go but I do not need sunny skies to sing about you. I am like the birds up in the trees with an endless store of melodies and I do not need sunny skies to sing about you.  It is that belief in the power of singing that has always been one of Zane's most appealing attributes with kids naturally responding. His positive attitude is also popular with the younger set.   But it is not cloyingly positive and so attracts a wider age demographic.    Oh where can you party all night long? In the basement. Down in the basement. Oh where can you go when your money gets low? In the basement. Down in the basement.  After this summer of tumultuous economics and weather the idea that hosting a dance party in your basement might overcome that sounds like wishful thinking. But Zanes is not alone. Many families believe it too. And even if your party's guest list is not as impressive you can still push the tables and chairs out of the way and dance.    ...in the basement. Down in the basement. There is no cover charge or fees and the food and drinks are free in the basement. In the basement down in the basement. In the basement. That is where it is at...  That is Dan Zanes and Sharon Jones singing on Dan Zanes' new album Little Nut Tree. Stefan Shepherd blogs about kids' music at zooglobble.com.   This is NPR. 