 Sonny Ozuna and his band The Sunliners have been a mainstay in the San Antonio soul scene for a long time - more than 50 years. But the group's prolific catalogue of heartbreak anthems have carried it far beyond Texas. A new anthology Mr. Brown Eyed Soul collects the best of those ballads. Reviewer Oliver Wang says it is great listening for late nights.  Ildefonso Fraga Ozuna was a 15-year-old high school student in the late 1950s with dreams of one day becoming a singing sensation.   First though he needed a catchier stage name.   Here's the man that makes the Sunliner band. This is the brown-eyed soul Sunny Ozuna.  Sunny  The Sunliners became key contributors to what RB fans know as the westside sound.    What is the sense in giving you love when you are going to give it away give it away?  Born in the Mexican-American neighborhoods of San Antonio the westside sound took the vocal harmonies of doo-wop...    Should I take you home? Should should I take you home? Should I telephone? Or maybe I should telephone.  ...And added the heavy horns from a Mexican conjunto bands.   The Sunliners cut their teeth in local bars cantinas and lounges and by necessity their repertoire included crowd-pleasing classics like this ballad which was a hit for the Flamingos.    Are the stars out tonight? I do not know if it is cloudy or bright. I only have eyes for you.  However Sunny Ozuna's gifts as a songwriter graced many of the group's most enduring singles. He is always excelled at penning tales about youthful love sometimes won but mostly lost.    Smile now. Cry later. Smile now. Cry later for you. My friends tell me you could never belong to me. So I will smile for my friends and cry later. I' You would need a mega-box set made up of other box sets to capture the group's entire catalogue. The new Mr. Brown Eyed Soul anthology slices off but a sliver - 15 songs drawn from the mid-'60s through early '70s. This was the era that produced the songs you will still hear today on midnight radio dedication hours. They are timeless tunes for the loved and the lovelorn promising a kiss of the bitter but swirled within the oh so sweet.    I am on the outside looking in...  Oliver Wang is a professor at Cal State Long Beach and co-hosts the music podcast Heat Rocks. 