 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.   When Imogen Heap composes a song you never know what she might decide is an instrument. Ms.  Sampling sounds around the house like the banisters I used to slide down when I was a little kid to recording actually the kitchen sink the sound of the tap dripping into the kitchen sink to actually my bare bottom which I recorded the sound of my bare bottom slapping it.   So everything and the kitchen sink. Ms.  Yes.  Ms.   All I want only one street-level miracle. I will be an out-and-out born-again from none more cynical. Everybody says that time heals everything.  Imogen Heap composes in her home in Essex England a 200-year-old elliptical-shaped house and that gave her the title of her new CD Ellipse. Picture Imogen Heap at the Grammys a couple of years ago in a dress covered with lily pads with spiky plants sprouting from her hair. She does not hold much back. And she is constantly building her audience through the Internet. She is closing in on a million followers on Twitter. Her songs have 44 million plays on MySpace. She used Flickr to get artwork for the album from her fans. And as she was working on the new CD she described how it was going in dozens of video blogs including this one.  Ms.  I have finally come up with 13 songs but one of them is instrumental. And I think you are going to really like it.  Imogen Heap that is you telling your friends through the Internet that you are done your CD is done. Ms.  I know. I could not believe it. I then proceeded to go around the house and shout I am finished in different guises.  In the shower?  Ms.  In the shower yes. Running through...  In bed. Ms.  In the garden in bed yes.   Well you have people who have been probably tracking every blog post you have made video blog post you have made over the last couple of years. I mean what is it like to have that direct connection throughout the process with all these people following along? Ms.  Oh I cannot - it is so - it is been so amazing. I have always struggled with this kind of barrier that I felt like I would had up until blogging came along and written blogging. But just one comment back from somebody and it just really sparks something in me. I am just like this is what it is all about. You know this is - it does not need to be this huge wall between me and the listeners anymore. And it just made so much sense to me and I really thrive on that.  Well how does what your followers say back to you filter into the songs? Where do you hear that coming through? Ms.  All kinds of - like one time I was on Twitter and somebody just kind of randomly said oh why do not you throw some theremin on the record? You know I love theremin. And I was like okay theremin could be good. And I kind of stored it in the back of my mind. And then there was this song I was working on called Swoon. And it was almost finished. It was you know it was really nearly there but there was something missing and I could not for the life of me figure it out. And then kind of this little piece of information this little tweet kind of came to the forefront of my mind.  The theremin tweet. Ms.  The theremin tweet yeah. And I said oh maybe I should try a theremin type of sound. So I went on the Internet and I typed in theremin logic patch and I downloaded this little patch. And within five seconds I had a theremin sound.  Ms.   Stuck in a cinema or saving me from a car you will suddenly realize and fall into my arms. Ms.  It kind of goes...  Da-ah da-ah.  Oh yeah that ghostly sound. Ms.  Yeah.  Ms.  But if it was not for that guy saying theremin I would never have thought of it.  And that came from a tweet. Ms.  It did. That came from a tweet. The idea came from a tweet.  You have so much fun layering all kinds of sounds in your songs. I wonder - let us take a listen to one of the songs and if you can deconstruct it a little bit for us. I am thinking of the song Tidal. Ms.  Okay.  Ms.  So here you are hearing a mixture of real strings and programmed strings.  Ms.  In the background - okay it is that sound that is going doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo. That is actually an Indian flute kind of tuned down and made in and made in chords by this guy called Ashwin Ashwin Srinivasan. And that sound there you can hear.  Ms.  Di-di-di-di-di-di-di that thing. That is Ashwin as well on his flute.  Ms.  That is the flute as well.  Ms.   Watch it closely you see it begin to flicker. While we are here... Loads of vocals acoustic guitar played very badly by me and then kind of pieced together so it sounds kind of half-decent.  Ms.   While we are... And some kind of nice synthy sound dink-dink-dink-dink.  Ms.  I do not know how half the time how I made these sounds.  Ms.   ...shame to not do. Okay that sound that doo-doo-doo thing was - oh I cannot remember the name of it. Gameboy. It was a Gameboy. It is a little Gameboy that my friend PixelHate has kind of hacked into.  Really? Ms.  And so I can use it as a kind of keyboard.  Ms.   I sprung up in hearts and arrow superhighways. Watch it closely you see it begin to move. Watch it closely you see it begin to flicker. Okay oh here you have got Ashwin now who is the Indian flutist who is singing. I love his voice so much.  Ms.   What we got got to lose. While we are tidal and flexed on a full moon. It would be a sure sure shame to not do. Do what you feel... Ms.  He is amazing. When he came into the studio the song just took a completely new turn. I kind of stripped everything back just to hear his voice.  This is stripped back? Ms.  Well...  Ms.  Well it was kind of stripped back from what it was and then I kind of - but I built it all around his vocals again.   It must be tempting with all these toys to throw them all in pile it on. Ms.  Yeah and I do.  Ms.  I do start sometimes with the computer and you know make noises with synthesizers and stuff. But I really tried to get every single sound that was in the house like from the kitchen sink to a jack-in-the-box that somebody gave me for Christmas. I wanted to put everything on the record even if it was just for one nanosecond. But there is endless endless possibilities. You know every single sound on the entire planet you can use. So when you work with you know go I want to make a sound out of that jack-in-the-box you immediately have big limitations that you put on yourself. And that is when the creativity really thrives is when you have these limitations that you set on yourself.  Ms.   I want to play do not wait forms in the hideaway. I want to get on with getting on with things.  Imogen Heap thank you so much. Ms.  My pleasure. Thank you so much. I really enjoyed it.  Ms.   I cannot do any of that here can I? First train home I have got to get on it. First train home...  You can hear more of our conversation and full songs from Ellipse at nprmusic.org.  Ms.   So what? You have had one too many. So what? I am not that much...  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 