 The Australian musician and singer-songwriter named Geoffrey Gurrumul Yunupingu is an international star - he goes by Gurrumul. Gurrumul has sung a duet with Sting he is performed for Britain's royal family and for President Obama he is been on the cover of Rolling Stone. That is remarkable for a man who was born blind who is extremely shy and does not speak much English. Gurrumul songs like his own life encompass a span of human expense as great as any on earth. His native language is unintelligible to all but a few thousand people in northern Australia. A generation ago his people roamed the Bush. On the other hand he has been to New York to Paris to London. And while his lyrics invoked the myths of his people thoroughly unfamiliar exotic stuff to Western ears the music is anything but exotic.   It is folk music inspired by tunes of the U.S. and Britain.   Gurrumul does not give interviews but his friend Michael Hohnen a musician and producer joins us from Darwin in Australia to talk about Gurrumul . And the self-titled album Gurrumul that is now in the U.S. it came out of Australia back in 2009 but first Michael Hohnen welcome to the program.  It is lovely to be with you Robert.  And I want you to tell us a little bit about this song we are hearing Wiyathul which is the first track on the album. I gather it is about orange footed scrubfouls.  It is but the Yolngu people always sing about multidimensional things. So whilst this is about the scrubfoul which is a strange bird that lives in the top end of Australia Gurrumul is talking about being that bird. He is that bird and his clan is that bird and they sing sentiments about connection and being at one. With all elements of the surroundings.   How old by the way is Gurrumul now?  He is 43.  I gather still lives at home with his parents and many siblings?  He lives on an island yep. In Elcho Island northeast Arnhem Land in a house of 15 or 20 other people as do a lot of indigenous people across the top end of Australia.  When you say house - a large house?  No just a regular house 40 or 50 years ago on the island a community was brought together partly by the church and partly by the government. Because before then his family were basically living in the Bush. And the people of Arnhem Land are in some ways an compromise situation because of them having to fit into a system which is forced upon them but also at the same time Gurrumul lives with such a strong identity it is almost like that despite how they live they celebrate culture and song and dance and everything else as if nothing's changed.  Then there is one song on the album.  Gurrumul History  where we hear him singing in English.    I was born blind and I do not know why. God knows why because he loves me so.  It is rare he sings the chorus in language basically talking about his identity and lots of elements of that identity and his ancestors. But he also talks about traveling you know to New York to LA and to London and his parents crying. He member hearing them when he was a little boy crying trying to work out how they would bring him up through culture and through society.   I heard my Mama and my Papa crying their heart in confusion.  It is a very moving song when you hear him sing it live. Gurrumul is blind but he does not wear any glasses so it is very obvious that he is you know  you stare straight into his eyes without pupils and it is quite in-your-face if you like this song it is quite confronting and it is often something that will push people over the edge to cry. In a good way if you know what I mean.  Michael take me back. Tell us a little bit about your first encounter with Gurrulmul whom I have seen described not only as your close friend you not only produce the music and play double bass I have even seen you described him as an adoptive brother. How did you meet this fellow?  I was working for the University up here and running a music course and so I ended up on his island. A lot of music comes out of that place. And the fellow who was really keen to get a band going needed you know some other people in the band so he went and grabbed Gurrumul who would been traveling around the world with a big band from Australia up to seven years before that. So he knew a lot about music. That night he appeared in the doorway and like I said before it is quite confronting when you first meet Gurrumul 'ecause he relies on people to lead him and guard him and finds that the most reliable way because he is constantly asking you what is this like what is that like. Anyway I met him and he is physical with you and he sat down and started playing and singing and we were immediately struck and recognized how special he was. He and I developed a friendship from there and I helped his band record a few albums. He is intuitive he is funny he is very shy and very reclusive in some ways and I think part of that is a big safety mechanism for him and a survival technique but he is incredibly talented and sometimes you can name drop and say when we were in Paris playing with Sting you could feel this musicianship coming to the fore in the more time you spend with him the more that musicianship comes out. And when you get the sort of affirmation from the top you know that you are thinking the right way and not just biased because it is a musician that you work with.   .  Thank you very much for talking with us about your friend and for describing and explaining some of his music for us.  It is been my pleasure to be on such a great show that we get here in Australia too.  That is Bass player and producer Michael Hohnen talking about the singer-songwriter Gurrumul whose album Gurrumul is now released in the United States. This song by the way is about the rainbow python who Gurrumul's people believe created the world.   . 