 The title singer-songwriter does not quite capture it all when you are talking about Jack White. He gained fame in the late '90s with his band The White Stripes. Since then he started a record label produced artists including Loretta Lynn he is won eight Grammys and dedicated himself to preserving American roots music. Now today he is out with his second solo album it is titled Lazaretto. And Meredith Ochs has our review.  A lazaretto is a place of quarantine where sick people or tainted objects are sequestered from the general population. It is easy to see how an artist might apply this to himself especially someone like Jack White who projects eccentricity and shrouds himself in mystery. His first solo album was the sound of heartbreak. This one feels more like isolation.    And alone I build my own home to be sure that nobody can touch me now. Yeah all alone in my home alone in my home. Nobody can touch me. All alone in my home alone in my home nobody can touch me.  Staccato arrangements splashy cymbal crashes explosive guitar soloing. Many of the hallmarks of Jack White's sound are on his new album in abundance. Most of all White continues to refine his ability to dig deep into old music and come up with something fresh like he does with this re-imagining of Blind Willie McTell's 1928 song Three Women Blues.    Well I am lonely at night but I stay up until the break of day. Yeah I am lonely at night but I stay up until the break of day. How come I got to have a woman to blow these bruise away. Yeah all right I said Lordy Lord Lordy Lord Lordy Lord...  Jack White started out as an arty garage rocker but over the years an increasing amount of twang has wrapped itself around his fuzz-toned guitars like a creeping vine. On his new album he takes a wildly creative approach to this. White does not just drop stringed instruments into a rock song. He manipulates the sound with backwards pedal steel and a howling violin that says more than lyrics ever could on this instrumental.   Whether he is producing leading a band or performing as a solo artist Jack White continues to evolve with each project. And this new album fits nicely into the arc of his career. It is bold impressionistic and demanding of your attention. There is enough ferocity to keep fans of his short sharp early work hanging in there and enough inventiveness to attract new ones.   You can watch Jack White showcase his new album live in concert tonight on npr.org. Our reviewer Meredith Ochs is a talk-show host and DJ at Sirius XM radio.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 