 OK music fans here's a question. What do the next three songs have in common? Un-Break My Heart by Toni Braxton.    Un-break my heart. Say you love me again.  I Do not Want To Miss A Thing by Aerosmith.    I do not want to close my eyes. I do not want to...  And I Was Here by Beyonce.    I was here. I lived. I loved.  Well the answer is they were all written by one woman - Diane Warren. She has written some of the greatest hits of several genres spanning decades working with artists from Tina Turner to Elton John to Britney Spears. She told me that she has always been most comfortable away from the stage behind the scenes.  I mean I just kind of knew I think you know what I would be good at. You know I wanted to write the songs that artists sang you know even when I started out when I was a kid.  Well today marks a first for Diane Warren. She is out with her debut album called The Cave Sessions Vol. 1. But we should clarify - she does not actually sing lead vocals on this album. She compared her role to someone like DJ Khaled.  It is like I am DJ Diane. So I am doing kind of my version of what you know a producer DJ does right? So Mark Ronson or Calvin Harris people like that that kind of curate a record featuring different artists with you know songs they produced or wrote or whatever. You know this was me kind of doing my version of that curating an album with you know all kinds of different artists. It is kind of a microcosm of my career 'ecause I have always been in a lot of different genres of music.  You can be such a chameleon as a songwriter and have been your whole career.  Yeah.  And that really does come through on this album with tracks featuring Santana John Legend Celine Dion and many more. Can you tell us about the process of writing a song for a person like Celine Dion? Let us listen to this track. It is called Superwoman.    I bruise. I bleed. I am not a superwoman cannot be your superwoman.  I mean I thought that was something different for Celine. Like there is something - I have written a lot of songs for her. But I thought - what I love in her voice there is a soul singer in Celine you know? Like she has like an Aretha thing in her voice that kind of gritty soul kind of singer. And I wanted to do a song like that. This was not a typical Celine song at least typical what I have written for her. You know it is not the big ballad.    Just me just me. I run hot.  To take a completely different example the song that Ty Dolla ign sings is called Drink You Away.    Losing my mind thinking about nights lost up in you. All that we had is all in the past.  What kind of head space do you get into to make this work?  I just started writing the song and felt really good. I love the song. It was kind of different for me. You know it is like casting for a movie in a way right? Like who would you not expect to sing this song? 'ecause I like to do that too. I do not want to always go for the obvious. So I was like trying to figure out you know - I really love the song. I wanted it on the record. I was thinking of different artists and I heard Ty.    There is not enough alcohol to drink away to drink you away.  I go this is kind of outside of what he normally does and I love his voice. I just thought he would be really cool on it.  Did you write most of these songs for this record? Or is this kind of your back catalog of things that might have never seen the light of day but have been around for a while?  Some I wrote for this record. I mean you know one of them the song I call ground zero for this record is John Legend you know Where Is Your Heart.    Yeah I see you sitting staring into your coffee cup. Looking at you and you are barely looking up. Oh I wish I knew what you were thinking. It is like you have got some secret you are keeping.  What makes you call this ground zero for the record?  Because I did the song with him you know and - he came in my office. I played the song. He loved it. We went - he went and recorded it the next day. He goes I am putting it on my next album. And to me it was one of the best things I would ever heard in my life - you know song and artist. When he did not use it I gave it to another major artist.  Who shall not be named.  Who will not be named but he might be on this record.   OK.  And it was supposed to be his single this other artist's single. And I told John. He goes no no you got to take it back I want the song. Then he did not use it again. Then I gave it to somebody else another major artist. And I told John and he goes get it back for me. You cannot give that song away that is my song. Then he did not use it again. And this is a song that I was so passionate about. I just think it is like in my top 10 songs I have ever written. And that performance I think - I mean in my opinion it is the best thing he is ever done . But that is - it is not an objective opinion because you know of course I am going to think that.    ...What to say. You are next to me but still a million miles away. Silent let go of the words unspoken. Still together yet we are still so broken. You want to go but it is so hard to take that step.  But I was determined. And that is kind of what got me thinking you know why cannot I take you know a song like this and then get other artists I really want to work with and create this body of work you know and get it out in the world? I was determined for the world to hear that song.  I have to tell you Diane Warren hearing this story from you is so reassuring because you are among the most awarded successful songwriters living today and the fact that you have something you believe strongly in and feel confident about and still cannot get it to fruition is so reassuring for us lesser humans who experience that sort of thing on a regular basis you know? .  Well so you cannot give up if you believe in something. And I have just - that is always the secret to my success is you know not giving up when I believe.  For somebody as experienced and accomplished as you does having a debut album like this make you nervous? Does it feel different from all of the other things you have gotten accolades for in your career?  Yeah I mean it is different 'ecause it is my name on it. So it is kind of weird. It is kind of weird I have to say  because I am very behind - who I am I am very behind the scenes really. But it is cool you know? I am like you know behind the curtain you know with this.  Yeah.  But kind of in front of the curtain at the same time.   I was curious as I was listening whether there might be any little Easter egg of like your voice hidden in one of these tracks somewhere.  I think I am singing backgrounds on the Darius Rucker song.  Really?  Yeah yeah.  It is Times Like This.  Yeah. In the chorus - na-nas .      Times like this. Na-na-na-na-na na-na-na-na - let me hear you sing na-na-na-na.  The woman who says she is behind the curtain is actually secretly popping up all over the place.  Well pop up - I am like Alfred Hitchcock with this stuff.  .  If you blink you will not know I am there.  That is Diane Warren. She is an Oscar-nominated songwriter. Today she is out with her very own album The Cave Sessions Vol. 1. Thank you so much for talking with us about it.  Thank you Ari.    In times like this we could all use an angel. In times like this in times like this in times this - we could all use somebody. 