 And if you are just joining us this is WEEKENDS on ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Jacki Lyden. And it is time now for music.    Hey do not write yourself off yet...  It was November 2001 just after the September 11th attack a dark time in our country. And The Middle with its peppy tune and rosy lyrics seemed to satisfy a longing.    And do not you worry what their bitter hearts are gonna say...  The song launched the band Jimmy Eat World into stardom. Together now for two decades Jimmy Eat World is out with its eighth studio album Damage.    Are we only damaging whatever we have left?  I caught up with lead singer Jim Adkins when the band's tour stopped in Berlin.  For this album I decided to shoot for - just as a basic basic jumping-off point - love songs. But the kind of love songs that interest me or I find engaging are ones that deal more with adversity you know complexity with relationships.    How slowly we built the walls in years they pile on I will steal you back...  I Will Steal You Back. You know I was bopping around to this it appears it is so upbeat and catchy in terms of the guitar work  how slowly we built the walls in years they pile on I will steal you back. And I thought you know this is for a relationship that got some miles on it.  Yeah. To approach that subject and that fanatic jumping-off point for writing to do that and not feel like a fake about it when I turn around and sing it I have to approach it from the perspective of observation and experience in the world around me right now which is definitely more of a you know a place like where friends are married and friends have kids and getting divorces or separations. And it is more about writing informed by experience rather than you know just overwhelmed with the idea of discovery you know like something new which is kind of what I wrote about a lot in the past.  Are you more drawn to writing about the downs of love would you say rather than the ups?  Yeah I would. Like you were saying there earlier about the upbeat kind of I Will Steal You Back music and the lyrics on top of it that is something I kind of work in on purpose. The thing that makes it more interesting if you put happy on top of happy I just do not get anything from it.  Bubblegum goo.  Yeah yeah. You get bubblegum goo and no one wants to step in that.    Funny how the smallest lie might live a million times. I will steal you back you back you back.   Twelve years ago this huge hit The Middle really launched your band into the spotlight. Let us hear a bit of The Middle.    Hey do not write yourself off yet it is only in your head you feel left out or looked down on. Just try your best try everything you can. And do not you worry what they tell themselves when you are away...  I will bet there are plenty of listeners at home singing that song along right now. Why do you think it caught on the way it did? It just set people on fire.  I do not know. You know looking back on it at the time I thought it was sort of like a joke because it was just so easy. You know what I mean? Like anybody working in art if something comes too easily it might not be as good as something that you have labored over. And The Middle happened just you know within a day. You know like one day it was pretty much done and we did not overthink it you know just kind of went for it. But it felt like it worked. And yeah I do not know man. I think it is - you are right it still gets a great reaction every time we play it. It is like hello.    It will be all right all right. It just takes some time little girl you are in the middle of the ride. Everything everything will be just fine everything everything will be all right all right.  It is just awesome. I mean it is a pretty amazing compliment to have anyone identify or find something in what you do that they can make theirs. And for some reason that song just clicked with a lot of people. And it is something that we are grateful for and it is an insane compliment.  I am speaking with Jim Adkins the lead singer of the band Jimmy Eat World. We caught you now in Berlin where you are in the middle of your European tour promoting this album. Would you say there is something different about touring today than when you were into the success you know we were just talking about - the 20-something success? You know it is some years on.  Yeah. No I think like the longer that we are a band the easier it is to do what we do. You know I think we would given up - well we are never ever chasing cool. We were always just doing our thing. And it is easier now to appreciate being where we are. And I think that really is powerful fuel for keeping it going even still.  Well I would imagine the four of you have that many more people to leave behind now when you tour who depend on all of you.  Yeah I know. It is trickier. We are all married and two of us have children. And I have three boys. You know as the kids get older they are starting to have you know real adolescent issues and problems that come up. And it is rough behind away from them. It is busy. It gets busy let me tell you. Yeah.    We build we box we carry on. As people we forgot. Strange we come to find ourselves not knowing we are lost.  It is interesting how a band evolves together. I mean you are 37. And the fact that you have all remained together that you are evolving together is pretty remarkable.  Yeah. We were all friends before we started the band. I mean I have known our drummer - actually his mother was our preschool teacher.   So I have known him a good like 35 34 years you know? That is pretty insane right? I mean I think he is one of the people I hang out with the most. We did not like answer an ad to be in a band together. It just happened naturally. I have always known that Zach our drummer played drums. He knew I played guitar. We would get together on the weekends and jam Metallica or whatever and just kind of evolved into a real thing.  Let' Jimmy Eat World. A lot of people must think that the Jimmy is you.  It is just a coincidence really. It comes from our other guitar player Tom's family. Quite a long time ago his brother Jim was picking on his younger brother Ed. And I think they were like 6 and 8 or something. He sort of beat him up I guess. And in retaliation Ed drew this picture of Jim with a globe in his mouth saying that like  Jimmy Eat World on it and put it on his door for him to see when he got home from school one day.  It is definitely a name you never ever forget.  Yeah we are stuck with it.  That is Jim Adkins singer songwriter and guitarist with Jimmy Eat World. Thanks so much for taking time to be with us today from Berlin.  Thanks for having me.    Please say no please say no...  To hear more from Jimmy Eat World's new album Damage go to nprmusic.org. And for Saturday that is WEEKENDS on ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Jacki Lyden. Special today thanks to Simone Orendain who recorded the ivory-crushing event in the Philippines. Check out our weekly podcast. Search for WEEKENDS on ALL THINGS CONSIDERED on iTunes or on the NPR smartphone app. Click on Programs and scroll down.  nprjackilyden. We are back on the radio tomorrow. Until then thanks for listening and have a great night. 