 For 19-year-old singer-songwriter mxmtoon processing the highs and lows of high school was something best done through song.    My therapist once asked me if I wanted to be in love and I told her I do not know. I guess maybe kind of. I mean...  She graduated last year and her way of figuring out what love feels like or how to deal with prom led to a debut album.    I write these songs singing like I am an expert. So much of the themes and the topics of this album are just about you know being a teenager and being in that space where you have literally no clue who you are you are trying to figure it out you do not know what your story is and how that is perfectly fine and OK.  But until recently she was a musician in secret sort of.  It would be this thing where I would go to school during the day and I would get home eat dinner with my family and I would do homework for two more hours until it was like 10 p.m. And then my parents would say goodnight. And I would say love you. And then I would go to my room...   Hi everyone. I am sorry I have not uploaded in a while. ...Turn on my computer...   I am just here to play a song a very unedited cover. ...And just start playing songs...    It is true... ...With my bedroom door closed and like just super quietly.    ...That all that you know is all that you are. You said it is all that you want. And if I was singing I would be singing really quietly into the mic with like the gain on all the way at the top.    Tell me that it is all OK. Tell me it is all OK. I was just so terrified of my family finding out because I mean you know I would tell my mom I wanted to be a famous YouTuber when I was younger but she would laugh a little bit and be like sure sweetie. Like you are going to college right? And I would be like yes mom.    Tell me that it is all... The Internet at that point allowed me to have this space where I could create my own story and exist and be something other than what I felt like I was stuck as in my day-to-day life.    Call me in the morning. Tell me how last night went. I just never told anybody. I guess it felt like this routine thing for me to just kind of keep it to myself and then all of a sudden I could not.    Stay. Oh God. I do not remember what day it was. It was a day in October of 2017. I woke up as I do and I checked my phone as I do. And I went onto Twitter that morning and I got this tag from someone. And I was like what is this tweet? Then I read it and it said Hypebeast list - new bedroom pop artists that you should listen to. And I was like wait what? And then it is tagged me and I was like oh my God. This is like a no-joke publication. Someone is going to find out about this and tell my parents.    I mean I used to feel so sure but I might just be immature. So I sit in my room take a really deep breath open the door and walk out to the kitchen. I say Mom Dad I have to tell you something. And I am sure in my mom and my dad's mind they were like oh God. What did she do? She is been so perfect up until this point. And I told them. I was like I make music. My mom goes what? And I have to tell them and I show them all these links. And I - they deep-dive into what the world of mxmtoon looks like and so it was like watching my videos on the kitchen computer...   Hey everybody. If you are wondering... And I have a lot of thoughts about high school and... If you like this video please give it a thumbs-up. ...Or listening to my songs out in the living room on the stereos.    Seasonal depression's got me sleeping off the days and I have wasted all my time feeling gray. It was terrifying to make that jump from something that was so confidential to so public...    Been locked up in here with the rain coming down. I tried to fool myself... ...Which - it seems counterintuitive because so much of what I did existed online and was available for the whole entire world to listen to. But I think what really made me understand the impact and the process of putting things out into the public space was when my parents and my family finally knew about it. A lot of the topics I talk about I think are just emblematic of moments where I had realizations of - OK this is going to be something that shapes who I am.    I am nearing the end of my fourth year. I feel like I have been lacking crying too many tears. I would say the best way to put it is basically rhyming diary entries.    But did I miss out? Was it a huge mistake? Prom Dress is basically about my high school experience as a whole. I had eaten In-N-Out with my family for dinner at this one point. Like I just had eaten this huge amount of food and I thought you know yeah I could definitely fit into my prom dress right now. So I went to my room and like I tried to zip it and I like collapsed on the ground started tearing up like having a mini-panic attack. And my mom walked in and was like are you OK? You know I was like I feel so ugly and prom's going to be a disaster.    I am sitting here crying in my prom dress. I would be the prom queen if crying was a contest. Make-up is running down. Feelings are all around. How did I get here? I need to know. I am extremely happy to be done with high school. There is so many expectations around experiences especially when you are a teenager and a young adult about what sort of life experiences and stories you are supposed to be having. And that is just something that happens to everyone and it is not something that you should feel bad about. It is just human.    That I love you you know it is true.  That is musician mxmtoon talking to producer Kat Lonsdorf about her debut album The Masquerade. The album is out today.    And I get it now. 