 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Robert Siegel.   After conducting the country's most famous orchestra the New York Philharmonic for seven years what do you do for an encore? Well if you are Lorin Maazel even at age 79 it is time to launch a new project. So Maestro Maazel has created the Castleton Festival at his 500-acre spread in Rappahannock County Virginia. Two weeks of performances by young professional artists starts tomorrow. Yesterday he was conducting a rehearsal of The Beggar's Opera one of four Benjamin Britten chamber operas that they are performing at the festival.     This was under a tent. So one challenge was staying cool in Virginia in July without suffering the roar of an air conditioner outside. It was not a dress rehearsal so a cast of 20 portrayed the lowlifes of 18th-century London dressed in sneakers shorts T-shirts and summer dresses. Lorin Maazel in jeans was in the pit gently leading an 11-piece orchestra. Mr.   And air conditioning please.  Lorin Maazel resists the word retirement to describe his life nowadays. He still conducts at the opera house in Valencia in Spain and is a guest conductor elsewhere. His Virginia estate is home to 150 young artists every summer not to mention an equal number of cattle all year round. The Castleton Festival grows out of the Young Artist-in-Residence program and in addition to conducting at the festival Maazel now intends to teach a master class for aspiring conductors for the first time. He says that is forcing him to really think about what you really can teach conductors. He recalls a question he once put to his fellow judges in a competition for conductors. Mr.  Can you define what a conductor is? You know what a conductor does but what is a conductor? And they all said with one voice we have no idea what a conductor is but we recognize one when we see one. And indeed it is unmistakable. You see it right away a natural-born conductor certain manualities certain ability to identify with the musical discourse instinctively and that cannot be taught.  You actually did this at the age of nine. Was there a gift you possessed at that age that prepared you for that at that moment? Mr.   Well every musician must show his talent and proclivity at an early age. That is characteristic of a gift as it is in chess playing in math. That one then conducts or plays publicly is a decision that is not taken by the youngster obviously but by his parents and his teacher. And in my case I had the good fortune of not being exploited as so many child prodigies in quotes were by keeping the number of concerts to a reasonable limit. I could go to school like everybody else and play baseball and football which I did.   This is from a recording of Stravinsky's Firebird with Maazel conducting the New York Philharmonic.   His style with musicians is very restrained. Detractors have faulted him for being unengaged. He likens himself to the first violinist in a string quartet which he once was a leader among fellow musicians and as an American he says authoritarianism did not come naturally. Lorin Maazel told me proudly about his last rehearsal with the New York Philharmonic and what one of the musicians said about him. Mr.  I was very very pleased to hear from a representative of the orchestra who said that we have been waiting for seven years for you to lose your temper once and you never did.  Mr.  Why? Because you know?   cliches of what the conductor is what the maestro is. Mr.  Exactly shaking your first or screaming or jumping up and down or throwing a tantrum. It is ridiculous. It is non-productive.  Did you ever want to? I mean was there a temptation to do so? Were you restraining yourself or just not in your temperament? Mr.  Well it is - I am very firm about what it is that I feel I want for myself and from the orchestra and I am quite stubborn. I keep at it but if you respect the people you are working with you do not start shaking your fist at them. That is also true at home. I mean no child and I have had seven of them has ever felt my hand. An intelligent parent learns very quickly about the importance of the alternative. Rather than saying do not do that you say why not do this? And so it is for the conductors. A conductor must lead and people want to be led. That is why they are there and in fact they fault a leader for not being able to lead. You know when a conductor walks to the podium and says well I am here to learn from you forget it. Many of my colleagues do not know that and begin explaining the music and projecting themselves as interpreters and talking about phrasing. You do not talk you do. And you do by having a hand which has been trained to express everything that it should express at any given moment such as offering a point of reference for ensemble for players staying together the kind of sound that you would like tempo a lot of things. You can express all of this in one motion if you can if you are a proper conductor. If you have to stop and look around and say it is not together just walk off the podium and go home because that is your job to get it together. If it is not together it is your problem not theirs.   Maestro Maazel thank you very much for talking with us. Mr.  Thank you.  Lorin Maazel at his Virginia home Castleton Farms. The first Castleton Festival begins tomorrow and runs through July 19th.   And you can take a visual tour of Lorin Maazel's music camp at nprmusic.org. 