 There is an interview we did on the show earlier this year that whenever someone brings it up it is hard not to laugh. Robert did this one. And if you did not hear it the first time or even if you did enjoy. Here you go.   Jon Benjamin is a comedian and voice actor best known for playing the title roles on the animated series Bob's Burgers and Archer. He is also the voice of a can of vegetables in the movie Wet Hot American Summer. He is been a comedian for more than 20 years. And none of that is why we have invited him on the show. We have him here because of the most public radio of reasons. He has recorded an experimental jazz album.  Thank you for having me.  You recorded this album with three other musicians - a bass player a drummer and a saxophonist. You are on piano.  Yep.  And I want us to listen to some of this track.   This track is called I Cannot Play Piano...  I am sorry. I cannot say it.   This is called I Cannot Play Piano Part Two.  and it is obvious you cannot play piano.  I really cannot and it really shows.   And yet here you are...  Yeah.  Playing with some guys who seem to know what they are doing.  They were very accomplished jazz musicians that I played with - and me.   The name of this album is Well I Should Have subtitle Learned How To Play Piano.  Yeah it is very literal.  Now you are playing with professional jazz musicians - Scott Kreitzer on sax David Finck on bass and Jonathan Peretz is playing drums. Was this an act of friendship or just a measure of the jazz economy that you got to do whatever gig comes along?  They were very nice to do it and I am not sure they realized what they were doing till we got there. And then they were mad but not mad enough to stop all together. So they went through it and they were great.   Well ...  That is real untapped untalent.  .   He is good.  Yeah. He knows what he is doing yeah.  He really does.  Yeah.   But that is just not as interesting.  I think it lacks the complete sense of free-form surprise that we have...  Right.  ...When you are actually...  He is not taking any risk.  .  He just knows how to do it.  How safe to actually...  I feel bad for people like that yeah.     Are you going to do any live performances to promote this?  Well it is funny. I have been asked a couple times but I am not sure I want to do that. I am really going to dedicate myself to learning how to play and maybe my next album will be decent.  Is that right? Are you trying to learn how to play?  I have started taking lessons so...   I see. You are sort of charting a reverse career which begins with the recording contract...   It is a real insult to people who try.  ...And then eventually makes its way to actual lessons on the instrument.  I mean look I have - there is a distinct possibility that I will be very good.  .  I do not know like how it is going to turn out. I just started doing the lessons so I might be incredibly good.   Well Jon Benjamin thanks a lot for talking with us about your album Well I Should Have... Learned To Play The Piano.  Thank you. 