 Chan Marshall better known by her artistic moniker Cat Power has been making records for nearly 20 years. In that time she is earned a fiercely devoted fan base. Her signature songs are sad and spare pecked out on piano or guitar. But her latest record uses synthesizers drum machines even vocal processing. It is called Sun. And our critic Will Hermes has this review.   I was recently listening to the first single from the new Cat Power album with some fellow fans and the room was deeply divided. Some thought the song was fabulous. But others were startled and upset which I could understand sort of. Chan Marshall's songs generally speak to pain and trauma with a very hushed and intimate musical vocabulary. But this song called Ruin was something different - not just a rock and roll song but one you might even want to dance to.    Too many people you know . Why do we do it? We are been all ruined. What are we doing? We are been all ruined.  The story behind Chan Marshall's new record is that it was made after a friend gave her feedback on some new Cat Power songs saying they sounded too much like old Cat Power songs. So Marshall scrapped them and after some down time she holed up in a studio and built a record around synthesizers and drums playing every instrument herself.    I never knew love like this. But some see you and I never knew kind I never knew shine I now know why. Marry me marry me to the sky. Marry me marry me to the sky. Marry me marry me to the sky. Marry me marry me to the sky...  What I hear on the new Cat Power record is music that owes something to the incandescent gloom of '80s bands like the Cure and New Order which makes a lot of sense given Chan Marshall's usual mopey-ness. More surprising are vocals that in their flow also owe a bit to '80s hip-hop like the Furious Five or maybe Oaktown 357.    If you said a stranger in there  everything is this. You got a right to have that  the moment you hear it you are on your own. You are ready to go. Come on now you want to hit the road. The low is like a steamboat running beneath the floor. I do not  summer day you tell me to go. 3 6 9 you drink wine. Put you on your back you will be just fine. 3 6 9 you drink wine. Put you on your back you will be just fine.  Sun is less immediate than the last Cat Power record but Chan Marshall is an artist who follows her gut - so much so that for years she was maybe best-known as the woman who walked off stages mid-set if the performance did not feel right. It is that visceral quality that makes her music so indelible and it is here albeit in a new form. And the more I listen to it the more potent it gets.   The new Cat Power album is called Sun. And you can listen to it at NPR.org. Our critic Will Hermes is the author of Love Goes to Buildings on Fire.    Inside inside ... 