 The music style Boleros was born in Cuba in the late 1800s and it spread throughout Latin America and around the world. It developed its own style in Mexico. And more recently it is enjoying a renaissance thanks in part to two teenaged sisters. Betto Arcos tells us more.  The sun is setting on the Pacific coast town of Ometepec.   Musicians and fans gather on a rooftop to enjoy Boleros.  .   Las Hermanas Garcia introduce the Boleros Que Sepan Todos.   .  The crowd of about 70 people listens attentively. Most of them are teenagers and the Garcia sisters take note. Celia is 16 herself and Laura Garcia is 18.   We are super excited to see all the young people coming to see us. And it is so beautiful because we are helping to spread the Boleros.  Her sister Celia says Boleros are part of their DNA.   It is a genre that we heard since we were in my mother's womb. This region has always been known to be very romantic. My father used to sing serenades to my mother and now we listen to this music.   .  Their father is Mariano Garcia. He is also their arranger and lead guitarist. He says his daughters started singing together before they were 10.   I coached them a little bit with their voices but really they are natural singers. Early on I saw them singing in two-part harmonies. I do not know how they did it. Celia took the first voice and Laura second. And suddenly they were making music.   .  The Boleros planted roots in Mexico's Pacific coast known as the Costa Chica in the mid-1950s when a prolific composer from this region named Alvaro Carrillo began to score hits in Mexico City and beyond. His most famous tune Sabor A Mi has been recorded by dozens of singers worldwide including Doris Day Frank Sinatra and Eydie Gorme.   .  The legacy of Carrillo and other composers of his generation is still felt today across the country. Mexico City has a Boleros-only radio station and national pop stars have made Boleros a regular part of their repertoires. Ramon Estrada is the host of a radio program in Ometepec.   For more than 50 years those Boleros from that period have been transmitted from one generation to the next. And with this new revival this tradition will continue for a long time.  Estrada says Boleros are so popular in the Costa Chica that you can go to any party and hear a Boleros group. They have become such a part of people's lives that they take them wherever they go.   They are listening to Radio Ometepec to the Garcia sisters in the U.S. They call us from New York Los Angeles Texas and Miami. There are a lot of people there who are from all these towns along the coast. Just imagine how they feel being so far away from the Costa Chica and listening to songs from here.   The day after their public performance in Ometepec the Garcia sisters rehearse songs they plan to record on their second album. This time they want to sing Boleros from other coasts of Latin America including this classic from Cuba.   .  Celia Garcia and her sister Laura recently performed at one of the biggest festivals in Mexico and Celia says a music festival in London in front of thousands of people.   We are doing what we like to do. And I think that when you are doing what you really like to do you do not feel pressure. You just do it.  But you do have to ask permission to take off from school to make your gig. For NPR News I am Betto Arcos.  . 