 Jenny Lewis was one of those child actors you might have seen on shows like Growing Pains or Mr. Belvedere. But then she started making music and in the late '90's that started taking off. Once her band Rilo Kiley scored this hit in 2004 it is kind of hard to go back to sitcoms.    And it is bad news baby I am bad news.  Jenny Lewis founded Rilo Kiley with her boyfriend Blake Sennett. But when they broke up the band broke up too. Her new solo album The Voyager took five years to make. Five long hard years. And I started my conversation with Jenny Lewis by asking her how she said making The Voyager got her through one of the most difficult periods in her life.  Way to put it all out there Kelly.  Oh sorry .  And I actually direct that at myself as well. My band broke up my father passed away and I started experiencing insomnia for the first time in my life.  I read at one point that you did not sleep for five days or something like that? I mean how is that even possible?  I do not know how I survived that. Your memory goes physically you do not feel well emotionally you are all over the place. You know if you miss one night of sleep - if you can only imagine five nights of not sleeping. It is sort of unnerving.  I sort of can but I mostly cannot. I mean yeah - I have done some work that is kept me from sleeping obviously had a child - that keeps you from sleeping. But that much prolonged sleeplessness - I mean - were you just kind of delirious and tripping sometimes?  Yeah. I was in an alternate state of reality.  In that altered state were you also creating things writing songs?  I was. I worked on my lyrics while I was lying awake.    I have been wearing all black since the day it started. When I stopped and looked back as my mind departed. I have been losing sleep and I cannot sit still. I am not the same woman that you were used to. I put my head under water baby I throw my clothes away in the trash.  You know one of the things that had sort of brought this about was the death of your father. I mean you did not grow up with him in your life but you got close to him later. Can you just tell me about that a little bit?  Yeah my parents divorced when I was three years old. They had a lounge act in Las Vegas where I was born. The band broke up and the marriage dissolved and my mother my sister and I moved to California - southern California. And I did not see my dad a lot growing up. He was on the road a lot. I would see him every couple of years and when he got sick I reached out to him and that is when our relationship really began. And we talked a lot during that time and you know just those basics things that you do not know if you do not spend time with your parent. You know like what was my grandmother like? What was it like growing up on the road? He was a really special special person.  The song on this album You Cannot Outrun 'Em is a song about that. It is a song about getting to know him.    And I guess two souls will meet again when the universe thinks they should. Even if there own bloodlines do not run as deep as they could. What your momma put you through I would not wish it on my enemy. Now that I am a living proof that history repeats. You cannot outrun 'em.  You know my father was very special. He was a musical genius he joined a group called the Harmonicats when he was a kid. And he traveled his entire life. So you know flash forward to my life on the road where I wake up in a different city every day and I am not the best at maintaining you know some of my relationships as well. So I kind of - I let him off the hook.  You identify with him.  I do. In the end though despite all the running he found himself surrounded by all of his children you know in the last week of his life. And the love in that room was immense.    You better talk quickly 'ecause my sister's at the door. Because I want to know everything who I am and what it is for. What the Lord has planned for you I guess that it was meant. Wanted to get to know you before you were dead. You cannot outrun 'em.  I am talking with Jenny Lewis about her new album The Voyager. It comes out at the end of the month. Do you think a song is better if you write it while you are going through the things you are writing about or is it better to sort of wait until you get some perspective on it first.  That is a really interesting question. You know I thought about that while writing this record. In particular with regard to my father and his passing. You know I write music really to make myself feel better. But in attempting to express grief it felt really cheap sitting down to write about something that I had just gone through. That was devastating - the loss of a parent is devastating. And I could not write about it in the moment. I really needed time to reflect. And I needed time to reflect on how I felt because I - I did not even understand how I felt. So I think you know it depends on the subject it depends on the song. But I think life is the most important thing and you have to live that first and then you are art comes second.  You know it is funny I read the lyrics to the songs on this album before I listened to the songs. And I have to say that they seemed a lot darker on the page than when I listened to the music.    I used to think you could save me. I have been wandering lately. Heard she is having your baby. I have always just had sort of a dark take on life I suppose. And hopefully the music transcends that in a way. I have been singing this Rilo Kiley song on tour the last couple months called A ManMeThen Jim and the opening line is about suicide. And I am opening for this guy called Ray Lamontagne this artist and you know playing to his audience every night. And I am like - what are these people thinking? Who is this maniac up here in a rainbow suit singing about suicide?   That sums it up - wearing a rainbow suit talking about suicide.  Just like weird adult party clown bummer performer.  That is singer and songwriter Jenny Lewis. Her new album The Voyager comes out on July 29th. And starting on Monday you can sample every track from the album at our exclusive first listen. Go to nprmusic.org. Jenny Lewis thank you so much.  Thank you.  This is NPR News. 