 Singer Mavis Staples has been performing for more than six decades. Along with her family band The Staple Singers she brought gospel and social activism into mainstream music. The group earned the nickname God's greatest hitmakers. But Staples had never won a Grammy until 2010 for her collaboration with Jeff Tweedy of the band Wilco. Now Staples and Tweedy are trying to build on that success with another album coming out today. It is called One True Vine and Meredith Ochs has this review.   On their second collaboration Mavis Staples and Jeff Tweedy assemble a story using songs written by various artists dotted by frequent lyric references to The Staple Singers. The CD follows a narrative arc of struggle acceptance and salvation that is mirrored in the crescendo and decrescendo of the music starting out low and slow.   As Staples' new CD builds she wrestles with life's travails but her faith is always there offering refuge. Even a secular song like this one by Funkadelic feels deeply spiritual with Staples' bold voice leading the other singers like a church choir.   Mavis Staples brings her CD gently back down at its end with the title track which Jeff Tweedy wrote and originally recorded with Wilco.   Jeff Tweedy not only produced the new Mavis Staples CD but he plays almost all the instruments on it as well with an assist from his teenage son Spencer on drums. Tweedy's arrangements are stripped down giving Staples room for her full range of vocal expression from RB growl to gospel fervor. The spacious studio sound he developed over years of self-recording put the iconic singer in an effective framework turning a legendary distinctive voice into moody contemporary roots music.   In the 1960s and '70s Mavis Staples brought spirituality and social consciousness to a pop audience. She never stopped evolving her music working with artists like The Band John Scofield Burt Bacharach and too many others to mention. In Jeff Tweedy Staples has found a kindred spirit a fellow musical seeker a versatile collaborator the perfect partner to recontextualize what she does best for a generation that grew up listening to bands like his.   The new album from Mavis Staples is called One True Vine. Reviewer Meredith Ochs is a talk show host and DJ at Sirius XM radio. 