 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Madeleine Brand.   Two years ago Canyon Cody won a Fulbright scholarship to study the history of Granada that is a city in the south of Spain. Granada is famous as a sort of religious and cultural crossroads. It was once ruled by Muslims but Jews and Christians were also welcome there and that has translated into a rich musical history. Canyon Cody is a 25-year-old hip hop producer originally from Ojai California. After winning the Fulbright he moved to Spain and ended up studying how Granada's cultural and religious blending influenced its local music scene. For his Fulbright project Canyon Cody and his co-producer Sean Dwyer compiled an album of original songs. It is called Granada Doaba.   Canyon Cody welcome to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. Mr.  Thank you very much Madeleine.  Well can you tell us about this music that we hear right now we are listening to? Tell us about its origins and how you came to record it. Mr.  This was a song that we recorded in Granada Spain. And this particular song La Senda Del Abuelo is based on the years after the Reconquista of Spain when the Arabs were kicked out of what was Al-Andalus in Spain. And there was a period after 1492 when the gypsies and the Moors were living on the outskirts of towns and you had two separate cultures both living in the margins of society sharing their music with each other. And so Granada's flamenco in particular has this Arab feel from these years after the Catholic kings had kicked out the non-Christian members of society.  That is a lot for one song.  Mr.  Well we tried to make music rooted in history. And my background in ethnomusicology was the beginning for a lot of these songs but really the directions that the songs took were based on the musicians that we met in Granada. We worked with 16 different musicians and one of them was from Granada and the 15 others were immigrants that had found their way there. Granada has an enchanting spell that it casts over people and people come for a visit and never leave.  Mr.  Granada is a very public place. It is the sort of place where the best way to connect is to be public and be vocal. And there is a very social young dynamic street culture in which you really feel as though public spaces are communal. And so we built a studio above a flamenco guitar shop and made it an open space for anyone in town. And people started coming over and knocking on the door. Every day during the hours of siesta we knew that people were free from their jobs or school and so people would knock on the door with their drums and their ouds and their guitars.  So the music and the musicians they came to you. Mr.  We went to a lot of live shows and we took a lot of very slow walks through town and really did not rush through the projects. But in a lot of ways we stood still and we watched the city move around us and we invited anyone to collaborate with the project that was willing and interested.   Now you brought with you your producer Sean Dwyer who is known as Notes. Mr.  Yeah.  Hi. Mr.  How are you Madeleine?  Fine thanks. And you actually put these songs together the  together. Mr.  Yeah yeah.  How did you do that? Mr.  I mean the general formula was taking samples from records of pertinent songs and themes that we knew we wanted to use putting them through my - the MPC my electronic drum machine. And then we would have musicians come over and maybe five or six different musicians drum players naif guitar we would play over a track. And then we would kind of pick and choose what worked what did not work and then let it evolve as such.  Mr.  The interesting thing about working with different groups in Granada is that you have North African Arab immigrants that are in Granada right now and you have gypsy musicians and you have Latin Americans. And 500 years ago even though they come from such distinct cultures they possibly could have been neighbors in Granada before the re-conquest of Spain the three cultures of Spain - Jewish Muslim and Christian communities - living in the same cities. And so in a lot of ways we tried to reach back into that common past.   Canyon I want to talk about your background and if you could tell me how your upbringing how your roots influenced you to get interested in this project. Mr.  Well I am a first generation American. My parents came from Cuba. My dad is from Scotland. And my memories of my childhood so much of it connected to music and to rhythm. When immigrants arrived to this country with nothing in their pockets a lot of them still have kind of rhythm in their bones. And so when I began to travel as I was getting older I really tried to keep my ears open and eyes moving and paying attention to the way that cultures related to their music. And so what connected me personally to Spain was initially my family roots. But what happened is something that I think is all too typical which is that I fell in love with the city. And so what we wanted to do on the album was you know express our appreciation for our time there but really try and just document that love for a physical space and make it a local album. We did not want to make this some sort of a global mash-up of different styles but really document a local scene that this was an album that was recorded in a neighborhood by neighbors.   Canyon Cody thank you very much. Mr.  Thank you very much Madeleine.  And Sean Dwyer thank you. Mr.  Thank you Madeleine.   The album is called Granada Doaba. And you can download full tracks from it for free and subscribe to our music podcast at the new npr.org.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 