 It is on the radio blaring out of cars and on the streets. It is even playing in grocery stores.   .  Despacito by Puerto Rican musicians Luis Fonsi and Daddy Yankee with Justin Bieber. The song has been streamed more than 4.6 billion times worldwide. It is been number one on Billboard's Hot 100 for 11 weeks now. NPR's Jessica Diaz-Hurtado reports the song is saying something about how global music is changing.  Despacito was released in January of this year climbing the global charts pretty fast. When Justin Bieber jumped on the song with a remix partly in English it gave Luis Fonsi's song the boost it needed.  The whole world is singing in Spanish. You know we have everybody just kind of googling what does despacito mean?  It means slowly. And it sparked conversations on the power of crossover culture when an artist crosses into the mainstream and this time without translating the lyrics.   .  Fonsi points out that he is not the first artist to do this.  Despacito was just the song that just exploded through the door. But I give a lot of credit to amazing artists who have done these kind of fusions in the past like Ricky like Enrique like Shakira.  As in Martin Iglesias and well Shakira. But before YouTube and Spotify it was kind of hard to track exactly how popular those crossovers were says Jesus Lopez chairman and CEO of Universal Music Latin America and Iberian Peninsula.  Before you cannot see how the market was working there because the piracy. Now you can see the consumption of the music on the charts.   .  Despacito was actually a big deal before the Justin Bieber remix. Isabelia Herrera music editor of the online Latino cultural website Remezcla says that when a video began circulating of Bieber messing up the words at a show in May fans got mad.  There is this viral video that went around of him singing it in a nightclub in New York and replacing the lyrics with I do not know the words so I sing Dorito burrito.   I do not know the words so I sing poquito I do not know the words so I sing Dorito...  Very weird uncomfortable imagery that is like associated with Latinidad. I do not care if he messes up the lyric by accident. It is more about like using these tropes and mocking the language itself.  She says that this moment was a painful indication that Latinos in the U.S. still face some real issues.  We continue to tell ourselves these like feel-good stories about representation of Latinos in music and culture because we are so starved for visibility. And we use these moments these pop-culture moments to like celebrate these remarkable feats for how far we have come. But I do not think that it necessarily changes the political situation of Latinos in the United States.  But it is making money says Jesus Lopez of Universal Music.  Right now everybody knocks on our doors to make more collaborations with Latin artists. The Anglo producer the Anglo artist open their eyes and see how important became the Latino artist.   .  All analysis aside Luis Fonsi is beyond happy that his collaboration with Daddy Yankee is having this kind of impact.  The timing is quite  - it is quite perfect you know in sort of this environment that we live in. And I do not want to turn this song into a political environment because it is not. It is just a - it is a great song to just make us feel good. But in the times that we live that you know some people want to divide and we want to build walls and you know we are going through sort of a lot of change it is quite lovely that a Spanish song is number one right now.  And after 11 weeks Despacito shows no signs of giving up the top spot on the charts. Jessica Diaz-Hurtado NPR News. 