 Just for a minute let us go back to the early 2000s.    It is a new day but it all feels old. It is a good life - that is what I am told. But everything - it all just feels the same. And...  That is the 2002 hit The Anthem by the band Good Charlotte. The start of the new millennium brought a new sound a new look and new bands. Good Charlotte was at the top of the list of those new emotional or emo punk bands. The angst was very real and the group stood out with music that expressed the feelings of kids who saw themselves as fringe as outcasts as misfits. Now it is almost 20 years later and their lives are very different. They are married most have kids. But they are still speaking to the moment with a new album titled Generation Rx. We are joined now by Joel and Benji Madden twin brothers that started the band together back in high school. And they are with us now from NPR West in Culver City Calif. Joel Madden Benji Madden thank you so much for talking with us.  Oh thank you for having us.  Yeah we are glad to be here. Thank you.  All right. Who wants to start? Should we - which - well first of all which one of you is older and by how many minutes? B.  So this is Benj and I am older by five minutes.  Oh OK. So you are the big brother. All right. So why do not we start... B.  .  Why do not you take the first one then? So let me start by asking you about the name of the album Generation Rx. I am told - at least I think I read - that this actually started when you played at a memorial for rapper Lil Peep at a memorial concert for him. Is that right? B.  Yeah. Peep was a fan of the band. We had gotten very friendly and we were really appreciative of the new sound that he was pushing. And just kind of - overall he was just genuinely kind of just a really sweet guy. And his mother actually had reached out and asked if we could try to do something special for the memorial so we got together and tried to think of an idea of something that would be special for him and his family and his friends and his fans. And we came up with the idea of covering his song Awful Things. And it was a really special experience for us.    Bother me tell me awful things. You know I love it when you move that on me love it when you do that on me. B.  It was really heartbreaking the whole experience and we started looking around at a lot of young people and even just kind of the - where culture's gone and all the things that we kind of - I think as a society distract ourselves with or medicate ourselves with whether it is social media whether it is actual prescription drugs whether it is - you know there is all kinds of different ways for us to look in other directions other than inward to what we are going through and what we are dealing with. And it sparked an entire conversation between me and Joel and our band and why are we here and what are we contributing and what can we do?  Perhaps it is not clear to people from what I just said that Lil Peep died from an overdose. B.  Yeah.  Can I ask about the - how you approached this? I mean - and whoever wants to - just tell me who wants to answer. Did you approach this saying I want to say something about this? Or how did this - how did it come about? J.  Well I think - this is Joel - it really started in a conversation with why - where is the pain and where does it come from and why are we medicating? And outwardly and at first glance someone could say oh I am just having a good time. This is just - that is my drug of choice. But really what I feel from my perspective is they are suffering inside they are dealing with some pain that they are not really aware of or addressing. B.  And this is Benj. Just to add to that I think what we have talked about as a band was are we really honest and vulnerable with people? Because sometimes that can be hard to do when you are stepping out and putting your feelings and thoughts and experiences out there publicly. And when we went to make this record we thought you know what is the point for us to be here if we are not going to be as honest as we can? And these are hard things to talk about. It is hard to talk about childhood trauma. It is hard to talk about depression. It is hard to talk about anxiety. And we thought - I wonder if we just open up our subconscious and the things that we think about and hide from people every day and just let them come out in some of these lyrics. J.  What kind of record were we making? B.  Yeah what kind of record will we make?  Wow. Well let us hear some of the new music. Let us start with Self Help.    And it cuts like a knife it feels like a fight to take back your life. Searching for the meaning I am living with these feelings I am ready for a reason to believe. Now I am working on my insides 'ecause outside there is no reasoning. If anyone's here it is never what it seems.  It does sound like a very - like a heartfelt letter that you could write to yourself right? J.  Absolutely.  I was wondering if you were ever worried that the audience that you most want to speak to would not be interested in what you have to say anymore. J.  This is Joel. I do think that we have questioned like where do we fit into music today? And I think at some point we had to just accept that we do not know and that our best foot forward is just to be honest and to make records that we like that we are proud of. B.  I also think we have had the conversations where - you know I can remember very clearly really tough mornings on the bus ride to school. We were just getting beat up by life in every direction - at home at school - and remembering those records that you put you know your headphones on that you listened to that just gave you confidence and gave you that strength to get through the day and go like I am going to be somebody. I am going to be some... J.  Some energy yo. B.  ...And some energy. And we think about - like even if there is just like one kid out there who is maybe in the same situation who is listening to a record - for us like when we are in the studio we have that conversation and that just makes it all feel worth it no matter what happens with the record. It is really kind of a really nice feeling.    Tell me why I hurt this way. Should I even love you anymore? I do not want to find out why I am too scared to look behind that door.  I do not want to gloss over the fact that the two of you have been through a lot I mean to get where you are - hearing your dad left when you were young and you kind of were really fighting the battle. And you have been very open about that. And I know Benji you have been open about the fact that you had a struggle with alcohol you know earlier in your life and you conquered that. And I wondered if you ever - now we are in a moment you mentioned - it is not just Lil Peep. There is XXXTentacion who was murdered. But that - you guys kind of came through and they did not. And I wonder why you think it is that you all survived circumstances that frankly defeated other people. B.  I think about that all the time. I think about people whose lives maybe had not turned out as well as me and Joel's lives and I just think it is just pure luck and the grace of God. I also think we were lucky to have each other as brothers. We made a deal when we were 16 that we were always going to stick together and never let anything come between us. And we shook hands on it and we never looked back.  Wow. B.  And I think there comes a crossroads in your life when you are - especially I think as young men and young women who maybe do not have the guidance of a mentor or a parent - you know there are times when the only reason I made a good decision is because I had my brother by my side and I wanted to be a better person and a better brother for him and make him proud. And I just think that there is a lot of these young people out here who do not have that. And I feel just - I was lucky I was born with a built-in best friend. And it is really hard to do this life - to be a human being alone.    Born on a lonely planet full of broken dreams where no one understands me. B.  It is just important to remind each other about - just that we are all human and to have some compassion for each other. And you know I do not want to sound too like Zen or anything but for me that is why it hits so hard when Peep passed away or when XXX passed away. All these kids that you just - you go I wish I could have been a part of their life to maybe have - maybe even just influence in some positive way. And so we do wonder if we matter anymore. I said it to my wife the other day. And then we go you know what? All we can do is just think about what we can put into the world - not really kind of what we can get out of it. And the rest just is that that is all the universe you know?    Prayers they do not mean a thing you know. Do they answer when you call? These prayers when you do not mean what you say - would you die for me today? No I just cannot relate. None of...  That was Joel Madden and Benji Madden of Good Charlotte talking to us about their latest album Generation Rx. Joel Madden Benji Madden thank you so much for joining us. We really appreciate it. B.  Thanks for having us. J.  Thanks for having us. 