 For more than 20 years drummer Janet Weiss was the backbone of the indie punk rock trio Sleater-Kinney. No longer - Weiss announced this summer she is leaving the band. It will go on tour this fall without her but they are leaving behind one final album with Weiss. It is called The Center Will not Hold and our reviewer Will Hermes says it is both a fitting capstone and a promising start to a brand-new chapter.  Corin Tucker's voice is a rock 'n' roll typhoon. And when she lets loose on the title track of Sleater-Kinney's new album it is clear the band's power remains Category 5.    The center will not hold. No the center will not hold. The center will not hold. No the center will not hold. The center will not hold. No the center will not hold. The center will not hold. No no the center will not hold.  That line - the center will not hold - paraphrases William Butler Yeats. It is a fitting statement for our current body politic and for the band. As a longtime Sleater-Kinney fan Janet Weiss' departure hurts. She is one of rock's all-time greatest drummers as thrilling to watch and as key to her band's power as Keith Moon was for The Who. This is Sleater-Kinney performing their song Dig Me Out in Paris in 2015.   Sleater-Kinney have always been a power trio and a girl gang with Weiss both grounding and propelling her younger bandmates. And the group will not be the same without her. But the new album shows a band that after 25 years is still evolving. And that is a promising sign. It is co-produced by Annie Clark better known as St. Vincent. And while the grooves tilt towards the electronic the songs still pulse with blood. This one titled Love conjures the 1990s punk band touring America on the cheap.    Calling card is empty sleeping in the van. But things are looking better. We are only down a grand. Been to every state from New York to insane. If I turn up any louder I will not know my own name. What?  Sleater-Kinney's nostalgia is shattered by the present. Characters in their songs are angry and scared. The song Broken conjures the testimony of Christine Blasey Ford. And this one titled The Future Is Now  is a gothy  ballad about smartphones and alienation.    I end my day on a tiny screen. I try to reach for you through the empty sheets. I close my eyes and try to find some piece of what is left of us and who we used to be.  Ultimately The Center Will not Hold is optimistic like Sleater-Kinney's music always is. Its rage and sorrow is the source of its strength and the band still creates space where fans can share that strength. For now Carrie Brownstein and Corin Tucker are not closing shop. Fans can still share that space when Sleater-Kinney tour this fall. So here's a toast to the next chapter.    Be the weapon be the love. Be the weapon be the love.  Sleater-Kinney's new album The Center Will not Hold is out now. Our reviewer Will Hermes is the author of  Five Years In New York That Changed Music Forever.    If the world is ending now then let us dance the bad dance. We have been rehearsing our whole lives. And if... 