   This is an old Yiddish folk song so old it goes back 100 years to the Jewish towns - or in Yiddish the shtetls - of Ukraine. The song is still around today thanks to a Russian Jewish writer who set out to document all of Jewish culture in the early 1900s. And now singers Michael Alpert and Ethel Raim are working to preserve this song and others.     Well I was privileged to grow up speaking Yiddish. Most of my family my parents were immigrants from eastern Europe and I have always been fascinated with the world that my parents and my family came out of. I have been speaking and singing Yiddish since I was - pretty much since before I can remember.   Well I guess like Michael you know I grew up with singing this music as well as some other East European music. And I was 3 years old when I was put on a table and asked to sing Benillah Benillah.  This just has such profound meaning for me. And it really does sustain me.    Ansky was the pseudonym of Shloyme-Zanvel Rappaport who was the father of East European Jewish ethnography was really the first person to begin collecting East European Jewish Yiddish folklore tales music what we call material cultures. We are part of a larger movement that is been going on for almost the last four years of the revival of East European Jewish - often known as klezmer music - Yiddish song which is very closely related genre and Yiddish culture in general. This - I guess it is important to see it in the light of the Second World War and the near-destruction of the East European Jewish world.  But we often these days talk about Yiddish land which is not a particular piece of territory but it is all the places in the world where Yiddish culture survives and continues and is both preserved and renewed and reinvented in a contemporary existence.  It is not a music that is very familiar in terms of what people think of as Yiddish or East European Jewish music today. But this is the real old-time stuff.   I would be very very sad if this music had no future. It is such a fantastic repertoire and I think it puts people very much in touch with deep places within themselves that you know in contemporary life we do not have that many opportunities. And I think that is really really important.   You know I sing when I walk up my five flights to my loft I sing in elevators. It is tunes that are constantly going in my head. And the music is just very very meaningful to me.   To me these songs they express everything that is in life and in our lives. Even though they may be very old songs they still - they have a tremendous emotional content. They are new and meaningful to those of us that sing them. They express what is inside us and that is the traditional aesthetic of these songs.   Michael Alpert and Ethel Raim along with cymbalist Pete Rushefsky and violinist Jake Shulman-Ment. Together they make up the An-Sky Yiddish Heritage Ensemble.   Now an update on the ongoing news this hour. A passenger jet crashed while it was landing earlier this afternoon at San Francisco International Airport. Two people are confirmed dead. Area hospitals have received more than 40 people with injuries some listed in critical condition. At a press conference this evening Debbie Hersman of the National Transportation Safety Board said the agency has little information on the cause of the crash at this point.  We are certainly going to be looking at the aircraft to try to find the cockpit voice recorders and flight data recorders are functioning at the time of the accident. We will be looking to get information from them as well as document the accident scene. It is still too early for us to tell. We have not left Washington yet. Once we arrive in San Francisco we will have a lot better sense of what is going on and be able to provide additional information.  Debbie Hersman part of the National Transportation Safety Board team that will be investigating the crash. The Asiana Airlines jet was coming from Seoul South Korea. Elliott Stone was one of the passengers on board. He exited the plane safely and says he saw some crew members who had been badly injured in the crash.  There is five I at least saw just terrible just like you know bad bad news. And those are the flight attendants that got dropped out the back. The back got the worst of it. I think like right where the flight attendants sit and they you know got pulled out right . And then we kind of fish tailed for another like 300 yards just slide and then rolled over fire started and that is when everyone all the passengers jumped out.  Passenger Elliott Stone who escaped safely from the plane after it crashed talking to CNN. Flights are delayed at airports across the country as a result of the plane crash in San Francisco. We will continue to follow this story as it develops. This is WEEKENDS on ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Rebecca Sheir. 