 It is a familiar story by now - a powerful man uses his influence to pressure women to have sex with him. This week that story was about opera legend Plcido Domingo. The Associated Press reported that as many as nine women were sexually harassed by the superstar over decades. Domingo has adamantly denied the allegations. And one of the women who made them is Patricia Wulf. She is the only woman who has attached her name to the accusations. She is a retired opera singer who worked with Domingo at the Washington National Opera 20 years ago. Patricia Wulf joins us now. Welcome.  Thank you.  So can you tell me about the first time you felt uncomfortable with Domingo?  Yes. It was - the most uncomfortable time was when I would come off stage and he was waiting in the wing and he would come right up to me and - very close to my face and ask me Patricia do you have to go home tonight? And...  Implying he would like to spend the evening with you.  I - yes I - that is what I took it to mean yes.  And was there a part of you back then when these encounters were happening where you thought OK this is just how the world works I know this - this is just business as usual?  I never thought it was business as usual. I do know that it- I remember thinking I know that this happens I never thought it would happen to me and it was absolutely shocking to me. I remember the first time it happened kind of stepping back a little bit from him and kind of giggling a little thinking this is not really happening is it? I am working. And then of course I said yes I have to go home. And I remember getting away from him thinking what just happened? What just happened?  About how many encounters like this did you have with him over the years?  I would say maybe 20 25 - something in there.  And at any point did he ever inappropriately touch you?  No no. I think he knew better .  I mean I can imagine someone saying listening to your story - well you know he never laid a hand on you. But you clearly were afraid of him. Can you explain why? Like what kind of figure in the opera world was Plcido Domingo to you at that time?  Oh. He was like a god to me and to all of the you know singers I mean. And you know you train for eight to 10 years to get to that level. And you finally somehow get there and to have that happen was - it was mind-boggling. And yes I did fear him. There were times when I - the gentleman who is one of my witnesses came up to me after about the third time he saw this happen. You know every time it happened he saw the pressure Domingo put on me. And he came up to me about the third time and he said Patricia I see what is going on. I see how uncomfortable you are. If you want we can go to the GM and complain about this. I will stand up for you. And I said you know they are not going to get rid of him they are going to get rid of me. And I like this job. I need to work. I worked hard to get here.  Right.  So at that point I decided I will just avoid him as much as I can. I will hide from him. I will you know go back to the garage a different way. And this gentleman was kind enough to many nights walk me to my car.  And did you suffer any professional consequences by rebuffing him over and over again?  No I did not.  OK.  I did not suffer anything careerwise. In fact it was interesting. He and the company kept hiring me and that was great. You know I sang in Flute. I sang in Fedora. I sang in Don Carlo. And by the time I got to Don Carlo he had started to get the message. In fact in Fedora I remember asking one of the other leads how do I stop this? How do I get him to stop bothering me? And the woman said you just keep saying no and he will eventually stop.  And he did in your case.  He did. By Don Carlo yes he had slowed down considerably. It still happened but not nearly as much. Plus I was playing a boy and I did not look nearly as fetching as I did...   Now you have talked to the Associated Press to CBS and now you are talking to NPR. I am curious - why did you decide that now was the right time to come forward about something that happened - what is this now? - almost two decades ago right?  Mmm hmm. I finally decided to because I teach voice. And if a student wants to pursue an opera career I feel like it is my obligation to let them know what can happen and what is happening in this field. I hope that it can give a young woman the strength and the courage to just say no to them...  Yeah.  ...That you do not have to give into that. It is not going to help your career. It is not going to make you feel better about yourself. Feeling better about yourself will come when you have the strength to say no.  Yeah. Patricia Wulf is a retired opera singer telling her story about Plcido Domingo. Thank you very much for taking the time to talk with us today.  Yes thanks for having me.  