 From the hot grill now to hot music from Chicago-based bluesman Buddy Guy. His new set of recordings is called Rhythm and Blues and it features cameos from Kid Rock Keith Urban and members of Aerosmith. But critic Tom Moon says the real reason to listen is the guitar playing of the 77-year-old blues titan.   On the two-disc Rhythm and Blues guitarist and vocalist Buddy Guy sums up his approach this way.    People always ask me about the blues I play. I say it just comes through me. I do not know no other way. I go by feel.  A few songs later he trembles as he describes the nightly test of will with a common blues-culture demon.    Whiskey ghost keep on haunting me. Whiskey ghost just will not let me be.  Then working alongside Steven Tyler of Aerosmith he rolls through a Blues 101 tale of woe about getting tangled up with the wrong kind of woman.    Yeah that as not you baby. Well it must have been your evil twin.  There are 21 songs on this new record and by the time it is over Buddy Guy and his guests have visited just about every worn-out cliche of the blues. That would make for tedious listening if he was a troubadour. But in his music the lyrics are really just there to set the scene. The fireworks start later after the verses when Buddy Guy begins to play.   Listen to that guitar a custom Buddy Guy 1989 Fender Stratocaster. It is more than hot-wired. It sounds like it will give you a blistering burn if you get too close. Every time he steps out here even just for a quick ad-lib between lines he delivers something profound.   That guitar wisdom dispensed so casually is the element no producer can just order up. Buddy Guy is among the last living links to Muddy Waters Howlin' Wolf and the other towering figures of electric blues. And if you cannot hear that in the slickness of these arrangements or the glitter from the celebrity guests just be patient. The next guitar solo will come along in a minute or two and then all that history will become inescapable.    All that talk on TV is shouting about something. Nobody listening. Nobody's saying nothing. Seems like my old guitar is the only place I find the truth.  The new album from Buddy Guy is called Rhythm and Blues. Our reviewer is Tom Moon.  