 The primetime Emmy Awards show is Sunday night. But some of this year's winners were announced days ago among them the winner for best theme music. The right theme can command attention set a mood even land on the pop charts. As Tim Greiving reports TV music is an art form all its own.  A popular TV show can inject its music into the pop culture bloodstream.   As instantly recognizable as the Twilight Zone theme is it was actually something composer Marius Constant had already written and was just sitting on a shelf.   But this tune was specifically composed as the theme for another show.   And it won two Grammys and broke into the top 10 in 1959.   Henry Mancini Peter Gunn.  Mike Post rattles off a few of his favorites.  And probably the original Wild Wild West theme. I loved that theme.   Post is a veteran TV composer himself who got his start as a session musician in Los Angeles. He played guitar on Sonny and Cher's I Got You Babe and won a Grammy for arranging the Mason Williams hit Classical Gas.  I was raised in the record business you know? And to me having a hit song was the goal. That was everything. And then when I just sort of fell into this business of being a composer for TV all I was trying to do was write a 45-second one-minute hit record.  His hits include Magnum P.I. The A-Team and a tune that reached No. 10 on the hot 100 in 1975 The Rockford Files.   I wanted to sign the signature for the show. But I also wanted them to walk out humming the thing.  Post says sometimes finding a theme can be laborious. L.A. Law took him five tries. But sometimes it is effortless like the theme for Steven Bochco's Hill Street Blues.  He described you know the door going up on the garage and a patrol car going through really depressing cityscape. And Bochco said what is that sound like? And I said well it could be kind of poignant and like the clock's going to tick. And I went the five minutes to my little office and I was in E-flat immediately. And I do not know how it happened. It just - 30 minutes later I called Bochco I said OK I got it. So he came over and he listened. And he went OK that is my show. See you.   One of the most ubiquitous TV themes was written in 1966 by Argentine composer Lalo Schifrin. But his first draft did not fit the bill.  The one I came up was .   Bruce Geller the producer interesting the way he said it. I want you to write a theme that when people are in the kitchen having a soft drink and the television set is in their living room they can hear from the kitchen and say oh  Impossible is now. So that is what I did.   But around the turn of the millennium TV executives started chopping main title sequences down to 15 seconds or less making themes about as musical as the sound of your computer booting up. Mike Post knows why.  It is not that they do not want main titles. It is that they want more commercials. They have got to make more money. They are on the Titanic you know and they are discussing the color of the curtains and what the band's playing.   Enter streaming services like Amazon and Netflix and the main title theme has come back with a vengeance. Think of the bittersweet piano opening of Transparent or the noirish  theme for House Of Cards.   One theme in particular seems to have wormed its way into the ears of a new generation.   The Stranger Things theme seems to have resonated with Emmy voters as well. It won the award on Sunday for best original main title theme music. It was written by Austin-based composers Kyle Dixon and Michael Stein.  I like the idea that they are microcompositions in a way. Like they are supposed to be conclusive from beginning to end.  Like The Twilight Zone the Stranger Things theme was not written specifically for the show. Stein says it was in a batch of demos he and his partner sent to the creators of Stranger Things. But it stuck the way a main theme is supposed to.  It is kind of like the cover of a book. You see it basically and you want to read it. You hear it you want to see the show.  Netflix may have helped bring back the television theme but the company also recently added a feature that lets you skip it. Stranger Things co-composer Kyle Dixon says he does not really mind.  Companies like Netflix they have analytics that tell them OK everyone's skipping the theme song. We might as well just make it a button. I know I get mad. I want to skip the theme song.  Not me. For NPR News I am Tim Greiving in Los Angeles.  