 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block.    All this leisure has got me tired. It is got me tired.  The band Phox jokes that their sound could be called lethargic pop.    I could come meet you but I might wander. And you would wonder. I have heard people say things like yeah it is like pop music for depressed people. And I am like oh my gosh. Or like - I have heard like nap pop.  That one's good.  And then I am just like - I mean I would describe myself as fairly lethargic. And maybe that comes through. Maybe people can sense that.  We have a lot of blankets in the van.  Oh my gosh napping.  Yeah it is cozy.  That is Matt Holmen and Monica Martin two of the six members of the band. Phox by the way is spelled P-H-O-X. They are all friends who grew up in Baraboo Wisconsin. And now they are out with their debut album. Monica writes all the lyrics and it is her smoky supple voice that pulls you in.    Hold your tongue. We are having all the fun. Nowhere to run so we can stay in bed.  As Matt Holmen told me that voice pulled him in too as soon as he heard it.  I just heard a quality of her voice that I did not hear in anyone else's voice. Music to me is like a math problem. And for Monica it was clearly an intuition. And you would hear this like one line of a song on the radio and then know the lyric and melody and be able to harmonize with it the second time the chorus came around. It takes longer for something to sink in for me.  Monica does that sound about right to you?  I think he is being generous. I mean he was very much my first encourager as far as you know as singing goes. You know I was really very private I guess.  Very private? You were not - you were not getting up on stage and belting it out?  No. I joined choir for one semester when I was a junior. And I was afraid to sing. I would not sing in that class. So I would just sing in private. And then I felt comfortable around Matt becoming very close with him.    Everything I do I do in slow-motion. I do not know what to say. Everywhere I fall do not know name or location. Baby I will just find my way.  With the song Slow Motion how did that song start? What did it sound like when you first had the idea Monica?  Slow Motion was one song that was just me singing a cappella sort of like - I thought about kids playing Hopscotch and sort of you know singing over it.  Everything I do I do in - you know whatever. I cannot play an instrument.  Double Dutch.  Double Dutch is that what I said? I said Hopscotch.  Hopscotch too.  Well Double Dutch is awesome.  Jump rope.  Anyway jump rope.    Everything I do I do in slow motion.  So Matt when Monica brought you that melody and those lyrics describe what happened after that because this song has so many layers that build into it. I mean we hear whistles. There is a mandolin a clarinet. I think an oboe comes in banjo. Everything kind of stacks on top of itself.  We ended up improvising a lot on it. So everyone just took a crack at it. And at the end of it it was just a huge train wreck.   In the best way.  Well no.  Oh.  We considered cutting it. About two days before we finished the record it was going to be cut 'ecause we did not like how it turned out. The arrangement was too cluttered. And I just  - I kind of took a razor blade to it - cut out some drums here would minimize piano parts took out my guitar part here and there until it has more of a synergy. And a lot of it was reductive editing that made the arrangement makes sense and come together.    Ooh-oh-oh. Ooh-ooh-ooh.  I am talking with Monica Martin and Matt Holmen of the band Phox. Monica I have heard you describe yourself as shy. And you have talked about your fears and your anxieties. And I do wonder how that meshes with being the lead singer in a band and going out on stage and performing. How do you overcome that? What do you do?  It is actually my biggest goal and struggle right now. So honestly I have kind of like fallen into a community in Madison. And what am I trying to say? I drink a lot. I do not know. I do not really know what to say. Like the only reason that it became a problem or that maybe it would you know end up being a problem for me is that being on tour for a long amount of time you do not get a ton of sleep even when you are being good about it. So like that mechanism - even though it is very mild for me - I am not trying to insinuate that like I am you know a booze hound by any means. But like I had to get rid of that. So sort of like having social anxiety and being on stage like it sounds really absurd. Like when you are saying it like it sounds so absurd. You are just like these people do not want to be listening to this. Like it seems so extreme.  Oh that is what is going through your head.  Yeah so it is like my biggest goal right now to just like have my reasonable self just like constantly reminding me that it is OK to be there.  Well Matt how do you and the rest of the guys in the band help Monica get past those fears those anxieties? I mean if you are about to go out on stage Matt what do you do? What do you say?  Typically we have a preshow ritual which involves Jason giving a clear-eyes full-hearts cannot-lose you know cliche sports movie speech. Jason is our bass player and guitar player. He was a youth soccer coach before he joined the band.  Does it help?  I think it helps because he is the guy who assumes everything is going wrong all the time. And then to hear him like the minute before we go on stage just flip 180 degrees and be the positive shining energy in room is like oh man. That is actually really nice. He is doing it for us to know. You know I appreciate that a lot.  Monica does it help you to hear him do that?  I think yes. I have got to give myself little you know Jason speeches myself - just be like Monica you can do this. It is awesome. Like Jack yourself up I guess.  Yeah got to embrace it right?  Yeah.  But on the other hand you know I dragged you into this. And honestly I feel like we could all have more open communication with each other no doubt about it. We could all be more supportive of each other. My goal is to be a musician. It always has been. But more importantly I want to have friends. I do not want to end up without friends and with the job.  Right.  That is not a goal of mine at all. So...    Weeding a million nightmares and I chanced one dream. It was in mint condition...  Monica and Matt thanks so much for talking to us.  Thank you so much.  Thanks Melissa.  Thank you I really appreciate it.  Monica Martin and Matt Holmen of the band Phox. That is also the title of their debut album. All six band members have put together a playlist of their favorite songs. You will find it on Spotify. Search for npratc.    Of lost actuality or seeing what is real or dodging the problematic way you feel...  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 