 Jacob Ganz reports.  Seth Hurwitz is a competitor of Live Nation. Hurwitz is a promoter too. He owns Washington D.C.'30 Club and IMP Productions. He says he is not surprised that some of this summer's tours are flailing.  Sales are down in bad situations like they should be but talking about the concert business as a whole as it relates to the large companies that try to run the whole industry is a little like asking BP how is the oil business these days.  Louis Messina has been a promoter for over 35 years both as an independent and at large corporations like AEG which owns his current company the Messina Group.  You know I guess if anything I was the bad guy.  Messina takes credit for an innovation that changed the promotions business.  We made a decision a long time ago because profit margins are so small promoting concerts that we had to get into the building business.  By getting into the building business Messina means he and his partners began to build amphitheatres. Why? So they would not have to rent someone else's venue and so they would pocket all the money concertgoers spend that does not show up on a ticket stub.  Whatever they charge for beer 10 or 15 and parking and oh that is really where they are making their money. And so they can almost afford to pay an artist more than what they are getting for ticket sales.  That is Kelly Curtis the longtime manager of the band Pearl Jam. He says promoters know they will bring in extra cash from beer and parking plus advertising and sponsorships at venues they own so they can pay musicians in advance before a single ticket is sold and yes sometimes at a rate higher than what they bring in even if they sold every seat.  The concert promotion business is more voodoo art than it is science.  Gary Bongiovanni is the editor in chief of Pollstar a publication that tracks the concert industry.  There is a substantial chance in every case that you are going to lose money potentially and the bigger the star the more money you are having to guarantee thus the greater risk you are taking.  Expand to a huge scale and you have got the Live Nation model. It owns a majority share of Front Line a company that manages many major artists and it also owns most of the amphitheaters around the country. That means when summer rolls around it can set up entire tours where its artists play exclusively in its venues. The problem is it is built a nationwide string of beach houses and it has to keep them filled all summer.  The temptation during the summer months is to buy as many shows as possible to keep that activity level up in their venues and they may well be buying some shows that they should have passed on.  Louis Messina who put together two of the top five tours of the year so far according to Pollstar's mid-year report says that is bad business.  Whenever you have to back into a ticket price because you pay too much for an artist it is a broken model.  For promoters and fans says Gary Bongiovanni.  Nothing makes a fan more disappointed than to have bought a ticket when they first went on sale at full price to find out other people were getting in for 10 bucks.  All of this says Seth Hurwitz takes the fun out of the concertgoing experience.  Buying a band for the entire country is treating it like it is product. And although it is product in that you know yeah we are all trying to make money at this you know if you treat the country and if you treat everyone like it is product well that is how they are going to treat you.  Louis Messina booked Taylor Swift's tour last year. He says that is exactly what she did.  We could have sold tickets for 150 and sold out everywhere across the country. Our first tour the Fearless One tour ticket price was 49.50.  For NPR News I am Jacob Ganz.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 