 Fifty years ago this week Miles Davis and his band recorded a sprawling improvisational album. It was called Bitches Brew a swirling concoction of electric guitar electric piano and special effects that signaled that jazz had finally plugged in.   This album is mysterious. This album is spooky.  That is Christian McBride bassist composer and host of NPR's Jazz Night In America. He says the album's enigmatic sound was a departure for Davis.  It is not really rock. It is not really funk. It is not really jazz. Most people will say jazz does not really involve loud guitars...   ...Or electric piano.   All of that stuff was recent in 1969.   You are also hearing experimentation with the studio. If you hear Miles' trumpet it is on a tape delay.   You never heard that on the jazz album before like an echo.   That is something you only heard on a rock albums.   So how did Miles Davis approach this recording? What did he tell his band and sidemen as they sat down to a song like this?  Miles gave very little instruction. Everything in jazz or in improvised music is based on some sort of a structure some sort of a form some chord changes a melody. Whereas during this session Miles just kind of came in with couple of snippets maybe a piece of sheet music with like four bars written out and then you just do what you do.   So not everyone listened to this and heard music right?  Right.  I mean the initial reaction was not oh this is good music.  Right. Miles Davis had established himself as such a particular type of bandleader such a particular type of musician and then many people saw Bitches Brew as this complete 180-degree turn. A lot of people felt that he was an artistic traitor. He was turning his back on this great art form that he helped to develop. A couple of years before that the same thing happened to Bob Dylan when he played something as simple as an electric guitar. You know people turned on him. You know how could you do this? But I think there were a number of college kids who were listening to progressive rock soul music who absolutely loved this record. And the president of Columbia Records at that time a fresh face named Clive Davis also liked this record a lot because he saw the potential for Miles to get a new audience and move in to some new territory.  Can you talk about the name? Because not only was the album controversial but the name Bitches Brew was controversial right? I mean this did not go over well.   It still is in many cases.  Yeah and still is.  Yeah. The year before this record was recorded Miles married Betty Davis and Betty was 20 years Miles' junior. And Betty is into Jimi Hendrix. She is into Sly Stone. She is into Cream. She is into James Brown. And she is turning Miles on to these new sounds. And in fact Miles originally wanted to call the album Witches Brew. It was Betty that suggested no just go all the way. Call it Bitches Brew. People talk about Miles being the fiery one. No. Betty was the one that sort of navigated Miles' ship at that time.  Now I want to ask about what happened to the musicians who were involved in the years after...  Yes.  ...Because they helped develop the fusion bands in the years that followed - right? - whether that is Chick Corea Return To Forever Wayne Shorter Weather Report. And then there are other musicians who kind of carried forward this legacy or this spirit - right? - in terms of the fusion sound. And I am thinking of someone like Herbie Hancock and The Headhunters.  Yes indeed.  Here's the song Chameleon.   I listened to this song a lot  in college.  Oh it was a huge hit.  I do not know how I got a hold of it but you know it was just kind of funk fun a little bit silly.  I think he got some of the same response that Miles got  from when he did his electric recordings.  Which is what is this? And what are you doing? And is jazz dead?  Right. What are you doing?  Yeah.  You are a jazz guy. What are you doing making this funk recording? Are you crazy? Herbie's like yeah I am crazy like a fox.   How long did jazz stay plugged in?  I am not sure if jazz ever became unplugged. There are certain parts of the music that got more attention than others. Like for example in the '80s when Wynton Marsalis came around and what they call neoclassical jazz artists came on the scene and became very very popular there was still a lot of electric jazz going on at that time. So I think that once a seminal album like Bitches Brew came along which really did inspire a whole new generation that never died.   I want to talk about some artists of today. People look to Thundercat for instance or Robert Glasper and hear some of the legacy of Davis' experimentation. Can you talk about the connection?  I think there are a lot of really amazing artists out there who are doing some things with acoustic jazz electronica funk fusion whatever you want to call it. But Robert Glasper was probably the first person that comes to mind because when he first came on the scene he established himself as a straight-ahead jazz artist...   ...And then in many people's eyes took a turn.   And I know a lot of people in the jazz world do not like that  you know but it is working for him so hey right on brother.  Do you think jazz is more forgiving than it used to be?  I think so. I really think so. Inside the last 50 years there have been so many artists that do so many different things. You think of the people who came out of Miles Davis' groups at that time somebody like a Herbie Hancock or a Chick Corea. They are always changing. They go back to doing their straight-ahead. They do a little funk. Chick Corea has like 41 bands on the road right now you know all doing different things. You know a lot of music has happened in the last 50 years. So I think as time progresses you are going to hear more artists experimenting with a lot of different things.   Well Christian thank you so much for walking us through it and helping us you know understand the bridge between these songs and these artists.  It is always a pleasure to speak with you Audie.  Christian McBride - bassist composer and host of NPR's Jazz Night In America which just released a full episode about Bitches Brew which you can hear at npr.org.    Cherish the day will not go astray will not be afraid will not catch me running oh no cherish the day will not go astray. 