 Finally today Beyonce's long-awaited visual album Black Is King dropped yesterday on the Disney Plus streaming service. It includes a song Beyonce released earlier as a music video called Already.    Long live the king. You are a king. You know it. King already my baby you know it. Top everything everything you know it. King already already you know it. Shine already. It is time already. A line already. It is time already.  Based on the music and material from Disney's recent computer-animated remake of The Lion King this visual album has sparked a lot of conversation among fans and pop culture critics so we decided to haul in our friend Eric Deggans NPR's media critic. He is also one of the very few NPR journalists to tour with a Motown van before joining the news biz. Hey Eric.  Hey how is it going?  You know this feels bigger than your typical release of new music from a popular artist. Let us take a moment and focus on Beyonce and why people pay so much attention when she releases an album.  For sure. I mean Beyonce stands at the center of so many powerful parts of pop culture and art. She is a popular performer who can sign an endorsement deal with Pepsi and co-star in a film of one of Disney's most successful franchises. She is an innovative important recording artist. And she is somebody who has remained authentic and connected to Black folks. So she is respected in boardrooms on the pop charts in the street. You know I call her the queen of pop but somehow that title just feels too small.  Well maybe you do not need that title if your name is Beyonce right?  .  Maybe that is the title.  That is right.  You know Beyonce with a capital B - having watched this film I would say you know beautiful with a capital B Black with a capital B - very of the moment right?  Yeah. And this album ultimately is a message to Black people and really anyone else that we matter. We have got this lineage connected to kings and queens in a respected place in the broad sweep of history. Beyonce she seems to know how to tell Black folks what they need to hear when they need to hear it. So when we needed to feel our militancy she brought this imagery from the Black Panthers to the Super Bowl halftime show. And now when we need to hear that we are more than the victims who get crushed beneath a white policeman's boot she delivers this album that is just focused on telling Black people how great they really are. And you can hear it in the lyrics of the album's first song which is called Bigger where she is in a white dress bathed in this golden light. She is on an endless beach. She is holding a Black baby. And she is assuring that baby that it is part of something bigger. Let us check it out.    No matter how hard it gets you got my blood in you. You are gonna  rise. You are part of something way bigger. You are part of something way bigger. Bigger than you bigger than me bigger than the picture they paint us to be yeah. Ooh...  What is amazing in some ways is that this - what we are calling a visual album - has taken more than a year to put together. And it seems incredibly relevant right now. The one thing I think about when you and I have talked about Beyonce privately in the past is this is a woman who really knows what she is doing.  Oh yeah. And you know it is sad to say that if you were to create an album that was focused on encouraging Black people to throw off all of the stereotypes and the prejudices that fill everyone's heads about you know what we are capable of that it could come out at any time and it would feel relevant. But it is really true. And you know it is interesting. There is a lot of profundity. There is a lot of times when Beyonce or someone else is saying something that is meant to feel profound and make you think. And a lot of times when pop stars do that they sound superficial or they sound like they are pontificating. But somehow she has found a way to say these things and they really have impact. And you can tell she is thought a lot about this. And she is brought in these really talented collaborators. She is got Pharrell with her. She is got artists from different parts of Africa. She is even got her families you know? Blue Ivy shows up - her daughter. And Jay-Z of course - you know her husband Jay-Z the rapper shows up. He is with her on one of the album's I think best songs called Mood 4 Eva. Let us check that out.    Forever and ever-ever and ever-ever at the Saxon Madiba suite like Mandela bumpin' Fela  on the Puma jet like we from Lagos. Mansa Musa reincarnated we on our levels. That is a billi  a thousand milli first one to see a B out of these housing buildings.  And so after this break then Beyonce a pops up with one of my favorite lines from the record. Let us just check that out.    I am the mother ankh on my gold chain ice on my whole chain. I be like soul food. I am a whole mood.  Yeah I am a whole mood listening to that. So yeah so it is obvious that she has been very deliberate about who she works with what she says what it looks like. And it makes a powerful statement when you bring it all together.  We have been listening to NPR TV critic and whole mood Eric Deggans. Eric thanks.  Thank you.    Daddy used to take me walking down the street. Daddy used to take my hand say follow me. Daddy used to leave me back home all the time. I got big enough to run around daddy left me outside. He said find your way back. Big big world but you got it baby. 