 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR West. I am Arun Rath.   Meet your new favorite singer.    I do not want much. I just want to be a better man to my baby. Meet me off good luck. I was singing with them Jezebels under perfume sheets.  His name is Leon Bridges. He is just 25 years old from Fort Worth Texas and he is about to blow up. The first tracks from his debut album started to sneak out a few months ago and they have already become hits online which sounds crazy right? I mean listen to this. This is straight out of 1958.    I would swim the Mississippi River if you would give me another start girl.  When I went to see Leon Bridges perform here in Los Angeles not only did he sound like Sam Cooke he even dressed like Sam Cooke. The comparisons are unavoidable.  You know it is very flattering you know that people compare me to Sam Cooke. But I am nowhere on his level you know? He is one of my biggest inspirations. And so I try to pull from him but whatever I write is whatever comes out naturally.  But there is definitely something there in terms of - there is a sound there is a certain quality you know to your songwriting and what you even produce these song that evokes that right?  Yes you know in the sense of like the very smooth in doo-wop simple RB sound.  And there is just kind of like a simplicity - like a purity to it?  You know a lot of his songs - you know RB songs - were in that time were you know vice-oriented you know? And so you know that is one thing I love about that time you know and what I am drawn to. But when Austin Jenkins came up to me...  That is Austin Jenkins of the band White Denim.  Yes. One night you know after a little solo performance he told me the vision that he had you know after seeing my songs. And we got into the studio and the first song - the track was Coming Home. And there was something very special about that.    Baby baby babe I am coming home to your tender sweet lovin'. You are my one-and-only woman. The world leaves a bitter taste in my mouth girl. You are the only one that I want. I want to be around you.  Maybe thanks to SoundCloud like you were already getting big before this record was even put together. Can you talk about - how did you get so big so fast? Was it just - you know...   Yeah.  How did - explain your viral success.  Indeed. Well thank God for Gorilla vs. Bear.  You have to explain that.  Yeah. It is a blog out of Dallas Texas. My management had reached out to them and showed them the Coming Home song and told them you know this is happening in your own backyard. And after they released it around October the song just blew.    The world leaves a bitter taste in my mouth girl. You are the only one that I want. I want to be around want to be around girl want to be around girl oh want to be around.  Did you grow up listening to music from that time?  I did not. I was a kid that was really fascinated with Ginuwine and Usher and 112 and Dru Hill you know? That was good RB for the time you know - but did not really get into classic soul music until about two years ago. I started writing songs and playing guitar about four years ago. And in that time I wrote a song about my mother Lisa Sawyer. A friend of mine asked me if Sam Cooke was one of my inspirations. And I had felt bad because I never really listened to Sam Cooke. And so after that I started really digging in. And you know as I was listening to it I started to see that that is the lane that I wanted to go down.    Never had much money but was filthy rich with the wealth you could not get from a dark casino or lottery ticket. They had love love love rich in love.  Lisa Sawyer which is actually - that is one of my favorite songs on this new record. I think that song has my favorite line about she is small but a mansion in her eyes.  Yes you know my mother grew up - never really had a lot of money. But you know they were very you know content. Her mother and father you know worked hard to make sure you know they were always comfortable. And you know as a kid everything is always big you know in your eyes. And so that is where that line came from.  And it feels like that and other songs of yours like River  there is definitely some biblical and spiritual connotations.  Indeed. I come from you know a spiritual background. And I cannot never deny those roots. And so I like to really embrace that. You know just you know undertones not really shouting in anybody's face - but you know I definitely love to embrace that in my music.    Been traveling these wide roads for so long. My heart's been far from you 10000 miles gone. Oh I want to come here and give you every part of me. But there is blood on my hands and my lips are unclean. In my darkness I remember Mama's words reoccur to me - surrender to the good Lord and he will wipe your slate clean. Take me to your river. I want to go.  And again you know I hate to keep bringing up Sam Cooke but that is another thing where obviously he came from a gospel background. And there is that beautiful kind of churchy feeling - that haunting quality that is in so much of his music.  You know with me it is almost like the same situation because before this sound that you hear now I was writing nothing but gospel music you know? And after I kind of had this realization you know and I changed you know I started writing love songs. And you know I was very worried about you know my friends and - that they would not accept it. But you know everybody was really cool about it even my mother - you know a very religious person. I played her song one time in the car and she was like boy did you write this? I was like yes madam. But no she was like yeah I love it you know? And so it was just cool that she - her support.    Take me to your river. I want to go. Oh go on take me to your river.  I want to go want to go want to go.  That is Leon Bridges. His new album is called Coming Home. Leon it was such a pleasure speaking with you. Thank you so much.  Really nice talking to you. Thank you.    Over the horizon she is smooth sailin' these concrete seas.  And when you get back to work on Monday be sure to check out NPR Music for an exclusive First Listen with Leon Bridges and stream every track from the new album for free.    Said I like the way you sail your ship down. Let me be your cargo. I will not wear you down. No honey I will not wear you down. 