 In the last year a lot of musicians have struggled without live shows and tours to keep them afloat so it is remarkable to see how Joy Oladokun has emerged into the spotlight.   She is had songs on popular shows like Grey's Anatomy and This Is Us and live performances on Jimmy Fallon and Stephen Colbert. Now she has a two-part album out called In Defense Of My Own Happiness.    Precious like a diamond ring - I was wrapped up in you. You tore me like a paper thing stole my love and my youth.  When we spoke this week Oladokun told me about the musical inspiration that started it all for her - Tracy Chapman.  My dad loves music is obsessed and has like hours and hours of like concert footage music videos like just all on VHS. And so I was 10 years old. And I remember exactly where I was. There was this like gray fuzzy carpet in our back living room. And I was sitting like watching this concert. And Tracy Chapman gets introduced. And like it is just her and her guitar in front of a stadium full of people. And I was a really socially anxious kid. I grew up very conservative Christian in a very conservative town. And I am queer so I just - you know and I knew at a very young age. So I just - like I had a hard time expressing myself. And so to see someone that looked like me was life- and trajectory-changing for me.  There are a lot of places on this album where it feels like you are singing to that kid in Arizona.  Yes.  You know? - like the song Sunday.  Yes.    Mama says I am up to no good again could not make her proud though I did my best.  What are you trying to tell that Joy through this music?  That Joy learned to be sort of like a perfectionist and a coverer at a very young age.  A coverer?  Yeah someone who covers. Someone who like - like I did not want to like say when I was struggling or when I was sad or when I was afraid. And I think that Sunday is to that kid who grew up needing to be a pastor to impress some white dude in the sky saying like God does not care who you kiss you know? God cares how you treat them you know? And writing Sunday was just like a watershed moment of like it - like enough of the fear. Like it is...  Yeah.  It is OK. You are OK. You do not have to be perfect. You do not have to be straight. You do not even have to be a Christian any more. You can just exist.    Sunday bury me under the weight of who you need me to be. Cannot you see I am struggling?  And as a person who is now left the church left organized religion what do you make of the fact that so much religious imagery still keeps finding its way into your songs? I mean I think of a track like Jordan.    They drowned me in the Jordan. Then they tried to wash me clean.  It is clearly still with you.  Yeah. I am dating a Jewish woman. And I thought - I was like sick I am going to avoid all my religious trauma.  .  But actually...  Surprise we have our own religious traumas in the Jewish religion.  .  Hate to break it to you.  Yes I have learned. But what I find so amazing about Jewish people is there is like this culture of curiosity that Christianity has not allowed itself to possess in a long time. And so I think that early on in our relationship I was very anti-talking about my past in the church. But she was like it is just always going to be a part of who you are and a sort of lens through which you see things. So you can either like try to like run from it or you can - you know it is sort of like Rafiki says in The Lion King - you can either run from the past or you can learn from it. And...  So many influences .   Too many influences. A lot of Disney influences. Anyway I just - like I am still - sometimes I still get sad about like how I was treated after I came out by my Christian friends you know? And Jordan helps me deal with that.    Now we are building our own promised land. On this new ground we stand.  It sounds like you are saying some of these are songs that you might not have been able to write five years ago that you needed the distance from being embedded in the church. You needed the distance from the trauma of breaking with the church to be able to explore some of these themes.  Yes. Because I also - when I left I was - I had a lot of emotions. But the one I am just now realizing was sort of this energizing undercurrent all along was anger. And I think had I written about my experiences too close to them I would have said things that I regret. And I think that the distance helped that. There is a song on this album about my dad - my relationship with my dad.   He grew up in Nigeria and it is illegal to be gay there. And he had a hard time - like a really really hard time - when I came out of the closet. But he also has like let himself expand as a human you know?  Yeah.  Like I was home a month ago with my girlfriend. And like they were like talking about pocket knives in the kitchen and like feeding the chickens you know?  .  It is like - it was crazy. And I - like I think that I am glad I did not write about my feelings when they were fresh.  Yeah.  Because I do think people are people and they have their blinders on and they have their beliefs. And I had my blinders on and I had my beliefs. I am sure people from that period of my life have plenty of complaints about things that I did or said you know? And - I do not know - just wanting to honor that.  Let us listen to that song that references your father. It is called Let It Be Me.    Let it be you who is proud of me sort of 'ecause blood is blood at the end of the day.  I love the lyric let it be you who is proud of me sort of.  .   That is such a perfect little tweak.  Yeah.  You know?  Just like a little bit.   Your parents come up in various places on this album. I mean you sing about being scared of your father. You sing about trying to make your mother proud. You said your father was obsessed with music. How do your parents feel about this amazing breakout year that you have had?  They were scared at first. I am sure - like I just - parents want their kids to do well. And I think at first when I became a musician we were a little at odds because they are like I am sorry. You are saying musician and I want you to be saying doctor .  Right right. It is the classic child of immigrants story. Like...  Yeah.  ...Unless you are going to be a doctor we are not going to talk about it.  Yeah. Like how much higher education will this require?  But then when they hear your voice on a massively popular show like This Is Us it has to be a moment right?  Yeah those are the moments I get to share with my family. But it is also amazing to be like hey mom and dad the thing that we have been like sowing our like energy and hope into is starting to pay off. Like and that is the type of stuff I can like share with them. And that is...  Yeah.  That is really fun and beautiful and like confidence-building for everybody.    So do not tell yourself it is raining. The clouds are in your head.  Joy Oladokun's new album is called In Defense Of My Own Happiness. Thank you so much. It is been great talking with you.  It is been great talking with you. Thank you for having me.    Before you fall again before you lose it all again look up. Do you see the sunlight? 