 Sunday marks the 50th anniversary of Bob Dylan's Highway 61 Revisited. It is the album that brought us Like A Rolling Stone.    Once upon a time you dressed so fine. You threw the bums a dime in your prime did not you?  Rolling Stone Magazine gushed just yesterday that Highway 61 Revisited is Dylan's strangest funniest most baffling and most perfect album. Many a baby boomer who can still remember hearing it on the hi-fi back in their high school or college days would agree so it is a classic a part of our shared culture identity.    How does it feel?  Oh I think I have heard this on some commercial.   That is Jordan-Marie Smith. She is 21 years old and one of a handful of millennials we lured into a studio today to go through Highway 61 Revisited for the first time.  I am Colin Marshall. This is Tombstone Blues by Bob Dylan.    The sweet pretty things are in bed now of course. The city fathers they are trying to endorse the reincarnation of Paul Revere's horse.  I really like this one. Like he is telling a story basically. He is not so much singing a story. This reminds me of like some of the things that I hear now maybe like Cold War Kids.    I am in the kitchen with the tombstone blues.  If Bob Dylan was just starting out in this day and age this song is something you could definitely hear as the sun's going down on ACL Festival.   He would definitely be a South by Southwest hit.   I am Hugo Rojo and this is Ballad Of A Thin Man.    You walk into the room with your pencil in your hand. You see somebody naked and you say who is that man? You try so hard but you do not understand just what you will say when you get home.  I want to know who he was influenced by. Although I do not know - well I know barely nothing about Bob Dylan. I know a lot about like blues and jazz from black American artists back in the day. And I want to know who his influences were.    And you know something's happening but you do not know what it is do you Mr. Jones?  I am Jordan-Marie Smith and this is Highway 61 Revisited.   I do not like this.   I feel like I am at a carnival right now.  I do not like this.    Oh God said to Abraham kill me a son. Abe said man you must be putting me on.  I am hearing name after name being thrown out and action after action being thrown out as part of the lyrics that make the song.  I get a very distinct visual when I hear a lot of this music - that iconic drifter walking down the road like carrying a guitar and he is only got couple of coins trying to catch a bus to somewhere.  He would be the coolest guy. Like everyone would have a crush on him.  Taylor Swift would probably date him for a little bit.  Taylor Swift would bring him on stage during one of her shows.  Yes.  Yeah.    ...That way down Highway 61.  Our listeners were NPR's Hugo Rojo and Annie Johnson both 23 Jordan-Marie Smith 21 and Colin Marshall 24. They were listening to Bob Dylan's 61 Highway 61 Revisited. The album turns 50 on Sunday. 