 Another great American songwriter died yesterday - lyricist Jerry Leiber.   That is Ben E. King singing.  Hound Dog Poison Ivy Yackety Yack.   Mr. King welcome to the program.  Thank you Melissa. How are you?  I am fine thanks. You sang and also I gather co-wrote one of the most famous Leiber and Stoller songs. And that is Stand By Me.  Exactly.  What do you think makes that song such a keeper?  I would imagine it is just one of those songs that people connect with a lot of different feelings of what one might have when they say stand by me.   So Ben E. King these are your words here you wrote the lyrics. What was Jerry Leiber's contribution here?  When I introduced the song to him at the piano - and they would say well instead of you saying this say that kind of thing you know as well as the great arrangement they came up with - one that as soon as you hear the song you know the song instantly.  Do you have a favorite memory of working with Jerry Lieber some moment in the studio that really comes back to you now?  So they were kind enough - and I thought they were joking - they said we are going to get you a label. And I thought they was really kidding but they actually went right back to Atlantic Records and had them give me a contract to stay a solo artist. If it was not for those two I would not be Ben E. King.  Is that right?  That is true.  What do you think that Jerry Leiber and Mike Stoller understood about vocalists?  I would imagine they understood what the vocalist had not had in his career and they would give it to him. Because I would never think of myself as singing songs like - and Spanish Harlem to me was very strange to sing because it was like an R song and such. And from the time that I heard Spanish Harlem I said oh my God this is not going to be a hit record.  Really? What was it about Spanish Harlem that you thought this is not going to work?  Well it is very moving. It is like da-da-dee-da-da-da-da. It is like singing opera ba-da-ba-ba-ba-ba-da. It moves and moves and moves and never stops. That is not what we do in gospel. But when they introduced me to Spanish Harlem it was totally different.  The combination of these two death - of Jerry Leiber and Nick Ashford on the same day - it makes you think a lot about what creates a lasting song. What songs are going through your head over the last day as you think about the deaths of Jerry Leiber and of Nick Ashford?  Well when I think about Jerry of course then there is Spanish Harlem and then definitely Stand By Me and then there is Save the Last Dance For Me. I can just keep going and going and going until we run out of tape.  And what about for Nick Ashford? What song of his is really in front of your mind right now?  Oh As not No Mountain High Enough definitely because it gives all of what you need to have - to have strength to survive.   Ben E. King thanks so much for talking with me.  You are welcome.  That is Ben E. King remembering the songwriters Jerry Lieber and Nick Ashford.  