 So Madeleine you know that this summer we have been talking about people's favorite summer songs right?  Right. Yeah you have been interviewing as lot of musicians and writers and people about a song that was personal that meant something to them.  Right. And it spawned so many memories for me and I think for you that we decided today we would talk to each other about our favorite summer songs.  Well I want to hear yours first.  Okay. Well my summer song takes me back to the early '70s. I am at summer camp in Thetford Center Vermont Camp Kokosing and there is - every Friday night there is a social a dance. And you would hear sometime during the night    Instant cue Madeleine that this is a slow song. This is Lean on Me by Bill Withers.  Mr.   Sometime in my life we all have pain  And so okay so I am 12 13. I know exactly what I am wearing. I am wearing white carpenter pants and an Indian-print midriff shirt and there is this mad dash you know to try to find somebody to slow-dance with.  And do you have lots of takers?  Probably not no. That is why it would be a mad dash.   But I just remember being you know that awkward adolescent phase and there is this incredible song about just pure trust and support and love. And you look around and people are slow-dancing except here's the trick. Somewhere at two points during this song remember the tempo the beat totally changes.  Mr.   You just call on me brother when you need a hand. We all need somebody to  See? Okay so you are slow-dancing. What do you do now?  Well yeah and it is already an awkward situation because you are 13.  Right. Exactly. So you kind of de-couple and you flail around for a bit in some awkward semi-fast dance and then you are sort of tricked up again because then it gets back into the slow groove.  So then you get back together? Or you  Yeah.  But the spell is kind of broken from the first.  Maybe but you have a nice long stretch here. And then you have to do it again because the fast thing happens again. So it is sort of this back and forth and - but what a great song. I mean I just listen to this and I am completely taken back to being 12 13 years old at summer camp.  Mr.   If you just call me call me.  Madeleine what about your song?  Well I would say my song is just a wee bit different than your song.    Just a little bit.  Just a little bit different.  I was not 13 just you know to allay any suspicions that I am a lot younger than I actually am. This is Public Enemy's Fight the Power and it came out in 1989.    1989 the number another summer.  I had just graduated from college. I had my first job and it was all the way across country - I went to Berkeley - in Buffalo New York.  Oh okay.  And that first job was being the local host at the public radio station for ALL THINGS CONSIDERED.  A noble profession.   It served you well.  It did.    We got to fight the power that be fight the power.  I would listen to this song in my car driving around Buffalo and thinking about getting to the big city  wow there is a lot going on downstate - not to take anything away from Buffalo but I wanted to be in the action. I wanted to be where news was happening and I did. I moved to New York and  And the rest is history.  And the rest is history. And just this song is you know not only does it have this political message but it is just an amazing song to dance to.    We have got to fight the powers that be.  And Madeleine we should say there are some vintage photographs at npr.org. You have some excellent '80s hair.  It is big. And I have the big earrings to prove it and you look so adorable.  A scrawny little thing at age 12. We are taking this opportunity Madeleine this is the soundtrack to wish you farewell. You have been with us for five weeks. You have been terrific great energy.  It has been such a pleasure.  We really hope you are back with us soon.  I would love to be and thank you so much. You have been great to - shall I say it? Lean on.   Thanks Madeleine come back soon. You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 