 We know. The news has been bad these last few weeks - or is it months? Almost every day and at times it seems like in almost every region of the world there is something - conflict disease struggle. Now during times of social crisis music can be a comfort and even a motivator. Sometimes artists confront issues head on. Think Alan Jackson's Where Were You? written after the 9-11 attacks.  Did you stand there in shock at the sight of that black smoke rising against that blue sky?  At other times a song captures the imagination of the popular culture or social movements that reinterpret its themes. Aretha Franklin's 1967 hit Respect - the story of a lover's quarrel - became an anthem of feminist and racial pride.    R-E-S-P-E-C-T - find out what it means to me.  R-E-S-P-E-C-T. Take care TCB.  Sock it to me. Sock it to me. Sock it to me. Sock it to me.  But what about today? NPR music writer and culture critic Ann Powers has been looking over the summer's Top 40 charts for songs that address what is going on the summer - socially politically globally. And she is here to talk more about it. Welcome Ann.  Hey Audie. Thanks for having me.  So help me understand the Top 40. I do not know if it really feels like a summer of bad news given what we are hearing. What does this music seem to have in common?  Well Audie you would think it is a summer of escapism and fun and frankly just a rampant egotism on the charts. I mean we have songs about you know how great the star who is singing it is.    I am so fancy. You already know. I am in the fast lane from L.A. to Tokyo.  We have songs about partying. We have songs about little more than the beat. It can be discouraging for those of us who look to music for some kind of deeper meaning and social protest even. It can feel a bit rough.  Now in the world of hip-hop though it is another story especially in light of the conflict between citizens and police in Ferguson Missouri over the shooting death of Mike Brown. Now in the last couple weeks we have seen little songs kind of pop up here and there to address it. I want to talk about two - one from J. Cole and another from Lauryn Hill. And we we will start with the J. Cole song. It is called Be Free.  J.   I am letting you know that it as not no gun they make that can kill my soul. Oh no. All we want to do is take the chains off. All we want to do is take the chains off. All we want to do is be free. All we want to do is be free.  And what is notable about his approach?  Well Audie this song's notable for several reasons. One - it was really the first major response to what is happening in Ferguson from someone in the hip-hop community. And it is not mainstream. It will never be in the Top 40. And he recorded this extremely intense mostly singing track - which for someone who is a rapper and sometimes a singer was a bit unusual - that also featured audio from one of the witnesses to Mike Brown's run death whose name is Dorian Johnson.   And at no time the officer said that he was go to do anything until he pulled out his weapon. His weapon was drawn. And he said I will shoot you. I am going to shoot.  It all adds up to a song of social protest and really a lament that reminded me of Nina Simone. And that is high praise from me.  Meanwhile Lauryn Hill basically takes a sort of familiar tune and gives it a very very dark twist. This song is called Black Rage.   Black rage is founded on two thirds a person. Rapings and beatings and suffering that worsens. Black human packages tied up in strings. Black rage can come from all of these kinds of things.  And you mentioned Nina Simone and that name comes to mind here as well.  Absolutely. This song is one she wrote a while back that she is brought forward as a statement about Ferguson. And it takes off on the classic song My Favorite Things from The Sound Of Music - a song we all grew up with - a song that is about kittens and you know roses and raindrops right? But here Lauryn Hill takes that song - that familiar soothing melody - and matches it up with lyrics about both the sources of rage for herself and other African-American and also the usefulness of rage and how rage - I would not say it is one of her favorite things but I do think she is expressing the need for rage in certain political moments.   When that dog bites when the beatings when I am feeling sad I simply remember all of these kinds of thing and then I do not fear so bad.  Now for a minute there it was not clear if we are going to see many more songs coming out of hip-hop and then there was a drop from The Game along with Diddy Rick Ross Two Chainz Fabulous Wale. I mean the list goes on. There is like 10 rappers on this four singers and it is called Do not Shoot.   God as not put on this Earth to get murdered. It is murder. Do not point your weapons at me.  Seen the pictures  - feel the pain. Scandalous how the murder son. Tired of them killing us. I am on my way to Ferguson. Talked to TIP. I talked to Diddy - them my brothers walking with me. Mothers crying. Stop the riots. We as not got to chalk the city.  The thing about the song Audie that impresses me is that it is so direct. And it actually also connects so powerfully to the history of rap and how rap has talked about African American encounters with the police in the past African American civil rights struggles for decades.   Time to take a stand and save our future.  Like we all got shot - like we all got shot.  Throwing up our hands. Do not let them shoot us.  'ecause we all we got. We all we got.  You know as you mention this is not all that surprising right? I remember Public Enemy frontman Chuck D once saying rap is CNN for black people. But where are the pop and mainstream artists talking about any current issue news of the day? I mean whatever happened to that kind of pop protest song?  It is true I think that pop has become more conservative basically since 9-11. It seems that pop stars are more hesitant to address social issues head on. Now why is this? Possibly because all Americans are nervous about addressing social issues head on. Possibly because the music industry has been falling apart and people are worried about their careers. I do not really know. I do wonder if maybe in coming months and as we enter the fall season when quote-unquote serious artists make their serious efforts if we will see a new emergence of political voice in pop music. At least I can hope for that.  So Ann before I let you go - any song that hit the mark for you that did chart the summer - something a feels at least uplifting?  Well Audie for me it is a song by the Norwegian duo Nico and Vinz - both of African descent. And the song is called Am I Wrong?   Fight for yours and do not let go. Do not let them compare you no. Do not worry. You are not alone. That is just how we feel. Am I wrong...  Do not worry. You are not alone. Does not get better than that right Ann?  Right. But at the same time there is that kind of undercurrent of doubt in it right? It feels so human to me. It feels like what people are feeling now.   Oh yeah yeah yeah yeah. Oh.  That is NPR music writer Ann Powers. Ann thanks so much.  Thank you Audie.   That is just how I feel. That is just how I feel trying to reach the things that I cannot see see see. 