 The only thing that could possibly upstage Jay-Z's new record right now is Dan Brown's new book The Lost Symbol. But if Brown thinks he is got the market cornered on Freemasons and the occult well he had better watch his back. Jay-Z has long rapped about such things.    Illuminati want my mind soul and body. Secret societies trying to keep their eye on me.  For a few years now bloggers fans and conspiracy theorists have argued that Jay-Z dabbles in the occult. They say that the video for his new single Run This Town only confirms it.  In this first scene we see a torchbearer leading a crowd into a kind of a warehouse.  There are these underground caverns and they seem to be in the catacombs of some kind of temple. You know Jay-Z is very clearly drawing on some kind of mystery religion inner-temple imagery.    Feel it coming in the air. Hear the screams from everywhere.  Many in the crowd are pumping lead pipes and torches in the air almost like villagers getting ready to chase Frankenstein's monster.  Some people read something occult into the people carrying torches. Lucifer translates into light-bearer. I think that is an exaggeration. This is fairly standard music video imagery.  But when Jay-Z actually starts rapping Mitch Horowitz hears something clearly related to the occult.    Please follow the leader so Eric B we are. Microphone fiend it is the return of the God peace God.  He just said peace God. That is the most significant part of this video. That is an expression from a mystery religion called the Five Percenters. And they believe that the black man emerging from the Asian continent is God and that all men are God in potential. And they greet one another by saying peace God. That is not widely known and Jay-Z is selecting that very purposefully.  And throughout the video Jay-Z and his collaborators singer Rihanna and the rapper Kanye West all hold their fingers in a triangle shape in front of their left eyes. It happens to be the symbol of Jay- Z's record label Roc-A-Fella. But bloggers also point to that symbol as proof of Jay-Z's Masonic connection.  It is a Masonic symbol or at least it was inspired by Masonry. And it found its way to the back of our dollar bill in 1935 through Franklin Roosevelt who himself was also a Freemason.   Who going to run this town tonight?  If you want to see that video for yourself there is a link at our Web site npr.org. But occult conspiracy or not Mitch Horowitz thinks Jay-Z knows exactly what he is doing.  The Five Percenters have influenced not only the imagery but the language of hip-hop. The expression word is sometimes thought to have come at a Five Percenter teaching. They teach word is bond.  Now Mitch I have read it is not just Jay-Z who is sort of being talked about in this context. It is also Kanye West Nas. I mean there are a lot of rappers who are sort of thought of as guys who sort of dabble in the occult.  And I think that the references that they are making sometimes they will speak of self-knowledge knowledge of self understanding. They will even make references to things like higher mathematics. These are Five Percenter references.  Now there is another video related to this video and it is the making of the Run This Town video. And in that video Jay-Z is wearing a shirt and on that shirt there is a slogan that says do what thou wilt and that is gotten a lot of bloggers excited.  Yes that has very deep roots in modern occult culture.  Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the Law. That was one of the key maxims of the British occultist Aleister Crowley. So when Jay-Z appears in a hoodie with that phrase on it in public that is exactly what he is referencing.  Could we have been having this discussion you know 30 years ago about Led Zeppelin?  That is a great question and the answer is yes. Jimmy Page also was a very shrewd observer and a student of some occult systems. Page's library at home probably looks like something out of Edgar Allan Poe. He was a real student of the occult. In fact I would say a figure like Jay-Z is probably borrowing some of this material but Jimmy Page I think was imbibing it even more deeply.  Mitch just level with us. Are you protecting these guys? I mean I think they run the country. Jay-Z you know Jimmy Page they are running the world.  Its principles were principles of religious toleration religious liberty ecumenism. So I take an entirely positive view actually of Freemasonry's role in our history.  So Mitch if you were our expert witness in a courtroom based on everything you know do you think Jay-Z is a member of a secret society or an occultist?  No. I think he is a very shrewd man. I think he is a keen observer of everything going on around him. He is a master at using subversive imagery. You do not find your way to Five Percenter material unless you are very aware of what is going on around you. It does not find its way into songs by accident.  Mitch thanks for helping us out.  Thank you.  And if you are curious about the secrets and mysteries behind this program check out our Twitter feed. It is nprguyraz all one word. That is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Guy Raz. 