 And if you are just tuning in you are listening to WEEKENDS on ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Guy Raz. And it is time now for music. And here's what happens when you take a Swedish club DJ and add a vocalist from the southeastern African country of Malawi.   The band is called The Very Best. And the duo behind it Johan Karlberg and Esau Mwamwaya. And since they got together a few years ago they have combined the best elements from the European club scene and Malawian pop music.   The Very Best's latest record is called MTMTMK. So how does a musical mash-up like this get started?  It begins with a city like London.  As producer Johan Karlberg explained it was in that international melting pot the city of London where he ended up meeting Esau Mwamwaya. Esau was working at a thrift shop when a former bandmate of Johan's happened to strike up a conversation with Esau while haggling over a used bicycle.  I would only seen the shop from the outside. And to be honest it looked pretty horrible so I never walked in.   So how did it go from you know knowing that Esau had this shop?  What happened was he became more than just a you know my customer. Like he became like a friend as well. Sometimes he could come in there and we would sit down and talk you know? And he was kind of you know telling me what he does that he was a producer. And I told him I was a musician as well you know?  We met him at a very good point. We never expected to kind of go down the route where we would try to develop a singer like Esau but he just showed up.  I read that as a kid your dad played Paul Simon's record Graceland for you. And that made a huge impression on you.  Yeah. I mean it is one of my - these - like first musical memories. It was a Christmas Eve actually. I just remember listening. You know we played it over and over because I wanted to hear it. More than anything it was Ladysmith Black Mambazo like the a capella part of it or something that really hit home with me. You know it does not feel like a coincidence or like a strange thing that I am sitting here with Esau and The Very Best these days. We all kind of look like it is a beautiful journey of things working out.   How do you imagine people listening to the music of The Very Best? Do you imagine them putting it on a - in a club and dancing to it? Do you imagine sitting down and just listening to it headphones on?  I think the first album was a real listening album. The new album we made thinking about making a record to be played live. We wanted to be able to stand on a festival stage right before Coldplay went on.   I am speaking with Esau Mwamwaya and Johan Karlberg of the band The Very Best. Their new album is called MTMTMK. And one of the standout tracks on this record is called Yoshua Alikuti or Where is Joshua? Now on its surface it is the biblical story of Moses and Joshua leading the Israelites  to the Promised Land. But in fact as I have read this song is a metaphor about Malawi's former president Bingu wa Mutharika.   When he became a president like eight years ago he was really good luck. He kept our peace promise you know like in terms of you know economy in Malawi and infrastructure and everything. Because of that people just give him the name Moses you know?  Moses. They called him Moses.  Exactly. Like he took the Israelites out of Egypt. So what happened is that because he was overpraised then he - during his second term things just went out of hand. It is like the economy went down and he became like more of a dictator. People were demanding for some changes you know? We gave him 60 days to make a decision you know address the nation. But he died.  He died. Yeah.   yeah.   You sing in the song - and I am translating of course into English - the journey from Egypt was very long. You managed to make us cross the Red Sea. But now what is wrong?  Exactly. Yeah. That was the question obviously.   Where is Joshua Moses' brother.  Exactly.  When is heshe coming? We need salvation. And that she is who?  Basically in Malawi we have a female president now.  Joyce Banda.  Joyce Banda. But actually this song was made before Joyce Banda became the president.  Before. Huh.  Of course it is the question of where is Joshua although she came in of course and she is doing quite better now.  Was she in your view or in the view of many Malawians was she going to be Joshua the one who was going to take the country to the Promised Land?  The answer is - the question is not answered yet because I think it is too early. But so far she is doing quite well. Now if she keeps up the feat then you know we are going to be happy.   The record does not just deal with political themes. There is often a lot of fun here.    The sky could fall down any day. Nothing lasts forever anyway. Long as I got you here with me we OK we OK. If by chance all the skies should fall...  I read that the song We OK is that - was it co-written by Bruno Mars? Is that true?  Yeah.  So he actually sat down with you and co-wrote it?  Nope.   OK.  No but this is like the madness of working in The Very Best. You know like things happen in five different places of the world all at the same time. That track me and K'NAAN started originally. Then I took that to Malawi and me and Esau worked on it. And then K'NAAN was working on his own in L.A. on it and only once it was done did K'NAAN tell me that Bruno Mars had co-written it with him and Phil Spector the guy that Bruno works with. I have never met Bruno Mars and Esau has not either. But he was very cool about the whole process.  Well on the song We OK you are calling out several African cities by name.    Abuja we OK. Akra we OK. Bamako we OK. In Cairo we OK.  What is the sort of the message you have for those cities?  Actually it is a party kind of song. You know it talks about African mentality you know?  It is like you say it is a very African kind of mentality because even though so much bad things or whatever you want to call it life goes on you know? Like that kind of feeling of hope it is like everything's going to be OK. Even if the stars start falling you know we OK. And I really like it for that as well. You know like it is one of these super uplifting songs I think that Esau has a real capability of . And the main focus of The Very Best is something positive and you know something uplifting and to focus on that and make people feel good.    Yeah. Who say we do not dance no more? Come on point 'em out.  Esau Mwamwaya and Johan Karlberg are the duo known as The Very Best. Their new record is called MTMTMK. You can hear a few tracks at our website nprmusic.org. Gentlemen thank you so much for coming by.  Thank you so much for having us.  