 When he started the Robert Glasper Experiment the pianist was trying to blend hip-hop jazz and R-and-B into a new sound.    Cherish the day. I will not go astray. I will not be afraid. You will not catch me running moving the way that I move.  It was a surprise success. The Experiment's 2012 debut Black Radio was awarded the Grammy for best R-and-B album. The follow-up Black Radio 2 featured A-list vocalists including Jill Scott and Anthony Hamilton. Now Glasper's back with a new stripped-down sound in an album titled Covered. It was recorded live over two days at Capitol Studios in Los Angeles. Here's reviewer Tom Moon.  Robert Glasper started his career in jazz making edgy piano trio records. For his latest project he returns to that instrumentation but he does not go all the way back to jazz exactly.   Instead Glasper bassist Vicente Archer and drummer Damion Reid do a jazz intervention on tunes from Black Radio and Black Radio 2 including this Macy Gray bonus track.   They banter. They pull apart the melodies. And songs that were heavily scripted are animated by the spirit of freewheeling spontaneity.   Glasper talks to the invited audience like he is performing in a cozy club. When he plays he sounds inspired by Capitol's Studio A where Frank Sinatra Nat King Cole and countless others made history. Check out the trio's backdrop for a spoken word piece by legendary entertainer Harry Belafonte.   So let me tell you who I think I am. I am one of the ones of color who got over. I am one of the ones your bullet missed. I did not graduate high school not to boast about but to puzzle over. After all I have been awarded 34 Ph.D.'s honorary they are called because I defied the rules. I am a dropout not by choice but by fate's sense of humor by nature's design.  And Glasper seizes every chance to cut loose at the piano. Listen to where he goes during his second chorus on Stella By Starlight the album's lone jazz standard.   These elevated three-way conversations are central to the record. Even if the club is a pop-up in a studio and the tune is a funk jam and not something from the jazz songbook Glasper and his trio immerse themselves in a high-speed pursuit of the new. When they get going it is a thrill to ride along.   Robert Glasper's latest is called Covered recorded live at Capitol Studios. Our reviewer is Tom Moon. 