 Singer Karen O is best known as the wild front-woman of the Yeah Yeah Yeahs a band formed in 2000 and helped define that decade's rock music. Karen O's solo career began by accident with a leaked demo recording in 2006. More recently she is done work on film soundtracks. Well this week Karen O released her official debut solo album. It is called Crush Songs. And critic Will Hermes found it both difficult and captivating.  Karen O earned an Oscar nomination for her soundtrack contribution to Her - the love story of a copywriter played by Joaquin Phoenix and his computer's operating system voiced by Scarlett Johansson. The film captured an exquisite sense of modern loneliness the same kind that defines Karen O's new album.    Do I really need another habit like you? I really need - do you need me too? I believe it is going to leave me blue.  In some ways this is a very puzzling record. Just 26 minutes long but with 15 songs most around two minutes or less. And the whole thing sounds kind of like it was recorded onto a voicemail message through an early 20th century flip-phone. Now I am a fan of Karen O's but I found this incredibly irritating - at first. And then I sat down with the record - not in a coffee shop but alone in a quiet room. And the songs did their work.    Going to call the doctor doctor. Just tell him that my pain is gone. It is gone gone gone gone gone gone gone.  There is a sweet mash note here about Michael Jackson up in heaven a ghostly one minute cover of The Doors Indian Summer and a clear contender even on first listen for maybe the greatest empathetic anthem of Karen O's career.    No one understands you cannot throw punches kid when you are sitting on your hands.  Part of me wants to hear these songs expanded arranged produced. I keep going back to them obsessively hoping they will grow or resolve differently. And then I remember the album's name - Crush Songs - about relationships that are by definition unrealized and unresolved that get underneath your skin and stick there. And then I think OK Karen O point well made.    Sing along sing it anyway.  The album from Karen O is titled Crush Songs. Our critic Will Hermes is author of the book Love Goes To Buildings On Fire.    Sing it anyway. Sing along your favorite song. 