 Bubu is a style of music from Africa with Islamic roots. It is been updated with a modern electronic sound. The style began in Sierra Leone and probably would have stayed there but the nation's brutal civil war caused Bubu's biggest star Janka Nabay to flee to the United States. Now Nabay is spreading his sound with a new album and Banning Eyre has a review.   Sierra Leone is a good place to invent a music style because the country itself involves acts of invention. It has 16 ethnic groups a Muslim majority and a large population descended from freed American slaves who returned to West Africa after the Revolutionary War.   The original Bubu music is a product of Islam in Africa processional chants and rhythms with ties to ancient African culture but also to Ramadan the Muslim holy month of fasting. Janka Nabay gained attention when he turned Bubu songs he recalled from his youth into modern pop. Nabay's hypnotic mixes began circulating around Sierra Leone on cassettes and a new Bubu music underground was born.   Sierra Leone's brutal Civil War in the 1990s complicates the Bubu story. Nabay's songs sought to be above the fray but when rebels began using them as a soundtrack to village raids Nabay was forced into exile. He left home unwillingly and it took time to find his footing in Brooklyn but in the past two years Nabay has built a band fit to bring Bubu music to an international plane.   Recreating Bubu music in America has not been easy. At first Nabay found himself surrounded by enthusiastic Sierra Leonean ex-pats but none were willing to help finance his career. Nabay channeled his frustration with that into a song called Kill Me With Bongo.   Before Janka Nabay Bubu music was all but forgotten remnants of Sierra Leone's past. Now thanks to technology imagination and yes the forces of globalization the Bubu sound is working its mysterious mesmerizing magic on the world. This is one way old traditions survive in the hands of single-minded visionaries like Janka Nabay artists for whom technology is an ally not an enemy of customs and culture.   Banning Eyre is senior editor at AfroPop.org. He reviewed the album En Yay Sah by Janka Nabay and the Bubu Gang. 