 For more than a year the Golden Gate Bridge has hummed an eerie song.   Engineers installed new railings last summer to improve the bridge's aerodynamics. But now on windy days the railings vibrate creating that sound which has been met with so many complaints engineers are planning to get rid of it. Guitarist Nate Mercereau has a different take. He was so inspired by the sound that he recorded an album of improvisations using those sounds called Duets  Golden Gate Bridge.   I actually first heard about this through a San Francisco Chronicle article. The article headline was something like The humming of the Golden Gate Bridge is driving people crazy. When are they going to shut it up? And when I actually heard the recordings I thought they were pretty beautiful.   It is remarkably musical. It plays multiple notes and it - if the wind picks up it really has a musical quality to it. It has dynamics.   I saw the article and then I called my friend Zach who is an engineer up there. And within a couple days we had made plans to go up and record it.   There is a really high note that kind of sings through everything. That seems to be the constant presence.   For us it was in the key of C major. And there is these lower notes that seem to swell and smear together as the volume increases or as the wind changes direction.   It is not really playing with me. It does not know I am there in a real physical sense. It is like you are witnessing it happening. And I am getting inside the sound of it and trying to interact with what it is doing.   The ability to look at something in the world and be able to see it from a different angle and allow yourself to appreciate things as they are happening is a big deal for me. And this is kind of an exercise in sensitivity in that way - to look at it as like something that is actually unique and special.   It is almost like this project is a manifestation of how I try to look at the world.   That was musician Nate Mercereau. His new album is called Duets  Golden Gate Bridge. It is out now.  