 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. Tonight The Metropolitan Opera kicks off its season with Das Rheingold. The first installment of a new 16 million Ring Cycle features opera superstars Bryn Terfel and Stephanie Blythe. One of the pivotal roles in Wagner's opera the troll Alberich will be played by American bass-baritone Eric Owens. Reporter Jeff Lunden says Owens may not be a household name but he is one of the most sought-after singers in the business.   deep rich resonant. Mr.  .  But then there is the eclectic repertoire. It seems these days Eric Owens is showing up everywhere from major opera houses to symphony halls  well-known classical works like the Mozart Requiem freshly-minted operas like Grendel.  Mr.  .  The 40-year-old singer says he doesnt want to be pigeonholed. Mr.  I really enjoy just the variety of things that I do. And its weird I mean it can be a good thing it can be a bad thing career-wise because Im not necessarily known for one-particular thing. But at the end of the day I mean I need to do what makes me happy.   And by doing what makes him happy Owens makes his collaborators happy like New York Philharmonic music director Alan Gilbert. Mr.  Forget about singers. If you talk about all musicians there are very few people who are as well-schooled and as widely talented as Eric. Hes really someone who I think goes to the heart of the matter. And he comes not only prepared but really understanding the music.  Mr.  .  Music has been Eric Owens passion since grade school. He grew up in Philadelphia where he still lives and was already playing oboe professionally in high school. But it was also in high school where he found he could sing really sing.  Mr.  . Mr.  This may sound funny but I saw more career potential in singing than being an oboe player. As competitive as the opera world is theres always a job to be had somewhere.  Pulitzer prize-winning composer John Adams thinks that background as an instrumentalist is part of what makes Owens such a superlative musician. Mr.  Hes got this special past where he really knows what it means to be in an orchestra to count to listen for pitch all the kinds of disciplines that come with instrumental playing and ensemble playing. His fundamentals his musical chops as we call it are so secure.  Mr.    I have been preoccupied with many matters .  Adams was so impressed with Owens chops he created roles specifically for him in two operas. The first was General Leslie Groves the military head of the Manhattan Project in Doctor Atomic a look at the birth of the atom bomb. Mr.  Eric really wonderfully embodied that role.  Mr.    .  Adams also wrote the role of the Storyteller for Owens in A Flowering Tree an adaptation of a south Indian fairytale about a girl who can transform herself into a tree.  Mr.    Children I want to tell you a story a story of .  Owens says hes relished collaborating with John Adams. Mr.   Okay is this comfortable? Is this too high? Too low? Blah blah blah. You know and he would rewrite things. So thats really exciting knowing that you have sort of an effect on the outcome of this wonderful piece of music and that you put your little two cents in there.   Owens says he spends eight or nine months on the road and New York is a frequent destination. Last season he garnered rave reviews when in a two week period Owens performed the Beethoven Missa Solemnis and a staged concert of Gyorgy Ligetis atonal opera Le Grande Macabre with the New York Philharmonic.  Mr.   .  Owens was pitch perfect in the role of Death even if he admits that finding the pitches was hard work. Mr.  In places where its seemingly atonal I mean the way I go about it is you have to sort of create these little blocks of tonality within the atonality. You have to create melodies where its seemingly just noise.  Mr.   .  Owens is now focused on his very first role in a Wagner opera. Hes playing the thieving troll Alberich in Das Rheingold at the Met. The new high-tech production is directed by Robert Lepage whose credits run from nine-hour theatrical marathons to Cirque du Soleil in Las Vegas. Mr.  Of course his voice is amazing but hes also a good actor. Hes a good character actor. And this is a bit of a counter-role in the sense that hes probably the most sympathetic human being in this universe and he gets to play this very pathetic not very sympathetic character. And he actually really dives into it.  Mr.   .  And this is the kind of production where when singers dive into it they really dive. Its very physically-demanding. Eric Owens says hes been enjoying not just the musical but the cardiovascular challenges of the role even if he admits hes a little overwhelmed to be part of opening night at the Met. Mr.  You know I have to make sure I can stay focused and not have one of these oh-my-goodness-gracious moments of you know wow look at me Im up here with all these amazing people doing this amazing music in this amazing theater.  Eric Owens opens in Das Rheingold tonight. For NPR News Im Jeff Lunden in New York. 