 Kristin Chenoweth has won an Emmy and a Tony. She is been in movies and hosted awards shows and of course she sings - although some people are not aware of that.  It is so funny when people come up to me and they are like oh I did not know you sang. I am like what?  Really? .  Oh yeah. They know me from different things you know? You never know how people are going to recognize you or what they know you from.  In one of her most famous roles she sang her way through Oz in a story about sisterhood the musical Wicked.    Because I knew you...   ...I have been changed for good.  So it feels appropriate that more than 15 years later Kristin Chenoweth's new album is called For The Girls. She covers classic songs originally recorded by women who inspired her. In some cases those women even join her on the tracks.  I did not set out to make a like quote-unquote female-empowered album it just began to evolve that way. And Steve Tyrell I said you know Steve this is just turning out to be for the women. And he is my producer. He sounds - he is got like a really gruff voice - Memphis boy. And he goes ah you know what it is? It is for the girls man. It is for the girls.  .  And I said you are right it is for the girls. And it is for the men. You know for me my dad was such a strong influence in my life with giving me self-esteem and - you know who cares if a man sang the song or who cares if you are petite and 4'11? Who cares if you sound like you sucked helium? Go for it. You know he was that guy. So I looked at it as not only is it for the girls but it is for the men who love us too.  And it is not a duets album per se but there are a lot of duets on it.  Yeah. Yeah.  Was that part of the concept from the beginning?  No. I am telling you it started evolving. And then I said you know Steve it is going to - if it is going to be for the girls I have got to have some of my favorite singers on there. And I thought I want to do that with - because I am a woman and so I asked Jennifer Hudson and Reba McEntire to join me.    'ecause I am a woman...   Woman.   ...W-O-M-A-N. Say it again. Say it again now you all.  On paper it sounds like a wild lineup - you Jennifer Hudson and Reba McEntire. Tell me about those - that trio. I mean what was that like?  Well what I said to J-Hud  is I want you to just do J-Hud. I want you to do your version of this your verse. And I said to Reba I want you to do Reebs . I just want you to do Reba McEntire the great vocalist. And you know what? I do not know how it worked but it did. It did.  It sure did.    I got a 20 gold piece that says there as not nothing I cannot do.   I can make a dress out of a feed bag and make a man out of you.   'ecause I am a woman.   W-O-M-A-N.   I will say it again.  I love it.  Yeah.  With three different voices it just goes to show you there are no more rules anymore.  Yeah.  Why not? Why should not there be three girls who love to sing on a song and bound together by music?  The first track from this album that I heard randomly came on my Spotify when I was on summer vacation driving through Oregon and I was like wait - am I hearing what I think I am hearing right now?  .    Bittersweet...   Bittersweet...   ...Memories...   ...Memories...   That is all...  I literally pulled over the car to look at my phone and figure out if this was indeed a Kristin Chenoweth-Dolly Parton duet of I Will Always Love You. And sure enough it was.   It was. I am still like - when I hear it I get goosebumps and I start to cry still.  .  I was raised on country music and gospel music. There is something about Dolly that - well for everybody not just me - that I have connected with. And when I first met her many many years ago she said you are me and - I am like you and you are like me.  Wow.  And I said I know.  What an honor...  I know. I know. I was like wait - what?  ...To have a legend say that about you .  I know. And I thought well I am definitely lacking a couple of things that we cannot mention but...  .  She was so very kind and I thought if I ever got to sing with her I would want to sing that song but I never thought she would give it to me. And she said yes.    And I - I will always love you. I will always love you.  And as accomplished as you are when you are recording an immortal song with a legend like Dolly Parton is there any part of you that is still just like terrified intimidated weak in the knees what am I doing here?  Yeah. My challenge was to get over my nerves with her you know to get over my worship of her so that I could sing. And tip my hat to her but also do me you know.  Yeah.  When I heard it I did the ugly cry. I was in Atlanta on set and I am bawling - bawling.   And the makeup people are freaking out because you are ruining the...  Yeah.  Right .  She is definitely my favorite so...  Yeah. The people you collaborate with on this album range in age from Dolly in her 70s to Ariana Grande in her 20s.  .  I know you are a mentor to her. Do you think that recording with people of different generations different aesthetics and their different styles bring something different to a recording like this?  Yes. We know Ariana Grande is one of the best most popular and incredible singers on the planet alive today. So what I did is I had it fully orchestrated and then I added an electric guitar in there. So it sounds Ariana and it sounds Kristin.  Let us listen to a little bit of this track that you recorded with her - You Do not Own Me.    Do not tell me what to do and do not tell me what to say. And please... I mean it is over a 60-piece orchestra you know?  A 60-piece orchestra.  Yeah.  Go big or go home.   That is right.    You do not own me. Do not try to change me in any way. You do not own me. Do not tie me down 'ecause I will never stay. I do not tell you what to say. I do not tell you what to do.  Well is there a song from the album that you would like us to go out on?  Yeah. An uncomfortable lane for me was a song by Patsy Cline that a lot of people know - Crazy.  Yeah.  And I - not a lot of people know this but I can do a pretty darn good impression of her. And I started in the recording studio doing that and Steve Tyrell said stop it. Stop doing her do you. And I said I cannot. I only hear her voice. And so I wanted to cut it and I - there were - might have been some tears. Like I just could not find what Crazy was for me.  So what was your breakthrough?  It was - believe it or not I had to stop listening to her because I love her voice so much. And Patsy had such a cry in her voice right?  Yeah.  And every note was a money note. And for me I had to back off and make it introspective. I had to just make it different and this is what we came up with.    Crazy - I am crazy for feeling so lonely.  Kristin Chenoweth it is been wonderful talking with you. Thank you.  Thank you Ari. Thank you for having me.  Her new album is called For The Girls.    ...Crazy for feeling so blue. I knew... 