 It is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Audie Cornish. And we are nearly halfway through the year. And upstairs at NPR Music the best of pile is high enough that they have already cobbled a list of their 25 favorite albums for 2013. Crazy or what? For a sample we' Frannie Kelley who covers RB and hip-hop. Hey there Frannie.  Hey Audie.  Tom Huizenga who writes about classical music. Hello Tom.  Hey Audie.  And Stephen Thompson who writes about I think everything else right? Rock pop...   All the other genres.  ...all the things we will not recognize. Stephen welcome.  Thank you.  So looking at the list there are a lot of established artists who made it right? There is your Vampire Weekend and of course Justin Timberlake. But there is some new artists who have kind of cut through the noise and made themselves heard. Namely your pick Frannie Chance the Rapper.   This was the year that this guy really broke through the surface. It is not his first album but the hype for him was at fever pitch and then he came through. So everybody was surprised by how many risks he took and by how mature he is.  And he is from Chicago quite young. I remember his debut mix tape was based on his 10-day suspension from high school right?   Correct.   So this song is actually seven minutes long which does not happen very often. And that is partly because it is a combo song. It starts out playful and sort of chest-popping he is teasing. And then there is an abrupt switch. It is this big shoulder move where he drops out completely and there is 30 seconds of silence. And when he comes back the song has become foreboding paranoid. And it is mostly about violence in Chicago.   All of a sudden we are you know you are sort of thrown backward by how much he is asking you the question right after he had you dancing.  All right. Moving on from Chicago hip hop to the other side of the world to a Latvian choir. Do I have that right Tom Huizenga?  You do.  Is that your pitch? Tell us what is going on.  Well have you ever sung in a choir?  I have. I mean sung would be a generous term.   I do not really think that was what was going on but yeah.  Well I think you are going to love this record. It is - and you might say Latvia? But it turns out that Latvia is this land of singers. I mean the country is the size of West Virginia. Two million people live there. But they have a reservoir of over a million folksongs alone and then there is all the amateur choirs the professional choirs the singing competitions where 20000 crooners get together and sing together. I mean people in this country just sing. And one of the best professional classical choirs now comes from Latvia. It is the Latvian Radio Choir. And on their new record they really show just how much power two dozen unaccompanied voices have.   The music is by Rachmaninoff. It is his All-Night Vigil. This is Russian liturgical music that he wrote in 1915. The music that we are hearing now the text is talking about beholding the very special light that comes at the end of the day when the evening starts coming in. I think you can just see in the music the warm evening light just filtering through the stained glass windows of a church.   There is a purity and transparency to these Latvian voices. There is a certain ping to the blend and the tenors have a really high pure sound. It is really some of the most gorgeous choral singing I have heard in a while.   All right. Stephen one more pick right from a guy in the know. Now the last time I talked to you at South by Southwest you were talking about bands with beards as a trend.  Yes.   That is been an ongoing concern.  Yes. Who are you betting on to make the best of list later in the year? Who is your favorite so far?  Well actually it is very much like a cross between the Latvian Radio Choir and Chance the Rapper.  I want to hear what this is.  No. It is not at all. The singer I am picking is named Kacey Musgraves and she put out an album this year called Same Trailer Different Park. There was an extraordinary amount of hype leading into this record. Frannie mentioned Chance the Rapper as somebody who followed through on this enormous promise. And this record does the same thing. Kacey Musgraves put out a great song last year called Merry Go Round. And this record Same Trailer Different Park is just packed with strong smart thoughtful songs with a very distinct point of view. Let us hear a little bit of the song Follow Your Arrow.   Running through this record there are all these recurring themes of escape. So the song Follow Your Arrow is clearly about escape from the judgment of your neighbors. The song Merry Go Round is about escape from a small town. There is a song called Blowing Smoke that is about you know kind of wanting to escape from a crummy job. There is a lot of slices of real life but there are also - there is a blue print for these escapes. It is not just oh is not it terrible that I am stuck in this small town or is not it terrible that my neighbors judge me. It is a very inspiring record and it is a record that I think is going to connect on a very personal level with a lot of people. I just love it and just - I am enormously drawn to virtually every song on it.   Well this has been a great mix of stuff. Stephen Thompson thank you.  Thank you.  And also NPR Music's Frannie Kelly. Thanks Frannie.  Thank you madam.  And Tom Huizenga. Thank you Tom.  Thank you Audie.  You can find their list of favorite albums and songs of 2013 so far at nprmusic.org.   This is NPR News. 