 Time now for music.    Party rock is in the house tonight. Everybody just have a good time.  This is the number one song in America right now.    Everybody just have a good time. Party rock is in the house tonight.  It is called Party Rock Anthem by  reached number one in Denmark New Zealand Mexico Ireland Sweden Australia Germany Brazil the UK.    Take that.  Okay. You get the point. This song is huge. It is the song of the summer. And the duo behind orementioned party rockers are Stefan and Skyler Gordy respectively the son and grandson of the legendary Berry Gordy founder of Motown Records. Stefan is better known as DJ Redfoo and Skyler performs as DJ Sky Blu. They are with me from our studios in Southern California. Gentlemen welcome to the program. STEFAN 'DJ REDFOO'  What is up what is up? SKYLER 'DJ SKY BLU'  What is up?  So I think it is safe to say this is officially the song of the summer. Congratulations.  Thank you. Thank you.  Number one song on the Billboard charts.  Yeah.  Did you guys know that you were writing a number one song before you put it out there?  Our goal was we got to get to number one. But at the same point I still feel slightly surprised. But the goal was to you know make the world shuffle and change the world.  Okay. Redfoo you are the son and Sky Blu you are the grandson of Berry Gordy the founder of Motown. So that makes you guys uncle and nephew right?  Yeah.  Okay. So Berry Gordy that is some serious lineage. You guys must have grown up around legends like Smokey Robinson The Temptations Michael Jackson. I mean were they coming in and out of your world?  Yeah. They were like normal characters to us I mean me and Smokey playing backgammon. You know all the stars of Motown Diana Ross and everybody they were all so nice. And I feel like it taught us behind the scenes how to be towards people when we got into this position.  Have you guys had feedback from Dad and in Sky Blu's case grandfather from Berry Gordy? What does he think about the record?  Oh he loves it.  He performs with us.  Yeah. He performs. He is - we got him spraying champagne. And he loves shuffle. He loves Party Rock Anthem. He says it is his new workout and you know he is learned the dance. And he is got his own variation the Berry Gordy shuffle.  I have to say the video to this song Party Rock Anthem it is a total homage to Thriller Michael Jackson's Thriller. Can you guys describe this video?  Sure. It is got zombies. It is got dancing.  You have to basically dance to this music so the zombies will not think that you are actually a human and then bite you right?  Exactly.  Right. It is the main...  Exactly. It is to survive. We have to...  You have got to dance the Party Rock Anthem.  shuffle to order to survive. Yeah.  You have got to do the Melbourne Shuffle.  Exactly.  What is the Melbourne Shuffle that I have been reading so much about?  It really all originates from the Charleston you know...  How do you do the Melbourne Shuffle?  The Melbourne Shuffle is a mix between the Running Man...  Oh okay.  ...and a sort of like a sidestep Charleston. And now you have the Party Rock Shuffle which is just the way we are doing it in the video and stuff.  So your name  it stand for?  Laughing My Bleeping Ass Off.  How did you come up with that?  Well you know Sexy Dudes was our name for awhile first.  Oh Sexy Dudes. Right.  First you know and our friends did not like it and so we had to ask one of our advisors...  Yeah.  ...you know Grandma Goodfoot 22...  Yeah. Party advisor.  ...which is Sky's grandma and...  His real grandma.  Yeah his real grandma. We were on Instant Messenger and we simply asked her what do you think of our new name Sexy Dudes? And she simply replied LMFAO. Are you serious? From there the name was - that was it. There it was.  That is Stefan Gordy and Skyler Gordy. They are better known as DJ Redfoo and DJ Sky Blu. The duo make up the electro hip-hop ground LMFAO. Their album's called Sorry for Party Rocking and their track Party Rock Anthem is the number one song in the United States at the moment.  Damn right.  Redfoo Sky Blu thanks so much.  Yeah. Thank you.  Thank you brother.  