 Producers Dan Collison and Elizabeth Meister traveled to Arkansas to talk to people about what is going on under their feet. And they shared what they heard with the musician Bonnie 'Prince' Billy who contributed an original song inspired by these voices.   Good evening. Since September there have been 843 earthquakes in the Greenbrier-Guy Swarm. This fault was previously unknown until earthquakes began.    My name is Scott Ausbrooks. I am the geohazard supervisor with the Arkansas Geological Survey. That is one thing that is very disconcerting is to have the ground move under your feet. When it starts moving you start getting concerned.    Four fifty-two A.M. about a two-point.   Seven A.M. boom.   It is really stressful.    Dozens of earthquakes in central Arkansas have gained national attention. And tonight they can still be felt. But why are they happening?   Back in 1982 there was a swarm of earthquakes very close to where these earthquakes are happening in the town of Enola.  I am Marie Wilson. There have been tiny shakes over in the Enola area for years and years and years. And I think that it is just getting bigger and bigger underground.  That could just be a natural cycle in the seismic activity rate in the area. If the injection wells were not there it would not have surprised me to have this seismic activity. But the injection wells are there.    Earth makes me tremble and I return the favor.  We are on Highway 25. We are just east of Guy and we are directly across from the SRE injection well.    I am man Earth. And you may know my walk will never waiver.  What we do see are these clusters of earthquakes like here here here and here. What is proximal to these clusters of earthquakes is injection well injection well injection well.  Ninety-eight percent of those earthquakes that have happened since 2009 have been within five kilometers of three specific injection wells.   In those injection wells they place water that is used in the fracking process.   You know it is all going in a hole in the ground not very big. I am going to say it is probably 12 14-inch diameter.   And then the well goes down over a mile. Of course they have done over 100 million gallon from July to February. That is equivalent to a 30-acre lake 10-feet deep. The weight of that water's probably in excess of a billion pounds.    Then they had a meeting at the Guy school.   If the earthquakes continue to get stronger and stronger and stronger it is going to be people's homes ruined and possibly people's lives.  My name's Dave Martini. I am the chief of police Guy Police Department. I do not know if they are manmade or I do not know if they are act of God. But I would like to know.  So how are they not related?  I am Shelby Wilcox and I am with the Roadrunners Extension Homemakers Club. I would hope that the gas and oil industry would not be blamed because it has been a tremendous economic boon to this area.  I am Mark Ledbetter. I am the liaison for Faulkner County to the gas industry. There is a lot of people up here that have had this land for a lot of years that did not have anything you know. And now these people finally are getting something out of their land.   These folks here were living in a mobile home. They got a gas well right across from them. They built them a new house.  My son has found employment.  My name is Jimmy Hart and I am the Conway County judge. You know I am a red-blooded American. That is the great thing about this whole thing - we are all capitalists. You know you can go talk to the local John Deere dealer or you can go talk to a local car dealer and this money rolls over six or seven times.  My name is Zondra Sharp and I am the owner of Gimme Some Sugar Bakeshoppe and cakery in GreenbrierSpring Hill Arkansas. If I say something negative towards the gas companies well then they might say oh well she is against us I am not going to do business with her.    Some cower intimidated. And cowering they call this action love.   It is just every day. We are getting bombarded over here.  I thought good grief how bad is this going to get?   We were nervous because practically our life savings is in a new home that we just finished in December.   Hey guys. The magnitude 4.7 00 last night and was felt for hundreds of miles...   The 4.7 scared the goodness out of me. I was at my house and I could actually see my floor making waves.  Usually they are a snap of the finger - boom shake done. But this one was a boom shake shake shake shake.  It just shook shook shook shook shook.  And I was going I need to put seatbelts on my bed and my recliner. I am going to be bouncing out of here.   That is the largest earthquake we have had in Arkansas in 35 years.  And it was shortly after that they shut the injection wells down.    Or maybe there is a connection. We will find out. All right Dustin. Thank you.     We have seen about a 50 percent reduction in the number of events. Could be simply part of the natural ebb and flow or it could be in relation to the fact that they actually shut the wells down.  I am a country girl and this is how I look at things but you just dig you a little trench and you blast water at high pressures what is it do? It makes it bigger. It erodes it you know. And of course I look at a fault that way.     Is it wise or is it prudent to inject millions of gallons of water in the vicinity of an active fault? That is the question that is going to have to be answered by someone other than me.    Even Mother Nature kneels. Even Mother Nature kneels.  The extraction of natural gas continues in the area. Our story The Natural State was produced by Elizabeth Meister and Dan Collison for Long Haul Production. The song Mother Nature Kneels was written and performed by Bonnie 'Prince' Billy. That song is streaming at npr.org. 