 Musician Frank Zappa was a lot of things - satirist social critic defender of free speech. He saw himself as an entertainer and serious composer. He also saw no contradiction in being all of those things at once. That often came to the consternation and confusion of many journalist who interviewed him. A number of those interviews have been compiled in a new film called appropriately  Frank Zappa In His Own Words. Here's NPR's Tom Cole.  The documentary ends this way with a 1985 public service announcement that runs after the final credits.   You are 18. Take the spoon out of your nose. Take the needle out of your arm. Take the beer out of your mouth and go vote. You know what I mean? Vote. Register and vote like a beast.  Zappa in a nutshell - absolutely serious in his own button-pushing way just as he was in his music. And it was Zappa's music that hooked German documentarian Thorsten Schutte.  The story starts when I was 12 13 years old.  Schutte was in music class. After a year of Mozart and Beethoven the teacher let the kids pick whatever records they wanted to hear from the school's collection.  Unfortunately there was not that much popular music. There was only one record called The Evolution Of Pop Music. And one track was a track by the Mothers of Invention Who Are The Brain Police?    What will you do if we let you go home and the plastics all melted and so is the chrome?  It was something that I had not heard before.    Who are the brain police?  Frank Zappa formed the Mothers of Invention in 1964 but he would been composing since high school as he told WHYY's Fresh Air in 1989.   Well I started off writing chamber music and you know small orchestral pieces. And I did not write a rock 'n' roll song until I was about 21.   Zappa was not always happy with his earliest efforts. In the documentary he sits at a piano cutting up sheet music with a razor blade to rearrange it.   Then I heard what some of the stuff sounded like that I had been writing. And it was so ugly that I decided to backwards and get into the melodic area again. And then people started telling me that my melodies were ugly. So I guess I am successful.  Tracking down those interviews became a kind of extra curricular pastime for filmmaker Thorsten Schutte.  As a producer-director when you travel and you go to archives you know you have something to do. You work on a subject. But what you usually do on the site is you always - just for the heck of it you look - what do they have on Frank Zappa you know? You never know what you might encounter.  Beyond what he found in those archives there was the Internet. He says fans have become the curators of an informal online Zappa archive of rarities.  But this film is not solely for fans. It is also there to be somehow a gateway for for younger generations to explore him and who know nothing about him. Many of my students when I showed them the film you know they asked me who is this man with the beard?   This is a song about vegetables. They keep you regular. They are real good for you.    Call any vegetable. Call it by name.  It all comes back to the music. And Frank Zappa who died in 1993 left behind a lot.  Frank was a workaholic - just no doubt about it. You give him a pack of cigarettes and some coffee and there is no end in sight.  Bunk Gardner is a classically trained woodwind player. He and his trumpeter brother were early members of the Mothers of Invention. Bunk says Zappa's music was difficult to play - incongruous time signatures layered on top of one another fiendishly fast tempos never the same thing twice.  He liked that and I think he also felt that it really kept everybody on their toes. You better better focus.  Gardner continues to play Zappa's music with another early member of the Mothers keyboard player Don Preston as the Grandmothers of Invention. While Preston bristles at the notion that Zappa was a genius still...  I can remember - I do not know how many times - when I was just so grateful to be playing this music and do exactly what I always wanted to do - take my own playing as far as possible.  And filmmaker Thorsten Schutte who spent eight years making his documentary in addition to all of those hours in the archives is also grateful for what Frank Zappa's music gave him.  If you listen to his music and the ingredients it is not only that it opens you up to Zappa Zappa but it opens you up to a great many other composers because there is Spike Jones in it. You know there is Bartok in it. There is Howlin' Wolf and Johnny Guitar Watson in it. He opened up the world for me at a very young age. That - I am very thankful for that.  And he hopes to be able to give some of that back with his film. Tom Cole NPR News. 