 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  Arizona Public Radio's Daniel Kraker reports.  Arizona is no stranger to musical protests over its politics. Here's the hip-hop group Public Enemy from 1991.    ...come on. I am on the one mission to get a politician to honor or he is a goner by the time I get to Arizona.  Soon after voters approved the holiday. Fast-forward to 2010 and the musicians hope another boycott this time over the state's immigration law can have a similar impact.  We have to intervene in order to do whatever we possibly can to limit that state's ability to function and implement the law.  That is Zack de la Rocha of the band Rage Against the Machine from a Web video he is produced. He is organized a boycott of Arizona called The Sound Strike. So far he is recruited artists ranging from Kanye West to Nine Inch Nails to Latino bands including Los Tigres del Norte. Jorge Hernandez says his band' If the Los Angeles musicians were to come to Arizona they worry that police could detain them.  They can ask questions because I look brown or I look a different color. We are very sure that there is going to be problems with our community.  The boycott is having an impact on some Arizona music promoters and clubs. Alycia Klein is the general manager for the Celebrity Theatre in Phoenix where the rapper Pitbull canceled his show earlier this month. She says the boycott could not come at a worse time.  With the economy as it is you know I mean this is the last thing that people are thinking about doing with their money is going to spend it to have fun. So now when I do have artists that will attract people to come out and now they are unwilling to come out it is devastating.  But Martin Cizmar the music critic for the alternative weekly Phoenix New Times is more worried about the hundreds of bands who might not join Sound Strike but just will not come.  Arizona is already a little bit of a hard sell during the summer and we are going to have a long silent summer I think with some of this  Oh I do not really want to go there.  Cizmar says a big organized boycott caught people off guard. While he is opposed to the law he fears the boycott could really take hold.  It does not take too much to get people behind a really big cause and if this happens to become the cause of the moment and this becomes a trendy cause we are screwed.  So Cizmar rounded up 17 Arizona artists to contribute to a CD called A Line in the Sand. It is a collection of protest songs against the law SB 1070. All of the bands including Phoenix-based Andrew Jackson Jihad finished their songs in just two weeks.    Give me your tired give me your tired give me your poor. When our government acts likes this I do not want to live here anymore. Sure I can see us  move to Portland or New York or I can say change the place where I was born.  Proceeds from the CD will go to organizations fighting the law. That is what Phoenix promoter Stephen Chilton thinks Sound Strike musicians should be doing.  Any one of these artists you know if they really wanted to make a statement really wanted to be involved they could come here and play. I mean Rage Against the Machine could do a benefit here and donate the profits to a number of local organizations that would have an impact.  Yolanda Bejarano with the Phoenix band Snow Songs is part of the organization called Artists for Action. She says initially she supported the boycott but now believes...  We need to do something here and mobilize people and try to do it a different way instead of just not coming here.  For NPR News I am Daniel Kraker. 