 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block. It is been called the Alcatraz of the South. To locals it is The Farm. For much of its history the Louisiana State Penitentiary at Angola has been synonymous with brutality suffering and executions. Among prisons  its music. Hal Cannon of the Western Folklife Center explains.  In the early 1930s when the legendary folklorist John Lomax and his son Alan set off on a year and a half long odyssey on America's back roads one of their first stops was prison.   To the Louisiana State Penitentiary goes John A. Lomax Library of Congress curator collector of American folk songs.  John Lomax was on a mission to gather folk songs of African-Americans specifically music born of slavery and he wanted it in its purest form unsullied by what he saw as the polluting force of popular music.     pick a bale pick a bale pick a bale of cotton.  pick a bale pick a bale pick a bale of hay.  Angola had been a plantation before it became a prison. And what Lomax found here was as isolating and brutal as anything from the Old South.  It was a place where if you were sent you worked you were segregated. And if you tried to run off they would shoot you.  Robert Pierce is a former corrections officer and a prison historian. He says that in the institution's pecking order in those days convicts who could sing held a special status.  A lot of times encouragement was given by the guards if they knew a particular inmate could sing and he got special privileges. And even though they were tough on their wardens they would like to show off a little bit. That is my singer you know? He is on my unit.  One prisoner in particular impressed Lomax.    Irene goodnight. Irene goodnight. Goodnight Irene. Goodnight Irene. I will see you in my dreams.  His name was Huddie Ledbetter better known as Leadbelly. As the legend goes Lomax helped spring him from Angola.  Then hailed by the Library of Congress' Music Division as its greatest folk song find in 25 years Leadbelly's songs go into the archives of the great national institution along with the original copy of the Declaration of Independence.  Lomax found all sorts of songs behind prisons walls  work songs love songs field hollers blues religious music.    . Nailed to the cross. Pierced him in the side. They nailed him to the cross. . They nailed him to the cross.  They nailed him to the cross. . Never said a mumbling word. Well well he just hung down his head and died.  Some of those traditions like Gospel quartets continue to this day at Angola.  Here's what the old folks used to do.    They used to farm on their knees and lift their faith towards the rising sun and say oh Lord have mercy even down here in Angola. Have mercy. We need the lord.  Voices in the Wilderness is one of several Gospel groups performing in the prison yard on this day. Larry Wilkinson who is in for second-degree murder is the lead singer.  As a group we praise God to the utmost and sincerely. So you know in order for us to sound like we sound we have to try to walk that walk in a Christian life as positive as we should.  Angola is a different place than it was in John Lomax's day. Prison reforms have reduced abuses and high walls and razor wire cannot keep out popular culture. Angola is no longer a musical time capsule.    Oh I pray to you oh Lord do not you . I need .  Michael Palmer's group performs in the prison yard. Palmer is serving a 45-year sentence for armed robbery. On the outside he was a rapper.  When I was doing gangsta rap I was just reciting the lifestyle I was living taking everything that I was surrounded by and putting it through music.  Behind two sets of heavy security doors down the hall from his cellblock Palmer sings the chorus to one of his old songs.   People always talking about you are a killer. I do not care what you people say just do not mess with me.   Satan always talking about you are a Christian. I do not care what the devil says. Jesus died for me. Ooh as I walk through the valley of the shadow of death I stand strong on my feet. This is only a test.  Palmer says his transition from gangsta to Gospel was a transition from darkness to light. Many prisoners have found redemption through religion here at Angola. These days it is official policy of the prison to encourage creativity among prisoners be it singing crafts or painting. Assistant Warden Kathy Fontenot says it is not just effective prison management it gives inmates an important tool for survival.  It is allowing somebody to grow. You respect yourself and then you start respecting others. And people really want to see people come back. I mean America loves an underdog and that is what we are here a bunch of underdogs.  Another underdog is Daniel Washington.   He learned to play guitar as a child growing up in a small town across the river from New Orleans.     a stranger. And I soon found out her name was danger and trouble she was about.  After he got to Angola he wrote this song about how his life began to take a wrong turn.  There was just something about the streets that I was drawn to. I would hang out all night long in a club living like a vampire. When the sun come up I am going in. When the sun go down I am coming out.  Eventually Washington killed a man and that is what sent him to Angola. He is been here for 25 years and like three-quarters of the prisoners here he is serving a life sentence. In Louisiana that means he is here till he dies no parole.    That is when I found myself in a sea of trouble.  And trouble with authority marked his first years here.  They locked me up so many times sent me to Camp J. Camp J is just the harshest punishment that they give you. They send you to Camp J.  And it was in his third visit to Camp J that Washington decided to reconnect with his passion for music. This began his climb out of the hole to the point where he became a prison trustee.   I got into the traveling band started traveling all over the state of Louisiana go and sing in front of crowds doing something that I love doing. Now this is a much bigger step up than from where I was at in the cell.   Thank you very much.  Despite all of the changes since the 1930s when folklorist John Lomax recorded at Angola life here is still based on a system of punishment and reward and one of those rewards is music. For these convicts that offers their only taste of freedom. For NPR News I am Hal Cannon.    First time I am in trouble I did not get no fair trial at all. Oh no. Feel like to me baby they .  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 