 Now we meet British singer-songwriter and pianist Tom Odell. His first album A Long Way Down arrives in the U.S. this week. Odell has sparked widely disparate reactions in his home country and our reviewer Tom Moon predicts the 22-year-old is destined for more of the same here.  When Tom Odell was named the 2013 Critics' Choice at the British equivalent of the Grammys in February his career looked to be on the fast track. Previous winners of the award which recognizes a promising newcomer include megastar Adele. But weeks later a critic at the music weekly NME gave Tom Odell's album a rare zero-star review describing him as quote a poor misguided wannabe. So who is right?    Tom Odell is a type that somewhat fragile sensitive soul who sings busted-apart love songs hunched over the piano. Musically he travels in the same lane as bands like Coldplay. He describes heartbreak using big anthem chords. His songs can feel fervent and calculated at the same time.    Or if I was so nice I could have convinced my friends that you were not right. I could promise you my heart do not cry. Would it all make sense? 'ecause I have been feeling pretty small...  That is the song that first got my attention. The melody may not be terribly daring the words describe a fairly ordinary moment in the arc of a love affair. And still there is something arresting and vulnerable about the way Tom Odell sings it.    Oh I am feeling pretty small. Sometimes I feel like I am slipping down walls. And every line I get oh it seems to break.  Much of the album is not quite this raw and as a result not as riveting. Perhaps that is why some in the British press groan about Tom Odell as the latest dismaying example of paint-by-numbers pop music. Sure he is working within the lines of an established template. But every once in a while sometimes for just a measure or two he slips away from the familiar to offer a moment of unguarded transcendent beauty. If he can manage a whole record of that he will really be someone to watch.    I want to take you somewhere so you know I care. But it is so cold and I do not know where. I brought you daffodils on a pretty string but they will not flower like they did last spring.  The debut from singer-songwriter Tom Odell is called Long Way Down. Our reviewer is music critic Tom Moon. He is the author of One Thousand Recordings To Hear Before You Die. 