  Oh yeah I love that. Why cannot every song start like that? This is new music from an exciting Cuban singer and I am not going to tell you anymore because that would not be fair to our old friend Betto Arcos. Betto's the host of Global Village on KPFK here in Los Angeles and he is the one who discovered this music. Betto welcome back.  Great to be back. This is one of my most exciting discoveries in the past couple of months - young early 20s singer from Havana. And within the last couple of years her career just took off.  What is her name?  Dayme Arocena.   .  How old is she? Has she been on the scene for very long?  She is 23 years old.  No kidding.  Yeah.  Wow.  She is really something else. She has this kind of combination of a jazz soul funk singer with a - of course that Cuban flavor that you know is just so so special.  Yeah. I mean I was surprised to hear she is 23 because it sounds like - I mean not the sound of her voice but her phrasing the way she - it sounds like she is got a lot of experience like she is got deep roots in this music.  She studied music earlier a few years ago but she also comes from a musical family. But then in the past couple of years Gilles Peterson - famous for his work as a DJ and producer - he found her and said hey you know you want to be part of this project? And this is the result.   .  Betto tell us her name one more time.  Her name is Dayme Arocena. And her record is titled Nueva Era or New Era.  Beautiful stuff. What do you have next for us Betto?  Next I want to play for you this really exceptional band from Buenos Aires Argentina. Their full name is Orquesta Tipica Fernandez Fierro. But they just simply go by Fernandez Fierro.   It is wild. It is dense but it really moves too.  You know Astor Piazzola the great Argentinean tango composer. Think of him but three degrees higher...  On steroids.  An octane - high-level octane. This is a band that is made up of young musicians. This is the traditional arrangement of a tango orchestra - four bandoneon instruments four violins a viola cello piano an amazing sound that was popular in the '40s right? These guys are young - almost - they look like - when you see them on stage they look like punk rockers because they are playing with a lot of iron if you will a lot of horsepower.  .   The great thing about this band is that they are part of a revival - and I would say at the head of the revival of the new tango scene in Buenos Aires.  That is a group called OTFF. Remind us one more time what that stands for.   And the album is titled En Vivo. My guest is world music DJ Betto Arcos. Betto always knows what is good. What else did you find Betto?  This next one is a classic. This is a record that came out about 20 years ago on the Real World label one of the first artists to be signed with this label started by Peter Gabriel - Toto La Momposina from Colombia.   .  That is just hot and awesome. How traditional is that?  Very traditional. This is the sort of traditional street party that happens in Colombia where this music comes from. And in fact the lyric refers to a particular carnival tradition called La Candela Viva which - you said it - the live fire because this is music to dance to. This is not music you sit just idle and look you know as it passes by. You move on and you party with this music. This is so exciting. This is - and I should say this is a classic album and one of the most important figures in Colombian popular music whose career really was reignited by this record some 20 years ago. And this is a tremendous reissue with new tracks in it. It is a fantastic album. It is called Tambolero. But the song we are hearing is actually the name of the original album that came out 20 years ago called La Candela Viva.   .  That is La Candela Viva by - give it to me Betto.  Toto La Momposina from the album Tambolero.  Nice stuff. Betto we have time for just one more.  Oh this one is meant specially for you Arun. This is a band based in Brooklyn N.Y. that plays Mexican banda music. The band is called Banda De Los Muertos and this tune is a classic country-western song made famous by none other than Marty Robbins. It is called El Paso.   So Betto I listened to this before we got in here and my first reaction was you have got to be kidding me right? Because it just - it is so old-fashioned. And then you get a little ways further into it and I really got into this.  This is one of my favorite favorite releases of the past couple of months. This is a band that was really created by a Mexican musician who is played with many jazz figures in New York and by an arranger for the Kronos Quartet. They co-founded the band. They are also kind of re-creating a bygone era of this beautiful very precisely performed music.  Yeah. Now it is getting into the part I love.   And the best part about it is that when they play at this club in New York called Barbes both Anglo hipsters and Mexicans dance to this music.   I just love that image.  That is nice I have got to check that out. I have got to get back to Brooklyn apparently too...  Yes sir.  ...Sounds pretty great. That is new music from Banda De Los Muertos. Our guide has been world music DJ Betto Arcos. He hosts Global Village at KPFK here in Los Angeles. Go to our website for a closer listen to all those records - that is nprmusic.org. Betto this is my last month here with you. I think this is the last we will be doing this here. I am - I am so sad. You have brought me so much great music. We have got to keep this going off the radio.  I will miss you so much Arun and hanging out with you and sharing all this wonderful music and my passion with you and your listeners. Thank you so much.  Thanks man. 