 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.   Now a conversation with the Brazilian-born jazz singer Luciana Souza who has the rhythms of bossa nova in her blood.   This song is from Souza's new album Duos III. Actually she is released two very different albums at the same time.    The thrill is gone. The thrill is gone.  Luciana Souza's second album is The Book of Chet. That is her tribute to the music of trumpeter and singer Chet Baker.    I can hear it in your sighs feel your touch and realize the thrill is gone. There is a deep connection between Chet Baker and bossa nova. It is known and it is well-documented that musicians in the bossa nova era so mid to late '50s and early '60s were listening to Chet Baker who had the height of his popularity in the mid '50s. And so this music was coming to Brazil. These players were listening to that music. People getting closer to the mic and being able to sing more subtly and not belting out with a lot of bravado. Then the music I grew up listening to is primarily bossa nova which is quiet straight-toned very still and subtle. So there is definitely an obvious connection there.  I keep coming back to one of the songs on this Brazilian album Duos III the song Dona Lu where you are scatting. You are in full scat mode here.  Yes. And it is completely wordless and does not mean anything. The title is - Dona means senora means miss or missus. Lu is me Luciana. So it was written for me.  Ha.  It was a commission for Marco.  This is Marco Pereira the composer.  Yeah. And it is just you know it is kind of traditional in a way because it is a samba surdo but it is a modern one.   When you are singing like this where there is no words to give it meaning it is patterns of sound and I guess the shape of your voice do you come up with a story behind these sounds?  Oh yeah. This is like a real chase. I am just sitting in my porch looking out at what is going on and he is looking for me. He is chasing me.   It sounds like he is chasing you on guitar here.  Yeah. Just trying to get me to a corner. I am like no way. No I am here. I am fine. All is good. And at the end obviously it is.   I am talking with Luciana Souza about her two new albums. The one we have just listened to called Duos III the other The Book of Chet. Luciana Souza when you are doing a song a Chet Baker song a song that he played and sang what is the difference say when you are singing a song like The Very Thought of You?   It is interesting you say that because I was thinking there is so much restraint and holding back in how you sing these songs.  It was quite deliberate on our part. You know we took away everything that was - we thought was unnecessary to really see that if we strip this down to the core of it what are we left with? What was the composer really saying with these lines? You know when I think of a song like Forgetful for example you know it is got a very sweet melody almost like a lullaby if you sing it without the words you know?     And that rocking motion underneath you. ...  Yeah. With the guitar creating - exactly. And the single notes that appear here and there as if I am poking gently poking you.   Can we take a listen to one of my favorite songs the Hoagy Carmichael song I Get Along Without You Very Well?  Absolutely.    When the pacing is so stretched out like this is it hard to keep the momentum of the song in you to keep it going that way?  Yes. But also to trust that silence is a part of sound. Once you enter a song there is enormous trust. It is almost like a leap of faith that you are doing a song this slow and you just have to trust that the listener will continue and hold that thought and carry it through with you.   Luciana Souza it is been a pleasure to talk to you. Thank you so much.  Thank you.  Luciana Souza's new albums are The Book of Chet and Duos III.   This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 