 You could say the life of pop star Britney Spears is a soap opera. Well now it really is an opera. Composer Jacob Cooper has written the new music opus Timberbrit. Claire Happel reports.  A dying Britney Spears performs her last concert. It is her final desperate hour and Justin Timberlake wants her back.   Or at least that is what the opera Timberbrit imagines.    a strange mix of electronic pop and smoky vocals.  Ms.    I was your  When you slow down music that is already composed it is called time-stretching. Mellissa Hughes performs the role of Britney. Ms.  Hit Me Baby One More Time is like  Hit me baby. But we listen to it in real time and you do not hear all those sort of consonants getting you know super stretched out and being all liquidy.  Singer Ted Hearne plays Justin Timberlake. Mr.  Justin is a really really vocal performer right and he has these sounds you know like . That becomes like . You know these like incredibly drawn out things. And every cymbal . And every cymbal's like .  The libretto written by Yuka Igarashi uses some of Spears'  tears love dreams innocence. The audience is reminded of Spears' music and lyrics but the fast-paced sheen of pop becomes dark and weighted.  Ms.   Hit me...  The slowness of the music is reflected in the pace of the plot. In writing the libretto Cooper and Igarashi took a snippet of Spears' life and suspended it over an hour. This is an adaptation of an old technique where an important scene is stretched to heighten the drama. In the death scene of Verdi's Rigoletto for example the plot completely stops as a prone dying woman suddenly finds the strength to sing a 10-minute aria.     In most operas  one scene. But in Timberbrit the death scene is the entire opera. Again Ted Hearne. Mr.  It sort of takes place in a moment. And in that way it is very different from traditional opera I think.  The stretching of both the music and story prolongs Spears' destruction and amplifies her downfall. But seeing it happen in slow motion makes it all the more tragic. For NPR News I am Claire Happel.  You can listen to an entire aria from Timberbrit at the music section of the new npr.org.  