 Jason Isbell is riding high this week. His new album is number one on Billboard's country rock and folk charts.    I have been working here. Monday it will be a year and I cannot recall the day when I did not want to disappear. But I keep on showing up hell bent on growing up if it takes a lifetime.  Jason Isbell is from rural Alabama. He got his start with the southern rock band Drive-By Truckers. Then he went solo and for the past few years he is been sober after drinking brought him close to the point of no return. That is what he told me when I visited him at his Nashville home two years ago. Now Jason Isbell and his wife the singer and violinist Amanda Shires have a baby on the way - a girl due in September. And the new album titled Something More Than Free reflects how far he is come.  It is become more strategic for me you know? I have had to figure out new ways to do things new ways to access the emotional part of myself the part of myself that I was not afraid to access when I was drinking. It is taken some time and I am still working on it. I am still working on being open and - especially with Amanda with my family you know with close friends.    You thought God was an architect. Now you know he is something like a pipe bomb ready to blow. And everything you built that is all for show goes up in flames in 24 frames.  Talk a bit about the title of this song 24 Frames.  Well that is the - when you are watching a movie you know there is 24 frames that go by in one second. The verses of the song deal with specifically the relationship that I am in with my wife and the fact that she is also a creative person. I spent a lot of time wondering how to best support the people that I love because I think sometimes that means getting out of the way you know? When should I leave them alone to have their own life or in Amanda's case to create and tour and sing and play music?    And this is how you talk to her when no one else is listening and this is how you help her when the muse goes missing. You vanish so she can go drowning in her dream again.  Is there a theme of - you know an element of fleeting time and just how much passes in a second?  That quickly - yeah and how quickly things can change too. The things that are happening with my career right now I really wish I could slow down and make sure and pay attention to the details.  Be in the moment.  And be in the moment.    The time between the glory days and the golden years she did the work of 20 able men sent Tommy off to school to be an engineer and Sarah went to try out all the sins.  I am really fond of the character in the song Hudson Commodore. And I am picturing a woman in the 1940s.  Yeah. That would be about right - the '40s.  And it is a very spare song but in those - in the few details that you give us about this woman we learn so much about a solitary life and somebody who has really romantic dreams.    She just wanted to ride in a Delahaye 135. She just wanted to ride in a Hudson Commodore.  She wants a ride in fancy cars.  Fancy cars yeah - one very fancy car and one not-so-fancy car.  Oh.  Just one that she liked you know? The Delahaye was a very fancy car. The Hudson was not as fancy you know? The fact's that she did not want to drive the car I think says a lot about - she spent most of her time driving the car in her own life so she might just want to ride in the passenger's seat for a while.  She wants to be driven.  Yes exactly exactly.    A doctor then a lawyer then a Roosevelt tried to take her underneath the wing.  Tell me more about this woman and how you found her.  You know my wife is so very important to me that it is made my mom more important to me. It is made every woman that I know more important to me so I try my best to empathize. And that is what she came from you know? She came from me thinking about OK what was it like to be my grandmother you know in the '40s and be independent but not really be allowed much independence?    She just wanted to ride in a Delahaye 135.  If I were to look at your notebooks what would I see in your editing? What would you be taking out?  Well anything that is not necessary that is the first to go for me anything that is cliched without coming at it from a different angle. I like a cliche if it is sort of turned on its head you know? My wife's good about spotting those 'ecause that is a big pet peeve of hers.  And what will she tell you about that?  Oh she will just - get rid of that that is gross .  Just like that .  Yeah yeah. That is gross. Get rid of that.  I am talking with singer Jason Isbell. His new album is Something More Than Free. There is a song on this album called Children Of Children.    '81 a motorin' your mama's 17 again. She is squinting at dusty wind the anger of the plain. Part of the inspiration for this song was pictures - looking through pictures at my house. And Amanda and I had had this conversation a lot about how her mom and my mom were very close to the same age and they were the same age when we were born. We were both their first kids. You know they were both teenagers. And now that we are about to have a kid of our own - you know I am 36 years old. I could not image being sent home with a newborn when I was 17 or 19 like my parents and her parents were. I think well how would my mom's life had been different? How would her mom's life had been different? What phases and stages did they miss out on because we were around and demanding so much of their time and their energy?    When you were riding on your mother's hip she was shorter than the corn and all the years you took from her just by being born...  What are you most excited about maybe most afraid about when you think about having a baby?  I am really excited just to have another person in the world who thinks I am cool...   ...Somebody who loves me like right off the bat no matter what you know? I really do not do fear that much anymore though to tell you the truth.  Really?  Yeah. I am kind of over that. I have dealt with a lot of physical pain. I have dealt with a lot of emotional pain. I think anybody who is ever been an alcoholic has handled both of those in extreme. So as long as my family my wife is taken care of and able to do what she wants to do and be happy yeah I am not really afraid of much.  Well let me know if you are still fearless once you have the child .  That is going to - yeah that is going to be real different is not it? Yeah after that I am going to have one big huge thing to be terrified of.  Jason Isbell thanks so much.  Thank you very much for having me Melissa. It was a pleasure.  Jason Isbell - his new album is Something More Than Free. 