 Real-life violence and the pain it causes a family is where this next story begins. It winds up somewhere more surreal at the intersection of art and cyberspace. A young man's outrage at a crime against his sister has made its way from the local news around the Internet and onto the pop charts. NPR's Zoe Chace reports on the Bed Intruder Song.  It started with a news report about an attempted rape in Huntsville Alabama. Mr.  The reporter's you know very very straight-laced. And you know you can tell you know she is just doing her job.  Kenyatta Cheese tracks Internet memes. He is going to help me tell this story.  Kelly Dodson was asleep with her little girl inside their apartment on Webster Drive when... Ms.  I was attacked by some idiot from out here in the projects.  The camera pans around the apartment. There is broken glass the bed is stripped. It is a pretty grim scene. Mr.  And then we cut to Antoine Dodson. Mr.  Well obviously we have a rapist in Lincoln Park.  Antoine Dodson the victim's brother is popping out of the screen. You cannot take your eyes off him. He does not seem like a victim of a crime he seems like an improbable star of a show. He waves his finger in the camera's face. Mr.  He is climbing in your windows he is snatching your people up trying to rape them. So you all need to hide your kids hide your wife and hide your husband because they raping everybody out here. Mr.  And he is the most charismatic you know just effervescent elusive man. I mean just  and he is upset. Mr.  We are looking for you. We are going to find you. I am letting you know now so you can run and tell that homeboy.  WAFF in Huntsville posted the news report online. Mr.  People were just saying oh my God you have to see this. You have to see this. It was being posted to Facebook. People were sharing the link on Twitter.    He is climbing in your windows. He is snatching your people up.  The Gregory Brothers who do Auto-Tune The News got hold of it. They usually take reports from people like Katie Couric and slap a heavy coat of Auto-Tune gloss on it. This time...    Hide your kids hide your wife. Hide your kids hide your wife. Hide your kids hide your wife. And hide your husband because they are raping everybody out here.  People start taking the Gregory Brothers video and remixing that.  The Gregory Brothers encouraged people to re-record their own version.    He is snatching your people up they are trying to rape 'em.  Like that chick - and this short guy with a really big accordion.    Climbing in your window. He is snatching your people up.  This sweet smiling kid with a Japanese guitar.    And these older and larger bearded men not wearing enough clothes.   We have a rapist in Lincoln Park.  The Gregory Brothers of Auto-Tune called Antoine up as did I. Mr.  Hi there.  Hi is that Antoine? Mr.  Yes madam.   We want to take this Bed Intruder Song and sell it. Mr.   Man that is fun that is cool. I like the song whatever. Yeah we should do that.  In the week that the Bed Intruder Song has been on iTunes more than 11000 people have bought the song. It traveled to number three on the iTunes chart for RB singles. Mr.  It is a song like other songs that you could listen to at a party for instance. It is catchy. It has a really good hook.  Jason King is a music professor at NYU. He is wary about the song's popularity. Mr.  There is a way in which the aesthetics of black poverty the way they talk and they speak and they look sort of becomes this fodder for humor you know without any interest in the context or the conditions by which families actually live. Mr.  Some people do take it to be a joke. Preferably I do not and neither does my sister and neither does my family. We do not take it as a joke. It is funny. We laugh at it all the time. We watch the videos and we listen to the song over and over and over again. But it does not change the fact that this is a serious event.  Antoine Dodson stands to make some serious money. He and the Gregory Brothers are splitting the profits from the single. There are T-shirt sales there are commercials. He is got a lot of offers. Mr.  Hopefully a lot of TV. I love to be in front of the camera.  Antoine Dodson's definitely gotten the message out but the Huntsville cops have not yet caught the attempted rapist. Zoe Chace NPR News.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 