 Steel pan albums from Trinidad and Tobago began to catch on with U.S. tourists back in the 1960s. This led many bands on the islands to incorporate American pop into their repertoire and eventually those songs traveled the world on vinyl records. They caught the ears of some German musicians and now the Bacao Rhythm  Steel Band has just released a new album paying tribute to that steel pan fusion tradition. Reviewer Oliver Wang is really happy about it.  The steel pan fad hit a peak in the United States in the early '70s when an album by the Esso Trinidad Steel Band netted a Grammy nomination for best ethnic or traditional recording. Notably though the most enduring song off that album was not a traditional Trinidadian standard but a cover of The Jackson 5.   This craze clearly struck a chord with Germany's Bjorn Wagner who after living in Trinidad and Tobago returned to Hamburg and formed the Bacao Rhythm  Steel Band 10 years ago. The band's new album The Serpent's Mouth is its second full-length and parts of it take the steel band cover tradition to delightfully unexpected ends.   That is Bacao's steel pan version of Dr. Dre's 1999 hit Xxplosive. Now try to stay with me here. Dre's song heavily sampled a 1971 song that itself was a cover of an Isaac Hayes song off the Shaft soundtrack. If nothing else the Bacao band's cover of a sample of a cover is a marvelous example of how music travels across time space genre and generation.   There are plenty of entertaining name-that-tune moments on The Serpent's Mouth as the band adds its tinny timbre to tracks by Mary J. Blige Mobb Deep Gang Starr and perhaps most unexpectedly Jan Hammer and his Crockett's Theme from the Miami Vice TV soundtrack.   If the album only comprised covers songs the conceit could wear thing. But nearly half of the tunes are original compositions. And when the musicians free themselves to play in whatever style they want equally infectious surprises emerge.   The Serpent's Mouth walks a tightrope between embracing the steel pan's melodious charm and its kitschy past. If that is the bargain to be struck it does not seem like a bad one. At the very least it means nearly 50 years later you can still hear Jackson 5 covers in all their steely glory.   Our reviewer Oliver Wang is a professor of sociology at Cal State Long Beach and co-hosts the music podcast Heat Rocks. 