 Sticking with immigration here's a story of how an Iranian musician who ran afoul of the authorities managed to escape to Canada and how music made that possible. Aria Saadi's story is part of our occasional series called Why Music Matters.  As a kid I started teaching myself how to play keyboard. By the age of 16 I could go to weddings and birthday parties and underground parties and just play music.   It was a birthday party I believe. There was a lot of girls and boys - I would say about 50 people. We were playing and having fun and people were dancing.   If you want to have a party in my country girls and boys should be in different rooms. Also drinking in my country is illegal. You cannot drink alcohol.   At that party there was alcohol and there was girls and boys mixed.   It is a really bad situation to be in...   ...if the guards show up. All of a sudden somebody came in and they are like the guards are here the guards are here. And when you hear this it is like you want to save whatever you can and just go. Usually there is a stairway in the middle of the house inside the house that leads you to the roof. So I remember I took my keyboard and I took the stairs.   I was so scared. I was like a rat running away from the lion. I tried to jump down the roof but it was too high. So I had to go like roof to roof until somewhere I could just find another door.   My heart was pounding. I was like - I felt like I am going to faint. I do not know if somebody's going to sell me out in the party. When I saw the stairway access I started knocking on it until somebody came up.   And they are like what are you doing here? I am like they are after me. I just need to get access to the street so I can go home. They believed me because it happens time to time you know.   I was there for another two or three years. I just told my parents I am just fed up with this thing. I just want to go somewhere to be free.   Music is my life. Music is my hope. Music is my message.   I think there is nothing greater than kindness and peace. And I want to see that day that we can lay our hands in peace.   If you can just close your eyes and imagine that you can make this happen.   That is Aria Saadi with Why Music Matters. Our series is produced by Anna Boiko-Weyrauch. 