 Now that we are firmly into the month of July we are past the halfway point of 2009 and that has members of NPR's music team thinking about how this year stacks up musically in its mid-life. I am joined by All Songs Considered host Bob Boilen. And Bob you are conducting a poll of the best music of 2009.  We are asking people to give us their favorite three songs of the year favorite three records of the year. We will take all of those total them up and then we are going to make a poll out of it. And that poll people will vote on and then very soon toward the middle of July you will be able to discover what people's favorite records and favorite songs are.  And you have brought in with you today your three favorite songs of the year with some qualifications. Let us listen to your first song.  Mr.   Set the sails I feel the winds a'stirring. Toward the bright horizon set the away.  I get chills at the moment I hear this guy's voice.  It is an amazing voice. Who is this?  This is Ben Knox Miller. The group is called The Low Anthem. This is their second record. They put it out as a very under-the-radar album back in 2008. And some folks at Nonesuch Records heard it re-ordered the song listing put it out and the record's called Oh My God Charlie Darwin. This is a song about Charles Darwin. And the record has these underpinnings of history of Charles Darwin all set in this fairly folky and at times hymnal quality song structure.  Mr.   Oh my god the water's all around us. Oh my god it is all around.  So this is the song Charlie Darwin by The Low Anthem. Your second pick for favorite song of the year so far?  Let us do something really different. Let us get to a much poppier number. There is a group called Fanfarlo. And Fanfarlo are a British group led by a Swedish singer. They also took a historical figure there a fellow named Harold T. Wilkins. Harold T. Wilkins was a journalist who sort of got caught up in this love or fascination maybe is a better way to put it for flying saucers. And this song is called Harold T. Wilkins or How to Wait for a Very Long Time.    In a town where everyone will kick and scream and come to the same conclusion every time. Time to realize you were never on the team. There was always a question hanging over you. In a hot air balloon with a rusty nail looking over your shoulder and setting sail.  So we have got Harold T. Wilkins Charles Darwin two biographical songs. What is your third pick?  The next one is sort of a cinematic bit of music. It is a fellow named Patrick Watson. His band he calls the Wooden Arms. This song is called Beijing. And it is a song he wrote after being there.  Mr.   to me there was the sound of a city  there was the sound of a city  There is pots and pans and all sorts of odd percussion.   If you listen really really carefully you will hear being inspired by bicycles all over Beijing you will hear the turning of a chain on a bicycle and the spokes of the bicycle. Listen really carefully.   Oh it is really subtle.  Ah but that is the beauty of this music is the subtlety. Over and over again you can hear these songs and new things pop out and that is why I like Patrick Watson a lot.  So the song Beijing by Patrick Watson your third pick for song of the year. Bob tell me a little bit more about this poll that you are conducting with your fans.  Send us your nominations favorite three songs. Go to the All Song Considered site favorite three songs of the year favorite three records of the year. And then we will tally all the best ones put them in a poll and then you will be able to vote for them at npr.orgallsongs.  And we will bring you those results later on in the summer on ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. ALL SONGS CONSIDERED host Bob Boilen thanks so much.  Thanks my pleasure.  