 The Van Cliburn Foundation is hosting its first international piano competition for young pianists -that would be 13 to 17-year-olds. The main Cliburn competition is held every four years. And since 1962 it has launched international careers. But Bill Zeeble of member station KERA reports that some wonder whether this new contest is putting too much pressure on musicians too soon.  When you are good at 25 which is about the age of most of the main Cliburn competitors you are already amazing at 15 says Jacques Marquis head of the Cliburn Foundation. That is because he says you began at 5 or even 4.  If we can kind of scout the field when they are young we can at least first offer them a platform to measure their skills and learn more about the piano world. And second we can also maybe interest them of the Cliburn brand.  But does the Cliburn really need to worry about marketing asks pianist and long-time music writer Stuart Isacoff?  If someone is going to have their eyes on competitions they are certainly going to think of the Cliburn maybe first because it is so big it is so important the rewards are so great.  For example the gold medalist from the 2013 Cliburn Vadym Kholodenko won 3 years of international concert bookings professional management and 50000.   Because of these rewards pressure on main Cliburn competitors is intense. Isacoff worries gifted kids in the new junior contest may be too young to handle that kind of stress.  There are some very sensitive kids who may have great talents and should be carefully nurtured and not put under too much pressure too soon.  Cliburn Foundation President Jacques Marquis agrees these kids are bright talented and sensitive. But he thinks they can deal with the competition.  They have this unique free mind about playing the piano. They want to share the music with others. And I think they play without fear. You get the fear at 17 18 when you realize that you are almost there. At 15 you go there and say hey enjoy.   Fifteen-year-old Beijing native Youlan Ji has been playing for about half her life and is now a pre-college student at Juilliard in New York. She is not a fan of competitions and she feels the pressure but she is also a Cliburn Jr. competitor.  For me it is more like a learning experience because every time I go to a big competition I do not just expect to win anything or to do anything big but all my peers I learn so much from them and I think that is why we compete.  Youlan Ji is already in Fort Worth for a piano Festival and master classes along with 17-year-old Adam Balogh from Hungary. To show their camaraderie Ji gave him a high-five when she learned they have both lived mostly on their own to study away from home since they were 14. Balogh is also a Cliburn Jr. competitor.  Competitions for me are not something where I have my enemies. And I think what she said before - that we all prepare and we all do our best - I think it should not be even quote competing. We are just here to get experiences.  And publicity. Balogh wants to make a life in music but says he still has lots to learn though that has not kept him from posting a music video on YouTube.   Seminars during the Van Cliburn Jr. will provide some lessons for these young pianists. In between competition performances there'ill be sessions with top players on everything from launching new careers to selecting the right piano and repertoire lessons that might come in handy if they choose to enter the main Cliburn competition when they are older. For NPR News I am Bill Zeeble in Dallas.  