 The list of its faculty and students is a who is who of the last two centuries of music - Aaron Copland Leonard Bernstein John Adams Augusta Read Thomas. It is the Tanglewood Music Center the Boston Symphony Orchestra's summer program for young musicians and composers. And this summer the TMC as it is known is celebrating its 75th anniversary. Jeff Lunden traveled up to the Berkshire Mountains in Massachusetts to hear how and what they have been celebrating.  In 1940 while Europe was at war Serge Koussevitzky the conductor of the Boston Symphony Orchestra began what can only be called an optimistic endeavor. He convinced his colleagues to open a tuition-free music school for talented conservatory graduates in the orchestra's summer home. But two years later it almost came to an end says Jeremy Eichler chief music critic for the Boston Globe.  The BSO trustees wanted to close the school because of the war. And Koussevitzky was outraged and wrote a letter calling it an act of artistic vandalism and said precisely now is the time when the world needs to be hearing this music.  This music was not just Beethoven and Brahms but the sounds of the time.   So to head the new school Koussevitzky chose Aaron Copeland says the TMC's current director Ellen Highstein.  In establishing Aaron Copland as the head of the school - not as the head of composition but the head of the school - he was making a very specific statement saying that it all starts with music's creators and that one must absorb the creation and the immediate dissemination of new work as part of the DNA of what makes good musicians good musicians. And I think he felt very strongly that paying attention to the music of one's own time is the way to ensure that there will be a future.   The first head of the composition department was a refugee from Europe - Paul Hindemith. And right from the start they decided that what was then called the Berkshire Music Center would be a place for commissioning new work. Their first premier was American composer Randall Thompson's Alleluia. The piece has opened the program every summer since.    Alleluia Alleluia Alleluia Alleluia...  Over the years the Tanglewood Music Center's young instrumentalists vocalists and conductors have performed many distinguished new works from the American premiere of Benjamin Britten's opera Peter Grimes to the world premiere of Osvaldo Golijov's Ainadamar. And this year for its 75th anniversary the TMC has commissioned 34 new pieces. One of them - inspired by the poetry of Lewis Carroll - is by Michael Gandolfi who co-chairs the composition department.    Add it add it add it add it add it add it multiply it multiply it multiply it...  He wrote it for another faculty member singer Dawn Upshaw to perform with several of the fellows.    Ever drifting down the stream drifting down the stream lingering on golden - life is but a dream.  Gandolfi himself was a student at the TMC where one of his teachers was former fellow Leonard Bernstein.  I would see him on the stage. I would see him on television. And then to have him standing right there and looking at my scores -  - it was really - I will never forget it. And he was tough. I mean he gave me some wonderful advice but he did not pull any punches. And he was like that with all of us.  One of Gandolfi's students this summer is Nathan Shields one of six composers in the program. Shields says the pace is intense.  In the first week for three days in a row we were told to write a piece every day. And so we would sit down with Michael Gandolfi at 10 oclock in the morning and he would give us our instrumentation of the day. He said today you are writing a piece for violin and viola. Go.   And we had to have that into him by 10 oclock the next morning at which point he gave us a new instrumentation. It is sort of exhilarating to know that you can do it.   The TMC composition fellows got to meet many of the commissioned composers both formally and informally says Pulitzer Prize winner John Harbison who also co-chairs the composition department.  An awful lot of their season this year is encounters with quite distinguished or experienced people. That is a big opportunity.  They attended a master class given by composer and electric guitarist Steven Mackey.  There is this one place where the violin is playing this slow tune with the left-hand pizz. It goes ...  One composer who was not there was Gunther Schuller who ran the TMC for 14 years and passed away just as this year's session began. Michael Gandolfi says his former teacher remains a force in the Berkshire Mountains and beyond.  He was such a polymath if you will and publisher conductor author horn player - great horn player - great composer educator. So it rings through the trees here at Tanglewood you know his influences.  As did his music - the work he wrote for the Tanglewood Music Center's anniversary is called Magical Trumpets.   New music and those who write it and perform it are still at the center of the TMC's mission 75 years after its founding says 31-year-old composition fellow Nathan Shields.  I think most of us feel very prized you know and sort of honored to be here where as composers we are taken seriously in a way that maybe some of us have not been elsewhere.   For NPR News I am Jeff Lunden. 