 According to multiple reports the rapper Mac Miller has died. He was reportedly found dead in his California home today at just 26 years old. The cause of death was an apparent overdose. Mac Miller was born Malcolm McCormick in Pittsburgh. He released his first mixtape when he was 15. And his debut album Blue Slide Park became the second independent hip-hop record to top the Billboard 200 chart. In his most recent album 2018's Swimming Mac Miller rapped about his struggles with addiction and his vulnerability after a breakup with pop star Ariana Grande. Rodney Carmichael joins us now in the studio. Hey there Rodney.  Hey.  Now Mac Miller is someone who has actually performed here at NPR right? Tell us more about him.  Yeah. He was just here last month. It was part of his rollout for his new album Swimming.    I do not need to lie no more. Nowadays all I do is shine take a breath and ease my mind. And she do not cry no more. She tell me that I get her high because a angel's supposed to fly. And I as not asking why no more. Oh no I take it if it is mine. I do not stay inside the lines. It as not 2009 no more. Yeah I know what is behind that door.  He was in really high spirits gave a great performance. Thundercat the bassist and a longtime collaborator of his was here as well. And you know it was a great performance.  So tell us a little bit more about Mac Miller because he did not start out a singer right? He was more of a rapper.  Yeah definitely. I mean this is you know a 26-year-old rapper and producer who - he started out really young and you know kind of underrated. And - but he really quickly became somebody who was highly respected. He released a debut Blue Slide Park in 2011. And from there his sound really began to mature quickly. He kind of shirked off this kind of dismissible frat-rap label and really became this sophisticated musician. He was known for collaborating with and producing a lot of highly respected artists you know Vince Staples ScHoolboy Q and other artists kind of in that LA scene that really kind of leaned on him and relied on his sound as a kind of jumping-off point for their own artistic endeavors.  Now is he one who talked a lot about drug use in his music?  Like a lot of contemporary artists he did do that. But it was not to the point of glorification as much as it was about self-revelation when he talked about it. You know on the mixtape Faces he talked about a lot of his deepest periods of drug use. He was an admitted lean drinker which you know is obviously an opiate - mix of promethazine syrup and soda which is very popular especially in hip-hop circles. But you know he would also reportedly gotten sober and as early as 2012 actually. But also he had this really high-profile relationship with Ariana Grande which reportedly ended because of his drug use. You know he had a really huge car accident earlier this year resulting from a DUI. And you know at the same time though it seemed like he was turning a corner.  Was in fact about to go on tour right?  Exactly.  Now is it me or has this been a tragic year in hip-hop? We are seeing some young artists pass away.  Yeah definitely. Within the last 12 months you know we have seen - really Mac Miller's death is like the third major loss in the genre following behind XXXTentacion who was killed this summer and Lil Peep who was another really young artist young promising artist who died of an overdose last November. You know this is a really tremendous loss. And it is becoming that kind of season that kind of year in hip-hop as well.  Rodney Carmichael of NPR Music. Thanks so much for speaking with us.  Thank you Audie. 