 Stephen Thompson is our resident scholar poet scientist astronomer.  Yeah and statesman.  Okay maybe that is going a bit too far Stephen.  But he is a music scout for us here at ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. And Stephen you brought along a playlist of some of your favorite new music including this track.   This is a singersongwriter named Malcolm Middleton. He was half of a Scottish group called Arab Strap which played absolutely the most depressing music.  Because this is not a depressing song at all.  This is not a grim and punishing song at all. It is this wonderful sort of spangley cheerful pop song sounds very sort of early '90s  Yeah. Yeah.  college radio. So far it is sort of a tribute to you know - I mean lots of singers over the years have sort of sung about you know their traveling shoes you know they are wandering spirits or whatever. And this particular song pays tribute to the socks that make those shoes more comfortable. It is called Red Travellin' Socks. Mr.   I have grown to hate you red travellin' socks. You take me away from the one I love. All you have is distance and pain.  are all that remain.  Really a good song for the car.  It is a good song for the car. And I find it just incredibly charming. I think in part by comparison to some of his just astonishingly bleak earlier material. He has a song on a previous solo record called We are All Going to Die.  And it is the - which is very very indicative of his work up to that point. So part of what makes this song stand out in addition to just being really sweet almost giddy song is just how much less depressing it is than everything he is ever worked on.  Stephen I am really curious to hear about this next song. It is a George Harrison song. Obviously it is not sung by the late George Harrison.  Right. It is sung by a singer named Jim James from a band called My Morning Jacket recording - it gets more confusing - recording under the name Yim Yames  Hmm.  which is not most mysterious pseudonym in the world. But he put out a really lovely EP earlier this year called Tribute To' and it is six songs written by George Harrison - George Harrison songs and Beatles' songs. And this particular track is a song from The White Album called Long Long Long.  Mr.   It took a long long long time.  It is interesting because Jim James from My Morning Jacket in that band they do all kinds of interesting stuff sometimes funk. I mean. they played with the Boston Pops the Boston Symphony Orchestra.  Yeah there is  This is completely different.  Yeah there is a lot of sort of these cavernous epic rock songs. And at times I have - at least me personally - I have sometimes found their music a little bit remote. And part of what I love of about these George Harrison covers is he clearly feels so reverent about the source material that they are stripped down to their this sort of distilled beautiful essence.  Mr.   So many tears I was searching  Finally Stephen there is a track that you picked this week a band called the Japandroids. And I love this track. It is got so much energy.   Who are these guys?  It' a guitarist named Brian King a drummer named David Prowse. And there is just two of them and then they both sort of shout over   each other at the same time. And there is just something so wonderfully full-to-bursting about this record. I mean the fact that they do not necessarily always seem to be playing the same song at the same time kind of gives it a little sort of shambling quality. But it is ultimately just so full of life.  Hmm. This sound reminds me a little bit of Robert Smith from The Cure.  It does. There is definitely some of that Robert Smith. This particular song is called Young Hearts Spark Fire which I think says it all.  Stephen Thompson is the curator of NPR's Song of the Day and our scout for new music. You can hear full versions of all of these songs at nprmusic.org. Stephen thanks so much.  Thanks so much for having me.   We have not forgotten about Three-Minute Fiction. We are still reading through the 3600 submissions that we received in Round Two. And we will have a winning story read by The New Yorker's James Wood soon. In the meantime you can read some of our favorites so far at npr.orgthreeminutefiction and that is Three-Minute Fiction all spelled out. And for Saturday that is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Guy Raz. Have a great night.  