 If you are in the car it is time to roll down your windows and let the wind get in your hair.  Crank up the volume and sing along.    I found out long ago it is a long way down the holiday road. Holiday road...  We are building a road trip playlist for your summer and it is crowd sourced. We have been asking you for songs suggestions - and you have answered.  We have more than 2000 so far including this from listener Heather Krausse-Grabranski.   Drums please.  You only need to snap one of your overall straps - it is back to the '90s with DJ Jazzy Jeff and the Fresh Prince.    School is out and there is a sort of a buzz but back then I did not really know what it was but now I see what have of this the way that people respond to summer madness.  From celebratory sing-a-longs to necessary ones the songs that keep you going when the road is long and you are getting a little loopy. Bonnie Tyler time.    Turn around Bright Eyes.   Every now and then I fall apart.   Turn around Bright Eyes.   And I need you now tonight.  Oh the melodrama.  I love me some Bonnie Tyler. Well if that did not do it for you how about TV drama?    Rollin' rollin' rollin' though the streams are swollen keep them doggies rollin'. Rawhide.  Still need more to perk you up? There is this option. Listener Nita Davis of Belton Mo. calls it the adult version of 99 Bottles Of Beer On The Wall.    Harry Truman Doris Day Red China Johnnie Ray South Pacific Walter Winchell Joe DiMaggio. Joe McCarthy Richard Nixon Studebaker television North Korea South Korea Marilyn Monroe.  Added bonus - you can explain who some of those people are to your kids.  Knowledge is power.  Or you can use this song to teach them a whole new word.    If I get drunk well I know I am gonna be I am gonna be the man who gets drunk next to you.  That is not the word.    If I haver...  That is the word.    ...I know I am gonna be I am gonna be the man who is haverin' to you.  Now some of you might think The Proclaimers who are Scottish are saying heaver - since one might heave after getting drunk.  No. The word is haver. It is a Scottish word. And for more clarification here's our London-based Scottish producer Rich Preston.  Havering is the kind of talking where you are speaking gibberish you are yapping away but you are not really saying anything. Picture two guys in the corner of the pub after one too many whiskeys perfectly content in their own company and they are havering.  And there you go. Belt it out and educate.    I am gonna be I am gonna be the man who is growin' old with you. But I would walk 500 miles and I would walk 500 more.  You can find the ALL THINGS CONSIDERED road trip playlist at npr.org - it is a work in progress - and you can take a look a listen and then tell us what you think needs to be on the list. 