 The Internet - it is not just a global communications and data system. It is also the name of a band from Los Angeles. Formed seven years ago The Internet quickly became one of RB's most-acclaimed new groups. The band's latest release is called Hive Mind. And reviewer Oliver Wang has this review.  When The Internet first debuted in 2011 the common joke was that the musicians had picked an unfortunate name for fans who wanted to find anything about them on you know the Internet. But those cheap snickers quickly faded as the group's sly and slick funk sensibility took hold even for search engines. Seriously Google them.    What happened to make you to make you start to hate me?  After the group's critically lauded record Ego Death dropped in 2015 all five members including producer Matt Martians drummer Christopher Smith and bassist Patrick Paige went off to pursue individual projects. But with Hive Mind true to title The Internet sounds as cohesive and smart as ever. They picked a perfect time to put out this kind of album - the peak of summer.    Early in the morning she is running through my mind again. Girl you got me wondering if we should be more than friends.  There is an annual race among pop musicians to claim the title of song of the summer. Nominees tend to be lively party anthems meant for afternoon beach bashes or midnight dance floors. But the grooves on Hive Mind help score summertime's less boisterous but no less sublime moments. Think lazy afternoons in air-conditioned rooms magic-hour dinner dates and of course those late late-night minutes when the best bad decisions are made.    Anger all the misbehavior got you feeling anxious all the time. Maybe you should stay the night. Maybe you should stay the night. Maybe you should stay the night. Why do not you stay the night?  Perhaps more than The Internet's previous efforts Hive Mind hums with a sensual energy that owes much to both Steve Lacy's hypnotic guitar work and the cool seductive charm of vocalist Syd. That she is mostly singing about sex and relationships is already telegraphed in the music but it never hurts to have her croons about love and lust accentuating the mood.    Baby next time I will bring you flowers - roses exotic daisies. Next time I take you out girl do not you keep me waiting.  Alas as is the nature of summertime the end always creeps up sooner than you would like. But with Hive Mind The Internet gifts us a slice of summer's good vibes to carry well into the weeks when the days grow short.    There is something wrong because you seem mighty low.  Our reviewer Oliver Wang is a professor of sociology at Cal State Long Beach. And he also co-hosts the album appreciation podcast Heat Rocks.    Probably been there before. 