 Again you are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR West. I am Arun Rath   .  That voice is New York's Ani Cordero. She was one of the founding members of the The Latin Rock band Pistolera. On her new solo album she is unplugged but no less powerful. Recordar is a kind of tribute album - a tribute to the voices of dissent. These are her takes on some of Latin America's classic protest song.  They represent a period in Latin America and Caribbean history when the political climate was a bit difficult.  Ani Cordero became interested in this music while she was taking a college course taught by Dr. Juan Allende.  Who happened to be the nephew of Chilean president Salvador Allende who was overthrown by Pinochet.  And that is how she learned about one of Allende's supporters - singer songwriter and activist Victor Jara.   .  Jara was an ally of Allende's. But once Augusto Pinochet took over Jara's outspoken support for the former socialist government made him a threat. He was hunted down captured and tortured.  They took him to a stadium and killed him rather violently. And that stadium now bears his name.  Ani Cordero starts the album with her version of Jara's song Deja La Vida Volar.   .  The words are about being in the moment and letting fear escape for a while and being in love despite the fear. In the end it is saying that you might experience darkness but the sun will return.   .  It is a powerful song even knowing nothing about the context. It is a beautiful powerful haunting love song. But man does it have a different feeling to it when you know about the political context in Chile and what happened with Victor Jara.  Yes it is very intense. It is one of the most direct and horrifying stories of retribution against musicians for being part of a political cause.  Were most of these songs - all of the songs - were they really dangerous for these artists to perform?  Yes and I think that we here in the states take for granted that at the moment we are able to sing critical songs you know. But imagine if Bruce Springsteen when he sang that song about the New Jersey governor got arrested and tortured for saying something against the politicians.   The full title of Ani Cordero's album is  Latin American Songs Of Love And Protest. You cannot separate the personal from the political. Take the song Macorina - at face value it does not hint protest at all. It is a love song - originally by Mexico's singer Chavela Vargas.   .  She came out as a lesbian when she was 80. I do not think anybody was totally shocked. But still in the time that she was singing the Macorina it was not really acceptable in Mexico or Latin America to be gay and so to sing this passionate love song about your female lover as a woman I think is incredibly brave.   .  It is ultimately just a very sweet song as well. A little bit sad because at the end her lover leaves. So nobody will know.   .  It is one of the remarkable things about this music and reminds me in some ways that people said the same thing about music from the Civil Rights era in the United States. That while it is born out of struggle and suffering there is joy in this. There is so much beauty at the same time.  Well I think that is one of the roles of music making is to find a way to make beauty out of difficult situations.  That is Ani Cordero talking about her new album  Latin American Songs Of Love And Protest.   .  And for Saturday that is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR West. I am Arun Rath. Follow us on Twitter nprwatc and follow me. I am ArunRath. Tomorrow millions of restaurant workers rely on tips for their livelihood. Is it enough?  You never know how many tips are going come in hour-to-hour week to week month to month day to day. And your rent and your bills do not go up and down but your tips do.  While lawmakers debate increasing the minimum wage for tipped workers a few restaurants are doing away with tips entirely.  A person wants to go to a restaurant and drop 100 to impact someone whether it is to praise them or to humiliate them has no place in this restaurant because that power is taken away from them.  Working for tips in America. That is on the show tomorrow. Until then thanks for listening and have a great night. 