 On his last album RB singer Miguel sang songs that swooned with the emotion of a first kiss. His new album Wildheart - well let us just say it takes it a little further than that.    Wordplay turns into gunplay. And gunplay turns into pillow talk. And pillow talk turn into sweet dreams. And sweet dreams turn into coffee in the morning.  This song Coffee is typical of Miguel's sleek mix of soul synths and bass. Now a confident Grammy winner his latest album showcases songwriting that comes across as more personal more introspective.    Too proper for the black kids but too black for the Mexicans. What is normal anyway? Too opinionated for the pacifists. Too out of touch to be in style. Too broke for the rich kids. I do not know what normal is. What is normal anyway? What is normal anyway?  Miguel was raised in Los Angeles the son of a Mexican father father and a black mother. He says finding his voice has also meant finding his place.  In the United States there are still standardized tests. And at the very beginning you fill out your first and last name and your middle name. And right after that it is what is your ethnicity essentially. You kind of go down the line and you start to realize - wait a second I do not - there is no box for me. I do not have one. I am other. And it is a real weird subconscious way of kind of like reminding you that you kind of are different. What is Normal Anyway was almost a conversation I was having with myself. That phrase came out of solitude.    What is normal anyway? I said well I just never just aesthetically fit in. But then on top of that my taste was just different. So I would get around my black friends and play up whatever the idea of being black was. And then with my Latino friends I kind of played that up there. And it just was not - you know it was not real.    Look around and I feel alone. I never feel like I belong. I want to feel like I belong somewhere.  But then at the end of the day you have to address your differences and get to a place where you can celebrate them almost and be proud of them and love yourself trust yourself. That is what it is all about.    I as not a saint. I think you know. But I see a way I am going to go. It is no debate that I belong with you. This album is a step in that direction for me as a human being because at the end of the day we are not here to please everyone. And for the short amount of time we have in this dimension in this place or however you want to say it the best we can do is act on the things that we believe in.    I belong with you.  And you can hear Miguel's new album Wildheart at nprmusic.org.    Yeah I got a temper but I am just saying. You are pushing buttons just 'ecause you can. 