 Time now for our regular music feature. And today a musician who actually cut his teeth in San Francisco's skateboard scene.   His name is Hanni El Khatib. This track is called I Got a Thing. And if you recognize the song it is probably because it is being used in one of Nike's global ad campaigns as kind of a modern surf skate and all around shredding anthem. It is actually a remake of an old Funkadelic track stripped down sped up and fuzzed out.    I have got a thing. You have got a thing. Everybody's got a thing.  Okay. Here's how a recent review in the L.A. Times described Hanni El Khatib's sound.  The sort of music you would expect to have soundtracked West Side Story had the songs have been written by The Sharks and The Jets instead of Sondheim and Berstein. Hanni El Khatib joins me from our New York bureau. Hanni welcome.  Thanks for having me.  So that track that we just heard which by the way everybody listening should go online and type in  I Got A Thing because that ad is amazing with that like the surfing and the snowboarding and all that stuff and the biking and the skateboarding. But you actually - it is actually a cover of a Funkadelic song and I just want to hear that original for a moment.    I got a thing. You have got a thing.  OK. Very different takes on the song. How did you come across the song and then how did you figure out to do with it what you did?  You know it is one of those things - every time I kind of approach a cover that maybe feels a bit of like a classic or something I always have this fear that I am going to like ruin the song somehow. Some songs seem kind of like untouchable in a weird way. And you know that is one of those memorable songs for people and you know I did not want to like go and do a straight cover of it. And so kind of my approach was like you know I will just - why do not I just take the lyrics and kind of stay sort of in the family of the same key or something and just turn it into a new song completely.  I read that you grew up on a diet of classic Americana sounds '60s soul and rock and even surf doo-wop.    Honey do not be afraid of me even though it is just the two of us on the street. You know a man like me means you no harm.  This song - I have read this song compared to something like Dion and the Belmonts would have produced in the '60s. You have a pretty interesting background. Your folks are both immigrants right?  Yeah.  One parent is Palestinian and another parent is Filipino. Did they ever play you know Palestinian music or Filipino music or was the house kind of filled with '60s soul and rock?  Yeah. You know my - I was never really exposed to any you know Palestinian music. My mom actually was a huge fan of like you know The Beatles or The Zombies or something like that. And that is kind of what was playing in the house. And my dad is kind of one of those people where hey if it sounds good he likes it. I kind of grew up just listening to British Invasion kind of stuff. That was just what we listened to.    I know that sound  so long as . I as not asking to be saved. I am just saying tough life is .  Hanni I wonder if because of your background it' American Palestinian Filipino does that come out in your music?  Yeah. I mean definitely. I grew up kind of with this weird mix culture clash kind of thing. My mother speaks Tagalog my father speaks Arabic. But in order to talk to each other they have to speak in English.  Right.  So I actually never...  Probably heavily accented English.  Yeah.  Right.  I mean actually they pretty much lost it now but they are practicing the language too you know? And I grew up basically kind of speaking English and being raised kind of as an American as they could raise me you know in order to just sort of assimilate to the surroundings. And I think that kind of stuck with me. And it is sort of my - you know I have this kind of approach to everything that I do where it is really taking every single thing that you are inspired with or influenced by and rolling it into this one massive ideas and trying to spit it out in something that seems you know digestible.  I am speaking with musician Hanni El Khatib. His debut album is called Will the Guns Come Out. There is a moment on this record I think it is the fifth track on the record called Come Alive where I put it on and I thought man.    I do not wanna talk about it  no love like a love like this 'ecause a love do not exist when a boy wanna play whoa-whoa-whoa whoa-whoa-whoa whoa-whoa-whoa whoa-whoa-whoa whoa-whoa...  That is a great tune kicking tune man.  Thank you.  I am telling you when I heard that - and I love The White Stripes. I am a huge fan of Jack White. This is an homage to me to what they do. It is a great tune. Does that comparison make sense to you or does it annoy you or...  Yeah. No. I mean I can see it. You know The White Stripes kind of paved the way for a lot of people to take you know classic forms of music say like blues in their hit. And to kind of update it and make it more modern and sound like aggressive rock music - and that is what they do very well. And to have that kind of comparison is cool by me.   I do not wanna talk about it  just be about it 'ecause there is no love like a love like this 'ecause a love do not exist when a boy wanna play so.  You do a really old song in this record called You Rascal You which was most famously performed by Louis Armstrong. All sorts of singers have done this song especially during the swing era and then you do it and you make it - really make it your own. Let us hear a bit of it.    Yeah. I will be glad when you are dead you rascal you. I will be glad when you are dead you rascal you. When you are dead and in your grave no more women will you crave. I will be glad when you are dead you rascal you.  OK. The song speaks for itself. Not as gentle a version as Louis Armstrong's a bit more menacing the way you do it. Were you trying to bring out that edge in the song?  Well it is funny because like you know I was listening to - I think it was the Cab Calloway version - and it is real upbeat and swinging. It is the big band era you know.  Right. Yeah.  And I am like - I was listening to the lyrics I was like Wait. Wait. Did he just say he wants to kill that guy? And then I kind of kept listening to the lyrics and it started getting darker and darker and darker. And I was like Wow. This is - that is like a rough topic.  Right.  And you know I kind of searched around to see if you know anyone did a blues version of it or if there was an old delta blues song. Like I did not know. And that is when I was like you know what? I can only find you know this jazz version of it you know? So I went ahead and tried to make the music match the mood of the lyrics I think.    You asked my wife to wash your clothes and something else I suppose. I will be glad when you are dead you rascal you.  Have your folks been attending your shows?  Yeah yeah. My mom and dad have been to a few of my shows. They are always stoked about it. They have a good time. You know my mom you know has a couple too many glasses of wine or something like that but it is always fun.    Okay mama. Please do not cry.  That is Hanni El Khatib. His new record is called Will The Guns Come Out. You can hear a few tracks at our website nprmusic.org. Hanni thank you.  Thank you very much.  And for Saturday that is WEEKENDS on ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Guy Raz. Remember you can hear the best of this program on our podcast. Subscribe or listen at iTunes or at npr.orgweekendatc. We post a new episode every Sunday night. We are back with a whole new hour of radio tomorrow. Jimmy Carter President Carter will be our guest. Until then thanks for listening and have a great night. 