  Did you hear that? That little piece of music is what we here at NPR call a button. That one's by a musician named Bill Frisell. And every time Bill Frisell releases a new album he makes NPR directors very happy because they use a lot of Bill Frisell music.  evocative powerful and often moving. Well Brill Frisell's latest work is no exception. His new record is called Disfarmer. It is inspired by the photography of a loner from Arkansas named Mike Disfarmer.   Mike Disfarmer snapped portraits of anyone and everyone in the small town of Heber Springs Arkansas  the steel-eyed stares of two women in tight curls and rumpled housecoats a cocksure G.I. with an unlit cigarette dangling from his lip. Bill Frisell composed a series of musical vignettes based on these photos. I asked him how those photos informed his writing. Mr.  At first I was attracted to the photos themselves but then there is this whole story that starts to emerge about the man himself and he was pretty much unknown while he was alive. And then I do not know how long 20 years later the photos are uncovered and suddenly thought of as a genius and all this.  By the way I should mention Bill Frisell that our listeners can see a few examples of Mike Disfarmer's photography at our Web site npr.org. You actually drove down to this town where Disfarmer took these photographs to do some research. Why did you feel the need to do that? Mr.  You know I wanted to be more than just looking at the photos in a book. You know I wanted to meet some people that lived there. But I was really lucky. When I got there I was able to meet this man Tom Olmstead who is the funeral director of the town. Tom and his father were the guys that discovered Disfarmer's body after he would died and Tom had had his photo taken by Disfarmer as a kid and he was just incredibly generous with his time just told me all these stories. And Disfarmer really did not have many friends or just all this mystery around him. And he would wander the streets at night dressed all in black and hide behind trees and scare little kids and  It sounds sort of like a Boo Radley kind of thing. Mr.  Right yeah that is what I was thinking.  So it just gave me a lot for my imagination to get going with the music.  The name Disfarmer is an unusual name and I want to get to that story in a moment. But there is a song a track on this album called I Am Not a Farmer. Let us hear it for a moment.   That is just such a signature Bill Frisell guitar sound. Why did Mike Disfarmer choose that name? Disfarmer was not the name he was born with. Mr.  No he was Mike Meyers. And I guess he would mistakenly thought that Meyers meant farmer and he also was trying to disassociate himself from I guess his family and really the community around there a lot of farmers. So he decided to be Disfarmer.  Mr.  So you can tell - you know he was a pretty contrary kind of person I guess.  Let us take a listen to another track from this record. This one's called Lost Night.   You write in the liner notes Bill Frisell that the music is the sound of Mike Disfarmer looking through the lens. From everything people said about Mike Disfarmer he was not a kind person. He was rude to the people he photographed. He made them feel uncomfortable. What do you think he saw in these portraits he took and the people that he took photographs of? Mr.  I am not sure if he was even intentionally rude. I think he was thinking about the photo itself the light and he just was not concerned with you know saying cheese or smile or getting the kids to  Right. Mr.  He was not really thinking about that.  What did you see in these people that were photographed? They were taken sort of from the tail end of the Great Depression right through the Second World War. What did you see in them? Mr.  Well there is just so much there. You know there is sadness and you know there is pictures of guys that just got back from a fishing trip or whatever they are bragging about the big fish they caught or people were not really posing you know? They never knew when the photo was going to be taken but in that way you get this really honest picture of those folks.  He captures something in their expressions in the lines of their faces in the way they look at the lens. Mr.  Yeah and even just in what they are wearing. I think it was the kind of thing where they are walking down the street and he is - I heard someone said he would sit out in front of his shop and you know say hey you want your picture taken? And you know it would cost a quarter or something. So I think there is a lot of that where people were just walking by maybe on a Saturday afternoon. You know they go to town and get an ice cream cone and then oh why do not we get our picture taken by this weird guy over there or something. So they are not - they did not get all spruced up and they are really how they were at that time.  You have compared Mike Disfarmer to Vermeer and to van Gogh. What do you mean by that? Mr.  When I said that I think I was thinking about all these people that were not recognized during their lifetime that were doing you know really beautiful things just for the sake of doing them. In any walk of life there is people that just do things for the love of it. And you know it was not until so long after he died that people realized wow there is this guy that was right - living right with us you know and doing this amazing stuff. And then it makes you wonder who all is around us now that we are not even thinking about.  Bill Frisell is a guitarist and composer. His new record is called Disfarmer. You can hear a few tracks from the album and see a few of Mike Disfarmer's photographs at the new npr.org. Mr. Frisell thanks for joining us. Mr.  Well thank you.  