 Sam Lee wants to scour away people's preconceptions about folk music. He is not the first. There are predecessors from the 1960s - Fairport Convention Steeleye Span and Pentangle - and Lee takes traditional folk songs and updates them in unexpected ways. The British singer's path to folk music was even more unexpected as NPR's Anastasia Tsioulcas reports.  Sam Lee delights in making surprising connections in his music. He mixes conch percussion and trumpet with an old Scottish song.    Johnny rose one May morning cold water to wash his hands. Go bring to me my two greyhounds. They are bound in iron bonds bonds. They are bound in iron bonds.  Lee does this partly because he did not have any notions about what folk music was supposed to be.  I did not know what it sounded like. I did not know that it had to be with guitar and twiddly-dee fiddles.  The 34-year-old London native does not try to force beats or electronics onto a folk song. Instead he mostly uses acoustic instruments - like strings and brass - and other sounds.   .  He uses a Serbian recording from the 1950s to set the tone for a 19th century tale of war.    A young man sat at his mother's knee and he gripped his mother by the hand saying Mother I will rise in the morning. I will soon be able to command.  He does it in a way that really challenges the whole stuffy image of song collectors.  Jo Frost is the editor of Songlines Magazine in London. She says Lee's approach has brought a different audience to folk music.  Sam Lee himself offstage and onstage is a very engaging person. He is not your stereotypical folkie let us put it that way.  That is for sure. After art school he became a wilderness survival expert and then he launched into another career.  I then went into dance. I was actually a burlesque dancer - kind of titillatery comical striptease in a way. I was not like a Chippendale as you radio listeners must be reassured . But I ended up on the West End in London - quite by accident. There was no ambition for that whatsoever.  Somehow along the way he fell completely in love with very old music.  And I remember being like in my rubber hot pants about to go on stage all kind of glittered up. And I was there with my headphones listening to old field recordings by Alan Lomax of farmers and Gypsies and Travellers and writing them in my notebook and then having to go on and kind of do the razzle-dazzle then come back and learning more folk songs. It was so absurd .  Lee says each song he is learned is a kind of stamp in a secret passport leading him into an unknown world.    For if I were a blackbird I would whistle I would sing and I would follow the ship that my true love sailed in. High up on his main mast I there build my nest. Long life sure  I would gaze on his lily white breast.  It is alive. Suddenly I did not ever want to learn a song off a record again. I wanted to learn it off people and honor those people through the singing of the song.  So he hit the road traveling all over the U.K. and Ireland becoming a not-so-stuffy song collector. His obvious passion got him into communities that most Britons never brush up against - nomadic groups including the Scottish and Irish Travellers and the Roma often called Gypsies by outsiders.  I did not go into it thinking that I was going to be an activist. I did not know anything about Gypsies and Travellers beforehand. I went out looking for songs and what I met was people.  One of them was 86-year-old Freda Black a Romani woman who became one Sam Lee's teachers. He now calls her his adopted grandmother.    There is a little house over yonders hills where my love and me goes and sits ourself  down.  Lee is quick to tell you the history of the songs he performs and it is important to him to acknowledge those from whom he is learned them because he says...  I think we have about five to eight years left of the old singers still being alive so it is a race against time.  And even as he reshapes these folksongs into a 21st century form Sam Lee is still being true to the individuals and communities that have welcomed him in.  I respect these people and I love these people. I mean some of them have become like my grandparents. I have adopted them. So I feel a need to be speaking up for them because they do not have a voice and I do. I have been given a voice. I have been given a platform on which to use it.  Lee says that his most pressing concern right now is to continue to collect this music as quickly as he can. Anastasia Tsioulcas NPR News New York. 