 Radiohead's Thom Yorke has released a new solo album. It is called Anima. And it is accompanied by a short Netflix film of the same name. The album just like the film evokes an urban dystopia right out of a George Orwell story. Tom Moon reviewed the music and declared it Yorke's most harrowing solo work yet.   .  He is trembled like a broken man on his knees.    To you who brought me back to life.  He is screamed in anguished six-part harmony manic-whispered whole diaries of existential fear.    I cannot breathe. I cannot breathe. There is no water. There is no water.  And still Thom Yorke cannot shake the techno dread. He was on it early. See Radiohead's visionary 1997 album OK Computer. And since then he is built a catalogue of foreboding about technology the effect it has on human interaction and its potential to corrode the soul.    I have to hope this spell's going to break. I have to destroy to create.  Yorke is not one to repeat himself however. Anima represents a recalibration of his creative process. Like his previous solo efforts and his vivid score to the 2018 film Suspiria it is built on the orderly loops of electronic dance music. But the scale is different. He is not making big pronouncements about the culture. Instead he is sharing a personal reckoning. The songs unfold fitfully and do not always follow conventional verse-chorus-hook structure. Yorke says the jump cut collages of producer Flying Lotus were an inspiration.    I thought we had a deal. I thought we had a deal. I thought we had a deal.  At times these momentary episodes are disarmingly beautiful. On this tune several Thom Yorkes are multi-tracked into a corral of despairing angels.   .  This record has been streaming for a couple of weeks now. Physical copies are out today with a bonus track. In that time it is hit me in different ways. At first the tone felt awfully familiar. Then on headphones it became easy to immerse in the dreamlike atmospheres and to notice the intimate menace lurking within them. That seems to be Yorke's approach with Anima. Rather than talk at length about existential terror he is embedded the feeling of it deep into the tracks where it is inescapable.    There is no room for mess.  The latest from Thom Yorke. It is called Anima. Our reviewer is Tom Moon.    I am tied up in impossible knots. I will take anything you got. 