 Flick on your radio any time over the last quarter century and there was a decent chance the song playing would be Sheryl Crow. Maybe it was this one...    Every day is a winding road.  ...Or this one.    'ecause all I want to do is have some fun. I got a feeling I am not the only one. All I want to do...  And then there is my personal favorite.    Did you know when you go it is the perfect ending to the bad day I was just beginning?  Sheryl Crow has won nine Grammys. She has sold more than 50 million albums. She is got a new one out. It is called Threads and she says it is her last. Sheryl Crow welcome.  Thank you.  So last album - why?  With technology it is a little bit like putting the toothpaste back into the tube. We cannot go back and expect particularly young people to listen to albums from top to bottom. It is almost a dying art form.  And just to put people's minds at rest you are not done recording. You are still going to put singles out there.  I cannot imagine what I would do if I was not recording or touring. I mean touring for us is really where the joy is at. I love going in and recording songs. And if people want to put together an album they can do that. They can put together a compilation or their own playlist but I like the idea of being able to write in the immediate and putting it out when it really matters.   Well if you are going to make a final album this is a heck of a one to go out on - 17 songs all of them collaborations. And the list of people you collaborate with is insane - from Bob Dylan to Bonnie Raitt to St. Vincent to Chuck D to Keith Richards. I am super curious how this comes about. Do the - do agents set this up or is this a case of you picking up the phone and calling Keith Richards and saying hey Keith you want to do a song with me?  No this was completely organic. It started off with a session with Kris Kristofferson who I think most people know is in the throes of either Alzheimer's or Lyme's disease not making recent memories anymore. And I worked with him in the studio and just felt like this is important. This is what I want more of. I want to pull in the people that have inspired me before I knew them who have become a part of my life. And I started reaching out personally to people and everyone said yes.    Tapping time and thinking of the time we never had the time to take.  Anybody surprise you by how fun or how challenging they were to work with - somebody where you knew you loved their music but you had not actually sat down and tried to record with them before?  I think the major and most impactful recording for me was Redemption Day. The song is recorded with Johnny Cash. And clearly he is no longer with us but he recorded...  He died in 2003 I think. Yeah.  He did. And he had recorded in 2003 right before he passed. About two months before he passed he recorded a song I wrote called Redemption Day. And recording with him in the studio with his vocal in my headphones was just an incredible experience. I cannot even explain it. It was so emotional. He felt so present to me and I think I did not - I was not prepared for how emotional that would feel.    There is a train that is heading straight to heaven's gate to heaven's gate. And on the way child and man and woman wait watch and wait...   ...For redemption day.  I want to ask about some of the other collaborations on here - Emmylou Harris.  Yes.  And I have seen where you have spoken about her as a role model for someone whose music just keeps getting deeper as she gets older. You have talked about how when she hit her 50s she set the bar on how a woman can get more beautiful more sexy more meaningful with age. I want to play a little bit of that and then ask you about it. That is Nobody's Perfect.    Stickers on a suitcase tell me where you have been.  So talk to me about this song and about working with Emmylou Harris.  Well it is such a joy to sing with her and she for me is my great hope with my career. I look at what she is done and who she has constantly been and who she is become how she is still curious still growing still rocking still out there fighting for the things she believes in and still looks like herself and is just beautiful. And she is rocking out and everybody wants to be in her band. For me to get to sing with her and to have our voices blend is - I mean that is my kind of high.    Nobody's perfect. How could anyone be? Nobody's perfect especially me.  You are 57 now.  I am.  So you are right there with her trying to figure out how you - how to do this in your 50s. Has your voice changed? Can you do things with it that you could not when you were - I do not know - 20?  Well strangely my voice has gotten better. I mean there are a lot of people that lose their range. I think my range has really increased.  Wow.  I am from a long line of singers and my mom has unequivocally the most incredible voice. She could have sung opera I am convinced. And she is 83 and she - her voice is as gorgeous and as controlled as it ever was.  Now I want to hear a collaboration with your mom .  I know. I dragged her into the studio to record some things with her and put together a combo and stuff. And so I have that. She would kill me if I ever put it out. All that to say hopefully genetically I am going to be able to enjoy what she is still enjoying.  You have talked about how you tend to write songs about the stuff that you are thinking about - gun control or climate change or love. What are you writing about these days?  Wow. You know it is been an interesting process in the last - really the last 10 years to be writing music on the planet as the mom of two children. So I write from a sense of urgency about what really matters. Music for me is my outlet. It is the thing I love most.  Yeah.  I go to it with all of my emotions. I guess at the end of the day it is unavoidable for me to at least acknowledge the elephant in the room.  And what is the elephant in the room for you right now?  Well you know I turn on the TV and I see that the rainforests are burning. I am an environmentalist at heart. So are my children. They ask me the hard questions. My 9-year-old asked me the other day if we were going to cut down all the trees until we could not breathe anymore. And I think about a 9-year-old and what a 9-year-old should be thinking about and that is not his mortality. So you know I can see writing a song about children and the load they are bearing right now. In fact I may go home and do that now.   I love it - and then come back and talk to us about it.  That is right.  What song should we go out on?  Oh my goodness. I would have to say a song featuring Stevie Nicks and Maren Morris called Prove You Wrong.  Here we go.    You said if you left I would be laid up in a bed of tears.  Well Sheryl Crow it has been a pleasure. Thank you.  Thank you Mary Louise - appreciate it.  That is Sheryl Crow speaking to us from Nashville. Her 11th - and she says last album - is titled Threads.    It would not take much to prove you wrong. I got my mind made up. 