 And finally today we get to visit with a musician who is been described - by Rolling Stone no less - as one of the most fascinating and eccentric voices in country music.    Roll up to the club in my 1964 Caddy straight ready to stunt at a quarter to one just a-looking for fun.  That is Paul Cauthen. He is impressed audiences with his soulful take on country music. His latest album Room 41 takes on despair destruction and redemption. And Paul Cauthen is with us now from member station KERA in Dallas Texas. Mr. Cauthen welcome. Thank you so much for joining us.  Hey there Michel. It is good to be here.  So you know I have got to ask you about the title...  OK.  ...Room 41.  Yes madam. Well here in Dallas Texas there is a hotel the Belmont Hotel. And I happened to stay in Room 41 for almost two years. So I figured after we wrote all the songs there and I was - we were searching for a title. And I was like well how about Room 41? I mean that is where this all went down. So it just kind of brought itself to the table and that is what the title became. And we ran with it.  How would you describe your sound? And I know that again artists hate to do that. They hate being pigeonholed in that way. But how would you describe your sound? I have already described how some of the critics have described your sound.  Well...  What do you say?  The thing about it is I have not been following the lead of any other genre or sound. So our goal was to kind of create our own genre.   Let it just be our music - good music. You know I wish we could get back to two genres - good and bad.  .  And - but it is really kind of all cross-contaminated. And I think we just call it our genre.    There is a devil on my shoulder and he is doublin' down throwing his weight all over town. Stable off the table. I have been shrugging off redemption for judgement day threw it all out before I held it. Now you gonna meet the real Big Velvet. It is like nothing else. We took from rhythm and blues. We took from the country-Western. We have taken from hip-hop. We have taken from jazz. We have taken from funk. You know we try to have all those little spices. I always go back to food because I love food.  .  So we take all these spices and you know that is our genre.    Run my veins till I go numb threw it all out before I held it. Now you gonna meet the real Big Velvet.  Well and people can hear the faith - you know you love food but you also feel the faith. I feel the faith in it. Let me play - do you mind if I play something off your album Prayed For Rain?  Go ahead.  Let me play a little bit of that and we can talk a little bit more.    You know some things will never change. I think about it when I pray for rain. The rain turned to hail - cold dark and pale. It beat me as I fell. Lord I fell.  There is some serious thoughts here some serious sort of spiritual and philosophical thoughts if you do not mind my saying if it is not too fancy. I understand that your family is deeply rooted in religion with the church. I understand your grandfather was a song leader in the Church of Christ.  Song leader and his twin brother was the preacher. So they kind of had a little duo a little Everly Brothers Christian Church of Christ duo going on.  Did you see yourself when you were growing up as belonging to that tradition? I mean did you feel like that was your destiny to sing in church?  Well I was just scared of getting pinched by my grandmother. You know she would - we say these Texas pinch a plug in you if you did not sing or you acted up there in the pew. So you sing loud and you read out of the hymnal and you read the Bible and if you do not you are going to get swatted or pinched. So I tried to stick in between the lines. And then all of a sudden I was like wow I can sing harmony and I can pick out the parts. It is because I was scared of getting pinched by my grandmother.    'ecause all my friends we were born survivors. And every time I close my eyes I am dreaming about tomorrow. You know some things will never change. I think about it when I pray for rain. Oh some things will never change. I think about it when I pray. Pray for rain.  What role do you feel like your faith plays in what you are trying to say now or however you see yourself spiritually? Do you know what I mean? Are you trying to connect to a bigger thought than you think a lot of people are? I mean I know you have called out a lot of people for sort of focusing on the trivial like about you know tan lines and flip flops and cold beer and it is all about that. And you are thinking some sort of bigger thoughts. But how do you feel that your - maybe your upbringing or your - whatever your orientation is - spiritual orientation reflects to what you are trying to say?  Well I am pretty much a fifth - I would be a fifth-generation preacher or song leader in the church. And I feel like it is my duty to try to spread goodwill to humanity and try to help people throughout their day through song and whether it makes them sad or happy maybe it touches an emotion that allows them to cope or get through a tough time. I am a spiritual person. I am a believer. That is what I try to preach. The only thing I am preaching is be good to one another and leave the hate behind. And this is our generation so let us make the best of it.  OK. But you are not afraid of a little holy ghost fire if I may say not afraid of it. All right. I am going to play Everybody Walkin' This Land.    All you racists fascists nihilists and bigots - I am callin' you out my friend. I have felt your hurt drank your fear. Your actions will not stand. Get on your knees bend to pray - Look at me you can change. You racists fascists nihilists and bigots - I am calling you out my friend.  I could play more but you get the gist of it. Did anything in particular bring this out?  Well you know I wrote that song with my producer from Dallas. And it is crazy. It was one of the craziest co-writes I have ever been in because we felt like there was a third party involved and like we were called to do this song. And I was like what are we doing here man? We are like - we are writing a Bob Dylan tune or something you know. This is like what is this? Bob Dylan tune meets you know God's Gonna Cut You Down Johnny Cash or something. And I was just like trying to pull out whatever I can. And all of a sudden we are just - racists fascists nihilist bigots. You know we are just like - those people let us talk to them you know.  Do you ever play it in concert?  Oh yeah.  Oh yeah. How does it go down?  It quiets the crowd. It is kind of crazy. And then the last verse comes up we bring it up we modulate. We really rip into it. It becomes beautifully dynamic.    All you mothers you brothers you sisters you fathers you believers pretenders bona fide sinners racists fascists nihilists and bigots prophets saints and angels and the ladies all you gentlemen. It is been good. It is been received pretty well.  Well one of the things I like about the lyric is you say I have felt your hurt. I have drank your fear.  Oh yeah. I have been there. I grew up in East Texas. I was never a racist or anything. You know I have been taught certain ways and I have heard things and I have accepted it. And that is wrong just being around it and hearing racial slurs or this or that. That is when you make a stand in life and I have learned from that. And we are all kind of screwed up right now. And so I just try to write some lyrics that can maybe prick somebody's heart.  You have got a song Give 'Em Peace. And have you found your peace?  Oh yes. I have never been so peaceful in all my life. I have finally gotten to a point where I got a little condo in Dallas. And I can go on the road and the band can get paid. You know it is the little - it is those things you know putting gas in the tank. You know I am just trying to stay blue collar for the rest of my life no matter how much money I make.    Well Lord whomever you shall be send your grace on the ones who want peace. Give 'em peace.  That was Paul Cauthen. His new album Room 41 is out now. Paul Cauthen thanks so much for talking with us. Congrats.  Thank you Michel.    Give 'em peace. A holy ghost fire will burn and sing. Give 'em peace. Give 'em peace. 