 The rapper Kanye West experienced two births of a sort over the weekend - first the birth of his child with Kim Kardashian second the leak of his latest album called Yeezus. West is one of the most high-profile hip-hop artists working today so the album had fueled months of speculation. Now it reveals itself as a trim 10-song 40-minute effort with heavy electronic influences. As reviewer Oliver Wang suggests it is one more piece of the puzzle of one of pop music's most compelling - and frustrating - figures.  Kanye's album may have just come out but he is been performing for months now whether rapping stone-faced on Saturday Night Live or telling the New York Times that he is a visionary like Steve Jobs or Howard Hughes. Most other artists would introduce a new song on iTunes or YouTube. But last month Kanye debuted his single New Slaves by simultaneously broadcasting its video on facades of dozens of buildings around the world.    My mama was raised in the era when clean water was only served to the fairer skin doing clothes you would have thought I had help but they was not satisfied unless I picked the cotton myself...  Over the last five years no pop artists have proven more adept at exploiting his or her own celebrity than West. And that is meant as a compliment. When the volume and pace of new music comes at us like a torrent of sound it is a remarkable accomplishment when an artist can grab our attention even if only for a moment. No wonder West with only a slight hint of irony declares the following...    I am a god hurry up with my damn massage hurry up with my damn menage get the Porsche out the damn garage. I am a god...  If Kanye fancies himself a god he is apparently an angry one. Musically Yeezus comes off as the vengeful demonic twin to the chill minimalism of his 808s and Heartbreak from five years ago. Both albums are steeped in electronic music. But while 808s was coated in a gleaming frost Yeezus is a rusted saw blade.   Befitting that dark aggressive industrial sound Kanye's rhymes pack a vicious bite as he takes the weighty chip off his shoulder and swings it like a nail-studded bat. Everyone from talent agents to fashionistas takes a hit but women bear the brunt of his crudest punch lines. There are few moments more brazen than Blood On The Leaves. West manages to take Strange Fruit - a song if you remember about the lynching of black men during Jim Crow - and turns it against gossipy girlfriends their sexual promiscuity and the cost of  - alimony?   It is unsettling - and astounding - to hear Nina Simone's voice in the service of Kanye's convoluted sermonizing. But Kanye would not be Kanye otherwise. Yeezus like West himself can be both annoying and enthralling. But what makes him utterly fascinating goes beyond just what he says on record or does in concert. He is more or less elevated self-aggrandizement to an art form. Yeezus was meant to be an event and it is served that mission quite well. But it also feels like a single chess move a crafty gambit on Kanye's part to keep us guessing as to what he will do next.    I know I got a bad reputation...  The Kanye West album is Yeezus. Our reviewer Oliver Wang is an associate professor of sociology at Cal State Long Beach. He also writes the blog SoulSides.  This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. 