 This summer we have been on a global music spin. We are looking for songs that define the season in different cities around the world. On that quest we have heard what is playing on the dance floors of Ibiza. We have listened to the latest hits from Istanbul. And now we hear from the island nation of Indonesia. From the lush jungles of Bali to the 24-hour buzz of its capital Jakarta Indonesia is on many a holiday wish list. Our guide to its music scene is Daniel Mananta. He is a VJ with MTV Indonesia and he is also the host ofIndonesian Idol. Mr.  We have bands that got influenced by Brit pop. We have even traditional bands but at the same time we package it in RB or hip-hop or rock. And it is so different than any other songs that you have been listening to around the world. This is what makes Indonesia have its own character in music.   I asked Daniel Mananta what is on his playlist for the summer. Mr.  To be honest with you there is no summer playlist here in Jakarta because we live in a tropical country. So it is pretty much summer 247 and 365 days. Everyday it is always hot and you can always go to the beach except when it is raining.  So there is not a particular summer soundtrack? Mr.  Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. So we have all kinds of music. And mostly they listen to slow songs though I have to admit. We Indonesians said to be very mellow in a way. We are romantic people. We love our mellow songs.     Well if there was one song the song that people sing along with or that seems to put a little bit more lilt in their step what would that song be? Mr.  Well actually this is one of my favorite songs. It is Laskar Pelangi sung by Nidji.    Mr.  To be honest this is like the most easy listening song you can hear in Indonesia. The great thing about it it is about two years old already but we still put it on the radio and people will start to sing along with it. A lot of people know this song because it is taken from a soundtrack from a movie with the same name with the same title Laskar Pelangi.     Could you explain to me what I am hearing. What are the lyrics all about? Mr.  It is all about being inspiring to people. You know be a hero for the people around you. And be honorable. It is such a positive song. At the same time it is very inspiring.     When you say people sing along with it is it the kind - you know you can sing along with a song a couple of different ways. You can sort of hum to yourself. And some songs just make you want to sing at the top of your lungs. Which one is this? How do people sing along with this song? Mr.  This is a song that you sing in the shower. Because everybody knows the lyrics it is very easy to sing along at all.    Mr.  To be honest with you like every time I am starting a trip to go outside Indonesia it is sort of like a tradition for me to just listen to this song first. Because I know when I listen to this song it sort of like cools me down. It is very easy listening. And I could just you know I know it is going to be a great trip for me.     Well it is been great talking to you Daniel. Thank you very much. Mr.  Thank you Michele. Have fun.     Daniel Mananta joined us from Tracks FM in Jakarta Indonesia. And you can hear our previous stops on The Spin and a full playlist that he is chosen just for us at nprmusic.org.     This is NPR. 