 Finally this hour we are going to hear about a new summer music camp that almost did not happen. Thrive City String Academy was launched by a charismatic musician in his 30s. As NPR's Elizabeth Blair reports he found out a recession is a tough time to do good for inner-city kids.  The sheer audacity of it is impressive but John Littlejohn is a pretty impressive guy. There were many hoops he had to jump through to make this summer camp a reality but funding he says was the hardest. Mr.  That is been the one.  There were so many reasons why people were telling us we could not do it most of being you are a new program in a recession. Arts organizations are already in trouble. And it was discouraging definitely but I did not hear one reason -that was why we should not have this camp which is that the kids do not need it. They need it and for them life has always been a recession.  John Littlejohn  that is his real name  did not raise as much money as he would have liked so he shortened the camp and invited fewer kids. He named it Thrive City String Academy. Mr.  One two ready play.   Towson University in Baltimore charged a reduced rate for the dorm rooms where the kids slept meals at the school cafeteria and classroom space. The campers were all handpicked by public school music teachers. Littlejohn wanted kids who had a strong interest in music but who did not have money for lessons. Mr.  This is a kid who is in a class of 30 violinists who loves music and is in the back lost in the shuffle and this kid is just needing to be pulled out and just get some private attention because they love it and they just cannot get the resources they need. Mr.  My name is Shawntraze Dorsey. I am 10 years old and I play violin.  Shawntraze Dorsey has gone to other overnight camps with his church but he was eager to tell me that this one has an all-you-can-eat buffet in the university cafeteria. Dorsey also likes that he is learning new ways to play  violin like tremolo. Mr.  It is like when you shake like you keep on - you just go like one inch up and down on the strings and it makes some squeaky noise.  Dorsey and the other campers also learned to play Michael Jackson's Billie Jean.  Mr.  .  Mr.  .  Mr.  There we go just open D.  Mr.  .  John Littlejohn has been teaching for about 10 years. He grew up in Michigan was raised mostly by his mom. In the '80s she was laid off from her job as a secretary for GM so they moved from a middle-class neighborhood to a poor one. By the time Littlejohn was in the sixth grade things had gotten better and they moved back to a middle-class neighborhood. Mr.  I went from a school where there was one white kid in the class to a school where I was the only black person in the class. And I was like I could not even - it was like my whole world was just flipped upside down.  He felt different in other ways too. Mr.  I was kind of a wild child and I had a big J in the back of my head you know cut in there. I was kind of ghetto you know?   Kind of ghetto playing violin in the school orchestra. Mr.  So they always knew me as that kid struggling in the back. But quietly I just - I am creeping up the section and they are you know like wait this kid is kind of he is passing me. What happened?  What happened says Littlejohn is that great teachers offered to help him first in high school then at the University of Michigan and then at the Peabody Conservatory. Littlejohn became close friends with fellow students Alex and Anthony Cheung.  Today the three of them play in a string trio called Infinitus and education is a big part of what they do. At their concerts they play classical hip hop Latin jazz and their own compositions.  John Littlejohn recruited the Cheungs and other musician friends to be counselors at Thrive City String Academy. Mr.  The best moment for me - one of the best moments of this camp so far was the first day you know the kids were exhausted. They had played all day. Most of them had never played this long in their entire lives and we have you know free time. And before lights out at 10 oclock from 9 to 10 they can kind of just hang out in the hall. I expected them to just run around and play. They started pulling out their instruments and started playing and I almost cried. I mean the whole faculty were just flabbergasted. They just wanted a place to play music and they are just so happy to be playing. I turned to the faculty and said we got the right kids. These are the kids we were looking for.  John Littlejohn has already started fundraising for next summer and he says it is not much easier. Elizabeth Blair NPR News.  