 Uruguayan singer and songwriter Jorge Drexler first came to the attention of audiences in this country through a song that he wrote for a movie. That song for the The Motorcycle Diaries won an Oscar in 2004 - the first Spanish-language work to win Best Original Song. Since then Drexler has released six albums in the U.S. His latest is out now. It is called Bailar en la Cueva or Dancing in the Cave. And it does have a strong dance beat. But Betto Arcos reports it is also about history science and memory.  Jorge Drexler's songs have been called introspective and literate. He is been compared to Paul Simon. But a couple of years ago Drexler began to wonder what it would take to write dance-oriented music.  And I decided to start this record from the feet and from the movement centers in the body. To move away from what was easy for me - writing from and about emotions and from and about ideas and moved to the feet.  That does not mean he abandoned the introspective and the literate.  If I am going to talk about dancing I am going to try to look very deep and emotional and anthropological side even biological side of it. You know what it means music and dancing for us as a species.   .  Drexler is not your ordinary songwriter. He is an ear nose and throat doctor who did not launch a music career until he was 30. The awe he felt learning about the laws of science and the natural world still finds its way into a song like Todo Cae Everything Fall in which love is so powerful it can defeat gravity and entropy.   .  That awe I try to bring into songs you know the perception and the contemplation of life and existence. The only thing that I really studied carefully in my life was music and medicine especially the basic sciences like biology chemistry and physics. So I cannot help but looking at the world from that point of view.  Drexler's parents were both doctors. His grandparents were German Jews who escaped the Nazis in 1939 when they took political asylum at the Bolivian Embassy in Berlin.  And Bolivia was incredibly brave and generous. They kept on giving visas to German Jews and they saved a lot of people. So my grandparents - very young - with a 4-year-old boy - it was my father - had to leave Berlin and went to live in Oruro.  He tells their story in the song Bolivia.   .  It is a rare rare thing in a contemporary singer-songwriter I think to find somebody who is so in touch with the cultural politics of memory.  Josh Kun is a professor at the University of Southern California Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism.  He is somebody who it seems to me has in a very personal way on the one hand lived and felt and experienced the violences of movement and migration in his own family and also the power of memory to make sense of the past. And then he has a gift of connecting those personal relationships to memory to larger social and cultural memories. And he somehow manages to do that usually in the space of a love song where he can take something very minute and turn it into a much larger commentary.   .  For Jorge Drexler history is very much a part of the present and so is movement. He says people dancing around the fire in a cave 45000 years ago are not that different from people dancing in a 21st century club.  There must be something in common in the two situations. I mean the deep reasons why we keep on doing that - we keep on getting together and dancing in close places. I also wanted to say every generation thinks that they invented you know party. And it is actually been with us since we came down from the trees you know.  As the album's title song says we used to make music long before we knew about agriculture. The idea is eternally new as night falls we continue to dance in the cave. For NPR News I am Betto Arcos.   . 