 It is been 16 years since hip-hop icon Dr. Dre released his last studio album. During that time hip-hop trends have come and gone and a new generation of artists have come of age. And now a 50-year-old Dre a multimillionaire businessman returns with a new album named after his hometown Compton. NPR Music's Timmhotep Aku has this review.  Though his presence is felt every time we see those ubiquitous Beats-branded headphones and hear stars he ushered into the mainstream like Kendrick Lamar and Eminem Dr. Dre the musician the creator has largely been absent from the music world. On his new record Compton Dr. Dre introduces us to a wide range of artists as on this track Genocide.  DR.   Stone-cold killers in these Compton streets. One hand on the nine all eyes on me. Murder. Murder. Murder. Call 911 emergency.  From the album's dramatic opening to his self-mythologizing verses throughout it is clear that Dr. Dre feels like he has come full circle. He recounts his rise from Compton's ghetto to the top of the music industry.  DR.   I just need ya'ill to try to bear with me for a minute while I talk about the pages of my diary yeah. Listen up. I remember when I got started my intention was to win but a lot of  changed since then. Some old friends became enemies in the quest of victory but I made a vow - never let it get to me. I let it pass so I consider that part of my history and I am strong financially physically mentally. I am on a whole 'nother level...  His saving grace the one constant whether he was at his highest or lowest has been his passion for music. And for all the gangsta' posturing bad language and alpha male bravado music is what Dre does best. On Compton Dre gives us the cinematic maximalist production we have come to expect from hip-hop's most lauded musician.    All my life...  The sound of the album is crisp enveloping ornate and overall funky - signature Dr. Dre. He also reminds us that he is not only a great producer but an amazing talent scout bringing back collaborators from every part of his career and introducing us to his new class of proteges. The result is an album that feels more like a grand group effort than a single man's vanity project. As always that is Dre's trademark. Even if he does not have the most lines he is once again standing at hip-hop's center stage.    These old sneakers faded blue jeans. No tricks no gimmicks. I will be stomping down down down demons...  Dr. Dre's latest album is called Compton. Our reviewer is NPR Music's Timmhotep Aku.    The bottom of the beat glad I got my sticks. Are you jumping on a fad laying in a ditch? I be stomping down demons stomping down quick. Come on. 