 Maura Johnston if Leonard Nimoy cuts a new album do you think he could go head to head with Jay-Z?   Probably not I would say. No offense to Leonard but you know Jay-Z is sort of a titan of pop.    Tell by my attitude that I most definitely from...   New York.  Maura first there is some news you have for us.  Yeah Jay-Z has passed Elvis to have the most solo number one albums in the history of the pop charts.  OK. So this record The Blueprint 3 it came out to a lot of you know fanfare and hoopla. It is been getting mixed reviews though. But clearly it is number one and the fans do not seem to care.  Well you know and you are always going to have that disconnect between critics and what the fans like. He is a superstar. I mean I went to see him last week in New York you know and he brought down Madison Square Garden. I mean everyone around me and the whole arena was just captivated.  Maura that song we just heard Empire State of Mind it is a collaboration that Jay-Z does with the R singer Alicia Keys. And he has a whole lot of superstars on this record. And you want to play another song for us off this album?  Yeah. Well it is funny because in this case I would say that the sort of bigger-named guest star in the song is actually the song that is being re-used...  The sample.  Which is - the sample yeah. Well it is actually I guess an interpolation.    Let us dance in style let us dance for a while. Heaven can wait we are only watching the skies...  It uses the old prom staple from the early '80s Forever Young by the band Alphaville.    So we live your life like video where the sun is always out and you never get old.  So Maura Jay-Z is - I think he is either almost 40 or is 40.  I think 40 might be the new 30 or 27? I mean that is why - maybe that is why he is singing about being young forever you know? You know hip hop is still for all intents and purposes a pretty young genre. So how does one age with the genre?  All right Maura we are going to hit up more of Jay-Z in a few moments with - actually with an expert on the occult believe it or not. This is a guy who will show us how Jay-Z's music is filled with all kinds of references to you know the occult and secret societies.  Oh my gosh.   But first I want to ask you about another elder statesman of hip hop. He is back. His name is Raekwon. And he also has a new album that came out earlier this month.  Right. He came out with Only Built 4 Cuban Linx II which was the sequel record to a record that he put out a few years ago called Only Built 4 Cuban Linx. And this is a record that is been sort of you know legendary in the hip-hop community for you know people just waiting for it to come out. And you know Raekwon is a member of the Wu-Tang Clan and there are a lot of Wu-Tang members on the record.  It is like one of the most important hip-hop sort of outfits in the early '90s.  Right. They are also from New York. They are also sort of elder statesmen. I mean there are so many - there are a lot of parallels that you can draw between The Blueprint 3 and you know Only Built 4 Cuban Linx II.  Well let us hear a track off the album. This is called House of Flying Daggers and it features three other members from the Wu-Tang Clan.    Soldiers in the front let the heat pump. Troops on the left fight to the death. Fam on the right infrared lights. Wolves in the back ready to attack...  Maura finally I want to ask you about an up-and-coming Brooklyn rapper named Kid Cudi who also has a new album out now right?  Yes. He just put out an album called  The End of Day and it actually debuted very high on the charts actually. It had like strong six-figure sales which for an artist who is coming out with a debut album is very very impressive. And the song that we are going to hear now is actually a collaboration between him and the electro-psychedelic smooth jazz duo MGMT.  Smooth jazz.    .  Yeah. So actually now I hear it. I hear the psychedelic rock and the hip hop all sort of melding together there.  I think that hip hop is really taking its inspirations from everyone. I mean a couple of weeks ago Jay-Z caused a big stir in Brooklyn because he went to go see the band Grizzly Bear.  Yeah who were on this program actually.  Oh really?  Yeah. And they are like the - sort of the quintessential college indie rock band.  Right. And then after that show he was quoted as saying that he really wanted to see sort of hip-hop artists step it up and take their inspirations from bands like Grizzly Bear and you know obviously MGMT.  And people have to listen to what Jay-Z says right?  Yeah yeah.  That is Maura Johnston who is the editor of Idolator.com. Maura thanks.   Thank you. 