 Once again this is WEEKENDS on ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Jacki Lyden. And it is time now for music.    Every time I listen to the sound of a baby wailing the night away.  The deep resounding voice belongs to Daughn Gibson. He spells it D-A-U-G-H-N. Not like the country singing Don Gibson of the '50s and '60s. This Daughn Gibson held a number of truly odd jobs before his singing career took off from long haul trucking to playing drums in a blues metal band to working in a porn shop - more on that later. Gibson became buzzworthy last year with his debut album All Hell. This song is from his latest a new record called Me Moan. And both offerings left viewers fumbling to describe this sound and to place this voice. It lives somewhere between Johnny Cash and Iggy Pop.  I do not even consider myself a singer at all.   I always call myself a drummer and I probably always will. It was not up until early last year when I started working on All Hell that I was singing on any recordings at all. So...  You mean you did not know you have that fabulous voice? Come on.  I did not know until I got up to the mic to belch it out. And I was you know pleasantly surprised I found a voice I could sing in that did not make me cringe later on. So I just continued using that voice and appropriating different background music for the voice.  So how do you describe your music? What is your favorite description of your music?  I guess there is no easy way to do it. Generally I just say it is country techno. And then whoever I tell that to rolls their eyes and walks away. So now I have kind of just been saying well I just do country music.    It was a quiet afternoon talking with my drink at Rio Bar and Grille.  You know I am really attracted to the story that is a true story from your life and this is you get your trucking license you are 22 years old you are doing these long haul jobs - really a lonely job.  Well I mean when you are driving long stretches like that you tend to wax nostalgic a lot. And even at the age of 22 I remember just thinking about old days and old loves and old embarrassments. It is enough to drive you completely insane. But I did make certain discoveries along the way. And I guess an appreciation of matching music with landscapes or matching music with certain scenes and listening to people that you meet at bars or you know truck stops it gives you a greater sense of empathy and it - for me it seemed like it defined my palate a little bit more. Not necessarily musically just in terms of how to approach things creatively all together.    What is got me down so damn wrong is one shot. Granddaddy so hot hot. He left me in the parking lot. Ooh kissin' on the blacktop.  This was not the only really interesting job that you had Daughn Gibson. You also worked I think in a dirty bookstore right? I mean I love the story of how you were asked to keep an eye on the customers.  Yeah yeah. That was also a job for - you know I was about 20 years old. And a friend of mine had just got fired from it which you know it takes a lot to get fired from an adult bookstore. I am not quite sure what he did. So I took the job and every night it was me and you know five other derelicts behind the counter not really doing anything just listening to rap music and watching the security monitors to make sure no one was in the back you know doing anything wrong.  Even though they are encouraged to come in there to do things wrong.  Basically yeah. We are giving them carte blanche to explore all their carnal desires in these backrooms. But when they cross the line and it is a very thin line we have to go back and scold them.  A lot of these songs are raw. I mean they are speaking from the heart but they are also you know at that edge where - what we might call a polite society just would not want to go or drift into a lot of bad behavior a lot of really bad behavior. I am thinking about a song I was marveling to read that is based on a true story. And this is a song you call The Pisgee Nest. Tell me the tale behind that one would you please?  Well yeah. Somewhere in central Pennsylvania I was driving around with a buddy of mine and someone who is from there. And we were in a mountain area and we passed by a village called the Pisgee Nest. It is more or less you know what - someone in West Virginia or Kentucky will call a holler. This was just kind of a dilapidated mountain village. And really  This is a place where the state trooper's daughter would go to engage in kind of extreme sexual behavior. And I was really disturbed by it only because of the setting. It was dark out when you are driving around at night.    We broke in a car to count the rent but you had to go back for your lucky barrett. State trooper's daughter in the Pisgee Nest and I will never know where the wind took my hat no.  And I think I read in the account of this she was actually engaging in prostitution that her boyfriend was sort of pimping her out.  Well yeah. That was actually an embellishment because really the story was so bare that I did not have much to go on. I think I am generally moved by obscene things. You know I am a fan of B movies. I am a fan of Troma I am a fan of dirty books. Sometimes I find something can be moving and artistic and obscene all at once. I do not want to do it too much or be over the top but that was a memory of mine or just hearing a story activated my imagination. So more or less I just elaborated on that one sentence.  When you think about the lyrics you write the stories you want to tell are you drawn to what might be called - and this does make me think so much about country - the broken places?  Oh for sure. Yeah. Country music resonates with me for that reason. It is the only genre of music that actually makes me fully cry. So when I go into that writing words I am not thinking about you know metaphors or abstractions. I want to be as hyperliteral as I can and make there a clear understanding of what is happening in this particular scene.    If you are still unsure and time can only bend you like nothing else can. You can always find my love bleeding from trying to get the earth to lift.  That is Daughn Gibson. His new album is called Me Moan. You can hear a few tracks on our website at nprmusic.org. Daughn Gibson it was a real pleasure speaking with you.  Likewise Jacki. Thank you.   And for Sunday that is WEEKENDS on ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. Check out our weekly podcast. Search for WEEKENDS on ALL THINGS CONSIDERED on iTunes or on the NPR smartphone app. Click on Programs and scroll down. For much more on the national reaction to the verdict in the Zimmerman trial stay with NPR online at npr.org and on the radio tomorrow morning on MORNING EDITION. I am Jacki Lyden. Thanks for listening and have a great week. 