 Singer Tori Kelly is an unapologetic optimist about love about her image and her music.    I should be more cynical and tell myself it is not OK.  She has a good sense of who she is at the ripe old age of 22 because Tori Kelly has been at the edges of the music business for so long. She started singing when she was just three years old. Growing up she got all kinds of positive feedback so an optimistic Tori Kelly started entering big-name competitions. Here she is at age 11 on the TV show America's Most Talented Kid.    Oh oh oh yeah. I believe. Yeah.  Tori Kelly won that contest. After a brief stint on American Idol in her teens she created her own fan base on YouTube. Her channel now has more than a million subscribers. Now Tori Kelly is plunging into the big time with her debut album. It is called Unbreakable Smile. She stopped by our D.C. studios and we talked about her 11-year-old self a young girl so confident in the spotlight I asked her if she ever had to deal with nerves on stage.  Yeah I did. I had a lot of stage fright. My first competition I guess singing-wise I was six years old and there is a video of it too. I am just like stick straight. I am not moving at all and I am just singing.   And I think as a kid though it is interesting 'ecause there is no - there is nothing around your life. Like you can literally just be in this bubble. Like I love music. I just want to sing. And so as I got older that is when the fear started to creep in 'ecause now you have other people's opinions to worry about. You have this whole world out there where it is like whoa I do not know if I am ready. So I think I have kind of come full circle and tried to channel that little girl again who just wants to sing .  That performance changed a lot for you.  It did.  You won first of all.  .  You won the TV show - the contest.  Yeah.  And then you got your first record deal from that.  Yeah.  That is a fast train for anyone to be on.  Definitely.  I imagine it felt really fast at 11. Did you and your parents ever have to slow it down?  We did. Yeah. I am really thankful for my parents being on board through all of it because I was kind of thrown into it not really knowing you know what the whole industry was about yet. And of course at 12 I did not know who I was yet as an artist let alone as a person.  Yeah.  And so I was just in every single studio working with every single person you could imagine and sort of had this sound created for me rather than you know knowing what to say. And I think looking back it is - it was the perfect thing for me to step away from all of that and figure out who I was first. So I mean all of those meetings where it just - it was not working out and it was frustrating. And you know all nos that I got - I think those were all meant to happen in order for me to be who I am now.  With that let us hear the title track your new album. It is called Unbreakable Smile and this is a song that kind of gets at this.  Definitely .  At your relationship with the music industry.  Yeah.  Let us take a listen.  For sure.    La da da da da dee . You are not breaking me. La de da da da da da da da . Yeah. Somebody told me fame is a disease. You start singing the blues when you start seeing the green but I think it is all about what you choose. The way you live your life depends on you. Because when I realized I want to make a difference change other people's lives give hope even for a moment use my name for good and change the game I could. Because to make it you think I got to act a certain way be a little bit insane live a little. It is OK. I guess we have different definitions of living but you will twist my words anyway. You will say that I am naive like I do not have a past. You are the one being deceived. I see right behind the mask trying to stir me up and get me mad. I smile because happiness is all I have. So - la da da da da dee . You are not breaking me. La de da da da da . As not got time for you. Singing - la da da da da dee .  You will not shatter me. La de da da da da . I have got an unbreakable smile. No no no no no no. I have got an unbreakable smile.   Thank you.   That was lovely.  Thanks.  So can you tell me where that song comes from?  This was maybe a year ago. I did not know what I was going to say yet on the album. I was kind of just blank you know? And my team kind of sat me down and they started telling me these things that they had heard within the industry - stuff like she is a little too plain a little too boring.  People - I find it hard to believe people called you boring.   Oh yeah. Oh yeah and too nice even.  But somehow you needed to be darker or edgier.  Yes exactly. I was acting like it did not faze me at all. You know just kind of - whatever it is fine. That same night when I got home all of these lyrics just started flowing out - like out of nowhere. And I think - I think I was holding in a lot of that for a long time. And once I finished that song I felt like this huge weight was lifted off of my shoulders. And that was the first song that I wrote for this next album so it kind of set the tone.  Were there other times when you felt like music executives or producers or whomever in this world were trying to change your image in a way that just did not feel comfortable?  Absolutely. Yeah. I think another thing - this song - I was channeling a lot was when I was in the label scene very young - 12 again. Things were not really working out with the label and we were kind of - we were thinking about leaving. And I remember one of the last meetings I walked in and - I will never forget - there were music videos playing on the screens of just different like female artists who were a little bit more revealing in their choice of clothing. And I was so confused as a - you know a 12 13-year-old walking in. I was like what? What - is this like what he wants me to do? Like I do not know what this is about you know? And I remember that being the moment where it was like - OK this does not feel right you know? And looking back on that I am glad that everything worked out to where I can now sing about those things and be like I do not have to be that person. I can take my time with who I am and keep my clothes on .  Yeah.  And you know do what feels comfortable for me and people will still - will still like it.  Tori Kelly. Her new album is called Unbreakable Smile. Thanks so much for coming in Tori.  Thank you for having me.  Is there a song you would like to play us out on?  I would. Yes. This is my latest single. It is called Should Have Been Us.    Walking around with my head down but I cannot hide with these high heels on. Downtown in the thick crowd but it is just you that my mind is on. Dressed up got my heart messed up. You got yours and I got mine. Yeah. It is unfair that I still care but I wonder you are tonight. Thinking it could be different. Maybe we missed it. Yeah. Thinking it could be different. It could. It could. It should have been us should have been a fire should have the perfect storm. It should have been us. 