 Time now for our ongoing conversations about favorite summer songs. We are asking people to tell us about a song that has a particular connection for them with a summertime memory. Today we are going to hear from Adam Duritz the lead singer and founder of the band Counting Crows.  Mr.   Mr. Jones and me tell each other fairy tales. And we stare at the beautiful women. She is looking at you. Ah no no she is looking at me.  Adam Duritz joins us from his summertime tour with Counting Crows. Welcome to the program. Mr.  Hey that was the wrong song.  Wrong song? That is not your favorite summer song. Mr.  Well I mean I like that song.  It is a great song. Mr.  It was not the one I was going to pick.  Well what is your pick? Mr.  I picked Save It for Later by The English Beat or The Beat.   Save It for Later from 1982 and The English Beat's album Special Beat Service. The English Beat started in Birmingham England. They fused pop reggae punk and ska.    Two dozen other dirty lovers must be a sucker for it. Cry cry but I do not need my mother. Just hold my hand while I come  Adam Duritz of Counting Crows had just graduated from high school in Berkeley California in 1982 when this song came out. The English Beat came to play at Berkeley's outdoor amphitheater the Greek Theatre that summer. And Adam Duritz camped out all night to make sure he would get a spot right up front. Mr.  Because the first like two or three rows were open. If you got there early enough you could get those rows. And we would camp out there and then just go see the show.  What is it about this one song Save It For Later that for you clicks when you think of favorite summer song? Mr.  You know I was trying to look at the lyrics and see what it was and I do not know. There is just something about the joy of the song. Like it just seems so Technicolor to me. The harmonies the melodies are perfect. There is so many interesting sounds going on.  Mr.  And I think that day you know it is just so engraved in my memory of just this beautiful sunny summer day and watching these bands play all day and the sun having gone down so that means the lights and the colors from the stage were lighting up as they came to play. And then the weird realization right afterwards that that was it. That was the end of the band. That was the last show they ever played.    You hit the deck you get found out. Save it for later. Do not run away and let me down. You let me down. Mr.  Those feelings that you do not get to hold onto those memories of a moment when you just felt good. Something about the music just completely infused you with this - the celebration of it you know of being able to play it. I know what that is like on stage sometimes just that feeling of like I cannot possibly express in what I am about to sing how great it feels to sing it.    I do not know how I am meant to act with all of you lot. Sometimes I do not try I just now now now now now now now now now now Mr.  And it is the only song I can remember from the day. It is funny because I am picturing it in the sunshine and I am sure they were playing at night.  But you see sunshine. Mr.  But like it just seems like this crystalline perfect summer day and I am just euphoric. And this song is just shimmering.    Save it for later. Do not run away and let me down. You let me down. You runaway runaway  Adam Duritz it is fun to talk to you. Thanks so much. Mr.  Thank you very much.  And have a great summer. Mr.  And you should all go listen to that record Special Beat Service.  You know somewhere in my basement I still have that LP in a box. Mr.  It is a great record.  It is a great record.    Just hold my hand while I come to a decision on it.  Adam Duritz of the band Counting Crows with The English Beat's Save It for Later as his song of summer.    Sooner or later your legs give way you hit the ground. Save it for later do not run away and let me down. Sooner or later you hit the deck you get found out. Save it for later do not run away and let me down. You let me down. You runaway runaway runaway runaway runaway. You let me down. 