 People have compared Lindi Ortega's voice to Dolly Parton's but with a darker edge. The Canadian singer got a big break back in 2008 a deal with a major label. But she was dropped when the company decided to put its resources into another artist - Lady Gaga. Ortega has fared better after a move to Nashville but even as her star keeps rising she is titled her sixth album Faded Gloryville. Reviewer Meredith Ochs considers why.  Lindi Ortega's new album Faded Gloryville is not about being a has-been or a never-was. It is about those moments in life when hope gives way to uncertainty.    There as not no stars in faded Gloryville. We have chased our dreams into the ground.  For a lot of people there are times of intense introspection. As a musician Ortega experienced many of these moments playing gigs to few working odd jobs to pay the rent maybe wondering if the world even knew what to make of a Goth-looking Canadian who plays country music. But most of Ortega's songs examine what happens when the uncertainty is about relationships.    Before I say goodbye before I tell you I should go if you want me baby you are going to have to let me know 'ecause I cannot read your mind.  Sometimes languid and lovelorn Lindi Ortega mines deep Southern soul music to expand her torchy twang. It is a leap in sophistication from her previous albums. Working with musicians from the Civil Wars and the Alabama Shakes Ortega gets a boost from a dose of the famed Muscle Shoals sound of the 1960s and '70s. Forged in an Alabama studio and heard on hundreds of R-and-B and rock records it is known for a distinct reverb-y thwack of guitar a fringe of keyboards and the gentle echo of the room itself.    From this lonesome lonely road I have been on for so long. I have been spending all my nights on someone that just as not right.  Lindi Ortega spends a lot of her new album trying to find her footing in an ephemeral romance or looking for a way out of one that is expiration date has long passed. At the same time she is self-assured displaying the confidence of someone who has overcome challenging times and grown into their own skin. On this song Ortega's cheeky kiss-off is directed at a guy but it is also a challenge to everyone else to accept her as she is - genre-defying in both her music and her personal style.    You can keep your suit and tie find a pretty little wife find the girl you are looking for. I as not the girl that lives next door. I as not the girl for you.  Meredith Ochs is a talk show host and DJ at Sirius XM Radio. She reviewed Faded Gloryville by Lindi Ortega.    I like 'em rugged with tattoos. You drive a really fancy car. I like a truck with rusty parts. I as not the girl you are looking for. I as not the girl that lives next door. I as not the girl for you. So go ahead darling find somebody new. 