 Britney is back again.    Hit me baby one more time. Oh Baby Baby...  Britney Spears made hits right out of the gate with her 1999 debut and was a reliable presence on the pop charts for years after that. But in 2007 she started behaving erratically in public and her influence suffered. Britney Spears is 34 now and she is out with her first new album in three years. It is called Glory. She will promote it this weekend at the MTV Video Music Awards. Reviewer Tom Moon says the album is a surprising return to form.    Call me a fool. Call me insane but do not call it a day. Closer to you closer to pain - it is better than far away oh.  Britney Spears is on like - what? - her third comeback cycle. Every time she hires teams of hotshot producers to help sell a slightly tweaked version of her public persona - the party girl who is too hot for the room. On the surface the new album is no different.    Put on a private show. Pull the curtains until they close. I put on a private show. We will be whiling all on the low.  OK so Britney's getting some electronic vocal help. But she is essentially singing out in the open not behind mountains of studio clutter like on her dismal last album Britney Jean. And this song has a real hook and a groove that glances at Motown. She clearly owns it.    Work it. Work it. Boy watch me work it. Slide down my pole. Watch me spin it and twerk it.  Lyrically Britney Spears stays true to her brand. Just about every track includes an invitation to some sort of carnal pleasure. Musically though she is grown into an interesting pop omnivore borrowing and recombining elements in unexpected ways. Here's a riff that sounds like it was inspired first by Gwen Stefani...    I see who you are with the lights out. We are better just skin to skin.  ...Then OutKast.    My baby going to love me down going to love me down going to love me down yeah. My baby going to love me down. Do not make a sound. Just love me down like...  Glory is a long album but it is got surprising dimension. Spears sings one atmospheric EDM track in French and this one uses flamenco style guitar and Spanish refrain.    No seas cortes. I will make you change your mind. No seas cortes. You do not want to cross the line but I am going to make you change your mind.  Anyone who follows pop culture knows it can be hard for an icon to recapture the public's interest after a downfall. Britney Spears has tried several times now with dim gimmicky records that sounded like she was begging for a hit. This time is different. She is got some electrifying hooks and she is singing them with confidence maybe even a touch of fierceness. If Glory becomes a hit she will have earned.    One look at him and I see candy-coated heart shapes.  The latest album from Britney Spears is called Glory. Our reviewer is Tom Moon.    He plays sitar three notes so far. If I am dancing if I am dancing... 