  Rock 'n' roll has lost one of its seminal architects - Charlie Watts drummer for the Rolling Stones. You hear him here playing on their 1981 hit Start Me Up. Watts died today in a London hospital. He was 80. He had played with the Stones for nearly 60 years. Here to talk about his life and legacy is another drummer and former music critic NPR's Eric Deggans. Hey Eric.  Hi.  Hey. So what do we know about the circumstances of Charlie Watts's death?  Well we do not know much. The band posted a statement saying that Watts who had just turned 80 in June died peacefully in a London hospital surrounded by family. No cause of death was given. Fans had begun to wonder about his health because earlier this month he would announced that he was not going to play a U.S. tour with the Rolling Stones that had been postponed by the pandemic. It was supposed to start next month. He was recovering from an undisclosed medical procedure. And I think this death is so shocking to rock fans because even though these guys are all in their 70s you know...  Yeah.  Watts was the oldest at 80. He would survived addiction and throat cancer. They never seemed to slow down. And it always seemed like they would always be around.  It kind of does. Yeah. I mean talk as a drummer about why for so many of you drummers Charlie Watts was like the drummer. His playing was so revered.  Well you know his playing seems simple until you sit down at a drum kit and try to recreate it.  Yeah.  I mean he was a jazz player who started working with blues bands in the early 1960s. He played with Alexis Korner's Blues Incorporated. By the time he joined the Rolling Stones in 1963 he had this style that was steady powerful simple but also kind of had a little bit of a swagger to it and kind of a looseness to the groove that really epitomized the Rolling Stones sound. For example he often did not hit the snare drum and the high hat at the same time when he was playing a backbeat something that is kind of unusual that gave his playing kind of this loping feel. Let us check out his playing on this hit Sympathy For The Devil where he is grooving with a conga player and someone playing a shaker kind of instrument. Let us check it out.    Please allow me to introduce myself.  Yeah so you hear that caustic rhythm where he is holding the stick across the snare drum that click on the drum rim. And it feels like something a jazz player might do but it is also a powerful rock groove. And he came up with these ingenious simple turns on songs like Honky Tonk Women and Brown Sugar and Start Me Up as we heard.  So many good ones. What do you think his legacy will be as a musician?  Well stars like Paul McCartney Ringo Starr and Public Enemy's Chuck D they all paid tribute to Watts online today. They pronounced him the backbone of one of rock's most enduring bands. I mean there is basically a small group of drummers including Ringo from the Beatles and Cream's Ginger Baker who essentially invented rock 'n' roll drumming. And Charlie Watts was one of them. He was the anchor grounding a band that was inventing the shape of classic rock 'n' roll from the merging of blues and jazz that was happening in the 1960s. And he was the epitome of a drummer who was not flashy. He played for the song and made rock history inducted with the band in the Rock  Roll Hall of Fame in 1989.  All right. We have been talking to NPR's Eric Deggans about the death of Rolling Stones drummer Charlie Watts.  