 Technology has changed the music world too much to the chagrin of some parents. New tunes bypass the radio gatekeepers. Songs that could never get airplay pop up on YouTube and win fans before there is ever a record to buy. Take this week's nearly three-million-YouTube-view wonder. It is so profane we cannot even say the title.  Mr.   Running round town with the girl  .  It is sung by Cee-Lo Green half of the duo Gnarls Barkley. It was released online one week ago. And we are going to try to dance around some of the unairable stuff now with our music critic Tom Moon. Hey Tom.  Hi there.  And Tom this is a real age-old theme of songs here. A guy jilted guy talking to the guy who stole his woman and the problem is he did not have enough change in his pocket.  Mr.   .  And why not rhyme Ferrari and Atari if you can right?  Exactly. And in the course of that little couplet you have the modern dilemma you know. If you are not rolling with bling what are you or who are you?  So here's the thing though Tom. I mean you have got this bouncy non-threatening music thing going on and then these lyrics which are you know in a different context would be really threatening and really hostile.  Right. And to me that is the game. It is like the play of opposites. He is saying something that is so blunt and just so like at the gut level. But around him is all this Jackson 5 kind of sweetness and light. To me that makes it. The contrast is the magnet if you will.  Mr.   .   You are loving this.  That cracks me up every time I hear it because you know it is the only part of the song that is actually sort of a B section. It is the only point where the song goes away from that four lines of lyrics.  Well the song is out on YouTube right? And there is a video just of the words sort of like the bouncing-ball kind of lyrics on the screen.  Yeah in case you do not get...  Yeah in case you have not figured it out. But the album does not come out for a while. So is this do you think just a novelty just a way to grab attention? It certainly has grabbed ours today.  Well yeah and anymore we see artists doing whatever they have to do to sort of claim a little bandwidth and say I am over here I have got a new record coming. And the cynical view of this is yes it is just that.  And Cee-Lo is going to release a radio-friendly version too.  Mr.   .  The thing about the clean version it does not have that same sort of spark for me. It is weird.  What do you think is lost there besides the profanity?  It makes me wonder whether a singer has to summon a certain kind of energy to sing profanity and make it work. And you know here's Cee-Lo Green saying forget you and it is really the same exact idea but there is something different about it.  Mr.   .  Tom always good to talk to you. Thanks so much.  Thanks for having me.  That is music critic Tom Moon. 