 Earlier this year my colleague Mary Louise Kelly spoke with the singer-songwriter J.S. Ondara about his new album Tales Of America. And we thought we would revisit that conversation this Fourth of July week. Ondara grew up in Nairobi Kenya. And his most prized possession was a tiny battery-powered radio. He would rock out to Guns N' Roses and Nirvana. And then he heard the voice of a man that would change his life forever.    And you better start swimming or you will sink like a stone for the times they are a-changin'.  J.S. Ondara became obsessed with Bob Dylan so much so that he hatched a plan to move to America to become a folk musician. And that first taste of Bob Dylan is where Mary Louise started when she spoke with Ondara earlier this year.    It was just an American dream. It was just an American dream.  So I mean this must have been quite the turning point for you because you ended up coming to the U.S. in 2013.  Right.  You settled in Minnesota which you picked because that is where Bob Dylan's from.  Right. You know I had all these stories and poems that I was writing from you know from when I was a kid. And I mean you could call them songs but they were not really songs to me. They were just stories little snippets just words. No one really ever told me as a kid oh you know your voice is sort of pleasing in a way.    But there is a beast on the clock guarding against the folk. And the ghost from the river is watching. She will not let you get any close. I love to write. And so when I found Dylan's music I thought oh wait so I could perhaps take all these words I have been writing and maybe I could put them into melody. And I suppose that is a folk song. And maybe I can have some kind of career. And so then I quickly realized as well I cannot do it from where I was. So I set my path on going to America and you know settling to Minnesota where he was from.  You say this whole album is an examination of the American dream from an outsider's perspective.  Right.  Do you still feel like an outsider after six years in the U.S.?  Yeah I do very much so. I feel I still am learning new things about America every day.  Like what?  About issues that are tied to I think politics - I think you know just the relationships between police and black people and what that entails and how I suppose that affects me as someone who does not necessarily - is from here. And so I am perhaps looking at these experiences from a completely different perspective and educating myself on what the history of the country is because I think that adds a different perspective with how you interpret experiences you know if you lack the context of history.  Yeah.    Will you let me in? Or are you at capacity? Will you set me free? Are you holding onto history? Will you be sincere?  Do you think the American dream is intact? I am asking in the context of the current debate over immigration and the border.  I think there is definitely reasons to be concerned. I wonder if you know my experiences and you know my journey so far is a testament to what the American dream is - you know having moved here just - and gotten this path just out of nothing and being here where I am making this record and having this conversation with you. So I think there is something to be said about that - but also being conscious of the fact that the country is going through some things and that notion - that very great idea can be lost.    Oh God bless America the heartache of mine. Oh God bless America the heartache of mine.  One song to ask you about - Lebanon which is about love and taking risks and that life is short.    Hey love...  Those words right there...    I am ready now.  ...Begins hey love I am ready now.    Cannot you see this riot inside of my veins?  Cannot you see this riot inside my veins - what are you writing about?  I have no clue.   Well you are honest.  I have absolutely no clue. I think all these songs they are words. I just put words down. And it is just a stream of consciousness. It is like - it is very subconscious. And sometimes I think what happens is over time once I have put some kind of melody over these words...  But I am going to challenge you here because you have told me you are a storyteller.  Right. Well I think...  So what is the story?  The story is taking shape gradually as we speak and as time moves forward. I think it is - what happens most of the time is once I have put these words down - and I am talking about them to people and maybe I am revisiting them or maybe I am singing them over and over again - their meanings gradually bring themselves to life.    In the water the fire I will go wherever you go. In the valley in the canyons I will go wherever you go. That is happened in a few different songs here and there where I sort of figure them out over time.  I guess that is one way of thinking about it is that your songs can mean a different story to the different people listening. They can impose their own stories on them.  And I would prefer if they do because I am very fond of stories I think. I think stories - I mean it is the only way you can teach a kid anything. You just - you tell them a story. It is all they have got. And these stories they help us learn. They help us reflect on ourselves. They help us grow. And so I will write down some kind of story. It will mean some kind of thing to me but I would love for it to mean something different for someone else. If it is the same thing - if it is just something that ties us together as you know people going through the human experience together then that is great. But I do not impose what they mean to other people - not even to me not even to themselves.   J.S. Ondara thank you.  Thank you.   J.S. Ondara's album is called Tales Of America. It came out in February. My colleague Mary Louise Kelly spoke with him earlier this year.    Bitterness was right on her tongue with her legs painted like the drum. Loneliness could not do no harm. 