 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Madeleine Brand. Right here in Los Angeles down the street from my house actually is a nightclub where some big names in indie rock blasted off. It is called Spaceland. The Foo Fighters and Beck credit the venue for launching their musical career.    Come a little gamma ray. Standing in a hurricane.  So it is a big deal if you get your name on the marquee. And every month Spaceland features a relatively unknown act free of charge. This month's artist in residence is singer-songwriter and Australian Andy Clockwise.   Andy. Mr.  Do whatever you want.   Andy Clockwise made a name for himself in the Australian indie rock scene and released two albums down under but he is been in Los Angeles for a year and a half trying to make it in the United States. Andy Clockwise welcome to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. Mr.  How are you?  Fine thank you. You are not - your name is not Andy Clockwise is it? Mr.  I have a few answers for it. It changes all the time. But  What is today? Mr.  the answer I have at the moment is my parents were playing a cruel joke on me. In Australia we do not say counterclockwise we say anticlockwise. So if you say Andy Clockwise it is kind of a play on words if you look at it like that.  Oh okay. So that is an Australian joke we would not really get here. Mr.  Kind of yeah. It is lost in translation if you know what I mean.   All right. So you are in L.A. now. Mr.  I am.  And you are in the residency program at Spaceland. Mr.  Yeah.  That is a Monday night program where you play for free. Mr.  A band gets chosen to do the Monday night residency. Everybody gets in for free. You get to kind of somewhat choose the bands that you play with. The thing I love about it is I like a challenge. I do not like to necessarily be playing to people that know my music all the time. So yeah playing to a bunch of people who are looking at you like who are you is great to me and that is what Monday offers.  So when they look at you and say who are you then what is your response? How do you - what do you show them?  Mr.  Should we go?  Go. Mr.  Yeah?  Mr.   Everybody's in a band and everybody's in a band. Every guy he is the man. Yeah everybody's in a band. Well all right. I know you really like him baby with his tight jeans and his haircut. And his androgynous good looks. I have got to tell you he is in a band. Everybody's in a band and everybody's in a band. Everybody's in a band and everybody's in a band except for me.   Andy Clockwise. You are in a band really. You are Mr.  I am a solo artist.   So you have come all the way from Australia to make it in the music biz to - why are you here? Mr.  I came on a tour for South by Southwest with another sort of punk band and we did South by Southwest and then went to New York and then over to London. And I came over here to meet some managers that I had at the time and I just stayed which is a cliched story in this city sometimes is not it? It seems a lot of people kind of arrive and just stay.  Yeah. Mr.  Yeah.  The weather is nice the living is easy. Mr.  You know I made friends who like are experts on Cajun music and I have gypsy friends who turn up to parties and just play gypsy music and I have friends from the South who do this you know amazing sort of soulful sort of you know gospel sort of stuff. And L.A.'s incredibly open you know? I will see so many different shows every night of the week. You know I will see southern rock to like hip-hop and all these sorts of things that I find incredible because you know I am from Sydney I suppose.  Mr.  But it is very - it is incredibly supportive of each other. Everybody's borrowing each other's gear everybody's getting out there. All friends go to shows you know and really push people. And I think that is awesome.  Do you want to play another song? Mr.  Sure. This is a new one.  Mr.  So I hope I do not stuff it.  Mr.   We started out we were much younger. You taught me the fire and I taught you the hunger. I remember love but love do not remember me. Then we went out we got much older. You waited like an angel and I pined like a soldier but I remember love but love do not remember me. Now that I have been in place I have the guts to face you are in another place and you seem much better. And I will wait at the bar rooms you wait at the station. And we will dream of each other and our old situation but I remember love but love do not remember me. And I remember love but it do not remember me. But I remember our love but it will not remember me. You should come to the show tonight.  It is at 11? Mr.  I will put you on the door.  You will? Mr.  Yeah.  It is free is not it? Mr.  Yeah.  Mr.  It is.  Andy Clockwise thanks for coming in. Mr.  Thank you so much.  Mr.   Everybody's in a band  Tonight is the final Monday of Andy Clockwise's Spaceland residency. It is free remember. Do not worry though if you are not in the L.A. area you can still listen to his music as well as lots of other artists on our newly redesigned Web site. That is npr.org.  Mr.   I know you really like him baby.  he is in a band. Everybody's in a band. Everybody has been friends. Everybody understands that  when you are in a band. All right. I know you really like him baby with his tight jeans and haircut and his androgynous good looks. But I have got to tell you he is in a band. 