 The day of The Beatles has arrived again. Let us celebrate.  Let us spend a lot of money. First we should deconstruct what is on offer. Tomorrow a new video game called  Rock Band. We explained that one on yesterday's program. And now we turn to The Beatles' music itself and an avalanche of reissue. Here to help Bob Boilen of NPR's ALL SONGS CONSIDERED. Hi Bob.  Hi Noah. I have a bag for you.  You have... The Beatles in mono.  Yes and then the bigger one.   It is a big black box. The Beatles with a little green apple there. That is very nice. Listen before we start let us play just any kind of Beatles - I want to - I just got to hear something to get in the right mood here just anything.    It is getting better all the time. Mr.   I used to get mad at my school.   No I cannot complain. Mr.   The teachers that taught me were not cool.   No I cannot complain. Mr.   You are holding me down turning me 'round filling me up with your rules. I have to admit it is getting better...  That is the question. Is it getting better all the time?   I would guess. And so we have got a lot of music here mono and stereo. Which one you want to start with?  Well I would start with the stereo one. The stereo one's the one that sounds most amazing. I turn these on the bass is incredibly incredibly warm. What they did in the studios at Abbey Road they bring out the cymbals a little more. You hear the harmonies so much better than you ever did.  All right. Okay. I have got it open. I have got just a handful - how many in here?  The stereo one contains all of The Beatles' releases 13 if you include Magical Mystery Tour which - and then a DVD of - it is a handful.  Right. I have got two handfuls of The Beatles. These are separate albums but you buy them...  You can buy them as a box. You can buy it separate in terms of the stereo. Yeah you can buy any way you want.  Oh you can? Okay. All right let us play something here.  Why do not we play a cut off of The White Album. We will play Dear Prudence. I was listening to that this morning before I came in and listen to Paul's bass and listen to the harmonies that are going on.    Dear Prudence will not you come out to play? Dear Prudence meet the brand new day.  Well that is very nice but it was very nice before. You are saying you can really hear the difference.  Oh absolutely. It totally changed the way the whole presentation of the music was. It was - it is like taking your favorite old movie from that 20-inch TV and throwing it on your HD.    Help I need somebody. Help not just anybody. Help you know I need someone. Help.  You know it strikes me it is an amazing amount of music that I am holding here.  Five hundred twenty-five minutes.   Five hundred twenty-five.  That is just off the top of my head 525 minutes.  Now forgive the skepticism. This music was remastered in '87.  It was actually released on CD in '87 but not remastered. They took the original analog recordings and sort of just bounced them onto a CD. The technology from analog to digital was not so hot then. They sounded brittle. They did not sound warm. They do now.   Okay get your money out again. So what does this big collection cost?  I think it is around 270 bucks for the stereo. You get every album they did all 13 albums and then you get this bonus double record of basically all the singles in stereo.  Now The Beatles in Mono this box sells by itself. How much is this?  Two hundred and ninety-something dollars 298.  Oh well.  Buy two because you put one away you pay for your kids' college in 20 years.   All right this is pretty impressive. It is nice and glossy and well-packaged. But if you got all this stuff you have got all this stuff right? If you have got the original albums the LPs. You got the '87 CDs. If you got it you have got it.  The cynic would say Capitol EMI they are going to milk the last dollar out of people another reissue of Beatles stuff. And in some ways it is for the record company last gasp stuff for the CD and in some ways this may be for many people the last CDs they buy.  Bob Boilen thank you for coming in and playing music for us.  Pleasure to do this.  Bob Boilen is the host of NPR's ALL g. And he has lots more Beatles material at that Web site.   And Melissa we will stay on a nostalgic note here as I thank you and the staff for the chance to come back to Washington and spend five days hosting ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. It is been great pleasure. Great memories here.  Oh it is great and talk about nostalgia hearing this music and just seeing you here and hearing you back on the air again after hosting - how many years was it Noah hosting ALL THINGS CONSIDERED?   Oh let me ask you a tougher one.  Okay.  How many years did we work together and travel together and I actually worked for you when you were the producer of the show.  Yeah well I know that. I came here 25 years ago. You gave me my first job here which you know setting up interviews for you 25 years coming up in January.  Well I would like to take credit for that.  Yeah.  I sometimes say I hired Melissa Block and they say wow.  Well no do not be a stranger. Come back soon and we will see you on the radio.  Okay I hope we can do it soon.    Oh no. You say goodbye and I say hello. Hello hello. I do not know why you say goodbye I say hello. Hello hello. I do not know why you say goodbye...  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 