 Last Friday a Top 40 radio station in Calgary Alberta introduced listeners to a new format.   90.3 and now twice the music.  Now when they say twice the music they actually mean half the song. That is this station plays songs that have been heavily edited. The goal they say is to keep listeners from getting bored. Steve Jones is the programming man behind this venture. He is vice president with the Canadian radio firm Newcap which owns 90 stations. Mr. Jones welcome.  Thank you Melissa. It is a pleasure.  Can I just say from the outside - I am going to put my cards on the table here - I think this is a terrible idea. I think this is everything I do not think about where we are in society today.  Well I appreciate getting any biases out of the way early. That is good.  So defend this for me. Why do you think it is a good thing?  When you think about why songs are the length they are why are they generally between three and five minutes? It goes back 60 years. And if you were a musician back then you really wanted radio airplay. You needed to have a 45. So artists complied and created three to five minute songs. Really what we are trying to do is redefine what listeners want.  But have you actually hearing from listeners who boy I would listen to your radio station but your songs are just too darn long?  No we have never heard that. But then before Twitter I do not think anyone said wow I wish we could communicate in shorter bursts. But we were observing in two and a half years of consumer research leading up to this change that people were suffering from a sort of iPod fatigue where they would put a song on listen to it for 90 seconds or two minutes. And then hit next song and listen to that song for 90 seconds or two minutes. And we thought as a radio station how can we adapt and change to suit the way our target audience is digesting media?  OK so at the risk Mr. Jones of sounding totally out of date if I am an artist are not I thinking I created a song that I thought should be a certain length. Who are you Mr. programmer in Canada to say we are taking out a minute and a half.  I think there is a misconception that artists think that way. For years songs have been edited or altered or changed or remixed to suit the needs of various radio stations. So the idea that artist integrity drives what is heard on the radio I think is a bit of a fallacy. In large part what drives what is heard on the radio is an artist's desire to have their music hit the mainstream and a record label's desire to profit from that.  I wonder where this stops Mr. Jones. I mean you know if you think about great story songs that you would hear on country radio - chop out a section of it and maybe we never know why George Jones stopped loving her today. You know there is got to be someplace where this just does not work.  I agree completely. I think the country radio would be a terrible place to try this. I also think that classic rock songs - it would be very difficult to present listeners who have for decades heard the songs a certain way.  Well let me try something out on you Mr. Jones because you said you did not think this could be applied to the classic rock format. But we gave it a shot. One of our producers has been busy with his editing tools and we have a preview here of something that we are calling SUPERKUTZ.    1 2 3 oclock 4 oclock rock - 9 10 11 oclock 12 oclock rock. We are going to rock around the clock tonight.  That is pretty good. But I think at 2 minutes and 18 seconds that song would fit perfectly on our Calgary station if it were released today.  All right here's another one.    I cannot get no satisfaction. No satisfaction.  And I could not get no satisfaction from that.  Yeah.  We are trying to maintain the essence and the integrity of the song. And the things that are being taken out almost go unnoticed by listeners.  As I listen to talk you about this I am thinking OK so you are just conditioning people to want things to be shorter all the time. What is their appetite going to be for anything that is longer if you keep going in this direction?  Well we try not to think like that. I mean we are looking at one radio station in one competitive situation where we think that this is an experiment we should try and see what comes of it. And there may be cases where we do this in other stations. But there is always room for long-form radio programming. And there always will be.  Well Mr. Jones I cannot say that I endorse what you are doing up there but I do appreciate you taking the time out to talk to us. Thanks so much.  My pleasure. Thank you.  Steve Jones is vice president of the Canadian radio firm Newcap which owns 90 stations. One of which AMP 90.3 is playing edited versions of Top 40 songs. 