 Finally today we have talked a lot on this program about last year's hurricane season when Hurricane Irma blasted through the Caribbean leveling schools and homes and businesses and leaving people emotionally battered as well. A couple weeks later Hurricane Maria swept through and made things even worse. Since those storms a lot of people have tried to find ways to help. Country music star Kenny Chesney is one of them. He lives in the Virgin Islands when he is not on tour and he started pitching in sending needed supplies and helping people leave the island and go to the continental U.S. And as you might expect from a chart-topping singer he started writing songs about what he was seeing and feeling. Now those two efforts have fused into two projects. He has a foundation called Love for Love City - Love City being a nickname for the island of St. John. And it is also the title of one of the songs on Chesney's latest album.    All I have got is love for Love City. No I was not there on the island the night that the drums went silent. But as much as I have lived my life on her shore I will be a part of the encore yeah. 'ecause all I have got is love for Love City.  And Kenny Chesney is with us now to talk about his new album Songs For The Saints. Kenny Chesney thanks so much for joining us.  Oh no thanks for having me. I really appreciate it.  And as you were just - we just heard from the song you were not on the island when the hurricanes hit but I just have to ask you know what it was like for you?  Well it was a stressful time to say the least you know. I spent a lot of my adult life so far on island and became not just friends but you know I had a circle of friends that I called family you know over the years. And I can tell you that it was a very stressful high-anxiety time. And for almost - it was over a week there was no texts. There were no emails because there was no power. There was no service. It was literally a dead island if you will. And that was what was very stressful because I had 17 people and several dogs living underneath my house where they rode out the storm. And I could not get a hold of anybody. And I did not know if everybody had made it.  One of the things that people noticed is just that these are green places and that you got there and all the green was gone. And I just wonder for a person who is spent so much of your life there what it was like for you when you first got there?  It was a sobering experience. I knew it was bad but until you see it it is - I was not prepared for it to be honest with you. It was two weeks after the storm. And when I landed down there I got in a helicopter and went around the BVIs and you know went over in the Tortola. And I was not really prepared for the amount of destruction and devastation. It broke my heart because I have - like I said I had so many friends that were still on island that were there that had their lives turned upside down. And these were people that did not have vacation homes there. These were people that this was their life. And you know part of the reason that I fell in love with those people was their spirit and their - the way they look at the world and their spirituality. It is a very spiritual place. And it was - when I saw it for the first time I could not believe it. I was writing songs. And I went into the studio as a way of therapy. I had no idea what I was going to do with this music. And that is where the core of this record you know the foundation of this record was born. I just felt that this music and the foundation would help give people a little bit of help to move forward.  Let us play a little bit of Every Heart because I think that that captures some of that that broken-heartedness if I can put it that way. And we will play a little bit and then we will talk a little bit about it. Here we go.  OK. Awesome.    Silver lining's kind of hard to find when the world stops at the horizon line. There as not a harbor that you recognize. It is hard to make a wish in an empty sky. Boardwalks are just nails and wood. They are pretty in a picture when times are good. Cars and boats are just on loan. A house is just sticks and stones but every heart is an island.  You know it is funny. I read the lyrics before I heard it. And I do not know maybe I should not have done that. But I was like oh man that is so sad. But then when I heard it it felt warm. Does that make sense?  Hopeful.  Hopeful. Yeah. Yeah. That is funny is not it? How did it come to you? Was it - did the sad part come to you first or the hopeful part come to you first?  Well look. This record this album is not necessarily about the devastation or the destruction. It is about the moving forward. And you know every heart is an island is about how there is just such a sense of community. You know I have always felt like an island is a lot like a small town and it has its small town negativity. People may not get along. Or they - you know there is rumors. And everybody knows everybody's business. And there is just you know any kind of negative slant that a small town would have an island has that also. But when this happened all that went away because everybody needed help. If there is a silver lining at all it was how much love came to the top.    And every tear is an ocean. We are all brothers in a storm and we are trying to survive it. Looking for dry land. Every heart is an island. You know that is that is why I felt like this song was important because it goes to the heart of that sense of community and how everybody just helped everyone.  Do you have any - forgive me for asking but do you have any survivors guilt? Is there a part of you that feels - it is just - you are kind of - it is not enough?  I can tell you that I felt really guilty that I was not there as it was happening. But honestly after the storms it was not a place to be. We were flying planes down to try to get people off especially pregnant people or elderly or people that had injuries because there was no hospital and we had to just get people off. And - but there were people there that did not want to leave because they wanted to stay and help. And a lot of my friends and my own family felt guilty for leaving. But for a little while - well not for a little while for a couple of months it was several months - it was not a healthy place to be to honest with you.  Well how are things now?  You know I think the recovery is going to be measured in years. You know it will be a year September 6 that these storms happened believe it or not. And it gets better. You can just tell it is been hit really hard and it is not going to recover at once. And you can still tell that it is broken a little bit at its core you know.  Kenny Chesney. His latest album Songs For The Saints is out now. Kenny Chesney thanks so much for talking with us.  Thanks for having me.    I as not lonely but I spend a lot of time alone.  After our conversation Kenny Chesney sent us a video. In it he plays an acoustic version of Love For Love City overlooking the island of St. John from the concrete slab where his house once stood. You can see that video on our website npr.org. 