 In 1995 country singer Ty Herndon released a single that hit number one on the country charts. It is called What Mattered Most.    I thought I knew the girl so well. If she was sad I could not tell.  It was a love song about losing a woman. Now over 20 years later he is re-releasing that song with few updates. He is singing about losing a man. He is changed the pronouns to match what he would sing now that he is been publicly out for five years. Ty Herndon joined us from Orlando where he was for Pride Month to talk about it. He started by telling us about the history of the original version of the song.  It was actually passed on by major artists like Brooks  Dunn George Strait simply because there was this line that said oh my God what did I do?    The way she laughed the way she loved - oh my God what did I do? And it just seems like people were really afraid of that because it was maybe a little dramatic for a country song.  Wait a second. So just the fact that there was the phrase oh my God or just - like was dramatic? Like  help us understand.  Dramatically how it was performed. And so hey being a little dramatic gay boy from Alabama in the closet oh my God what did I do worked fine for me.   So as you discussed this song came out before you were public about your sexuality. When you were singing it in later years did you feel uncomfortable about the pronouns? Is it something you thought about at all?  One of my rules has always been if I have not lived it I do not sing it. So I was really able to - I put my mom and dad kind of in that situation because they had this great love story. And my dad would always say gosh if I ever lost this woman I do not know what I would do. So you know that oh my God what did I do - I would think about my mom and dad with that. So that is how I made it a living breathing thing for me when I would perform it. And I knew that so many people out in the crowd felt the same way about the song.    Her eyes are blue. Her hair is long. In '64... But at the time I was also in a relationship with a beautiful boy. His hair was long and his eyes were blue. And so I did think about him quite a bit you know? And I have to tell you. Even though I have been in a relationship with my partner Matthew for nine years now - and his hair is not long but his eyes are blue - I had to tell him you know babe I had to go back and think about this other dude just for a minute.  .    But I paid no attention to what mattered most.  It is interesting. I grew up in the '90s. And when I think of what country music was like back then was there pressure do you think to be kind of like the good-looking man in the cowboy hat and that that man was supposed to be straight?  Absolutely. I mean I got my record deal when I was playing honky-tonks in Texas. And when I got signed and got to Nashville the first thing they did was take the cowboy hat off my head. They said oh you have hair so we will go with that. And kind of like George Strait I kind of faked the guitar. So they said oh you do not really play guitar so we are going to take the guitar away from you too. So they took all my props away. So I was left with a lot of hair and some great music.   Hair and hips - is that where that went .  Hair and hips. Hair and hits. There you go. I like that .  So how does this all fit in to the country music scene? Like how worried were you about coming out?  I was really prepared to walk away from it all to be honest with you. I was living authentically everything in my life except for my career. And I had this great friend. Her name is Chely Wright. And she was one of the first female artists that came out in country music. And that is been nine years ago. And it was a little tougher for her. But I had some great mentors. But to be honest with you I would have just been fine writing songs or quite honestly getting a job anywhere if I could not live authentically. So I was really prepared to walk away from it all and that is the truth. But I did not have to do that. And I never in a million years expected that so I am pretty astounded and grateful.    I thought I knew the boy so well.  Can you talk about why you wanted to put out this new version?  You know it was pretty simple for me because when I go and speak to kids I hear this all the time especially the LGBT kids. You know we really want to like country music but we do not think country music likes us. So the climate is changing so much in Nashville. And the reason I wanted to do this was to show all those kids out there that are popping into Nashville and want to be country stars or producers or writers or whatever they want to be that you do not have to be afraid. And you know it starts with me. It starts with artists that have been there. So I could not think of a better way to celebrate 25 years of this song from the day I recorded it.    I memorized his every move. I knew his books his car his clothes. But I paid no attention to what mattered most.  This time around today can you point us to a lyric that is meaningful to you now in this new context?  Well you know it is really quite simple. When I say oh my God what did I do in this song...    Oh my God what did I do? ...It just kind of comes crashing down the length and the extreme ways that I went to cover up who I was just to have a career.    What did I do?  You are in your late 50s now. You have a partner. You seem quite...  Yeah.  ...Quite comfortable with who you are.  .  What would be your message to the young man who first recorded this song?  To take a deep breath and hold on 'ecause the ride is not going to be easy but you will be OK.  Country singer Ty Herndon. His song What Mattered Most is out now. Thank you so much.  You are a pleasure. I will talk to you anytime.  .    His eyes are blue. His hair was long. In '64 he was born in Baton Rouge. 