  .  Natalia Lafourcade is best known for this song Hasta La Raiz. She won a Grammy last year for the album it is on also called Hasta La Raiz. And the album was all about a breakup. Now the pop singer is exploring Latin American folk music mainly from Mexico where she lives and where she is from.   .  Lafourcade's new album is called Musas which means muses. And her muses are Latin American singers performers and poets.  I wanted the music to sound like made in Mexico. I wanted to connect to my roots.  She even worked with some of these muses on the album including the legendary Mexican guitar duo Los Macorinos.   They play on every track of Musas. They are in their 70s. Lafourcade is 33. She says working with them was different.  The Macorinos and me - there is a big space between our generations. The people I was used to work with we will do everything faster. And the Macorinos were more like calm. They were patient with music and they were paying a lot of attention to the details.  And working with two or three generations of musicians all sitting down together in one room what does that do? I mean how do you think it is affected the music?  Sometimes the music will tell you where to go. And when you find that place I believe is when you are just connecting to the feelings and the heart and the people you are with. You are all working to have a piece of art you know music and trying to figure out a way of making it contemporary and modern at the same time as having this old spirit that they have. And it is beautiful.  Let us listen to Te Vi Pasar - I Saw You Pass By.   .  Those eyes two crystals - the one reflected. My love did not notice me. These are lyrics by the very well-known Mexican songwriter and poet named Agustin Lara. I mean your audience is obviously young people who listen to you. Do you think it is important to expose them to these more traditional-sounding songs?  Yes. If we do not listen to that music if we do not go closer to that music it will get lost. And this project - when I thought about this project I was more in the mood of going back home and exploring through all these songwriters that I love that put in a place the full glory of their countries and their people and their stories and their places.   . I really want to become like a composer for my people my country that will photograph the things that are happening now in story and in life and love but not only like the love of a couple you know the love in general. It becomes like a very strong influence all this music.   .  And you have all these muses for this album - of course that is the title of the album - these traditional artists and musicians who you have known through your life. Do people who hear - you know younger listeners who hear this music now - do they come to you and say wow I did not even know that existed thank you for bringing it to me? I mean what is been the reaction?  I was wondering how they will react to this music and they love it.  Why do you think that is important for that audience?  Well I think it is important because it has made me more sensitive. Some years ago I was not feeling that proud of being who I am and where I come from and the place I grew up and my country and my culture. I did not even think about it like many years ago. And as I went through that music now I feel more proud. And there are many ways to connect to that. So if I can make my audience which are very young people listen to something that will make them connect to those things maybe I am doing something right. I do not know .   .  Natalia Lafourcade thank you so much for talking to us today.  Thank you so much. Thank you.   .  Her new album is Musas.   . 