 K-pop is here to stay - Korean pop music that is. And if you think you are not hip to it let us remind you.    Gangnam style - Gangnam style...  That is of course Gangnam Style the viral sensation by the Korean pop star Psy. That song made the biggest splash the U.S. But there is a long list of artists lining up behind Psy and they have a growing American fan base. NPR's Nathan Rott sent this postcard from KCON a K-pop festival that just wrapped up in downtown Los Angeles.  All right. Two quick things to start - get used to background music. It is as omnipresent here at KCON as Hello Kitty backpacks and the sweet smell of Korean barbecue. Second we need to broaden our definition of the work K-pop by introducing another word - Hallyu. Angela Killoren the co-organizer of KCON will explain.  Hallyu is a word that if you are outside of this genre you have no idea what it means. It technically means Korean wave.  I have no idea.   It technically - but it is kind of code. It says calling all fans.  And she means all fans of everything Korean. That includes your screaming teary-eyed K-music fans...   ...Pushing at the gates near the event's red carpet. It includes your K-dancing fans...   All right. Let us all dance.  ...Lining up under a tent to learn new dance moves like a real-life Dance Dance Revolution. And that even includes a tent of your K-video game fans.   They need to make a move right now. .   So these are some of the best video gamers?  Yes in the world. We were also hoping to attract a few more boys to our con. .  So yeah talking demographics Killoren says that most of the 40000 KCON-goers are girls. Now you might expect that most of the fans are Korean.  Most every single person will think that. In fact most Koreans think that. And they come and they realize we have - less than 10 percent of our audience is Korean.  And Killoren says that is kind of the point. KCON is a way to give American K-pop fans a taste of something they usually only see on YouTube and to get them caught up in that Hallyu wave. Jan Carook and Rhealyn Sico - they are submerged.  Once you are in that Hallyu wave you are going to feel like - I feel like I am a Korean now honestly.  Exactly what the KCON organizers were hoping for. Nathan Rott NPR News.   .  This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 