 Ten and a half years ago a 22-year-old from Chicago stepped in front of a trio of judges to audition for the third season of American Idol.   All right what are you going to sing?  Share Your Love With Me by Aretha Franklin.  It is an evil wind that blows no good yeah yeah.  Jennifer Hudson would finish in just seventh place that season. But she would go on to win an Academy Award for her role in the movie Dreamgirls and score a Grammy with her very first album. But she is also faced unthinkable tragedy. In 2008 her mother brother and nephew were murdered. The trial did not wrap until 2012. It was months before she came back to the studio to start recording her third album. Hudson had won over audiences singing big emotional ballads. But she told me this time she wanted to take a new direction.    I do it for the thrill even if it kills. Dangerous - you make me feel dangerous.  Jennifer Hudson's new album is called JHUD. And she dropped by our studios at NPR West to talk about her new sound.  It is expressive of my energy and like my everyday person. You will definitely get that like whereas the other music before the space I was in was more about like singing - you know singing right notes and it being just about that. But now this time like I have a new like take on what music represents for me you know. And it is more about celebrating it.  Nice.  And the energy of it - feeling the energy from the people them feeling my energy which is what I call Jenniferizing. I am Jenniferizing you with that energy in that album.    He as not moving he as not goin' nowhere. He as not moving he as not goin' nowhere. There is so much to learn from what your boyfriend says. Take advantage when he thinks you are not listening.  The brightness in a way it is almost a little bit surprising because you have been through some rough times recently. And it is nice to hear the happiness.  Yeah you know and I just think overall I have been like tokened as a very heavy artist a heavy actress a heavy life and life experiences. And it is like but that is not me you know? It is - I guess it is something I understand and it is a part of me. But the thing that is most of Jennifer is my positive energy that brings me out of all of it. So that is why this was so important to create in this way and for people to get that and understand that you know.  You can be deep without being heavy.  Yeah like even in the heaviest times I find the brightest light.    I feel like I am in love. That is nice but not good enough. I feel like saying something that is for us that defines what is in our hearts.  So it sounds like and I really feel like I hear this on the record that you are being more yourself here.  Yeah.  There are more songs from you on this album.  Oh yes. Oh my God that is probably one of my favorite parts of this album. This album - one I did not record anything I did not love. And so...  Have you done that in the past?  Oh my God yes.  Yeah?  On album one and two it was like oh OK well they said sing this. It was - before it was Jennifer just sing this. OK I can sing anything sure. I will sing it. Whereas now it is like no I did not sing anything I did not love. And I helped write a lot of stuff. I helped produce a lot of things you know. If I did not write it I was able to construct it musically the way I wanted it to go you know. And that is why through each song it is like a piece of me.  Which is the first song that you sat down and wrote kind of in this new mindset?  Wow. I know Walk It Out for sure.    I have got you hypnotized. I have got you staring. And from the look in your eyes you want to walk it out with me. We ended up changing the verses to me whatever - from my perspective of whatever I decided to write for it which made it that much more true to me. And in this song it is like this reminds me of growing up. You know this reminds me of the South Side of Chicago. This reminds me of when we used to sit on the porch and the boys would be playing basketball in the playground or the girls walking to the store jumping rope. And they are trying to talk to us. You know what I mean? Like it just took me back to that space. So even when we got to the music video I was like we need to shoot this in Chicago. And it took me back to growing up you know? And I wanted to just relive all of that. And that is what that song I feel like gave me. And that is the way it ended up in that space.    I know you want to take me to your room. And I want to go your way way way. But you have got to treat me like a lady. We should just get to know each other yeah. And I am down to go all the way way way. But not on the first date yeah.  In your performance I read that you learned about performing singing in gay bars. There was a line you said - where is it? You said that that was my training.  It was. It was. I mean because I did not start singing with my eyes open until I was like 19 OK? Because I spent the majority of my time singing in church or in school. And by the time I got to like high school I would go with my assistant - who is my assistant now Walter Williams. And we would go to the gay clubs and it would always be like drag queens lip-syncing. They would be dressed for the gods. And I loved it. It would be like a talent show and there was a prize. But the people would give you tips. So I was - I am sitting there like wait a minute they are lip-syncing? This is an interesting concept. OK they are not real girls. But they are drag queens and they are fierce. Wait a minute. I am a real girl. And I got big hair too and eyelashes. Hold on. And I sing for real. So what if I came in here and started singing? What would happen? And so that is what I started to do. And they used to dress me and make my costumes. I had my own glam squad. And I would go perform. And then I started to like win all the money. And that was our thing yeah. And I used to make like - that is when I really started to like get out and perform.    OK so here we go. Give me that.  So it is been almost exactly 10 years since you were on American Idol. What is it like to look back on that?  Oh my God. You know I am the type of person...  It is 2014.  I still - it is so fresh in my mind. Like this is the 10-year anniversary. And to think how far I have come and it is amazing like wow in 10 - 10 years.  A lot of us are still sore feeling like you got robbed. But...  Oh please please. You know I cannot complain you know like...  Yeah you have done pretty well.  I have done extremely well. And that is the thing that blows my mind though. Because let me say this when I auditioned for Idol I did not say I wanted to win. I said I want to do this for the experience. I feel as though like if I say something it like happens. And I said no I want to do this for the experience and it haunts me because I am still experiencing it to this day 10 years later. Like without Idol and all of that then would I be sitting here right now? And look at how much I have been able to - a career I have been able to build and the things I have been able to experience. I would have never guessed I would have won an Oscar and a Grammy off of my first album and everything else. You know what I mean? And so I am still experiencing it to this day.  Jennifer Hudson it is been such a pleasure speaking with you.  Thank you.  Thanks for coming in.  Thank you for having me.    Bring back the music. Bring back the love. Bring back that feeling feeling of love. 