 At noon on October 8 a performer named Taylor Mac will take the stage in Brooklyn with a full orchestra and backup singers 24 musicians total. They will begin singing American songs from the year 1776. Each hour one person will leave the stage. Each hour history will advance one decade without a break. By midday on October 9 Taylor Mac will be the only one left on the stage singing songs from the present day. It is a show that he has spent years developing called A 24-Decade History Of Popular Music.   I wanted it to be so long that the audience is falling apart. I am falling apart. We are all falling apart but because we go through the history all together and because we are - I make the audience do so many things they start to get to know each other and we actually are building some kind of tangible community out of an ephemeral art form.  So even as you are falling apart you are coming together.  Yeah that is the concept. One two three four...   Follow the drinking gourd. Follow the drinking gourd for the old man is...  We are watching a rehearsal at a Brooklyn theater called St. Ann's Warehouse. This is a song from the Underground Railroad. We are around the year 1840. Clearly Taylor Mac takes liberties with his musical interpretations. Though he performs in outrageous costumes for this rehearsal he is dressed more modestly. He told me he is been dreaming about creating a show like this for more than 30 years.  In 1987 I went to the very first AIDS Walk in San Francisco and it was the first time I would ever seen an out homosexual before. I was 14. And the first time I saw an out homosexual was thousands of them all at the same time - so that kind of weird dichotomy of a community building itself and being introduced to that community for the first time and the community as being torn apart because of the epidemic. And I thought I want to make a show about that.  It took him a long time to figure out what form the show should take. Then he decided on a 24-hour feat of endurance.    Where have you been my blue-eyed son? Where have you been my darling young one?  Each decade is about a different community that builds itself as a result of being torn apart. There is women's suffrage Jewish tenements the fight for civil rights. But he often comes at them from a strange angle. For example one decade is devoted to children's songs that were popular during the Indian Removal Act. Taylor Mac has been performing excerpts of this show all over the world and he is picked up raves from the press. But next month is the only time he is scheduled to perform the entire 24-hour epic. This recording is from Ann Arbor Mich.    And I met another man who was wounded with hatred. It is a hard hard - it is a hard - it is a hard - it is a hard rain and it is going to fall.  Taylor Mac really wants people who sign up for the 24-hour performance to stay the whole time. There will be nooks for people to take short naps if they need and food to eat. People can get up and walk around but they will be moving around anyway. During the decade brail was invented he will blindfold the audience and make them play musical chairs during. The tenement section he makes everyone crowd together on stage.   You guys are all going to play the babies in the Jewish tenement OK? And when I go like this you are going to make baby noises like . OK ready here do it.  .  And if I go like that you get louder.  I know this sounds really heavy handed and that is partly because you cannot see Taylor Mac. His physical presence is a spectacle - not exactly a clown not quite a drag queen. On stage it can be difficult to pin down his gender or genre.  It is the genre of the ridiculous.   What does the ridiculousness bring to the conversation about serious things like slavery and the Trail of Tears and internment camps?  Yeah. Sometimes you have to show the ridiculousness of something to expose it. So sometimes you have to exaggerate something in order to show what the thing is.  That extends to the outfits. Taylor Mac's longtime costume designer goes by the name Machine Dazzle. The preferred look is headdresses gowns and makeup that might be appropriate for Mardi Gras. Then just before going on stage sneeze into a pile of glitter. We walk over to the costume rack. He has a completely different look for every hour including a couple dozen pairs of high heels.  So this is the Civil War one right here.  With a hot dog head dress.  Yeah he tends to do some research about you know German immigration at the time. So hot dogs were being sold on the street to make people money. That is how it became a thing.  With what looks like a barbed-wire-inspired skirt.  Barbed wire was also invented at the time.  Taylor Mac says the ketchup-inspired fringe dripping off the headdress looks a bit like blood in the right lighting appropriate for a decade about the Civil War.   Having worked on this project so intensely for so many years at this point what is your story of America?  Well the important thing is that there is not one story  you know? I mean I think that is the story of America - that there is not one story. It is something that - it often gets framed as one story one nation under one God and also because it all has to fit in the history book when we are kids. And so we get the perspective that it is one story. And often the default is white and often the default is straight. And often the default is male. And so it is just fun for me to think well what are the other stories that that we do not think of as the American story?    Let me tell my mother I come alone .  There is a lot about this show that Taylor Mac is still unsure about and he is embracing the uncertainty. He does not even know whether he can make it through 24 hours.  You know I just  - well like I wanted to sing Purple Rain - cannot sing it. Well I guess I do not have a voice anymore. Well the audience knows that song. You know let the band play and then  we will just have the audience sing it.  When the performance does become ragged and things start to fall apart he hopes the community he is building inside that Brooklyn theater will come together and hold each other up.    If I had money enough to spend and leisure to sit a while...  Taylor Mac is presenting a few decades each night all this month at St. Ann's Warehouse. He will perform everything from 1776 to the present day in 24 hours starting October 8.    But since it falls unto my lot that I should rise and you should not I will gently rise and softly call good night and joy be with you all. Good night and joy be with you all. 