 Yesterday as the Jewish Day of Atonement came to a close worshippers in synagogues around the world heard one last blast of the shofar the ram's horn. It is blown mostly on the Jewish New Year Rosh Hashanah and in the weeks leading up to Rosh Hashanah. And then with Yom Kippur yesterday the official shofar-blowing season comes to a close. It is traditional for some members of a congregation to blow the shofar and I have to say that the people who blew the shofar in my congregation did it extremely well. But last week I heard from two independent sources that the woman who blew the shofar at another synagogue was exceptional and that this shofar player even had a close relationship with the great jazz trumpet player Dizzy Gillespie. So here fresh from her turn at Congregation Adas Israel in Washington D.C. is Jennie Litvack. Welcome to the program. Ms.  Thank you very much.  And I want you to describe first of all the remarkable instrument you brought with you. Ms.  Well this is a shofar. It is a ram's horn. It is about three and a half feet long and this one plays really nicely. Sometimes it plays like a bugle but there is nothing manmade about it. Each shofar is different and plays differently.  And what happens in the synagogue is typically the rabbi would call out for a series of notes and you as the shofar player respond. Ms.  Correct. There are basically four types of notes. There is tekiah which is a medium-length note the shevarim which is three shorter notes a teruah which are nine staccato notes and then a tekiah gedolah where you basically take the biggest breath you can and hold as long as you can.  How long do you hold that? Ms.  Well at home I normally am able to do about 40 seconds but this year during the services with a little bit of divine inspiration I guess I was able to do 52. My son was counting with his watch.  That may be too long for our program actually. It is a long program but it may be too long for Ms.  We do not want any car accidents.  Okay. Well first before we get on to some more exotic playing on the shofar and your story as a horn player why do not we hear some of those notes from the synagogue? I will give you the call okay? Tekiah.   Shevarim.   Teruah.   Tekiah.   Now you are also a trumpet player. Ms.  I am yes.  When did you start playing the trumpet? Ms.  Oh I started many years ago when I was 12 years old.  You are a 12-year-old kid in Montreal playing the trumpet and you told me your dad took you to a jazz club. Ms.  Yeah. My dad took me to the Rising Sun a wonderful jazz club in Montreal to hear Dizzy Gillespie play and afterwards I went up to him and I asked him if I could try his trumpet. You know he had the famous trumpet that bend upwards and I played and I think he was impressed. So I asked him if I could have a lesson with him. So he invited me the next day and I went in. My mother was waiting in the car outside and she waited for four hours until she finally knocked on the door because we just hit it off. And after that he just decided that I was his goddaughter and so we developed a very special relationship.  To your knowledge did Dizzy Gillespie ever try playing the shofar? Ms.  It is the type of thing he would do but I never saw him do it or I never heard of it. He was a Baha'i and then we used to have great conversations about Judaism and Baha'ism and the oneness of mankind. But I do say when I play I also feel Dizz. I feel his connection with me and that feels really special.  Now how about something completely out of the synagogue environment that you can play on the shofar. Ms.  Would you like to hear Taps?  Sure.   Well Jennie Litvack thank you very much for coming here and for playing the shofar for us. Ms.  Thank you very much for giving me the opportunity. It was a pleasure.  Do you want to try one tekiah gedolah now? Okay.   She went on for 32 seconds this time. I will take this opportunity to tell you that you can see what makes this sound at npr.org where there is a photo of Jennie Litvack's shofar or ram's horn.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 