  Now it is time for our segment called Words You will Hear. And that is where we take a word or a phrase that we think will be in the news in the coming days and let you know what it is all about. And this week our words are the boss.    Born down in a dead man's town. The first kick I took was when I hit the ground. End up like a dog...  Yes none other than Bruce Springsteen the Rock and Roll Hall of Famer the beloved son of New Jersey has sold more than 120 million albums worldwide. But this week he is expressing himself in a different way. His 500-page memoir called - what else? - Born To Run is published this week. Springsteen is on the cover of Vanity Fair's October issue and I am joined now by David Kamp who wrote the piece about Springsteen's book for the magazine. David thanks so much for speaking with us.  Good to be with you Michel.  Now just to be clear your piece with Vanity Fair is not a book review. But you read the book. You know just a couple of questions. First of all why now? Why is this the time for him to write this work?  Well it is not exactly now. It began in 2009. He would done the Super Bowl halftime show with the E Street Band and that experience even for someone as seasoned a performer as him through him for a loop. And he thought wow this is a funny experience that warrants some writing. So he actually wrote a little blog post for his springsteen.net website and he said I discovered a good voice to write in. Just from that exercise that is 2009. And then he starts writing a little bit more and in drips and drabs over the next few years he says hey I have got a memoir.  Now the news about the book that is surfaced so far - you know you have read it most of us have not - is that he is very open about his history with mental illness. Can you talk a little bit about that?  Of course. And yeah that is the natural headline because for anyone in public to speak of clinical depression that is really a big deal when someone like that opens up not just about depression Michel but ongoing clinical depression meaning he is not just talking about oh I had a bad spell back in the early '80s. He talks about how you know the ages - age 60 to 62 was rough then it was good for a year. Then from 63 to 64 I had another bad period. And I think he made this choice to talk about this in the book both out of his innate honesty but also I think to show that depression is a real thing that can be talked about and it does not need to be a stigma.  You say in your piece that his wife who is also a member of the band Patti Scialpha says she was not altogether comfortable with him disclosing this. I was really curious about that the fact that she was honest enough to tell you that. Why do you think she was uncomfortable with it?  Well Patti said the very exercise of Bruce doing this book is uncharacteristic. I said what do you mean? She said he is not a gabber meaning he is not someone who would be at a cocktail party schmoozing and being effervescent. He is a brooder. But when he sets his mind to doing something whether it is writing a group of songs or writing this book she respects his artistic integrity. So she said you know it is just like writing songs. You are not going to get in the way of that process. You find yourself through writing. And she said this applies to her too. She herself has experienced some clinical depression. And so she said while I am Bruce's rock I also understand the need to acknowledge this.  You know you interviewed Springsteen also in person at length for the piece in Sweden I take it - right? - while they were on tour?  Right because the - he and the E Street Band were touring all summer in Europe so I went to Gothenburg Sweden.  I am tempted to ask you a fake pretend smart question about it. But really my only question is how cool was that and how come I cannot have your life?   Well I love your eloquence in asking that question - how cool was that? That is good interviewing technique - no but it is because of course it was cool. And what was even cooler was to have this perch stage-side in a big soccer stadium so you can actually see a bit of what he sees which is 60000 people waving their arms in unison singing the lyrics of Born To Run singing it back to you onstage. That was cool.  David Kamp wrote about the boss Bruce Springsteen in the October issue of Vanity Fair. Bruce Springsteen's new book Born To Run comes out this week. David thanks so much for speaking with us.  My pleasure Michel.    Oh baby this town rips the bones from your back. It is a death trap. It is a suicide wrap. We got to get out while we are young 'ecause tramps like us baby we were born to run. 