 Today some music from Amanda Shires a talented songwriter in the Americana music world. She has released albums on her own and has won acclaim as a member of the 400 Unit the band that backs up her husband songwriter Jason Isbell. Now Amanda Shires is out with her fifth solo album. It is called To The Sunset. Earlier this week she stopped by our Washington D.C. studio to perform a couple of songs. She started with one titled Break Out The Champagne.   Talking between bathroom stalls Kelly said the world would end tonight that we would be ashes in apocalyptic light. And I said break out the champagne if we will not be seeing tomorrow. Let us get on with the show on with the show. Somewhere above the Newfoundland Sea pilot said we would lost an engine. In a split second I made an executive decision. We are going to break out the champagne. Everybody look out below. Let us get on with the show on with the show. Adios. The morning love told her he was leaving he said they would be better as friends. It is no one's fault. The heart wants what it wants. And then she thought I am rock and roll and you are golf. Break out the champagne I have been thinking the same thing myself. We might as well break out the champagne if that is really how it is going to go. Let us get on with the show on with the show. Adios.  That is a great song. Tell me who you are playing with here. Introduce your bandmates.  Ok. Playing the guitar from outside of Houston Texas Seth Plemmons. And then playing the other guitar from Miami Fla. Zach Setchfield.  It sounds great. So you have been known for kind of a folksy Americana sound not unlike what we just heard with that song. But on this album boy - the guitars crunch the vocals are layered. There are some more pop-sounding tracks. And one song that really sticks in my head is called Eve's Daughter. Let us play a little bit off the album. To give you a break from singing for a minute here's the track Eve's Daughter.    I was young spring had sprung. I wanted out of . Kept the party dress in the glove compartment of my green and white Ford Bronco. A gust of wind came blasting in the gas station where I was working. He was 23 he was on leave and the rest gets a little blurry. Maybe it was circumstance but I saw my chance and I took it. Through the sunset shifting gears till there is something better shining diamond clear shining diamond clear.  So it is called Eve's Daughter. Tell us who Eve is. And who is her daughter?  The idea started with my mom because it is really her story. So my dad whisks her away to Mineral Wells Texas - beautiful place - and then it does not work out and she is moving around and getting lots of jobs and going to school and also accepting the choices that she is made and then being cheerful about it.  So you have a daughter now. Has that experience made you think differently about your own relationship with your mother? Do you...  Yeah.  Do you understand more? Do you....  When my daughter was born - we would talk about a lot of stuff because motherhood is a guilt-ridden situation. I mean I go all around and I leave her so I talk about it all the time with her. And she was telling me about her own mother abandoning her for good so that - I was not doing a bad thing really. I am just going working making it OK for her to want to make those choices if she gets older to be able to do what she wants to do and feel OK with it.  Yeah. And children reveal things to us about ourselves in pretty powerful ways.  They do. The other day she was sitting at the breakfast table when I was sitting down with her. And she was like get up. I thought something was wrong. But then she said you are sitting on my shadow. That is a good line. I will keep it.  She is going to need co-songwriting credit.   Do not tell her that. I gave her a popsicle.   Amanda Shires is with us in the studio. Her latest album is called To The Sunset. Thank you so much for coming in to play for us. And you have got one last song that you are going to take us out with.  Right.  And tell us what it is.  This is that song called Charms about mothering and about our place as humans in the world. . I do not want to give away all the secrets is what I am trying to tell you.  Got it.  Because what is - the beauty of songs I think is if you do it right a lot of people can relate to it in their own way and make their own meaning out of things. And so I do not want to give away the secrets and ruin somebody's idea of what the song is to them.  Exactly. And you have switched to your ukulele here.  Yep. I call her the ugly lady.  My mom gave me her gold charm bracelet when she left me on my own. Cannot remember what the charms were or the color of the stone. And I still hate your father for selling what was never his to pawn. Maybe being human is an orphan condition and what is missing is not what should be found. Maybe moving forward is my only ambition and I never let myself turn around. I am daring... 