 It is not every day we get to talk to someone considered a living legend.   Saxophonist Sonny Rollins qualifies. This song The Bridge is a masterpiece in a career that spans more than 60 years. After winning nearly every honor imaginable including the Presidential Medal of Honor he is now donated his archive to the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture at the New York Public Library. Now since this was not just any interview we brought in the big guns bassist and host of NPR's Jazz Night in America Christian McBride.  Hey Christian McBride.  I miss you Sonny. How are you?  I am hanging in there man.  Christian and I spoke to Sonny Rollins about what is in those archives and about his childhood in Harlem where Rollins first took up music at just 7 years old.  When my mother got me a saxophone of course you know I mean this was Depression time. It took her a while to - for me to convince her that yeah I really want to play. Although I should not say that. My mother gave me anything I wanted if she could. There is nothing like a mother's love. And anyway she got me this used horn. So boy I got this horn man and I went in the room and I shut the door and I was in heaven. I heard a lot of music around me when I was growing up being born in Harlem. That is another significance of the Schomburg collection because Harlem was Harlem.   Back in the '30s when I grew up Harlem was sort of the epicenter of - all of the black jazz kings resided up there.  So was it a matter of sneaking into those clubs?  I finally did sneak into a club. We used to go down to 52nd Street. And I used to go hear Charlie Parker. But I had to put on - you know we got this black stuff that women put on their eyebrows. You know so...  Oh to make a fake moustache?  Right make a fake moustache.  .  And I said why - now I do not know if I was fooling nobody but they did not - I do not think they cared too much. But they let us in. Yeah 52nd Street I used to go in there and have my fake moustache and go in there...  That is great.  ...And listen to the great Charlie Parker.   Now Sonny Rollins can you talk to us a little bit about what kind of papers you have turned over? Is there a particular item that you are really excited for scholars or people to see?  Well you know I am constantly trying to learn music and teach myself. So I had a lot of little notes to myself of patterns. There are some personal notes between me and my wife. There are a lot of personal things there. And when the truck pulled away from my home with all of that stuff I felt well wait a minute. There I go. I am going with that. Am I here? I do not know. It was a very interesting experience.  Mr. Rollins I wanted to ask you about one of your many innovations. One of them is the piano-less trio just the saxophone bass drums trio. How did that start?   Well OK now you are going to get me in trouble now Christian.   I did not - I did not...  You are going to get me in trouble. Now see...   Did somebody not show up for the gig or something? I am sorry.   No. See I - the thing is this. I felt that I could concentrate on my own stream of thought better without a pianist. I just wanted to be - not be led. I mean it is hard not to be led by a piano. But in my playing I always felt more free and able to go the places where my mind took me without having a piano say well here man go from this chord. Go to the fourth there. Go to the seventh there. Go - which is good. I mean it is nothing wrong with that. But I felt freer. And when I have a great bass player like yourself and a great drummer then that is all I need. I need the rhythm and then the rest of it - I wanted to be free to hear whatever was there to be heard.  Absolutely.   You have lived long past many of the greats that you worked with even the ones that came after you. What do you - what has that been like? I mean what do you see your role as in terms of carrying forward some of these legacies?  Well I have been so fortunate. You know I played with - oh boy you know I played with Coleman Hawkins. I played with Leslie Young Don Byas. I played with Dexter Gordon Miles Dizzy Fats Navarro one of our great trumpet players. When I look back on the people that I played with it is unbelievable. But it was such a great thing. And actually you know they are not physically here true but they are here. See I can wake up and think about Miles any day any minute of the day. Oh think about something he said. Think about something he played. Think about Monk. They are still here to me. All of them. All of them. And Christian knows what I am talking about because if you hear the music that - you do not have to be there looking at somebody's body. His music is there all the time.  And it feeds the soul.  It feeds the soul.  Mr. Rollins I want to ask you are we going to hear some new music from you soon?   Well Christian I had a little health issue and it sort of got me away from playing. I mean I had to go through quite a period of adjustment after I realized that I could not blow my horn anymore. But I went through it. And I hope - who knows? But I do not think I will be able to play anymore. I do not know because my saxophone was so much an integral part of everything I thought about. And expressing sounds - it is difficult to do it on another instrument. But I do not know. I mean who knows? Maybe I might start singing. Who knows? Watch out.   I would love that yes .  Do it. Do it.  Watch out. Watch out.   Well Sonny Rollins thank you so much for speaking with us. It was fascinating learning about how you came up in Harlem and your music. It was - I am looking forward to hearing more about these papers.  Mr. Rollins on behalf of everyone on this planet who has heard your music thank you.  Thank you. Thank you very much.  