 Finally this hour the sound of the future in California. The state is 36 percent Latino and that percentage is rising. Latin music is evolving as musicians move back and forth from Latin America to the U.S. They are mixing regional musical styles from south of the border with American hip-hop and RB. Corey Takahashi reports on the way multiple migrations are shaping music in California.  One of Erick Santero's earliest memories is roaming through Central America with his father a singer from El Salvador. Mr.  I grew up with what we call the sonidero sound system DJs where there would be flatbed trucks that would roll into town with a bunch of homemade speakers and microphones and turntables. And they would just plug into a generator and they would play at the little festivals in these mountain villages that I was living in. For me that was like the moment of revelation where I was like wow this is what I want to do with the rest of my life.  Mr.   .  Santero's styles reflect the travel routes of a Salvadoran father and Guatemalan mother. They fled Central America during a time of civil war natural disasters and crumbling economies. His parents' goal was to get into the U.S. and stay there. Mr.  I was actually born in New York but shortly after we were deported so I grew up in Central America. It was until many years later that we crossed the border back into the United States.  Mr.   .  Santero absorbed more musical styles while living in New York New Orleans and his current home Oakland California.  Mr.   .  He is part of a loose-knit and far-flung group of artists he calls Latin Sound Systems a kind of new generation of the roving sonideros he loved as a kid. Mr.  I do not really believe in borders whether they be musical or geographic or nationalistic.  This track Agua del Rio features Santero along with rappers from Cuba and RB singers from the San Francisco Bay Area.    .  And there is the unmistakable guitar styling of bachata.    .  Bachata began in the Dominican Republic but Santero learned about the style from Dominicans in New York City. It is just one of the multiple migration streams that can be heard in music from the Latin sound systems. This is a DJ set made in Mexico by the artist and producer Chico Sonido. His real name is Raul Espinosa and he launched his career in Monterrey. Now his dreams have taken him across the border.  Mr.  I was like well I got to be where things are happening you know so I moved to L.A. And I came to L.A. to continue my music to keep on producing to get more connected with people.   L.A. has given Chico Sonido's work a different flavor. One of his creations is this hip-hop cumbia track called A Bailar El Ritmo.  But Chico Sonido says it can be hard to tell where the Mexican influence on his work ends and the L.A. influence begins. Mr.  Most of my new album I made here in L.A. So it feels pretty much like Mexico like in the middle you know? It is very different than you know New York City and other parts of the United States.   The music's pretty futuristic but Chico Sonido and other artists hope to popularize older Latin styles too. Sometimes they do it with remixes of rare and forgotten songs or by playing those vinyl recordings at a special club night on the northeast side of L.A. One of the party's organizers Eamon Ore-Giron performs as DJ Lengua.    Cumbia cumbia cumbia.  DJ Lengua is Peruvian and Irish and has lived in the U.S. and Latin America. His personal migrations inform the sound of an increasingly diverse L.A. Mr.  As a lot of immigration has happened - El Salvador Guatemala Peruvians Colombians - the world becomes smaller in that sense.   Music is meant to move too but this is a scene where all the big moves happen before the first beat. For NPR News I am Corey Takahashi.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 