 We are going to meet a young Jamaican musician now named Jamar McNaughton who goes by the name Chronixx. He is 24 and he is done a lot without releasing a full-length album. He is performed twice on Jimmy Fallon's show and at big events like Coachella Glastonbury and Central Park Summerstage. Now he has finally come out with his first album. Baz Dreisinger reports.  He is been dubbed the leader of Jamaica's roots revival movement...   ...An island-wide return to old-school reggae. But does this sound like reggae?    Oh Christina I still believe in me. And I am a dreamer. But now I am walking in my dream. Oh yeah Christine. Tell me who do you see when you turn on your TV?  Chronixx calls it black experimental music influenced by everything from gospel and funk to ska and electronic music.  Remember that black people in the Western world our last names are Smith and Brown and McIntosh. So we literally had to experiment with our soul to create music because you know opposed to the people in West Africa who grew up with thousands and thousands of years of musical practice and the freedom to practice those ancient cultural music we had to dig deep in our souls to find it.  Jamaica is a place that Chronixx says has long been influenced by many sounds. Ska was shaped by New Orleans jazz reggae by American soul blues and funk dancehall by hip-hop and vice versa. Chronixx taps into all of these traditions.  All part of the same family tree trust me. I personally cannot even see the difference sometimes. And it is just the cultures and the language that is different. But the beat the heartbeat remain the same.    Give me a beat and a mic. Ready we go studio go voice. But when me put that song here upon my timeline no me no do it for the likes. Let me tell them me do it for the love me no do it for the likes . Jamaican music you know as much as it has shaped a lot of popular music from around the world the same is vice versa you know? So when Jamaican music was just evolving into reggae music you have a lot of artists doing covers of RB music. Majesty for instance on the album the original track is done by The Spinners. And that soulful rock steady lovers' rock kind of sound it come from fusion of all different kind of music.    Before I hold you in my arms...   Hold you close in my arms.   ...I want to hold you in my heart.   Hold you close in my heart.   Before we share our love up on that bed...   Share the love. Share the love.   ...I want to place this crown upon your head woman. Girl you are my queen majesty.  It is no surprise that Chronixx knows his musical history says DJ Max Glazer of New York's Federation Sound System. He co-produced a mixtape with Chronixx last year and has toured with him a lot.  He is someone that listens to a lot of music. He is not only a singer. He is a producer and an engineer. So he is really interested in technology. He likes learning about things and just trying different things.  And Glazer says that approach is attracting a diverse crowd.  A Chronixx show brings out the hardest of hardcore reggae fans. It brings out college kids. It brings out racially a very mixed crowd - white people black people. I have watched everything from small children with their parents to grandparents there.  Chronixx's own family has a lot to do with his approach to music. His father is dancehall artist Chronicle who had a string of hits in the early 1990s.    In the name of the Lord my God is yes is real. My God is real. Ooh in the name of the Lord my God is yes is real. My God is real. Hey...  Chronicle explains where his son got his stage name.  He go to school they say that is Chronicle's son. So his friend just say Chronixx. Everywhere he go Chronicle's son - in the street Chronicle's son church Chronicle's son. He goes to the studio and him said I am Chronicle's son. All doors open.  Chronicle's son began writing music at age 6 - songs he says about justice and equity and upliftment. And he was producing and mixing at 15. His father turned his home into a kind of Jamaican Partridge Family giving his kids props as instruments and telling them to imagine palm trees were the audience.  My kids them always singing. And sometimes I said Jamar - that is Chronixx - you do the lead. Stacy and Kenisha and Che you put on the harmony. So I gave Jamar a Guinness bottle...  Guinness bottles to use as mics.  ...And gave Stacey and Che and Kinesha the brooms and the mop.  My sister them had to use the mop stick as a backup mic and build them choreography. And you know we had to perform. He taught us how to perform and how to dance on stage and...  How to talk to the audience.  Learning our father's music brought us closer to our authentic cultures as Spanish Town people people who born and grew in the inner city of Jamaica in the ghetto. And it give you a sense of what that feels like and what - how to express that through music.  Chronixx says that is now his duty. He is come a long way from Guinness bottles and mop handles. For NPR News I am Baz Dreisinger.    And when the truth hits painfully that is when you know if you are really who you claim to be. For so long we have been denied rejected and brutalized. But your children shall win the war. 