 The Los Angeles band called the Bronx has been working the punk rock circuit for nearly a decade.     take my dead hand and bestow my heart.  but  'ecause you make me smart. Wired you are so wired...  And since 2009 the Bronx has cultivated an alter-ego as a mariachi band. They call themselves Mariachi El Bronx and they are about to release their second album. Our critic Tom Moon says it is a lively and surprisingly kitsch-free take on a music steeped in tradition.   There really is only one way to play mariachi even if you are a punk rocker.    Well I have always been reckless and foolish with love. I am always pushing my luck with ...  You have to mean it - right down to the last neatly chopped acoustic guitar chord.   The members of The Bronx discovered this when they first started messing with mariachi a few years ago. Asked to do a song unplugged-style for a TV appearance they rebelled by wearing sombreros and camping it up. Singer Matt Cauthran who grew up in a Hispanic neighborhood in East Los Angeles says they had so much fun they decided to try more songs this way.     come on and take my hand. I know you are scared but this tomorrow you will be a man. Follow me to the promised land and I will take care of you the way no other woman can...  Pretty soon the members of The Bronx were hooked on mariachi. They pored over instructional videos learned the nuances of the different rhythms and they listened to recordings of masters like Vicente Fernandez. This original is modeled on his weepy lovesick boleros.    Our bodies do not speak they cry out like dogs it is stretch towards the sky and scratch out the . Moments like this are stronger than love feelings and stuff down from the balcony.  Mariachi El Bronx plays with more reckless abandon than the typical buttoned-down folkloric ensemble. But these songs follow the strict conventions of the form to the letter.   When I heard the first Mariachi El Bronx record which came out in 2009 it struck me as a bit of a clever gimmick. You know dress a punk up in an elaborate Charro suit and watch what happens. It is different this time. Inside these tales of lost love and other tragedies there is plenty of tradition but that is balanced by shots of pure joy and irreverence. And it turns out that makes all the difference.    The thought probably never crossed his mind. He feels  than kind.  his home now...  The album is called Mariachi El Bronx II. Our reviewer is Tom Moon.    He was born to leave. The bureaucrats they are too far and wide. That is if the earth was empty. His holy ghost scurries coast to coast...  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 