 Now the hypnotic sounds of Dengue Dengue Dengue.   This band is a duo from Peru - Rafael Pereira and Felipe Salmon. I asked them to peel back the layers of their music and to explain the band's name. Pereira told me the name Dengue Dengue Dengue has two meanings. First the word is slang about getting fired up for a party. And second dengue is a traditional Cuban rhythm.  Basically it is mambo but with the wheel of the car you know - the metal part.  And he bangs that with a metal thing you know? So it has like a really high pitch you know percussion sound like .   Pereira and Salmon say a lot of Dengue Dengue Dengue's musical influence comes from Peru's version of a traditional Latin American music called cumbia.  Cumbia is a rhythm that was born in the Caribbean of Colombia when the - all the immigration from Africa came there. And then it spread all over America and each country has its own version of it.  Can we listen to some of that really traditional cumbia to kind of hear what that sounds like?  If you want to start by that you should listen to Los Wembler's De Iquitos.  LOS WEMBLER' .  You also mention that Peruvian music has a lot of Afro-Cuban influence. How does that come into the music?  So there is a place called Chincha in the south of Lima and during the time of slavery all the people from Africa came to that place. And they started experimenting with different instruments and fusion this African roots with Spanish music. And this fusion is called Creole music.   .  Tell us about what we are hearing here.  Yeah. This track called Cardo O Ceniza from Chabuca Granda.  She is kind of describing a little bit which instrument is playing each guy you know? They play some weird instruments like the jaw of a donkey you know with all the teeth?  Wow.  They use that to scratch it...  Like rattle yeah.  Yeah.  Do you actually use that too or is everything that you are doing in your show electronic?  We definitely use that kind of sound but sampled you know?  Let us listen to one track from this album and you can walk us through what we are hearing in these layers and where these influences come from. This is called Dubcharaca.   And actually before we begin maybe I should ask where the title comes from.  It is a combination of different genres. One is called dub and the other is called guacharaca. It is a rhythm that comes from Colombia and it is like the rattle the guido sound of the cumbia.  OK so two different genres that we are going to hear on this track. Tell us when we catch each of them.   For example there you can relate to the . Then you hear the guiro from the Colombia guacharaca you know?  It can be a metal rattle that you like brush with a - kind of a comb.   Layers and layers and layers building on here.  Exactly.   .  Now what is happening?  Definitely those  are Jamaican and .   .  Something I hear when I listen to your music - and I have not read this anywhere but it reminds me almost of Philip Glass in the way that you have repetition and small changes over time.   And it is almost hypnotic. But as...  Thank you .  ...Things change a little bit the little changes take on big meaning.  Yes. They idea is to be like minimal you know to try to get an idea across with the less amount of elements possible but still getting the idea across you know?  So if somebody from your parents' or your grandparents' generation hears your music are they going to say oh I am so glad someone is taking these old traditional styles and doing something new and interesting and 21st century with them? Or are they going to say what has happened to our traditional musical styles?   I think both. There are definitely people that are really happy that this is happening and there is also the purists you know...  Yeah.  ...That do not want these things happening as well.  Yeah.   Yeah and also we made like a couple of remixes of Peruvian cumbia bands and the cumbia bands - they seem to like them you know? They post it in their...  Their page.  ...Their page and stuff. So I think I am a little bit more worried about you know their approval like more than my parents.   Really?  Yeah because we are are using their influence. And so for me it is nice if they understand what we are doing you know and approve it you know?  Normally they would say like que loco you know? This is crazy yeah.   .  Rafael Pereira and Felipe Salmon of the Peruvian band Dengue Dengue Dengue thank you so much.  Thank you. It was really good.  It is great talking to you. Dengue Dengue Dengue's latest album is called Siete Raices. That means seven roots and it is out now. 