 The Exeter Brass Band in New Hampshire is one of the oldest continuously performing bands in the country. They have been around since 1847. This summer they are back at it doing their usual Monday night run of free concerts from the Exeter Bandstand. New Hampshire Public Radio's Todd Bookman stopped by a show and sent this report.   This scene is straight Norman Rockwell.  My name is Dave Emanuel. I am one of the trumpet players for the Exeter Brass Band.   Emanuel and the 30-odd members of the group cram into a bandstand draped with red white and blue bunting surrounding them the well-worn buildings of historic downtown Exeter.  There is bricks. There is clapboards. There is the old town hall. There is the town offices. And we close Front Street for our performances and people break out the lawn chairs and the kids sing and dance and everybody taps their feet and blinks their lights and honks their horns when they like us.  One hundred and seventy years in and what is not to like? The band moves crisply through marches polkas overtures and Broadway medleys. Michele Boulanger is the first female conductor of the Exeter Brass Band.  Well technically we are not a brass band. They still keep the name of it but we now have woodwinds in it as well so we are just a regular concert band. But back in the day it went off to the Civil War as a brass band with the backward-facing bugles 'ecause the band would march in front of the regiment. So they were the first ones to get shot too.  For visitors to Exeter like Jan Orange it is less about the band's history and more the simple pleasure of being outside on a New England night.  We are from the Dallas area. And they do this in the summertime also but it is 95 degrees so it is not nearly as enjoyable. I do not care what is playing.   The percussion section is tight tonight thanks in large part to Chick MacDougall age 85. His first gig in 1956 started with a frantic call from the band leader.  He said would you come down and fill in for one night? I said geez I do not think I am good enough you know Joe ? I did come down. That is 61 years ago .   There have lots of memorable nights since then for both band and audience. Katherine Tomlinson who is here with her husband Clive can still recall her favorite performance.  Our very first date came and said hey there is a band playing downtown. You want to go? And I said hey sure. And he asked me out and we have been married for the last 24 years.   The evening ends just after dark not with the most romantic time but rather the most patriotic.   Lights bounce off the polished horns. The crowd comes to its feet. And the Exeter Brass Band has another show in the books. For NPR News I am Todd Bookman.  