 When Lil Nas X dropped Old Town Road in 2018 he pretty much broke the internet.    Yeah I am going to take my horse to the old town road. I am going to...  Some people might have thought this was a young person's 15 minutes of fame. Two years and two Grammys later Lil Nas X is saying he is here to stay.    Funny how you said it was the end. Then I went did it again.  His new album Montero is out now so NPR Music reporter Sidney Madden spoke with him about it this week.  Not only has Lil Nas X broken Billboard records - he is breaking barriers. Lil Nas X is openly gay and through his music his videos and comedic clapbacks  to critics he is using his platform to generate new conversations about what it means to be Black and queer in the music industry. It is a position the 22-year-old does not take lightly but he is not trying to limit his own artistic narrative either.  My intention is always to be as entertaining as possible. I am not trying to comfort anyone. You know it is my music career and I feel like if people get upset at it that is even better because if nobody's upset at what you are doing then it is probably not worth it.  His debut album has been two very eventful years in the making so I began by asking the pop-rap star how his approach to music has changed in that time.  I guess I am a lot more confident. And I actually go back in and I will rewrite verses now or you know change the beat pattern or whatnot when at first you know once I was in the studio on that day the song was finished. And I was not going back to it you know?  So you have gone back to the drawing board a lot. What is one song on the album that we can hear that metamorphosis?  I feel like all of them but especially Lost In The Citadel. I went back and wrote that like a million times I guess because the situation kept changing.    Tell me are you feeling down? Are you happy? Do your dreams still seem inbound? Tell me.  Lost In The Citadel is about this relationship that I kept going back to and like expecting like a different outcome when it was going to be the same situation over and over again. And it is called Lost In The Citadel because it is like you are in this place that you cannot really get out of. You know it is like a maze.    I need time to realize that I cannot be yours. I need time to give up just like before. I love it how you know I will only come right back for more.  You have so much exuberant confidence but it is clear that you analyze your own output and your own creative process a lot. And I really like - I like the song Dead Right Now.    Even though I am right here by the phone dawg  you know you never used to call. Keep it that way now. I will treat you like you dead right now. Actually for Dead Right Now as soon as I moved into my new house I spent the entire day just kind of writing. And it was kind of hard because I am still getting used to like writing personal stuff in songs and being open to people about my private life. But you know I really just want to be honest with fans remind people that I am a human being and that we all have the same situations in different forms you know?    2018 I was in my sister's house the whole summer. Songs was not doing numbers. Whole life was going under. Left school then my dad and I had a face-to-face in Atlanta. He said...  And what allowed you to be more personal?  I thought about the people who I look up to the most like say Kanye or Drake or Nicki. What really connects is when they are saying the things that are happening internally. So they are letting you like get a peek into their life and just humanizing more because people a lot of times see celebrities or anybody famous as just a being existing.  Not a real person.  Yeah.  Do you ever feel like you have been put in a box so far in your career?  Yeah and I feel like it is going to happen over and over and over again. We unintentionally say people are exactly our first thoughts of them. Whatever I am saying right now I may not agree with in a year from now you know? Or things I am doing right now I may say oh maybe I should have did that differently because you know we change as people over and over and over again.  Has there ever been internal pushback on what you want to do and how you express yourself?  Yeah absolutely. If I am saying something in a song like the second verse in Call Me or even the first verse or even talking about guys in music...    I caught it bad yesterday. You hit me with a call to your place. As not been out in a while anyway was hoping I could catch you throwing smiles in my face. Even you know going to these pole-dancing classes or going to the BET awards and performing all you know sensually.    Champagne and drinking with your friends. You live in the dark boy. I cannot pretend. It is a lot of pushback internally but I know a lot of times that is actually my guide to do exactly what I am doing - you know? - because a lot of times when you are afraid to do something that is when you should really do it.    Call me when you want. Call me when you need. Call me in the morning. I will be on the way.  And hip-hop's historically been like very homophobic in some respects. How has that affected your relationship with the genre?  I would not be here without hip-hop. I understand how things have been and I let go of it you know? Like there is a long build of homophobia not even just in hip-hop but like in the world. It is like something that has been molded for a very long time and I understand it takes a lot for people to unlearn you know? I feel like I have thought that way at one point in time you know? I mean that is the reason why there are still a lot of people that are extremely racist in the world because it was a thing that was cultivated like over time. So it is going to take some time to you know calm it down I guess.  Can you give me an example when you did that and you had to unlearn that?  Yeah. When people would say like I love you because you are not like the other gay people and stuff I thought that was like a compliment. But in reality those people are just against feminine men you know? And the only reason they actually hate that because they have been taught over time like this is not how this specific person or thing is supposed to be.    As I am sinking...  As you see at the end of the album you are contemplating your own legacy. You are talking about leaving a legacy.    Oh never forget me and everything I have done.  I am trying to have you forecast what that legacy is going to mean five 10 years from now when the fan who is hearing it right now starts their own music career. What boundaries are they going to break? And what boundaries are they not going to have to think about because you already broke them?  I feel like they will not have to worry about you know being maybe a queer person in the industry or being stifled by whatever somebody has to say about you on the internet because I feel like that is also a big difference between artists nowadays and artists like 10 years ago or so. It is like we are open to hate from millions of people around the world and it is possibly you know harder to block out. I feel like that'ill be easier for them in future you know? I do not know. I feel like maybe we will have like a mainstream trans artist.  And then they are going to be the first artist to headline on Mars and they are going to be a trans artist. And it is not even going to be part of the narrative .  Let us hope I am the first artist to headline on Mars.  OK. Speak it into the universe literally.  Let us do it.  Lil Nas X thank you so much.  Thank you.    And everything I have done.  That was NPR music reporter Sidney Madden talking to Lil Nas X. His debut album Montero is out now.    Like I am your favorite song. I am fading replaying... 