 NPR's Neda Ulaby has this remembrance of the woman behind Sugar Hill Records.  Sylvia Robinson was not a rapper herself but in 1957 she became a star for this sultry duet with Mickey Baker.    Love love is strange.  Al Green rejected one because he found it too sexy so Robinson sang it herself.    Oh I do not wanna see you be no fool. What I am teaching you tonight boy you never learn in school.  Pillow Talk hit number one on Billboard's black singles charts in 1973 and ushered in a wave of music by black women about sexual self-confidence. But legal and financial problems almost bankrupted the couple before Sylvia Robinson attended a birthday party at a club.  And I saw this DJ playing music and he was saying things to the kids and they would answer him back and I said oh my God that is a great idea.  He told NPR in 2000 they went to a pizza place and met Henry Jackson who became Big Bank Hank.  He is got all this dough on him. He weighed about 350 to 400 pounds at the time and he jumps in the back of my '98 Oldsmobile and starts rapping.    Well I am imp the dimp the ladies' pimp. The women fight for my delight but I am the grand master with the three MCs...  They kept driving around. People kept hopping into the car and the Sugar Hill Gang was born.    Everybody yo hotel motel. What you gonna do today? Say what?  As Sugar Hill legend has it tens of thousands of orders soon poured in for the world's first commercial rap single.  Rapper's Delight was a monumental song. It introduced the world to rap and rhyme and...  That is MC Grandmaster Caz of the Cold Crush Brothers. But he told NPR in 2004 a lot of New York rappers felt the single misrepresented the scene.  They were not real MCs. They was just guys out of nowhere that like a group put together to showcase this new music that was going on.  No one could say that about 1982's The Message by Grandmaster Flash and the Furious Five. The seminal socially conscious rap was produced by Sylvia Robinson.    It is like a jungle sometimes. It makes me wonder how I keep from going under.  Neda Ulaby NPR News.    Rats in the front room roaches in the back junkies in the alley with a baseball bat. I tried to get away but I could not get far because a man with a tow truck repossessed my car. Do not push me 'ecause I am close to the... 