

This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Robert Siegel.

SOUNDBITE OF SONG I FEEL THE EARTH MOVE



And I am Melissa Block.

Thinking back almost 40 years to a needle dropping onto vinyl and this voice.

Ms.   I feel the earth move under my feet. I feel the sky tumbling down...

 For me it was Carole King first. James Taylor got me later.

SOUNDBITE OF SONG FIRE AND RAIN

Mr.   Just yesterday morning they let me know you were gone. Susanne the plans they made put an end to you...

 Carole King and James Taylor were playing together on those albums from the early '70s - King on piano Taylor on guitar. And now they have reunited.

 I love you guys.

SOUNDBITE OF CHEERING

Ms.  We love you too.

Mr.  We do. We love you.

Ms.  Honest to goodness.

SOUNDBITE OF CHEERING AND APPLAUSE

 They are near the end of a concert tour filling arenas around the country. Carole King is 68 now. James Taylor is 62.

SOUNDBITE OF SONG SWEET BABY

Mr.   He said good night you moonlight ladies. Rockabye sweet baby James.

 It is called The Troubadour Tour for the club in Los Angeles where Carole King and James Taylor first played together in 1970 and where they discovered just how well they blended.

Mr.  It was an amazingly good fit. It just felt very familiar and as if we were twins separated at birth or something.

Ms.  And I have to share with you. When James said that about you know separated twins I just looked at him because I had just had that exact thought.

SOUNDBITE OF LAUGHTER

Ms.  Because it is like when you know the blend that the Everly Brothers have or family members who sing and play together. That is in their DNA. To our knowledge we do not share DNA.

SOUNDBITE OF LAUGHTER

Ms.  But it feels as if we do.

Mr.  But we really do share very much a sort of musical vocabulary. Our tastes and tendencies musically are very parallel.

 What is that vocabulary do you think?

Mr.  There is some things about it that you could you mention. We like the same kind of suspended chords. We have a similar way of sort of voice- leading. Given a melody line we tend to harmonize in a similar way. We tend to you know there are a lot of suspended fourths that we like to use. It is just remarkable how in step we are.

SOUNDBITE OF LAUGHTER

Ms.  Very much.

SOUNDBITE OF SONG WILL YOU STILL LOVE ME TOMORROW?

Ms.   Tonight the light of love is in your eyes but will you love me tomorrow?

SOUNDBITE OF CHEERING AND APPLAUSE

 Well take me back 40 years to those first shows at the Troubadour in Los Angeles. You have talked before James about first hearing a song at the Troubadour that would become a huge hit for you - a Carole King song.

Mr.  Yeah it was. My only number one hit so far was You have Got A Friend. And I have traveled around the world on that song and played it for audiences over and over again and it never grows tired for me. It just is - I always make a connection with the tune and I am brought back to that moment at the Troubadour when I stood outside the dressing room which was on the balcony and looked down at Carole playing her set on the stage below.

And as soon as I heard the tune - and I heard it the first time I think it was played in public - to me it was so compelling musically I just - I had to play it. I had to get to a guitar. I was desperate to get to my guitar and just wander through those changes and sing that song.

SOUNDBITE OF SONG You have GOT A FRIEND

Mr.   You just call out my name and you know wherever I am I will come running to see you again...

 I can tell you from sitting in the audience at the arena here in Washington that -you know not just on You have Got A Friend but on just about any song you play - Sweet Baby James Blossom - all the way through you know if you tip your head back you are just surrounded by this cathedral of voices singing along with you.

And I wonder if you are thinking about the people in the audience thinking back to the moments of their life where these songs were everything where they really were the fabric of a certain point in their lives?

Ms.  Here's what is interesting to me about that. Yes we are thinking about that because we can feel that and it is just sort of one consciousness. But the thing that I continue to find astonishing - and increasingly so as this tour builds momentum - is the number of people for whom it was not the soundtrack of their lives. It was the soundtrack of their parents' and in some case grandparents' lives.

Ms. KING  And call my name out loud. Soon you will hear me knocking upon your door your door your door. You just call out my name and you know...

 James do you think about - sort of that shared experience what people are thinking as they are listening to these songs again?

Mr.  Yeah. Yeah absolutely. I think that live performance is you know music has become sort of - it is ubiquitous. You listen to it in the car. You listen to it on your iPod when you are on the treadmill. You listen to it in the frozen foods and in the doctor's waiting room.

But when you go to a concert that is time that you have put aside and focused on the music. And it really is a you know we joke and say you know to the audience we are glad you came it is not the same without you. But really you know it is like going to church for Carole and me. I mean a lot of it is celebratory and some of it is you know irreverent and irrelevant. But it is very uplifting. And it is the thing that keeps you coming back that keeps you you know on the road and touring.

 And you have playing behind you  Danny Kortchmar on guitar Leland Sklar on bass Russ Kunkel on drums guys you were playing with back in 1970-'71. It must feel I would think like a backbone knowing they are there after all this time backing you up.

Mr.  It is true. We worked for a decade pretty much with those guys. And you know Kooch and I got together - Danny Kortchmar and I got together. We met on the Massachusetts shore in you know 1962 or something and were in our first bands together. So for me to look over and see Kooch there is really just - it is a real parallax view you know.

 The rhythm section too I would think would be just knowing that they are - that you know everything I think about what they can do what they can do for you.

Ms.  I will tell you what Russ said to us one night. You know he said listen Lee and I are here. We are going to give you this rock-solid foundation. You just go do what you need to do and we will be there.

Mr.  You know it is true. It is a real reunion of Carole and me and these three guys. It is so cool.

SOUNDBITE OF LAUGHTER

Mr.  It is great. Anyway...

SOUNDBITE OF CHEERING

 The night that I saw the show here in Washington the song that you closed the set with the final encore - you are sitting side-by-side. You were sorting of leaning against each other doing this just lovely duet of James Taylor your song You Can Close Your Eyes.

Ms.  Yep.

SOUNDBITE OF LAUGHTER

 And it is a magical moment.

Ms.  It is for us too every single time.

SOUNDBITE OF SONG YOU CAN CLOSE YOUR EYES

Mr. TAYLOR and Ms.   Well the sun is surely sinking down but the moon is slowly rising. So this old world must still be spinning around...

Ms.  It is down in volume but so intense in emotion for me. But most most of all the people in the very highest-up farthest-away seats I can feel the energy with us right on stage. It is the most amazing phenomenon I have ever experienced.

SOUNDBITE OF SONG YOU CAN CLOSE YOUR EYES

Mr. TAYLOR and Ms.   I do not know no love songs and I cannot sing the blues anymore. Oh but I can sing this song and you can sing this song when I am gone.

It will not be long before another day 'til we go and have a good time. No one's gonna take that time away. You can stay as long as you like.

SOUNDBITE OF APPLAUSE

Ms. KING and Mr.   Close your eyes you can close your eyes.

 How did that song come about James?

Mr.  I wrote it in a hotel room somewhere outside of Albuquerque New Mexico. I was filming Two-Lane Blacktop. Joni Mitchell was out traveling with me. It just it is one of those things that came really fast. The song showed up and just came through the guitar out of my mouth really quick. It just was a gift. I love it when that happens. Carole's nodding at me.

Ms.  I am nodding because You have got a Friend was - came to me the same way but I am also - I actually am learning for the first time the genesis of that song if you can believe that. As long as we know each other I did not know that. And to hear you say that it is like knowing where your brain must have been when you were out there you know sort of alone. You were trying to put yourself to sleep.

 Does it feel - you have done a number of these shows now not just this year but going back - I guess this started in 2007 at the Troubadour for the reunion. Do you get a sense of an end point - that okay we have done this and it was wonderful and now we are done and it is time to move on?

Ms.  Well there is an end point. Our last show scheduled is July 20th in Anaheim and yeah I mean we knew that it had to be finite. I think a special thing stops being special when you go on doing it and doing it and doing it. It is going to be over.

Mr.  You know Carole and I talked about it a few times and Carole said to me something I will never forget. She said you know not only do you not want to stay too long at the ball for the audience but you want - not only do you want to leave the audience wanting more you want to leave yourself wanting more.

 Well Carole King and James Taylor it is wonderful to talk to you thanks.

Mr.  You bet thank you.

Ms.  It is really really been a pleasure.

SOUNDBITE OF MUSIC

Mr.   And if this old word starts getting you down there is room enough for two up on my roof.

 Carole King and James Taylor on tour and with a new CD and DVD titled Live at the Troubadour.   This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Robert Siegel.  SOUNDBITE OF SONG I FEEL THE EARTH MOVE    And I am Melissa Block.  Thinking back almost 40 years to a needle dropping onto vinyl and this voice.  Ms.   I feel the earth move under my feet. I feel the sky tumbling down...   For me it was Carole King first. James Taylor got me later.  SOUNDBITE OF SONG FIRE AND RAIN  Mr.   Just yesterday morning they let me know you were gone. Susanne the plans they made put an end to you...   Carole King and James Taylor were playing together on those albums from the early '70s - King on piano Taylor on guitar. And now they have reunited.   I love you guys.  SOUNDBITE OF CHEERING  Ms.  We love you too.  Mr.  We do. We love you.  Ms.  Honest to goodness.  SOUNDBITE OF CHEERING AND APPLAUSE   They are near the end of a concert tour filling arenas around the country. Carole King is 68 now. James Taylor is 62.  SOUNDBITE OF SONG SWEET BABY  Mr.   He said good night you moonlight ladies. Rockabye sweet baby James.   It is called The Troubadour Tour for the club in Los Angeles where Carole King and James Taylor first played together in 1970 and where they discovered just how well they blended.  Mr.  It was an amazingly good fit. It just felt very familiar and as if we were twins separated at birth or something.  Ms.  And I have to share with you. When James said that about you know separated twins I just looked at him because I had just had that exact thought.  SOUNDBITE OF LAUGHTER  Ms.  Because it is like when you know the blend that the Everly Brothers have or family members who sing and play together. That is in their DNA. To our knowledge we do not share DNA.  SOUNDBITE OF LAUGHTER  Ms.  But it feels as if we do.  Mr.  But we really do share very much a sort of musical vocabulary. Our tastes and tendencies musically are very parallel.   What is that vocabulary do you think?  Mr.  There is some things about it that you could you mention. We like the same kind of suspended chords. We have a similar way of sort of voice- leading. Given a melody line we tend to harmonize in a similar way. We tend to you know there are a lot of suspended fourths that we like to use. It is just remarkable how in step we are.  SOUNDBITE OF LAUGHTER  Ms.  Very much.  SOUNDBITE OF SONG WILL YOU STILL LOVE ME TOMORROW?  Ms.   Tonight the light of love is in your eyes but will you love me tomorrow?  SOUNDBITE OF CHEERING AND APPLAUSE   Well take me back 40 years to those first shows at the Troubadour in Los Angeles. You have talked before James about first hearing a song at the Troubadour that would become a huge hit for you - a Carole King song.  Mr.  Yeah it was. My only number one hit so far was You have Got A Friend. And I have traveled around the world on that song and played it for audiences over and over again and it never grows tired for me. It just is - I always make a connection with the tune and I am brought back to that moment at the Troubadour when I stood outside the dressing room which was on the balcony and looked down at Carole playing her set on the stage below.  And as soon as I heard the tune - and I heard it the first time I think it was played in public - to me it was so compelling musically I just - I had to play it. I had to get to a guitar. I was desperate to get to my guitar and just wander through those changes and sing that song.  SOUNDBITE OF SONG You have GOT A FRIEND  Mr.   You just call out my name and you know wherever I am I will come running to see you again...   I can tell you from sitting in the audience at the arena here in Washington that -you know not just on You have Got A Friend but on just about any song you play - Sweet Baby James Blossom - all the way through you know if you tip your head back you are just surrounded by this cathedral of voices singing along with you.  And I wonder if you are thinking about the people in the audience thinking back to the moments of their life where these songs were everything where they really were the fabric of a certain point in their lives?  Ms.  Here's what is interesting to me about that. Yes we are thinking about that because we can feel that and it is just sort of one consciousness. But the thing that I continue to find astonishing - and increasingly so as this tour builds momentum - is the number of people for whom it was not the soundtrack of their lives. It was the soundtrack of their parents' and in some case grandparents' lives.  Ms. KING  And call my name out loud. Soon you will hear me knocking upon your door your door your door. You just call out my name and you know...   James do you think about - sort of that shared experience what people are thinking as they are listening to these songs again?  Mr.  Yeah. Yeah absolutely. I think that live performance is you know music has become sort of - it is ubiquitous. You listen to it in the car. You listen to it on your iPod when you are on the treadmill. You listen to it in the frozen foods and in the doctor's waiting room.  But when you go to a concert that is time that you have put aside and focused on the music. And it really is a you know we joke and say you know to the audience we are glad you came it is not the same without you. But really you know it is like going to church for Carole and me. I mean a lot of it is celebratory and some of it is you know irreverent and irrelevant. But it is very uplifting. And it is the thing that keeps you coming back that keeps you you know on the road and touring.   And you have playing behind you  Danny Kortchmar on guitar Leland Sklar on bass Russ Kunkel on drums guys you were playing with back in 1970-'71. It must feel I would think like a backbone knowing they are there after all this time backing you up.  Mr.  It is true. We worked for a decade pretty much with those guys. And you know Kooch and I got together - Danny Kortchmar and I got together. We met on the Massachusetts shore in you know 1962 or something and were in our first bands together. So for me to look over and see Kooch there is really just - it is a real parallax view you know.   The rhythm section too I would think would be just knowing that they are - that you know everything I think about what they can do what they can do for you.  Ms.  I will tell you what Russ said to us one night. You know he said listen Lee and I are here. We are going to give you this rock-solid foundation. You just go do what you need to do and we will be there.  Mr.  You know it is true. It is a real reunion of Carole and me and these three guys. It is so cool.  SOUNDBITE OF LAUGHTER  Mr.  It is great. Anyway...  SOUNDBITE OF CHEERING   The night that I saw the show here in Washington the song that you closed the set with the final encore - you are sitting side-by-side. You were sorting of leaning against each other doing this just lovely duet of James Taylor your song You Can Close Your Eyes.  Ms.  Yep.  SOUNDBITE OF LAUGHTER   And it is a magical moment.  Ms.  It is for us too every single time.  SOUNDBITE OF SONG YOU CAN CLOSE YOUR EYES  Mr. TAYLOR and Ms.   Well the sun is surely sinking down but the moon is slowly rising. So this old world must still be spinning around...  Ms.  It is down in volume but so intense in emotion for me. But most most of all the people in the very highest-up farthest-away seats I can feel the energy with us right on stage. It is the most amazing phenomenon I have ever experienced.  SOUNDBITE OF SONG YOU CAN CLOSE YOUR EYES  Mr. TAYLOR and Ms.   I do not know no love songs and I cannot sing the blues anymore. Oh but I can sing this song and you can sing this song when I am gone.  It will not be long before another day 'til we go and have a good time. No one's gonna take that time away. You can stay as long as you like.  SOUNDBITE OF APPLAUSE  Ms. KING and Mr.   Close your eyes you can close your eyes.   How did that song come about James?  Mr.  I wrote it in a hotel room somewhere outside of Albuquerque New Mexico. I was filming Two-Lane Blacktop. Joni Mitchell was out traveling with me. It just it is one of those things that came really fast. The song showed up and just came through the guitar out of my mouth really quick. It just was a gift. I love it when that happens. Carole's nodding at me.  Ms.  I am nodding because You have got a Friend was - came to me the same way but I am also - I actually am learning for the first time the genesis of that song if you can believe that. As long as we know each other I did not know that. And to hear you say that it is like knowing where your brain must have been when you were out there you know sort of alone. You were trying to put yourself to sleep.   Does it feel - you have done a number of these shows now not just this year but going back - I guess this started in 2007 at the Troubadour for the reunion. Do you get a sense of an end point - that okay we have done this and it was wonderful and now we are done and it is time to move on?  Ms.  Well there is an end point. Our last show scheduled is July 20th in Anaheim and yeah I mean we knew that it had to be finite. I think a special thing stops being special when you go on doing it and doing it and doing it. It is going to be over.  Mr.  You know Carole and I talked about it a few times and Carole said to me something I will never forget. She said you know not only do you not want to stay too long at the ball for the audience but you want - not only do you want to leave the audience wanting more you want to leave yourself wanting more.   Well Carole King and James Taylor it is wonderful to talk to you thanks.  Mr.  You bet thank you.  Ms.  It is really really been a pleasure.  SOUNDBITE OF MUSIC  Mr.   And if this old word starts getting you down there is room enough for two up on my roof.   Carole King and James Taylor on tour and with a new CD and DVD titled Live at the Troubadour. 