 A new album by Jay-Z is out this week. Jay-Z is one of hip-hop's most prolific and financially successful artists. This release The Blueprint 3 is his 11th solo album in 13 years. Reviewer Oliver Wang says that even this far into his career Jay-Z is still finding ways to stay on top.    Got a problem tell me now. Only thing that is on my mind is who is gonna run this town tonight  In a minute-long TV ad made to promote The Blueprint 3 Jay-Z glides through a photo shoot restaging every iconic pose from his previous 10 album covers.   We are yeah I said it we are this is rock nation pledge your allegiance get you all black tees on all black everything black cards black cars all black everything and our girls are Prof.  The commercial is all about reminding people where Jay-Z has been. There is even a song called Reminder on The Blueprint 3. However elsewhere Jay flips things around urging listeners to stop dwelling on his past.    Do not be mad cos it is all about progression loiterers should be arrested. I used to drink Kristal  racist so I switched Gold Bottles on to that spade  you gon have another drink or you just gon babysit on to the next one somebody call da waitress Baby I am a boss Prof.  If Jay-Z cannot decide if he want to focus on the past or the future he is clear on where he stands in the present. The Blueprint 3 is well-versed in contemporary pop trends though not always in a friendly manner. The album's first single D.O.A.  critiques the ubiquity of the voice-altering software in today's pop music.    Begin. This is anti autotune death of the ringtone. This as not for iTunes this as not for sing alongs. This is Sinatra at the opera bring a blonde Prof.  Despite his disdain for Auto-Tune Jay is not anti-pop. Indeed now that he sign multimillion-dollar deals with music promoters such as Live Nation he is more of a global entertainer than ever  and he knows it. The Blueprint 3 is easily one of his most commercially savvy albums to date aiming for relevance in Wal-Mart kiosks Hollywood clubs and Brooklyn bodegas alike. It helps that the songs are generally brighter less violent and less drug-themed than past efforts. Jay also invites on a few current 15-minute famers such as Drake and Kid Cudi. But nowhere is the album's populist ambitions as clear than in its dance-friendly electronic-infused rhythms. All kinds of minimalist beeps burps and claps bump alongside huffing synthesizer vamps and blaring banks of horns.    Issues when you been what I been through hey if you believe it then you could conceive it. Yeah yeah   I had to lace up my boots even harder father is too far away to father further more of the kids either smoke reefer Prof.  The Blueprint 3 is Jay-Z's strongest release in recent years though overall it would only rank somewhere in the middle of his catalog. It lacks the singular cohesion of the original Blueprint album and Jay-Z's once-unrivaled flow sounds more pedestrian at times. There is also the matter of basing a song around Alphaville's 1984 hit Forever Young a move that says anything but forever or young.    May the best of your todays be the worst of your tomorrows but we as not even thinking that far you naw mean? Mr.   Forever young I wanna be forever young forever young do you really want to live forever? Forever forever young   So we live a life like a video when the sun is always out and you never get old. And the champagne's always cold and the music is always good. And the pretty girls just happen to stop by in the hood and they hop their Prof.  To be fair this is his 11th release and at this point Jay-Z has attained the rap equivalent of Bruce Springsteen or U2 status. Each new album aspires to be an event though it becomes harder to reinvent yourself when you are this deep into a career. That is why The Blueprint 3's broad appeal is a powerful statement in its own right. Jay-Z has outlived  literally and figuratively  so many of his peers. Yet in what could easily have been the twilight of his recording days he is still standing still striving still shining.    Thank you thank you very much for comin' out this evening  The new CD from Jay-Z is called The Blueprint 3. Our reviewer Oliver Wang is an assistant professor of sociology at California State University Long Beach. He runs the audio blog soul-sides.com.    Thank you thank you thank you. Please hold your applause for I just applied logic keys keys open doors. Now I am balcony Opera Black Tux Binocular Black lure  This is NPR National Public Radio. 