 If you have ever undertaken a creative endeavor you may have found that inspiration does not always come while you are creating but rather when you put it down and walk away. That is something singer-songwriter Robin Pecknold of the indie folk band Fleet Foxes discovered during his six-year hiatus from making music.    Wanderers this morning came by. Where did they go graceful in the morning light?  Fleet Foxes was one of the hottest indie folk acts in the late-2000s with their blend of reverberant vocals and resonant soundscapes. But at the height of their success Pecknold decided to step away from the limelight to pursue the things he simply could not do as a full-time touring musician.  Well there is this Anton Chekhov quote that I took as gospel for a while which was just if you want to work on your art work on your life.  Pecknold spent his newly found free time backpacking cooking woodworking and eventually going to college in New York City where he discovered an unlikely hobby.  I got into surfing while I was studying at Columbia because there is a surf break just 45 minutes from downtown Manhattan.    Biding your time on the other ocean.  So on days off from school or in the wintertime I would just go by myself in a wetsuit and figure it out.    I was a child in the ivy then. I never knew you. You knew me.  On the water Pecknold says he would often think about his music. And he says you can hear that on Fleet Foxes new album Crack-Up which came out earlier this summer not only in the sounds of lapping water but in the expansiveness and pacing of the songs.  Sometimes on this record there are like just these moments of stillness. You are out there surfing waiting for a wave. You know nothing happening for a while.    Off on the other ocean now. All is behind you. All is sea.  And then sometimes this set will come through that - where the waves are just way too big and you are just getting pummeled things just crashing out of nowhere.   And then there are times when you know a perfect set is coming through and you are able to catch these great waves.    Water cannot doubt its power. You are not adrift. You are not a gift.  Anything can teach you a lesson that you apply to what you make. And I still feel that way. I still feel like the more experience I have outside music the closer my music is to what I want it to be. And it is just about chasing those experiences.  Robin Pecknold is the lead singer-songwriter of the band Fleet Foxes. Their new album Crack-Up is out now. 