 We end this hour in Brooklyn New York where you will hear the end of summer sounds playgrounds and the canned music of roaming ice cream trucks. For more than 40 years the weeks leading up to Labor Day have also brought a very different sound to certain neighborhoods - the lilt of steel drum bands echoing from vacant parking lots. The bands are getting ready for tomorrow's steel band Panorama competition. As Bruce Wallace reports the competition like the steel drum itself traces its roots back to the Caribbean island of Trinidad.  Despers USA practices on a big parking lot off Atlantic Avenue.   Band members start wandering in around six or seven in the evening and slowly take their places behind racks of steel drums. Like a symphony orchestra they are organized by section. The thin tenors ringed around the outside the big deep oil drum basses toward the center the midrange guitars as they are called nearby. Their section leader counts them in.   He stops them and then stops them again - says the open needs to be stronger. Finally they get it.   Around the corner from the Despers lot you run into a second steel band - about 20 players crammed into a smaller lot. Around the corner from that one there is a third. Steel band competition has taken over the block. It is also taking over the band members' lives. t's hell. I am not going to lie. It is sleepless nights a lot of dedication and hard work.  Wilfred Kieal Jr. is Despers captain. In the weeks leading up to the competition he goes straight from work to practice leaves practice at one or two in the morning. He gets a few hours of sleep before getting up and doing it all over again. Even when he is not near a steel drum he says he is practicing. JR. I practice in my head literally day and night. I am actually seeing my sticks hitting every note. It is like I am playing a video game. I am playing every note in my head and I am seeing it.  In addition to daily practices Panorama season is also jammed with band launch parties.   Each of the bands - there are 11 competing this year - hold fundraising cookouts and concerts at their pan lots.   These help them raise the 10000 or so it takes to get the pans tuned and painted and shined rent practice space buy uniforms and meet the various other costs involved with getting a band to Panorama. These parties also give bands a chance to size up the competition.   A half-dozen bands braved the rain on a recent evening to play Despers' launch. Among them was AdLib Steel Orchestra.   Shanelle County plays double second pan with AdLib. She is 26 and has been with the group since she was 14. She says the band has not always gotten respect in part because it is not based in Brooklyn but Long Island.  People do not know what to expect. And they look at us as the Long Island band because all the bands are in Brooklyn. So what we say is they sleep on us that is they do not think we are coming with anything. Like oh what do they know? They do not know how to play the pan. They live in Long island.  But AdLib won Panorama last year and they are getting props now. JR. Oh AdLib the last year's champions. Yeah you have to watch out for them. Yeah.  Wilfred Kieal is part of a younger generation that is recently taken over leadership of many of these bands bands that were founded by their parents first-generation immigrants from Trinidad. He says the older musicians did not hang out. JR. Back when I was a kid you know the elders used to run the band they used to tell us listen Panorama is war. You do not have any friends in other bands.  Now though a bunch of players get together on Tuesdays to bowl. Younger musicians have also brought in new songs.   As Panorama nears the band's ranks swell. Many end up with close to 100 players in the competition up from the 15 or 20 they field the rest of the year. Band leaders say it is a headache to pull everything together. Shanelle County says though that once the competition starts all the hassles evaporate.  It just comes with an energy when the lights go on and you are on stage and you are lined up. It just gives you that extra adrenaline that just keeps you going on stage for that 10 minutes. And by the time we are done with that 10 minutes you would think we played a basketball game I mean the way we are sweating and everything. I mean it is for me it is an amazing experience.  Even more amazing of course for the band that takes home the first-place prize of 15000. For NPR News I am Bruce Wallace in Brooklyn.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 