 Newsflash - Drake has been dethroned.    Kiki do you love me? Are you riding? Say you will never ever leave from beside me.  His inescapable song In My Feelings has dropped to No. 2 replaced on Billboard's top songs chart by Maroon 5 and Cardi B's Girls Like You. DJs Stretch Armstrong and Bobbito Garcia are hosts of the NPR podcast What is Good with Stretch  Bobbito. We knew they would have thoughts. Hey guys what is good?  Hey Audie.  What is happening?   That is your response to Drake In My Feelings. That is where you are. So I guess there is no viral video of you doing the dance the Kiki dance.  No we are not in our feelings about the song.  Oh no.  That is a record I wish I could break.  So clearly they did not want to talk about Drake or his song so you know bye-bye Drake. Instead Cardi B was on their minds and her other song that is been in the top 10 for some time now I Like It.    I like it like that.  You got to believe me when I tell you.   I said I like it like that.   Now I like dollars. I like diamonds. I like stunting. I like shining.  All right let us talk about this sample because it is a great song but the sample does a lot of work for this song.  Sure. She is interpreting the Pete Rodriguez anthem for boogaloo music from the '60s called I Like It Like That.    Yeah baby.   I like it like that.  That was a great moment in New York particularly Nuyorican history whereby rhythm and blues of the African-American community was bridged with the Latin roots of the boricua the Afro-Dominican community and kind of birthed this movement called boogaloo which only lasted maybe six seven years.    Baby look at me.   I like it like that.   Yeah.  That is a song that was probably one of the first boogaloo records I had ever heard. I immediately needed to know what that record was. And I started playing it in my sets which were 99 percent not Latin music.   Until he met me.  But...   But the song is instantly magnetic.    Before I go I want to say...   I like it like that.  There have been a number of hip-hop artists that have sourced Latin music over the years. But I think the first ever would be Boogie Down Productions' use of a Tito Puente record for the remix of the massive anthemic I am Still 1.    B-Boy records you just cannot crush. Making funky music is a must. I am number one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one.  .  That was pretty revolutionary at the time.  It feels revolutionary right now.  One of the producers on that BDP record was Ivan Doc Rodriguez who was Nuyorican - you know parents born in Puerto Rico and raised here in the city. DJ Doc had a huge influence on BDP was their tour DJ. He helped out with production as well.  Engineer as well...  Right.  ...Shaping the sonic quality of Boogie Down Productions on their records...  Well and then...  ...And many others.  Right. And BDP wound up becoming a template for production style and engineering and mastering. Even so huge record. And Tito Puente if you do not know is the Latin artist of all time. I mean he recorded over a hundred albums. And Tito became a global hero way beyond Latin music way beyond on Afro-Cuban music way beyond mambo music.  Did you say over a hundred albums?  Tito Puente recorded over a hundred albums.  You know what you call that?  What?  Trabajo.   It is nice setup. I like the setup on that.   So does this - is this something thing that moves in phases kind of hip-hop reaching to this you know section of albums for samples?  Hip-hop is always moving in sort of trendy directions right? I mean if you listen to the Billboard top 10 pop - you know I have not done a detailed analysis but the BPMs...  Beats per minute.  ...The tempo - most of these songs on the top 10 are in a pretty narrow range of tempo. They kind of all either are trap records or are related somehow to trap music which of course is a version of Southern hip-hop which has very slow beats. The Cardi record is trapish. Her producer was able to take this boogaloo record and make it fit into a trap beat because the original song I Like It Like That by Pete Rodriguez is something like 180 beats per minute. If you cut that in half that would be - what? - 90 beats per minute. I am not sure exactly what the tempo of the Cardi B record is but it fits into that time structure.    Oh he is so handsome. What is his name?   I said I like it.   Oh I...  This is a little bit music nerdy but...  It is - I am so into it. First of all you have just identified everything from Maroon 5 to Cardi B as roughly in the same beat range. But two also fascinating hearing how something like boogaloo music could like come back in this way - right? - and just kind of fit right into this moment.  Well I think the beautiful thing about hip-hop has always been how it references old music. And if you are curious you discover this world of music that you would ordinarily perhaps not have gotten into.  Let me also add that it is certainly not a trendy thing for Latin influence to be part of hip-hop music hip-hop culture. Cypress Hill...   Do not you know I am loco?  ...Big Pun...    I am the Don Juan beside the Don. Live long.  ...And Cardi B is just part of a long legacy of Latinos drawing from their own experiences and infusing them into current rap.  That is Bobbito Garcia - thank you so much...  Oh .  ...And Stretch Armstrong. Check out their podcast. It is called What is Good with Stretch  Bobbito. Thanks guys.  Thank you.   . 