 Well it is summertime Fourth of July weekend. Let us take a music break. I asked my buddy Felix Contreras host of NPR Music's Alt.Latino podcast to recommend some tunes. Felix what'd you bring me?  Hey Ray. I got some stuff that is going to surprise you but will also sound familiar. You and I have had a lot of conversations about your early days in New York and your Puerto Rican heritage. So I brought some new recordings that reflect the rich diversity of contemporary Puerto Rican music. Now first off there is a new album out called Calentura from the pioneering record label Fania Records. The company that owns Fania shared original master recordings with hand-picked hip-hop producers and DJs with one goal to use the songs that you and I know and love to create something new and vibrant. And it worked. Now you remember Celia Cruz?  Of course - gone over a dozen years now.  Check this out.   .  Celia as you have never heard of before right?  Well just the idea of Celia and sampling is rocking my world here. And I - you know you just do not think about those sounds being minable and something that you can put into a new context. And you know it is almost like she recorded a new song.  You know this particular track was produced by a production crew that calls themselves Happy Colors and what they did was they took a Celia track called Virgencita and it is a Dominican merengue. It has a very very specific beat. But what they did was they kept that beat and the underlying rhythms and the counterpoint of merengue and made subtle changes. They added the groove trickery from modern dance clubs that you heard electronic music all that stuff that is happening now to make this amazing track that just completely breathes new life into the original mixer.   . I love you.  What else you got?  OK. You know that red hot Puerto Rican rap duo Calle 13 right? They are incredibly popular with the clubs and in with the critics - two brothers and their younger sister. She has an amazing voice and she pulled off a brilliant career move by releasing her first solo album and going classic crooner.   .  Her name is Ileana Cabra and she goes by iLe. And this is a track from her new album called iLevitable and it is called Maldito Sea El Amor.   .  It is hard to imagine anything further away from Calle 13 right?  I just thought I really love the idea that she went so classic and so traditional sort of like to bridge the gap between the fans that are familiar with her band and the old classic music. It was a great album.  And the same lush instrumentation the same overheated and melodramatic lyrics. It is just what you would want in a bolero.  Speaking of boleros...   .  The next track that I brought in is from a very very high concept album called Miramar. Now there is a group of salsa musicians from Richmond Va. and what they did was they put together an album dedicated to boleros written by the Puerto Rican composer Sylvia Rexach. And it is just an unabashed love letter to the classic form but with a little modern twist to it.   .  What is old is new again right?  Really? Well several of these tracks are reaching back way past the 70s to something even earlier to the 50s and 60s with the Pioneer generations of people coming up from the Caribbean.  I think it is a reflection back on you know their parents' history of what their parents went through and their grandparents and some of that as a way to connect to that experience having lived - been born and lived here in the United States.  And we are going to go out on one of my homeboys?  Yeah. We got a Nuyorican Andy Gonzalez. Andy is the bass player for the ages. He is played with everybody from Eddie Palmgetti  Dizzy Gillespie Machito Manny Oquendo and Libre. He bridges the best of traditional music and jazz. He is prolific and an intrical  part of contemporary Latin music. I cannot even stress how important he is to his music. And he is never made an album under his own name until just this year. This track is called Vieques.   And it is more like a jam session but a structured jam session. It is called Entre Colegas Between Colleagues and it really does feel like he made this record just for the joy of playing these grooves that he is so good at. It is a very underrated record and it is a must-have for Latin music fans.  Felix Contreras is the host of Alt.Latino. Check it out a weekly podcast of Latino arts and culture from NPR Music. Felix it is great to talk to you.  Thank you Ray. It is good to hear you on the air again.   And for Saturday that is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Ray Suarez. Follow us on Twitter npratc. We are back tomorrow. Until then thanks for listening. Have a great night. 