 Now we want to remind you about a musician who helped define the sound of late-era disco and RB.    Sending you forget-me-nots.  From 1978 through 1984 Los Angeles singer and keyboard player Patrice Rushen recorded a number of hits for Elektra Records. Rushen is doing different things these days but Oliver Wang has a review of a new anthology that revisits those early years. It is called Remind Me.  It is easy to forget that Patrice Rushen began her recording career not as a soul singer but as a jazz piano prodigy.   Her earliest albums for Prestige Records were mostly fusion and straight-ahead jazz LPs showcasing her talents as a writer keyboard player and arranger.   When Rushen moved to Elektra in 1978 her vocals took the spotlight. And that seemed to unlock a secret power previously hidden in plain sight.    I found love when I found you. Happiness lives in my heart today. And now I can feel togetherness so real 'ecause I found love baby when I found you.  Rushen was never a power singer on par with Aretha but by the late '70s RB into its quiet storm era of softer smoother ballads. Lighter higher voices such as those of Minnie Riperton dominated radio - and Rushen with her youthful lilting tone fit right in.    I am holding in my hand all the gifts of love you gave me. But the wind will fall away like a tiny grain of sand. The rising of the sun begins the day of our learning. Love will never end our hearts forever yearning. Where there is love you will always find somebody.  Rushen's Elektra years captured in the new anthology Remind Me span a crucial transitional time in black popular music. The sound of soul that dominated the beginning of the '70s had gradually given way to funk then disco. And many of Rushen's hits from this time reverberate with those dance-inspired influences.    Was it the simple things that made me so crazy about you? Was it your charm or your passion? It is not hard to believe. I love you and I need you. So I am sending you forget-me-nots to help me to remember.  By 1984 the year Rushen released her fifth and final Elektra album the rise of hip-hop initiated another sea change within RB one that sidelined established stars like Rushen. But her stature in the music industry only grew as she became a music director for the Grammys and Emmys a composer for film and television and a music professor at USC. In the grand arc of Patrice Rushen's career the Elektra years were just one chapter. Yet brief as they may seem in hindsight those years generated so many iconic jams that fans do not really need much to remind them.  Oliver Wang is a professor of sociology at Cal State Long Beach and co-host of the podcast Heat Rocks.    In love with you darling. Remind me. Yeah yeah. 