 It is been more than 50 years since this song topped the charts.    He is a rebel and he will never ever be any good. He is a rebel 'ecause he never ever does what he should.  He is A Rebel by The Crystals - on lead vocals Darlene Love. Love spent the following decades trying to make a name for herself beyond the shadow of a titan producer Phil Spector. Now at age 74 she is giving it another try.    It is not too late for us. I remain among the believers.  The record is called Introducing Darlene Love. Obviously that is a bit of a joke.  It is. It is sort of a joke because Steve Van Zandt wanted to introduce me to the last five decades of people that have not heard me or do not really know who Darlene Love is. He wants to say OK here she is folks. We are introducing her again - Miss Darlene Love .  You mentioned Steven Van Zandt. He produced the album. Of course he is part of Bruce Springsteen's E Street Band and a lot of people know him as Silvio from The Sopranos.   Yeah.  But how far back do you two go?  Oh we met in the '80s and I was working at a club in Los Angeles Calif. - The Roxy. Well two of the people in the audience was Bruce Springsteen and Steve Van Zandt. And after the show was over they came backstage. Steven said your voice is unbelievable. You need to move to New York and let me record you. He said well if I get a couple of jobs would you come? I said sure of course. Well a lot of things got in the way. Steven was still very very busy with Bruce Springsteen. And here I am trying to re-create myself in New York City  and it took a while. You know I was doing shows at The Bottom Line. And David Letterman came to see the show and he said the next night on his show - the television show - said we need to get that girl on this show. That is the greatest Christmas song I have ever heard.    Christmas.   Snow's coming down on.   Christmas.   I'  Christmas.   Lots of people around.   Christmas.   Baby please come home.   Christmas.  And of course that led to your yearly Christmas gig on David Letterman.  Exactly. And we had no idea that was going to happen. I mean that - somebody knew it but we did not . And matter of fact the last show that we did I actually told David - I said you probably do not know this but you are the reason that my career started all over again because people really did get to find out who Darlene Love really was. She is a great singer - not just somebody that Phil Spector found and decided to do a couple of songs with her. And you are the reason people know that today and it just got better and better and better. They started calling me the Christmas Queen.   Well let us talk about this new music 'ecause there is an amazing group of collaborators here.  Well Steven did all the work. I just did the singing .  Just the singing.  Just the singing. He went out and called all these people because he said he told each one of them that he needed some great songs for me - songs that were powerful because I have a powerful voice. Well he was serious. They would send him songs and he would say no do not want that one. That is not for her. He really wanted a rock and roll CD. He did not want it to be - it is not - this is not - just 'ecause she is black this is not a rhythm and blues album. This is a rock and roll album.    You are my painkiller. You are my painkiller. You are my painkiller. You are my painkiller. When I looked in your eyes I was anesthetized. You are my painkiller. You know I was hurting so bad.  I am talking with Darlene Love. Her new album is out right now. And you are still - I mean your voice is so huge and beautiful and it feels like you have lost nothing with that passion that is in there. How do you keep the fire burning like that?  Well you know I always say that when I was recording with Phil Spector he would not let me really sing you know? And even to make me sound younger he would speed the track up. He still wanted that real nice little quiet sweet little sound. Well a lot of things have happened to me over the years and I have had a lot of things that have gone good and a lot of things that gone bad. So all of that is in these songs when I sing them.    I have got one more thing to say to you this evening and then I have got to go. Steven - the last song that he wrote was a song called Jesus Is The Rock That Keeps Me Rollin'. And everybody - well how did he write that? Now where did that one come from? I said well you know what? He is been around me a long time. He knows my history. He knows my father was a minister and his wife was telling me that he was up all night writing this song. He would not tell her even what he was doing. I am writing this song. I got it. I got it.    Jesus is the rock...   ...That keeps me rolling. Jesus is the rock that keeps me rolling. And when all hope is lost my inspiration is the cross.   Jesus is the rock.   Jesus is the rock.   Jesus is the rock.   Jesus is the rock that keeps me rolling.  Your roots are in gospel. What was it like going all the way back like that?  Well it was really great because see what most singers that came from a gospel world - all they did was brought what they did in the gospel world to the secular world. They just changed the lyrics. The only thing about gospel - you could not make no money.   They wanted you to do it unto the Lord and let the Lord pay you.      I cannot help you baby but I know someone who can.   Jesus is the rock.   He is the rock.   Jesus is the rock.  You had success when you were really young. Back in the early days of your career what did you think you career was going to be like?  You know it is funny because The Blossoms - the background group I was singing with - we were the first black background singers to sing in recording business. People wanted to start taking us out of the recording studio and took us on the road to see the world . And then a friend of mine said well you have such a great voice. Is this what you want to do the rest of your life - background? I said you know what? I think I really do want to be a solo artist. So I decided at the age of - ripe age of 40 - to decide my solo career. And I all I can say about it is it was not easy. Please start when you are about 20.   Your body know hoe old you are but if you keep on and you take care of yourself - you know I go to kickboxing class every morning at 5 a.m. You know try to do all the things to take care of the outside of your body but you also should do - and have to do things that take care of the inside of your body.  Well Darlene Love thank you for taking care of yourself 'ecause we have some great results on this record.  Thank you.  That is Darlene love. Her new album is called Introducing Darlene Love. It has been such a treat speaking with you. Thank you.  Thank you so much.    Sweet freedom hear me calling. I can feel your spirit rising in my soul. Sweet freedom hear me calling. And I am coming to your mama's. Wanna rock and roll. I have done my stretch living for my man. Had my mind in the palm of his hand. I have played it safe and I have... 