 Hip-hop derives a lot of its power from a robust bass but more and more rappers are seeking power in numbers. Some big artists like Kendrick Lamar and Tyler The Creator are rising with the help of hip-hop collectives. Melissa Pandika recently wrote about the rise of these groups in the online magazine Ozy. Melissa welcome to the show.  Thanks for having me.  So hip-hop was not always dominated by individual artists. I mean I  remember there used to be a lot more groups like NWA Public Enemy 2 Live Crew. Are these collectives that you are writing about a return to a more collaborative time? Or is this something totally different?  Today's collectives sort of represents a shift in the music industry. Nowadays a lot of record labels do not have the budget for what is called artist development which is basically helping up-and-coming artists build their careers grow their fan base. And so these collectives allow these young emcees to do just that.  So what are the business benefits then of being in a collective?  You will be able to divvy up management responsibilities. So Odd Future which is a collective out of Los Angeles includes Earl Sweatshirt Tyler The Creator and RB singer Frank Ocean.   So Tyler The Creator who is often considered the ringleader of the group he uses Twitter addictively he has 2 million followers and he helped promote the group shows. So in a way it allows the other group members to focus more on their music.  You know this idea of being in a collective seems to be at odds with the idea of being a star. So you know how do individuals break out in this kind of model?  Most successful collectives have a pretty diverse mix of talent. So you will have a superstar or two. And that can be helpful for up-and-coming artists to basically piggyback on their success. So for example a collective out of Los Angeles called Black Hippy they helped launch Kendrick Lamar to fame. After he blew up Schoolboy Q who is another member of that collective he actually capitalized on that and featured Kendrick Lamar on one of his singles Collard Greens.    Oh luxury. Chiddy ching ching could buy anything cop that. Oh oh collard greens.  And it seems that Kendrick's added hype paid off.  I am wondering about how this might affect the you know the culture of feuds in hip-hop because on the one hand you might think collaboration would mean fewer feuds. On the other hand I mean the guys in NWA did not exactly part on good terms.  I mean it boils down to choosing the right people. A few years ago there was the White Girl Mob. Their star member was rapper Kreayshawn.   Her group member V-Nasty used the N-word and so a lot of people blamed that for taking her career.  So if you were advising a young hip-hop artist would you say go collective or go solo?  I would say differently now the best option would be to join a collective. Anyone can upload a music video or track and the way it will really make yourself stand out right now is through the branding of a collective.  So if you want to be a brand it helps to have a team.  Exactly.  Melissa Pandika is an editor and writer for ozy.com. Thanks for joining us.  Thanks so much for having me. 