   On the way down.  That is the band HAIM three sisters from California who have been making music together pretty much their whole lives. They started playing instruments at a few months old and played with their parents in a family band. Since then they have not stopped. Their latest album is called Something To Tell You.    Tell me how you feel. Tell me how you feel. 'ecause I have got something to tell you but I do not know why. It is so hard to let you know...  Four years ago their debut album Days Are Gone launched the sisters into rock stardom. And since then they have been touring the globe. With all that time together they have become so close that they say they share a weird mental connection.  It is like weird sister - it is like I could be in my house in the Valley and I can feel that like Alana or Danielle is like not having either a good day or like they are having a great day. And I am like I need to call these two. What is going on? Something's off.  This time around they are singing about relationships with lovers with each other and with themselves. I had a chance to talk to two of the three Haim sisters Este and Danielle and asked them what their record was all about. E.  I think when we were writing this record we were three girls in different stages of their 20s. And yeah I think we have all gone through relationships. I think there is some songs on the record that touch on being a woman in a touring band and having to deal with men's egos and your partner's egos. You know I think it is also us growing up. And you know with Want You Back it was definitely us taking a step back and maybe realizing that sometimes you have to realize that you have a part in a relationship that is maybe gone sour. And you know I think it kind of just deals with those feelings.    Just know that I want you back. Just know that I want you back. Just know that I want you. I will take the fall and the fault. And I will give you all the love I never gave before I left you.  Danielle I read this interview with you. You said this thing about your writing process that really stayed with me. You said I do not fully understand my feelings until the song is done and it is out in the world. How - I mean when you are listening back now a month later do you feel a change? Do you say to yourself oh that is what I was talking about? That is what I was doing. Like does it help you process?  Yeah. I think for some songs definitely. I think it kind of differs with each song but yeah. There is times where I am like wow I was really feeling some type of way... E.  That day. D.  ...That day. Like sometimes I do not fully understand some of the words. I mean I also think some of the time too we are very - when we write it comes melodically first. And sometimes we will just be jamming on something. And I will kind of speak like gibberish or something. And it will kind of turn into a line. And then that will kind of inspire the rest of the song. I think we kind of... E.  And also like a lot of these songs started with you know we are all drummers. Our dad's a drummer. That was always our first instrument. And we started a lot of these songs just from drum beats. I do not know if you can hear it on the record but everything's very percussive.    Oh and now you are saying that you need me baby. Right now right now. Oh now you are saying that you love me love me baby. Right now right now. D.  The physicality of playing drums is also just so fun. There is like videos of us like banging on pots and pans at like 7 or 8 months. And I think that my dad...   Seven or 8 months? D.  Yeah yeah literally like babies 'ecause our dad would have like a '60s drum set in the living room from the time that we were born basically. And I am only assuming that my dad was playing drums almost every day since we were born because when we were older that is - those were some of my like most vivid memories is just coming home and my dad playing drums.  Well it is interesting because you can still - I mean you hear the discipline today. You guys play the instruments. You write the songs. You play the daylights out of every show. Like that discipline is obviously really still there. There is one song from the album a last song that I want to play and ask you about. It is Night So Long. Let us take a listen.    I say goodbye to love again. In loneliness my only friend. In loneliness my only fear. The nights end.  It is so beautiful. E.  Thank you.  And it is so intimate. And it is about loneliness. And Danielle that is you singing. Can you tell me what that song is about that is - it is just so vastly different? D.  Yeah. We wrote that song actually a long time ago. And it was just this - it is just basically a verse repeated twice. It was about you know touring and kind of after you play an amazing show you just go straight back to your hotel room and you are all alone. And sometimes it is just that juxtaposition is kind of intense.    Then I say goodbye to love once more no shadow darkening the door. Until your memory is gone the night so long.  And in the end I mean despite that sense of loneliness that you convey so powerfully the fun of touring the fun of being on stage it still outweighs the dark nights? E.  Oh yeah. And like I said like also the song is like - in loneliness my only friend. I think there is also a little part of me that even though there is like this deep sadness - it kind of almost feels like maybe I am crazy - but sometimes it feels like a warm blanket. It just kind of feels like oh I - it is nostalgic in a way. I do not know. So it is not like horrible. I just think it is - I do not know. D.  Sometimes you get bummed. Sometimes you are on the road and you get bummed. But the good news is we have such a good time 99.9 percent of the time that it makes it all worth it.  That sounds like a good way to live ladies. D.  It is fun. We have a great time. E.  I hope that makes sense. I do not know I am still kind of...  It does make sense. D.  No it does makes sense.  It does. It makes a lot of sense. E.  OK.  That was Este and Danielle Haim of the band HAIM. Thank you guys so much for coming by and talking to us. D.  Thank you. E.  Thank you for everything. That was really fun.    You have got to give me just a little of your love babe and I will try. You have got to give me just a little of your love baby and I will try. You have got to give me just a little of your love baby and I will try. 