 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Madeleine Brand. Paula Abdul is one of hottest topics on Twitter today. That is because she posted and American Idol producers have confirmed that she is not going back to judge her ninth season of Idol. Commentator Andrew Wallenstein says it is a big mistake all around.  Far be it for me to pass judgment on a professional judge but here's my verdict. I am amazed Paula Abdul lasted this long. Half the time she is incoherent or just plain nuts.  Ms.  That - I - you know there is something - first of all one thing that I was kind of - I was kind of surprised you picked that song but when - well first of all you are like this bright light  You would think the only possible logical conclusion here is her departure is the best thing that could happen to Idol. Now the show is young musical talents can finally have the sober-minded assessments they deserve from Randy Jackson Kara DioGuardi and Simon Cowell. But when has logic ever ruled American Idol? What makes Idol Idol is not its integrity as a talent show it has none. Its true appeal was its ability to prompt mass rubbernecking given the very absence of talent and integrity and no one delivered train wrecks better than Paula Abdul. Sure Cowell had memorable put-downs from time to time but what really got people talking at the water cooler was Paula Abdul going off the rails like the time during the 2008 season when she complimented contestant Jason Castro's second performance which was odd because he had not sung it yet.  Mr.  No it was just on the first song just on the first one. Ms.  I thought you - oh my God. I thought you sang twice.  Mr.  Wow she did not Mr.  Just once. But Paula Paula you are - you are seeing the future baby. You are seeing the future.  Paula Abdul's ability to self-destruct is not Idol's biggest liability it is its biggest asset. Take Simon Cowell for instance. Will he be as entertaining without her around to mock?  Ms.  What I am loving about this season you are - you have such a great instrument. You are musical Mr.  Did you like it or not?  Ms.  And I love - and I love your interpretation of it. And because you are so musical I love the choice. It is fantastic. Mr.  Beat it. Beat it. She likes you. Ms.  I loved it.   This is bad for Fox but what is the network really risking? In the worst-case scenario that the show does take a dive without Abdul and they need her again is she going to go somewhere where they cannot win her back? She already tried her own reality show and failed. That is the advantage in negotiating with an unpredictable loon. Just because she is gone does not mean she will have somewhere else to go.  That is commentator Andrew Wallenstein of the Hollywood Reporter. 