 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block.   This week as we approach the fifth anniversary of Hurricane Katrina we' what is changed what is moved what is come back. And today we are going to focus on the musical heartbeat of New Orleans and how its rhythm has been shifted by what is become known simply as the storm. Our tour guide is Nick Spitzer who has spent his life immersed in the music of Louisiana. He hosts the public radio program American Routes from New Orleans. Nick welcome back. Mr.  I am glad to be here.  And Nick you and I talked right after Katrina five years ago and you said that you were worried not just about the physical disaster of the city but a cultural disaster that you worried was coming. What do you think? Has that come to pass? Mr.  Well I do not think it has come to pass. Actually I think it is gone exactly the other way. I think not just myself but many people were concerned about it and we raised those concerns. But early on music became essential to the sense of why should somebody come back? How will the city recover? And we found that a lot of it was the intangible sense of music in the neighborhoods and the clubs and the lifestyle. It is a powerful culture. It is a diverse culture and it is been right there in the middle of getting us to where we are now.  Yeah it does seem like just about every New Orleans musician has some kind of Katrina song. Mr.  Yeah they do and that is evolved as time has passed. I think initially when people left they were always going back to the mantra walking to New Orleans the image of the melancholy returnee trying to get back but people have moved to a sense of present and future in the culture rather than only holding on to a past.   I appreciate that right there but wait I want to take this time out to talk to you about my people talk to you about New Orleans. As not no place like home in the world to me. I am born and right here raised in New Orleans Louisiana. What do you know about that?  I know all about that.  Let me talk to you about the culture the art the people right here.  Well I know maybe you and I  other people so...  Let me talk to you a lot of people  you cannot get people like there is nowhere else in the world. You know what I am saying? Mr.  One of the great things about this new music moment is that a band like Soul Rebels which has always been very critical of the scene and has tackled race and neighborhood relations and you know let us get down with the kind of hip-hop brass band sound it is suddenly jumping forward with this upbeat almost corny there is-no-place-like-home and they run down a litany of things they love about home. My favorite is St. Louis Cathedral where the guy says he wants to get married. And I have never heard a brass band member tell you about how much they want to get married. He also tells you he wants to have his funeral there.  Yeah with a brass band.   You make me think about St. Louis Cathedral.  Okay.  Let me tell you something about that.  All right.  I am going to get married over there.  What?  And finally will have my funeral - and look I refuse to die if I do not have a brass band at my funeral. I will not die. I will not die.  The New Orleans Saints get a shout-out. Ben Yates is in there too.  Mr.  Well no one argues about Ben Yates and the Sugar and...  Mr.  ...and the Saints are in some ways arguably the greatest unifier of the city .   Man let me talk to you about them good old Saints. What do you know about their fleur-de-lis?  Uh what do you know about that? Tell me.   Who that? Who that? Mr.  The team of black folk white folk well managed well led.    No place like home. No place like home. No place like home. No place like home.  Do you worry Nick about New Orleans musicians who are gone and will not be coming back to New Orleans and what is lost? Mr.  Well there is no question that some people have not come back and there is a lot of people who love the music who - our audiences have not come back. I think the biggest problem here in terms of loss of the music in a funny way has been that with the public school system really depleted and turning to charter schools they often do not have strong band programs. Brass band musicians have taken it upon themselves to begin to nurture and tutor some of the kids. Derrick Tabb in particular the snare drummer for Rebirth Brass - one of the great young hip up-and-coming continuing bands -sure they tour around the world but he is taken it on himself to do after-school programs for kids elementary school into junior high kids who just are not getting the exposure to the band instruction they once did. And it is incredibly uplifting and his group is called Roots of Music. So he looks back in a sense but he also looks ahead in the way he works with the kids.  And we have some music of some of the kids that he is been teaching right? Brass band music?  Mr.  He is got them out there parading. They are all at Mardi Gras running down the street and getting all the cheers of the crowd. And they also have to do their academics. They cannot just come in and get their instrument and play the music. They also have to hit the books and show that they are working hard in school. So he is really been a great mentor to all these kids. And his big problem is one he needs more people to help teach. He has so many kids. And two he needs to raise funds. And you know this is where some of our infrastructure has to catch up with what is really actually going on on the street and our educational system has not caught up. But he is doing a good job setting a model and these kids are just loving Roots of Music.   .   Nick you also sent us a song featuring Mos Def not from New Orleans. He is from Brooklyn. But he is singing along with the Preservation Hall Jazz Band. And this is a song about the Gulf oil spill. It is called It As not My Fault.    Mama ya do not say uh oil and water do not mix. Petrolio do not go good with no fish. Aw it as not my fault.  This was done for Gulf Aid after the BP oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. Mr.  That is right. I think it shows that somebody like Mos Def had been concerned about New Orleans post-Katrina. It has these great lines oil and water do not mix. Petrolio do not go good with no fish.  Mr.  So suddenly you got an old New Orleans tune that is kind of upbeat dance tune turned into a narrative about what is been going on and what is the problem in people's lives.  Music evolving as always in New Orleans. Mr.  Yeah it does. And also New Orleans affecting a great player like Mos Def you know who comes out of the rap and hip-hop world and decides to go a little more into the local tradition. He even uses some spiritual references Scripture says it - they say go to the rock to hide they face. And the rock cried out no hiding place.    They go to the rock to hide they face. And the rock cried out no hiding place. Say they go to the rock to hide they face. And the rock cried out no hiding place. And oh Lord to the rock to hide they face. And the rock cried out no hiding place. Oh Lord. Oh Lord.   It as not my fault. Mr.  So he is really critiquing BP and what happened all in a highly entertaining let us call it rap-jazz moment. And it responds to what is going on in the region the oil spill. And I think it shows the new power of what people are doing with the music. The insider the outsider the trad the modern protest and entertainment.  All rolled into one. Mr.  Mm-hmm.  Nick it is great to talk to you again. Thanks so much. Mr.  Thanks for having me.  Nick Spitzer hosts the public radio program American Routes from New Orleans.    Aw it as not my fault.   This is part of my gospel song.   Aw it as not my fault. Oh. Oh oh Lord it as not my fault. Aw it as not my fault.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 