 Guitarist David Bromberg is set to release a new album this fall. He is a virtuoso who has released more than a dozen albums of his own and collaborated with the likes of Bob Dylan and George Harrison. But he is also a collector of American violins and his collection is so impressive that the Library of Congress has announced its intention to acquire it. Jon Kalish visited Bromberg at home and filed this report.  David Bromberg started collecting violins in the late 1960s.  As a traveling musician I would always go to the violin shops if there were any wherever I was and I would say I collect good American violins. And as like as not they would literally laugh in my face.  Because many view American violins as second-rate compared to their European counterparts. But violin-maker Jan Strick saw some of Bromberg's violins at an exhibition in Paris. Strick heads the International Association of Violin and Bow Makers.  And we were all actually in Europe very surprised seeing those beautiful American violins because we did not had a clue that there were nice violins made the other side of the ocean.  There were 263 violins in Bromberg's collection by nearly as many American makers. Most of them hang on the walls of his home in Wilmington Del. But the most valuable are kept in a steel vault in his office. Inside Bromberg picks up a violin made in 1860 by a German-born immigrant to New York.  This is a George Gemunder that is part of the collection. Gemunder is sometimes thought of as the first great American violin-maker.  Bromberg contends that with the exception of Antonio Stradivari no one carved the scroll the decorative end of the violin's neck better than Gumunder.   This is a violin made by Simone Fernando Sacconi who learned his craft in Italy and came to the U.S. in 1931.  He was incredible so matter of fact he studied in Rome with a maker named Rossi - started by sweeping the floor there. And after he started making violins Rossi retired . Rossi quit.   Bromberg's bandmate a young fiddler named Nate Grower is impressed with the Sacconi fiddle.  Oh got a lot power. .  David Bromberg has been thinking about selling his collection for a couple of years. He hoped the Library of Congress would want all of the violins but he asked the library's curator Carol Ward-Bamford whether he should sell a few of them individually.  I said to David I am not interested if the whole collection does not come here. I just want the whole thing or nothing. And I have never wavered from that because that is how the story will be told and kept.  And Bromberg says it is an important story to tell. In fact he says unscrupulous dealers will take fine American violins and give them fake documentation claiming they are Italian so they can sell them for more money.  I have two violins by a maker named Walter Solon Goss what may be his last violin that he made for his daughter in the 1920s which is just gorgeous. And I also have his first violin and it says on the label - number one Lynn Mass. And this violin for all the world looks like a small-town Italian violin and that it is in the collection is its only protection because if it got into circulation before too long it would get an Italian label and pass.  The Library of Congress plans to raise 1.5 million to acquire Bromberg's collection of American violins and tell their story as part of a new center for the study of the American violin. For NPR News I am Jon Kalish. 