 Now the story of a punk rock resurrection. It is the rise and fall and rise again of The Meat Puppets led by Curt Kirkwood and his brother Cris. Christian Bordal from member station KCRW charts their journey.  The Meat Puppets were never your average punk band. They listened to Neil Young in the '70s. Mr.  It is kind of like one of the reasons we never really got entirely you know accepted by the punk rock scene either. We were not really that much of a punk rock band in a way. Mr.  We liked the Grateful Dead. We love the Grateful Dead you know? We love the Art Ensemble. We loved Sun Ra you know? We loved all kinds of stuff.  Mr.   Forget yourself. You only want to be alone. . You are living like a dusted bone...  The Kirkwoods also did not fit in because punk rock was a working class movement sneering at the glam rock excesses of the 1970s. And Curt Kirkwood describes his and his brother's childhood in Phoenix Arizona as decidedly upper crust. Mr.  My mom was the child of this person who was like the kind of rich that people do not even dream of. So we grew up around Learjets and hotels and all this crazy stuff mansions all over the place. Mr.  We grew up with - you know our grandfather had money but we did not wind up with it.  The brothers gave high society the finger and with drummer Derrick Bostrom started the Meat Puppets in 1980. Mike Watt bass player at the time with the Minutemen and now with Iggy Pop and the Stooges remembers hearing them at a club in L.A. Mr.  I did not know they were brothers but could guess that without even knowing because the way they played together was incredibly in sync and they were almost two heads on the same being. I loved the way they played and sang together.  Mr.   .  The Meat Puppets were signed to SST Records along with the who is who of punk bands at the time including Black Flag the Minutemen and Husker Du. And after more than a decade on college radio the Puppets finally got a taste of the big time when Kurt Cobain a fan invited them on tour with Nirvana and on MTV Unplugged. Mr.  We recorded it and then he killed himself. It became his swan song and that was then really treasured because of the circumstances. So they started playing it a lot and we would hooked up a hit song of our own at that point. So we had like a flood of attention.  Mr.   Some things will never change. They stand there looking backwards half unconscious from the pain. They may seem rearranged in the backwater swirling there is something that will never change.  Everything seemed to be coming together for the Meat Puppets and that is when the wheels started falling off for Cris Kirkwood. Mr.  Suddenly I had more money you know and I am just somebody that is susceptible to it. It is in our family. You know there is alcoholism in our family deep you know? They say that can play a part in it whatever you know? I mean I just allowed it to happen and I regret it horribly you know? After everything had got that bad I mean it was just you know it was the deep end. . Mr.  Oh I could have seen it gotten a lot worse. I can see it -having gotten to the point where you lost a limb or two even.  By the next year when the band recorded the follow-up Cris was deep into a heroin addiction. Paul Leary of the Butthole Surfers produced both records. Mr.  And it was pretty tough. You know Cris was having problems and he often did not show up to the studio and when he did show up to the studio he was passed out on his face on the floor and so we would try to work around him. And sometimes he would get mad at us for not including him in things. And eventually we just moved the session to Los Angeles and did not tell Cris about it.  Did he end up playing on any of the stuff or was it just other people playing Mr.  Oh yeah no he played on all of it. You know we got his parts. The  can play. He can play the bass.  Things went from bad to worse. In 1996 Cris and Curt's mother died. In '98 Cris's wife died of an overdose and by then his brother had given up. Mr.  I could not handle it. So I did not have much emotional stake in it by then and just did not pay any attention to it. It was another world. I mean he was in the world of the street people and you know the people that are not here and he is smart. So he was able to prolong it while living right on the edge and people calling me telling me I think there is somebody else dead at your brother's house. You would try to have a glimmer of hope. It was not there.  Cris says he ballooned to 300 pounds lost all his teeth. Then in 2003 he was shot after assaulting a security guard in a post office parking lot. He went to prison for a year and a half and that finally cleaned him up. A year after he got out the Kirkwoods were back together releasing their first tentative new music in more than a decade.  Mr.   You may think that you are nylon. You seem to say you children of the world. You may think you are an astronaut from stars wide...  Curt says he was not looking for a reunion. He just wanted to make another Meat Puppets record. Mr.  And Elmo my son was like hey man it is really weird. I saw uncle and he looks like uncle again. He is - it is himself. Mr.  It was pretty amazing when Curt called you know the timing and everything because I actually had managed to turn the corner. But it was just long enough after all the emotional damage that I would incurred you know losing my wife. Everything that I would gone through was just so overwhelming emotionally - to having wrecked my career having ruined my relationship with everybody that loved me and who I loved. I would managed to just get a handle on the emotional part of it so that when I got out I knew I am not going to immediately need to run back to dope to cover up the damage that dope did you know? So I knew I was going to be clean. I knew it.  Bassist Mike Watt who is known the Meat Puppets since the beginning has seen the trajectory of addiction before with much worse outcomes. Mr.  I mean a lot of our scene was like that right? A lot of them are not with us anymore because of that and yet nothing could be more painful. But man I tell you. I was so glad when he came out of it. I cannot tell you. I cannot tell you what it meant to me. I have been with him a few times you know seen these gigs and it is big joy. It is big joy.  Mr.   This is the story of the history of night. From the beginning it has never seen the light. It takes a while to never understand and holds the gift of darkness in his hand.  There does not seem to be a lot of residual bitterness on Curt's part about the fact that Cris disappeared into heroin right as the band had its chance to break through. Mr.  I mean having money and fame and all that stuff they do not say it is hollow for nothing. People kill themselves. They get addicted to drugs. You know at the peak of their popularity when things should be the best for them everybody's bummed out especially in punk rock or in rock and roll. You know it is not just punk rock. The beautiful people all choked on their vomit too.  Fortunately for the Meat Puppets and their fans Cris Kirkwood did not. For NPR News this is Christian Bordal.  The Meat Puppets came into our studios at NPR West and recorded some songs. You can hear those tracks at nprmusic.org.  