 Now the second in our series of conversations about favorite summer songs and by that we mean songs not necessarily about summer but connected in our minds with a summertime memory. Today we are going to hear from writer Ann Patchett. She is the author of novels including The Patron Saint of Liars Bel Canto and Run. She joins us from Nashville. And Ann you have offered to share with us what you would call a deeply humiliating story about your choice for the song of summer. Ms.  Yeah I do not really want to say that this is my favorite summer song.  Okay noted. Ms.  But this is the song that I think of when I think of summer. It came up last weekend. I was at a party for my neighborhood. I was sitting with a whole bunch of people some that I knew and some that I did not. We were talking about Michael Jackson and I said well you know even if you did not like his later stuff everybody loved the Jackson 5. I only listened to the Jackson 5 when I was a kid. And then I said I mean that great song One Bad Apple. That was my favorite song when I was a kid.    Yeah. Ms.   Osmonds.  MR.   I can tell you have been hurt by that look on your face girl. Some guy brought sadness to your happy world. Ms.  And I knew that what had happened was over the years I convinced myself that I did not listen to the Osmonds I listened to the Jackson 5 because now I know that the Jackson 5 were really cool and the Osmonds were not cool at all.  But I was a white Catholic kid living in rural middle Tennessee and we only listened to the Osmonds and we worshipped them.  MR. M.   One bad apple do not spoil the whole bunch girl. Mr.   Oh give it one more try before you give up on love.  You can sort of tell. You can sort of tell why you would be confused thinking this is a Jackson 5 song because listen.  Mr. D.   Oh give it one more try before you give up on love.  That must be Donny. It could be Michael Jackson. Ms.  It is absolutely that ooh. Yeah it is very Michael.  Mr. D.   I do not care what you heard now.  Well you know you should feel a little bit better here and I am going to tell you why. I was looking this song up and there is a Web site called Songfacts and it says that the song was written by George Jackson out of Muscle Shoals Alabama written with the Jackson 5 in mind and sounding very...  Ms.  But they passed on it.   Well who knows? But it does sound very much like a Jackson 5 record. And in fact I was playing this in my office and somebody walked by and said oh I love listening to Michael Jackson.  Mr. M.   I have been noticing you baby for a long long time.   Long long time now. Mr. M.   I am not ashamed to tell the world that you really messed up my mind.  Now where would you have been when you were listening to this song back in 1971? Ms.  I would have been out in Ashland City Tennessee on River Road in the middle of nowhere. During the summer my sister Heather and my two stepsisters all stuck out on this farm all summer with nothing to do with the extra 18 hours in our day. We spent that time dialing the radio station. It would be busy and busy and busy. And when we finally got through all four of us would hold the phone up and we would scream One Bad Apple in hopes that the radio station would play the song because we did not have a record player. It was the only way we got to hear the song and then we would just wait by the radio for them to play it.    One bad apple do not spoil the whole bunch girl. Mr.   Oh give it one more try before you give up on love.   One bad apple do not spoil the whole bunch girl.  Well Ann Patchett thanks for being brave enough to expose your deep humiliation about the song One Bad Apple.  Ms.  Yeah I am not going to be listening to the radio today.  Mr. M.   Girl to me you are like a dream come true.   Dream come true now. Mr. M.   I would rather hurt myself than to ever...  The writer Ann Patchett explaining why One Bad Apple performed by The Osmonds is her song of summer. You can see video of the Osmond brothers white jumpsuits and all at npr.org. And while you are there you can send us your favorite summer song memories.  Mr. D.   Oh I do not care what they say. I do not care what you heard now.   One bad apple do not...  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 