 The Greatest Showman did not exactly raise the big top at the box office when it opened last December but the original soundtrack to this movie musical about P.T. Barnum - that is turning out to be a way different story.    Ladies and gents this is the moment you have waited for.   Woah.   Been searching in the dark your sweat soaking through the floor.   Woah.  The album has outsold Justin Timberlake this year. It is outsold Kanye West and Taylor Swift. Hugh Jackman who stars and sings as P.T. Barnum - there is a good chance he is getting more love than any of them. So why is this album so crazy popular? To answer that question we are joined by Rob Harvilla. He is a music critic who reviewed the album for The Ringer back in February when it was just gaining popularity. Welcome.  Hello. Thank you for having me.  What makes this collection of songs different from your typical soundtrack?  I think there are at least a dozen currently popular artists that are directly sort of referenced by it. You know you hear sort of the loud rock bands like Muse or Imagine Dragons or Fall Out Boy. This Is Me - obviously the big hit that won a Golden Globe that was nominated for an Oscar. Like that is a pretty direct rip-off of Fight Song of Rachel Platten's Fight Song. You know the way it mixes rap and rock and a little bit of electronic - you know some critics have coined the term Spotifycore which is the way that every popular genre now is sort of being distilled down into one like really robotic-sounding hybrid form.  Yeah.  The other thing is that the pedigree of this thing is really impressive. The songs were written by Benj Pasek and Justin Paul. They were the team behind La La Land...  Oh wow.  ...And also Dear Evan Hansen. You know apparently everyone just loves musicals.  .  I had no idea how much people were still clamoring for movie musicals. So...  You already mentioned This Is Me. This is the bearded lady song. Let us take a listen.    When the sharpest want to cut me down I am going to send a flood going to drown them out. I am brave. I am bruised. I am who I am meant to be. This is me. Look out 'ecause here I come.  All right. This is going to be my anthem. I was listening to this. And this is totally like Fight Song.  That is right.  It was sung by Keala Settle. How did it fit into the story of this movie?  I do not know a whole lot about P.T. Barnum other than this movie. But you know it sort of posits P.T. Barnum as like the guy who brought all the misfits together and empowered them. You know like it is not that he was exploiting these people...  Right. No of course not.  ...You know to sell a circus. No of course not. That song is the big moment you know where they realize their potential and they come together - this ragtag group of outcasts.  I want to go next to Rewrite The Stars. This was sung by Zac Efron and Zendaya.  Ah yes.    All I want is to fly with you. All I want is to fly with you. So just give me all of you.   It feels impossible.   It is not impossible.   Is it impossible?   Say that it is possible.  If only we could all fall in love on a trapeze. I mean this does make me kind of want to wear a leotard right now.  That is what I am saying. Absolutely.  .  No I mean that is a great moment in the film. Like just the sight of two young beautiful people falling in love on a trapeze is pretty enormously appealing you know when you are sitting in a movie theater on a Thursday afternoon or whatever you know? And the song itself is kind of a little bit of John Legend. It is a little bit of Jason Derulo. Again it is a sort of hybrid of various really popular artists and songs you have heard before. But yeah. In that moment it is just - the same feeling you get off you know a great romantic comedy.  Then there is Never Enough.  Yes.  It is lip-synced by Rebecca Ferguson but Loren Allred from The Voice is the actual singer.    Never never. Never never. Never for me for me.  I was like feeling it. I am so there with her. I do not even know what she is singing about because I have not watched this movie.  Right. That is the big Adele moment. I do - I have to tell you honestly like the day after I saw the movie I went to the chiropractor. And I put this song on repeat all the way home from the chiropractor.  .  Like I just - I listened to it like 10 times.  .  Yes it is very soothing. And I was perfectly aligned you know emotionally and physically by the end of that car ride.  I feel like I do not hear movie soundtracks topping the charts anymore like this has. I remember like The Bodyguard and Top Gun.  Right.  Those were huge when I was growing up. Why is that?  You are absolutely right that that is fallen out of favor. And like I talk to people about that. And some people said like I think audiences are too sophisticated anymore. Like you cannot just drop a pop song in the middle of like a dog fight. You know like you are going to get laughed off the screen. So that is why a lot of the big musicals tend to be kids' movies...  Yeah.  ...You know Frozen Moana whatever. Like that is - you know where there is not so much of a pressure to be like super cool.  Yeah maybe we are not too cool for school. Like maybe The Greatest Showman is telling us that.  .  We are still pretty cheesy.  If uncool is actually cool then that is right on time as far as I am concerned.   That is Rob Harvilla a music reviewer for The Ringer. Thank you very much for joining us.  Oh thanks so much for having me. I really appreciate it.    From now on...   And we will come back home. 