 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Audie Cornish. Dan Deacon is one of the few electronic music makers who is also consistently described as a composer. His work has even been performed at Carnegie Hall. But if you have never heard his music do not be deterred by what you hear next.   This is from Deacon's new album titled America.  from gentle orchestration to hardcore electronic and back. America is Deacon's first album working with an orchestra which is a big change for a guy who at first became enamored with the music he could make alone on a computer.  I would never seen a blank staff of music before on a computer. And it was like you can click in notes or rests and clefs and it sort of just kind of blew my mind. And then in college I was still writing computer music but I was like only writing these pieces for two flutes that would never get played by anyone ever and never will because they were just like you know student experiments whereas it is like I want them to jump in range and I want it to be triple forte and five octaves lower than they can play. You know what I mean? Just sort of like really getting into that idea of complexity.  And your music does have this wonderful kind of layering that happens. When I think of a song like True Thrush...  Mm-hmm.   I have been listening to this for a long time. It is kind of interesting to hear the kick drum. I cannot believe how loud we mixed it.   The most amount of debate that we had on the record was in regards to the drums.  Now what is the debate because for people who do not listen to electronic music regularly maybe they think they are only hearing drums or kind of only hearing percussive sounds? So for you what goes into crafting a song like this?  Well those are all live drums. And I wanted to mix them so that they would sound like synthetic drums but they have that human feel. And I think that is like the cornerstone of the idea of this record is that it is not electronic music and it is not acoustic music and it is you know it is an electroacoustic music. It takes the elements that electronic music have which are you know precision and merges it with the fragility of what a human can do and what human instruments and acoustic instruments can do.   I started working with electronic music because that was what was available to me. I had a computer and I could write that music. And I could not write a piece for orchestra because it would never get played. I wanted to focus on work that would exist and people could hear and it could develop and grow and not just like sit in a box in a closet. So anyway skipping years ahead...   ...I did not get tired of writing electronic music but I started to feel its limitations because obviously there is differences between music that is made by a human being and music that is made by a computer. There is perfection...   ...endless limitless perfection that a computer has. And because of that that is its limit. Do you know what I mean?  Yes. There is something about the computer that makes it feel like you can make it perfect.  Definitely. But it is that ability that takes it - like even in regards to a drummer you can have a 45-armed drummer that can play forever if it is a computer but it is not going to have that groove that a human drummer has. It is not going to have that like slight hesitation or the stronger impact.   You can do everything you want to make a computer try to sound like a cello but it is not going to sound like a cello.  You premiered your first orchestral works with - I guess it was the Canadian orchestra the Kitchener-Waterloo.  The Kitchener-Waterloo Symphony. I wrote for orchestra in college but it would been a long long time since I would communicated with players. So like I do not know. Those experience sort of like shook me. And it was like you need to remember this get back to work. Computers are not all there are Dan.   And it just showed me how much I had forgotten and how the nuance of an instrument - like if you are going to write for a cello like do not just make it sound like the MIDI demo you have of the cello. You know what I mean? Like dive into it.   So what were some of the challenges for you in this collaboration? I do not know if there is a song you can point to where you had an idea on the computer...   ...how it would be executed and then a real person looked at you and said what are you thinking?  I think the extro to Pretty Boy is a good example.   It was originally written for three bass clarinets and the part's just very fast and dexterous. And the player was like I do not think this is really going to work on bass clarinet. I mean it could. You could definitely do this. But to me it sounds more indicative to a bassoon. And we were like bring in the bassoon. And you know and they were right. It worked out great.   What do you say to people who are dismissive of electronic music? Do you ever feel that kind of criticism?  Well I do not really feel the criticism but I think I just feel like it is insane that people still call electronic music electronic music. It is just - it is like calling music guitar music or vocal music or something. And I do not know. It just does not make any sense. Like you know and people talk about how it is permeating the mainstream but it is been in the mainstream forever forever. But I feel like it would be kind of like  I cannot believe they are allowing trombones in the church. Can you believe it? These brass bands nuts never going to last. No one's going to - this piano who wants to hear notes louder and quieter? I do not want to hear it. I just want to hear all of my notes played the same. We have got harpsichords. We do not need these pianos. That' Electronic music. Do you think it is going to last? Do you think - so...  Well I wonder as you are getting further and further into...  I do not mean to attack you.  No no.   I welcome the attack.  It was not an attack.  I wonder this as you get more and more into this orchestration because you are encountering these audiences now and - I guess I just wonder sort of how it is going.   I think it is going well. I think most people who are interested in new music are open to any sound source. I feel like we live in an era where it is impossible to think of how 10 years from now we will still be calling electronic music electronic music. Or maybe we still - I do not know when we are constantly swimming in this sea of sounds of sirens and cellphone beeps and prerecorded music outside gas stations like it just permeates our system. There is always sound coming in and nine times out of 10 it is synthetic. And we live in this like weaving of music that we do not even realize. So of course our music is going to reflect that. And we are going to have more noise and we are going to have more synthetic  like sneaking into our sounds. And for most people I think all these things are very subtle but they still impact them. And they affect the way that they hear something. So we are just being conditioned to exist in this synthetic chaotic-based environment and I think our music is starting to really accurately reflect that.  Well Dan Deacon thank you so much for talking with me.  Oh no problem. Thank you.   Musician Dan Deacon speaking to us about his album called America. It is out today.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 