 Saxophonist Lee Konitz became famous 60 years ago as a pioneer of what is been dubbed the cool jazz sound. Now the legendary jazzman is enjoying a renaissance. At the age of 82 Konitz has been busy in the studio cutting records playing in nightclubs and touring festivals. As Tom Vitale reports the alto player is still making it up as he goes along.  in the living room of his West Side apartment Lee Konitz picks up his alto closes his eyes and blows   Konitz is playing around the melody of I Remember You taking apart the phrases.   He says he never played it this way before.  Mr.  That' to not repeat what I did that felt nice the night before or whatever just to try to build a new row of meaningful tones.  The rows of meaningful tones stretch back seven decades for Lee Konitz. Born in Chicago in 1927 Konitz says he gained a deep respect for improvised music from studying with the blind piano player Lennie Tristano.   Konitz began playing professionally as a teenager. When he was just 22 years old he played alto on the 1949 and '50 studio sessions with Miles Davis that came to be known as the birth of the cool.    scored charts with incidental solos. He plays with more freedom now but with the same melodic sound. Mr.  I love to hear beautiful melodies played or sung. That is the feeling I have for the horn. This is what I got coined with the cool sound. Some people say you know when are you gonna swing? It is not a competition to me. I just like to sing my little song and hopefully get a reaction from the people I am playing with and the people that are listening.  Mr.  You know maybe we all caught up with him finally.  Nate Chinen writes about jazz for The New York Times. Mr.  He is been putting out records and he is been working. And really the level of his craft has not wavered since the '40s or '50s.   Konitz's early career was defined by his refusal to play alto like Charlie Parker the dominant saxophonist on the scene when Konitz got there. Nate Chinen says Konitz's late career is defined by his stubborn refusal to play like another storied musician. Mr.  Now as he is into his 80s the greater specter for him is himself and how to avoid the danger of habitual gestures you know your own personal cliches. And I think that in an interesting way has been the spur and the motivating factor for him.   Lee Konitz does not rehearse his musicians. Last year for example he recorded an album of duets with 28-year-old pianist Dan Tepfer. Tepfer says he went into the studio expecting to record an album of standards. Mr.  We are in the studio and we just kind of wanted to warm up. And we said hey why do not we make up some pieces no planning.  Mr.  After we recorded that which took half an hour or something we moved on and recorded a lot of other stuff standards. And then when I was listening back it was just like wow this is really special. It has this real kind of mystery to it that I think people have to hear.  Tepfer says Lee Konitz is the most open-minded musician he knows of any age. Konitz says the key is listening. Mr.  Because really the music is entirely dependent on each guy really paying attention to the other guy looking into each other's ears so to speak. So I am still able to function pretty well with that thankfully.  Lee Konitz says at 82 the only real concession he is made to the aging process is that he has to keep his eyes closed when he plays to keep from getting distracted. For NPR News I am Tom Vitale in New York. 