 What do you do if you were recently crowned head of state and you are already facing opposition including from within your own family? One answer optics - make a big public splash by throwing a lavish party with A-list musical entertainment. That is what happened in London 300 years ago today. NPR's Tom Huizenga picks up with the rest of the story.  Family feuds - they are nothing new even in politics. In July 1717 King George I of England was feeling the heat from an opposing political faction gathering around his son the Prince of Wales. The King must have thought how can I turn the spotlight back on me? What about a boating party along the Thames with an orchestra?   The king's boating party gave birth to a smash hit Water Music composed by George Frideric Handel for his majesty's royal ride up the Thames.  This was a new thing to have quite such elegant and organized music in a barge towing behind the royal one where the king sat with his two mistresses and watched the world go by.  That is Nicholas McGegan. To mark the 300th anniversary of Handel's Water Music he is conducting the piece at a dry dock in England later this week.  So it was a big publicity deal for the king and another way of making his son look bad.  The king got the publicity he wanted. A London newspaper crowed a barge was employed for the music wherein were 50 instruments of all sorts who played the finest symphonies composed express for the occasion by Mr. Handel. McGegan says some of those instruments were brand new to the Brits like French horns.   The audience would I think say what is that funny instrument? We have heard hunting horns but not ones that play tunes.   The horn players had to come from Bohemia which was the central place for all horn players. I guess the beer is really good.   Handel's Water Music comes in three suites of tunes. And McGegan says they were an ingenious blend of popular styles of the day.  Handel is definitely the non-Brexit composer. He takes stuff from France Germany Italy and mixes it all up. So it is very much pan-European music if you like.   Living in London Handel was smart enough to know that he also had to throw something very English into the mix. He came up with a variation on a dance that became Water Music's signature tune.   A hornpipe is an English dance particularly associated with sailors and involves a lot of jumping up and down and being a bit of a peacock as a dancer to show off to the molls on the shore.  Londoners lined the banks of the Thames and squeezed boats into the river to hear the music and catch a glimpse of the royals. It was a public relations coup for King George. But would such an obvious diversion work for politicians today?  I think it happens all the time  does not it - because they would not ask a fabulous composer like John Adams to write them some wonderful music. They would probably get in some rather trashy rock band.  No comment. Tom Huizenga NPR News.  