 But before you do that listen to this. It is from Mussorgsky's Pictures at an Exhibition.   This new recording of the piece is worthy of our attention in itself. It is by the Norwegian pianist Leif Ove Andsnes. Mr.  This is an iconic piece of music. It is possibly the most famous Russian piece for solo piano ever written.   And it is about as programmatic a composition as has ever been written. The work was composed in 1974. It is a promenade through a gallery stopping at the pictures Viktor Hartmann an artist and architect a friend of Mussorgsky's who died young. The exhibition was a memorial to Hartmann. Each movement was inspired by and named for a picture. Mr.  It is unbelievable that it is written in 1870. It is such a modern concept. It is also a piece of theater. It has this narrative of this person walking into an exhibition space and you almost hear his reaction to what he has seen. So it is emotionally very strong.  Now  So much for The Ox Cart The Old Castle or The Tuileries. When Andsnes performs Pictures at an Exhibition at Lincoln Center in November he will share the stage with seven large video screens showing images created by the South African artist Robin Rhode. Mr.  I did not spend a great deal of my time listening to classical music. So I had a very limited understanding of classical music and especially the Mussorgsky. I would heard of promenades before but only on Disney cartoons.  Rhode's closest association with classical music until now seems to have been his drawing of a piano. His images are inspired by Mussorgsky's music but not literally by the pictures that are the music's inspiration. For example the movement called The Ox Cart Rhode has added images of a Johannesburg train station.   This musical-visual collaboration it is called Pictures Reframed culminates in video of Andsnes playing the movement The Great Gate of Kiev ankle deep in the harbor at Bergen Norway.   At the end the piano drifts off into the water. Andsnes says the idea here is to keep both music and visual images in the foreground. Mr.  I was introduced to Robin's art through a curator in Paris and I saw some of it and I thought it was very intriguing and very musical. And when there was then talk of doing such a project we approached Robin.  And Robin did you say oh Leif Ove Andsnes or some Norwegian pianist is asking me to do a project with him? Mr.  Thank goodness for YouTube because I had the chance to then do some research online on Leif Ove. And I was immediately captivated by Leif Ove's performance and by the piano just the idea of the piano concert because I had in my own artistic practice was developing ideas around incorporating music and visual arts. And at the same time I was developing this idea around trying to kill or murder my drawing of a piano. So it was really perfect timing.  You have some murderous impulse toward a piano. This precedes the project. What do you have against the piano exactly?  Mr.  You know it is not that I have something against it it is just that I have been very intrigued by the piano as an object and through murdering or trying to attempt to kill this object I could find a way to deconstruct its history. You know I think just as an object the piano is so so beautiful and to somehow remove its beauty and its history out would attempt in a very humorous and playful way try and kill it. Try and strangle it or suffocate it with a pillow or something.  And being made of wood it should naturally float as well.  Mr.  Yes and this idea of mine to murder the piano led us to drowning it in Bergen.   Leif Ove Andsnes did you also harbor long desires to murder a piano? Mr.  Not at all.  No. Mr.  And I am very glad it was not my piano. But yet there is also a lot of humor actually in the Pictures at an Exhibition as a musical piece. You know there are two or three of the movements that are clearly written to be humorous music - and that is something we often forget in classical music.  Is there a possible pitfall here Leif Ove Andsnes that the novelty and the attraction of the multimedia presentation might in some way - well does it take the pressure off of you to bring something fresh to the music alone since many people will only experience this as your recording of the Mussorgsky piece? Mr.  Of course there are many challenges with such a project. And it is not without its difficulty also to be an audience member because you have to listen and look so actively at the same time. And to use these both senses so actively we are not used to that and especially not in a concert. And I think this experience therefore will be different. I think sometimes music is foreground other times visuals is foreground. We have wanted to create something where both art forms are very strong. The worst thing that could happen was if the music becomes background music or if the visuals would be a kind of light illustration. We want both things to be strong. And then I think there will be meetings of these two - where? We will create a new expression. And I have found working with this that it has enhanced my appetite for this piece as music.  Well Leif Ove Andsnes and Robin Rhode thank you both very much for talking with us. Mr.  Thank you. Mr.  Thank you.  Pianist Leif Ove Andsnes performs Mussorgsky's Pictures at an Exhibition with Robin Rhode's video images at Lincoln Center in New York City on November 13th. You can see a video and hear more music at npr.org. 