 Here's a sentence we do not usually get to say on NPR. Nelly's 2002 hit Hot In Here is back in the news.    Hot in - so hot in here - in here. So hot in - hot in - hot in...  By the way that is spelled with two Rs.   Oh.  TMZ reported Sunday that Nelly had been hit with a 2.4 million federal tax lien. When Spin magazine writer Brian Josephs read the news he was stunned.  I do not - I do not think I am going to make that money in my lifetime. That is insane to me.  But then he had an idea. Spotify pays out a bit less than one cent every time a song is streamed. So Josephs wrote a story where he estimated how many times we would collectively have to stream Nelly's songs to help him pay off his tax bill.  And you get this huge - this number - over 280 million times.  Or to be exact 287176547 streams and actually that is just at the low end. Spotify's royalty also has to pay for the record label and the rights holders so it might actually be over double that. Josephs says sure the idea was a bit to use his word harebrained.  But like people was all-in about like hey there is an excuse to stream Hot In Herre millions of times.    So hot. So take off all your clothes.   I am getting so hot I want to take my clothes off.   Oh it is getting...  Josephs' piece caught the attention of a lot of lapsed Nelly fans and the hashtag SaveNelly started trending on Twitter. One person wrote - Nelly gave us hits for the middle school dances. We owe him. Another user wrote - put Hot In Herre on loop while you are sleeping with the volume down. Teamwork make the dream work. Hashtag SaveNelly.  I think it was the last piece we published that day and like it blew up like crazy. And last night actually Colbert did a segment. It was like - Colbert cares about Nelly? This is amazing.   Now Nelly I want to help you so I went over your numbers with my accountant Wendy and she was quite alarmed.  And James Corden on CBS's Late Show pitched in too.   Let us help Nelly out shall we?    It is getting hot in here.  Brian Josephs of Spin magazine says it is impressive what people can do when they put their minds to it.  This is amazing. This is the power of the culture speaking. It is the will of the people. I hope Nelly appreciates it.  So far Nelly has not responded to all this but if he wants to reflect on why he might have ended up with a 2.4 billion tax bill we are here to help.    Now if you want to go and take a ride with me we three-wheeling in the four with the gold Ds. Oh why do I live this way? Hey must be the money. If you want to go and get - with me smoke a - in the back of the Benz E. Oh why must I feel this way? Hey must be the money. In the club on the late night feeling right looking trying to spot something real nice looking for a little shorty I noticed so that I can take home. I can take home. She can be 18 - 18 - with an attitude or 19... 