 The other day as I was puttering around in my kitchen this song came on.    As the atom bomb locks in...  I pictured a David Bowie-esque singer glamorous and melodramatic as the world crumbles around him.    As the world as the world caves...  A glance at my phone told me that the singer is a 22-year-old from England with a buzz cut and a penchant for vintage suits. His name is Matt Maltese and his first full-length album comes out this week. It is called Bad Contestant. Matt Maltese welcome to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED.  Thank you very much. Hello.  This song is called As The World Caves In. And the lyrics are all about doomsday atom bombs the Earth burning to the ground.  That is right.    We creep up on extinction. I pull your arms right in.  Where did this come from?  It kind of sparked when Theresa May was talking about renewing the Trident program here.  This is the British nuclear weapons program that the prime minister is talking about enhancing.  Exactly so it kind of - I mean it brings to mind - does not it? - doomsday when you hear people talking about creating nuclear bombs. And it was the same kind of time that Trump was around. And I kind of just had this image in my head of them two kind of striking up a romance.  Wait I am sorry. Theresa May and Donald Trump striking up a romance?  Yeah.  They are never named in this song. Is that who this song is about?  No yeah that is where this song kind of initially sparks from. That is right.  Wow.  Yeah and it kind of...  It is quite a leap from doomsday to that kind of an image.  Yeah well I guess it was just I mean because of the power they have I guess if they want to end the world they can in a way. So I think they were the two sort of figures that came to mind. And then it kind of all just became this song that I can imagine my mom listening to and not hearing the lyrics and just thinking oh this is nice.  Well exactly. It is an uncomfortable sentiment presented in such a beautiful romantic melodic way.  Yeah that is kind of the aim yeah.    As the world caves in.  There is actually a lot of apocalypse on this album .  There is a bit yeah a bit too much .  Is it too much? I mean the music does not sound overtly political. It does not sound like an anthem. It does not sound like something that somebody would sing at a march against nuclear weapons.  Yeah yeah for sure. I guess yeah I guess I do not really have an interest in writing kind of revolution political songs. I like writing love songs. It is kind of - it is what I connect to the most. And I think seeing that kind of situation through the eyes of love is kind of disturbing and hopefully would actually also act in some way as a kind of speaking-out-about-it song.  Yeah. One could say the same thing about the song Strange Time.    Now that we are doomed let me show you to your room where we can implode by the moon.  Yes more apocalypse stuff probably more about sort of relationship apocalypse but yeah the same kind of sentiment.  I was telling a friend that the songs on this album seemed to be either about relationship troubles or about apocalypse. And the friend replied are not they basically the same thing?   Oh that is a good point. They should be a musician. I guess in a way maybe it is the same part of your brain reacting your fear of the end of things.    Come on now and let us just have a strange time. Oh it is just right if we deface our minds. We can have a strange time and get stranger every night.  And yet through all of it whether you are talking about the end of a relationship or the end of the world there is this pervasive sense of humor in your songs.  Yeah well I am glad that is felt. I do try and kind of get that side of me across because I think as much as I take things seriously or I think you know I think intensely about things I am also - I also always have a voice in me kind of laughing at that introvert. You know I guess it is - I think I explained it the other day. I feel like a lot of the album is kind of my extrovert side of myself sort of laughing at the introvert but then the introvert still being like I am still here and I am really intense.   People like talk about Like A Fish and they are like it is a sad song. And I would like that sentiment to come across but I like people saying that they did not expect to laugh and laughing.  I listened to the song before I realized what the lyrics were.    Like a fish - that is how I drink these days.  Like a fish - that is how I drink these days. It numbs the envy I have against your tall kind man. And then I love this line. He is so much taller than I ever will be.   Yeah that is definitely one of my best lines.    He is so much taller than I ever will be. A lot of the album definitely pushes and pulls between me sort of allowing myself to take a heartbreak really seriously and then also kind of being like God there is so much more serious stuff happening all the time.  I mentioned that when I first heard your music my mind sort of went to Bowie. I have seen other people compare you to Morrissey and Father John Misty. Do you see yourself as being in a particular lineage with other musicians?  No. I like to not think about it. I think it kind of gets me worked up because I think I then start to think about some of those people's legends and that is a very hard thing to think about. And I think I get the most out of my music and out of life when I am thinking sort of month by month. I think it is part of the - like our condition is to try to find a kind of similarity so that you are more likely to click on the article...  Yeah.  ...Or to actually listen to it. So I get that side of it. I am not bitter about comparisons. But I try to just not think about it.    And when all the roses die and the last of us have lived our lives...  Should we end where we began with the apocalypse?  Yes please yeah.  The final track on this album is called Mortals. Describe it for us.  It kind of imagines the regret we feel when all these sort of predictions of global warming come true.    Mortals oh mortals where did it all go so wrong? Did not think this far on. It was more broad comment about my own thought of I guess not regretting things until they are a reality.  And yet the last line of the song the last line of the album is there might still be hope.  Exactly. Yeah I think that is an important sentiment in general because there is so many good people out there all over the world. I think it is just important to remember that there is no point kind of giving up like ever really. Until we are kind of all disintegrated what is the point of giving up?  Well Matt Maltese thanks so much for talking with us.  Thank you very much for having me.  His debut album is called Bad Contestant.    There might still be hope. There might still be hope. 