 August is shaping up to be American music month in Shanghai. Metallica the heavy metal band just wrapped up their long-awaited China debut with two packed shows. This weekend Limp Bizkit headlines a two-day festival. Next week it is Aerosmith at a Shanghai soccer stadium followed by Pitbull. Meanwhile NPR Shanghai correspondent Frank Langfitt definitely not a metalhead he caught last night's Metallica's show. But he sent this report on the wave of name-acts hitting China's second city.  It is close to show time and thousands of people are pouring into the Mercedes-Benz Arena here. The arena is a state-of-the-art place to hear music. It actually looks like a UFO on the outside and changes colors. A lot of the fans here seemed to be pretty hard core. I would say at least half of them are wearing black Metallica T-shirts. Song Yang has flown into the show all the way from Beijing.   For me and my comrades-in-arms who play rock music Metallica was the band that enlightened us. They were the first foreign rock band we listened to.  Song plays bass in Spring and Autumn one of the scores of bands in Beijing's thriving heavy metal scene. Metallica's rebellious music first spoke to him when he was a high school student in the late 1990s.   I was in a classroom using a Walkman listening to a cassette tape while the teacher was teaching. Being able to see them perform on stage has been one of my dreams since I was young.  Yes we have waited a long time Shanghai China.  The band's lead singer James Hetfield spoke directly to people like Song during the two-hour show.  Metallica is grateful to be able to come into China and to give our gift of music to you the Metallica family of Shanghai. Thank you for coming.  Chinese audiences are generally a lot more subdued than the kinds you see in the United States but this is an exception. You have thousands of people now on the floor on their feet pumping their fists.   My name is John Cappo. I am the president and CEO for AEG in Asia.  AEG is a global sports and entertainment events company. It handled the Metallica shows.  For this third quarter and fourth quarter you will see an unprecedented amount of music coming through Shanghai in international acts.  AEG says more talent is coming to China because of better venues and Chinese fans are more familiar with Western music through the Internet. AEG's Adam Wilkes says not so long ago potential venues for big shows included decrepit government gyms and arenas still under construction. He recalls one site visit.  There was no roof on the building and the floor was mud and they were convinced that somehow three months later you know the building would be ready for a show.  Today AEG manages the Benz Arena. It seats about 10000 for a concert and rivals any similar venue in the U.S. But just because more acts are coming does not mean everyone is making lots of money.  It is a tenuous and a very stressful business to be in. The margin is very small.  Michael Luevano managed the Rolling Stones show here in 2005. He says production costs in Shanghai are huge. And some revenue streams that work in the U.S. do not work here.  Generally the artists will keep merchandising but the reality is that means they have to bring in the merchandise which is very difficult. It is too expensive to bring in thousands of Metallica shirts and whatnot.  Just the customs fees alone. When official merchandise does arrive it has to compete with scenes like this. To get in one of the gates you have to sort of walk through a gauntlet of people selling pirated merchandise. There is Metallica fans Metallica buttons. There is a woman over here selling - it looks like at least 50 black Metallica T-shirts.   Oh here come the cops.   All right. Everybody is pulling back their stuff.     So even as the cop is standing here trying to clear things out a woman is still trying to sell me a fan for about 75 cents. Metallica has railed against piracy in the past. But at a press conference yesterday drummer Lars Ulrich was diplomatic.  The one thing increasingly that we focus our energies is try to discern between what we can control and what we cannot control. It is what it is and that is a whole separate conversation about Chinese copyright issues and so on which maybe is not the time to do now but you cannot control that.  This has to be the last song. If you have any energy left this is the song to get it out OK?   That is right Shanghai.  After the show Kevin Zhou a businessman from the central Chinese city of Nanjing plunked down 32 bucks for an official Metallica T-shirt. Zhou who is 30 found the two hours of head-banging cathartic.    I am satisfied very satisfied he said. Everyone will encounter all kinds of troubles. I feel when I listen to their music my troubles just go away. As he headed out into the sweltering summer night  Can they come back next year?   Frank Langfitt NPR News Shanghai. 