 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish. And more and more these days we are getting pitched albums described as chamber pop music that wraps top 40 hooks in lush classical orchestration. And this one by a group called San Fermin stood out.    Get over you like anything I ever could.  This song Renaissance! is the lead track off San Fermin's self-titled album. In an era when an online single or a leaked demo can make or break a band San Fermin is taking a chance on a full-blown concept album. And it is hatched by a man who does not sing but who formed the group and compose their music 24-year-old Ellis Ludwig-Leone. And it is a love story.  Yeah it is sort of based around the interaction between a male and a female character. The male character is a little more grandiose and is sort of a manifestation of a lot of things that I was thinking about around the time when I was writing when I was 22.    There is a mob at the door. I hear them calling for my head.   I just graduated from college. And it was not a given that I was going to be a musician or anything. Everything was sort of up in the air. And this male character was sort of a - he is looking for you know directions that his life can go and sort of meaningful things that he can find. And the female character is a little more cynical and a little more I suppose aloof.  And you hear that in the first song Renaissance where the male character is making very sort of dire statements. And then things totally switch gears in Crueler Kind which is our introduction to her.    I would not worry. Your melodramas are embarrassing. My cripple Henry imagine menace under everything.  You know after writing Renaissance I sort of had this immediate backlash where I felt like I just need to cut it off at the knees.  It is that little voice in your head that is like take down the drama dude right?   Exactly.  It is not - you are going to be OK.  That is right. Yeah I mean her first line is I would not worry your melodramas are embarrassing which is sort of how I felt about myself at that time.    Oh will you give it up this time? Oh when your heart is   I mean I think the big breakthrough for me was actually figuring out that I could write for characters because then I could push these aspects to myself in very different ways and imagine people as if they had made you know different decisions and explore a much larger range of emotion.  Now I read that you went on an artistic retreat to the Banff Centre in the Canadian Rockies. What was that like? I mean how remote are we talking? And what did you think you were going to write?  Well so the Banff Centre is on a mountain in the middle of the Canadian Rockies. It is really idyllic landscape. In fact it is kind of ridiculous. You know I would be writing these songs and then walking to the top of the mountain for my afternoon walks. So it almost felt sort of laughably grandiose.  We are you trying to like just get away from your smartphone? Or did you think you were going to write you know the great American fill in the blank?   Well I certainly was trying to get away from my smartphone. And they do not have service there which was like really helpful.  Key to creativity.  Yeah absolutely. But yeah I had a pretty strong plan actually for what I was going to be doing. I had a skeleton framework. And I knew that I would want - I wanted to write very quickly so it is like a bunch of different furniture but - coming from you know in the same room.  And you said write quickly. I mean you wrote a song a day right?  Yeah that is right yeah. Over that summer I mean I applied to the Banff Centre. My mom had actually gone there as an artist and so I had been there and I really - it stuck in my memory as a kid.  And what kind of artist is she?  Both my parents are visual artists. They are painters.  Ah. So you are a rebel.   I suppose you can call it that. But the whole family is - it is sort of the trade of the family. My sister is a painter as well.  Now today you work in music composition professionally right? You are helping to write orchestration for operas and ballets and films. And that really comes through I think in the instrumental portions of the album. I want to play a song called True Love Asleep which is one of many moments on the album that are kind of an instrumental palate cleanser.   So Ellis this gets into a more kind of complex emotions I guess.  I sort of imagined it as a back and forth between the male and the female character. And then I knew that I wanted these interludes as sort of these breaths where even though the female character is being really cynical I wanted to maybe hint that there is maybe more going on in her mind.  We talked a little bit in the intro about this idea of chamber pop which I do not know you probably hate. Most musicians hate these labels that get put on to their music. But pop is so tight right? I mean that is really what makes it. It is just this kind of hard-hitting obvious tight thing which is also in a way I think of as the opposite from the classical tradition.  Yeah. I mean it is interesting. I think the pop idiom one of the things that I can really do is just punch you right in the gut. And I do not know if that is totally opposite of the classical idiom. I think it is maybe - I mean maybe we have become a little more immune to symphony orchestra. But if you imagine being you know going to a concert in the 17 or 1800s that would really you know sock you pretty good.  A punch in the gut.  Yeah.   Is there a song on the album that you think does that?  Well you know I think Sonsick - I mean Sonsick was - a lot of people say that that song sounds really happy and it is like a summer jam. But that was like born out of - sort of the most intense anxiety of probably anything in the record.    Try to fix it up. I found me a hopeless case oh oh. I will fall for you soon enough.  I just came back from Banff actually and I mean a lot of my friends were making decisions about their futures and you know it was terrifying. It was like you can see all these people make these decisions that are going to affect the rest of their lives and how - where they live how they live who they are with. And for me it was really kind of a - I think it is sort of a panic attack disguised as a party anyway.  A panic attack disguised as a party. Now this chorus makes more sense to me.   Yeah yeah.    Oh do not be scared that it is a harder kind of feel. Hold on tight. You must hold on unless you are in it. Ease your mind. And when you think you are thinking clear it is all right. You really tired in a minute. I just say that it is another on the clock.   Ellis thank you so much for sharing the story of this album with us.  Thank you for having me.  Ellis Ludwig-Leone pianist and composer for San Fermin. Their self-titled debut album is out now.    I will fall for you soon enough. I resolve to love.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 