 Heavy-hitting singers like Miley Cyrus and Katy Perry may dominate the airwaves. But an unlikely competitor has emerged from New Zealand of all places.  ELLA 'LORDE' YELICH-O'  I remember when your head caught flame. It kissed your scalp and caressed your brain.  Ella Yelich-O'Connor goes by the moniker Lorde. And just 16 years old she is gone from churning out tunes in her bedroom in Auckland to a splashy U.S. debut. Her new album is called Pure Heroine and we asked her about the breakthrough song that got everyone' Royals.   But every song's like gold teeth Grey Goose tripping in the bathroom bloodstains ball gowns trashing the hotel room. We do not care. We are driving Cadillacs in our dreams. But everybody's like Cristal Maybach diamonds on your timepiece jet planes islands tigers on a gold leash. We do not care. We are not caught up in your love affair.  Ella welcome to the program.  Hi. Thank you for having me.  So talk about the imagery in that first verse because there is a lot going on there.   Basically I was just sort of reeling off some of the things which commonly mentioned in hip-hop and the Top 40. I did get a little ridiculous on it but you know the sentiment's there.  And how did you come up with the idea for the song? Is this your music hip-hop and these other kind of genres where you see this imagery?  Well yeah. I mean I have always loved hip-hop. But as a fan of hip-hop I always had to kind of suspend disbelief because obviously like I do not have a Bentley you know so...   Like there is a distance between that and the life I have with my friends going to parties and you know getting public transport and doing the things that every other teenager does really.  So lyrics like we count our dollars on the train to the party right? It is not like whipping the dollars out on the dance floor.   Yeah. I make a lot of jokes about making it rain. I have yet to make it rain.   But I am looking forward to that moment.  For people who do not know making it rain is when you like spray the dollars usually in a strip club I think.  But then do you go and pick them all up afterward? Is that embarrassing?  That is a very good question.   I would like you know it sort of ruins the bombast of the gesture.    And we will never be royals. It do not run in our blood. That kind of luxe just as not for us. We crave a different kind of buzz. Let me be your ruler. You can call me queen bee. And baby I will rule. I will rule. I will rule. Let me live that fantasy.  Now your mom is a prize-winning poet Sonya Yelich. And what did you learn about songwriting from her?  Yeah we did not really talk too much about songwriting but I think the way my mum indirectly influenced me with that stuff is she always made sure that we were reading in my house and that there were books around. And we would discuss whatever it was that I was reading. So I think my kind of interest in how you can combine words to make something magic I think that sort of came from her.   In the end is your life nudging closer to Royals? I mean do you find that...  The irony is not lost on me believe me. I do not know. I mean like I travel with my mum and you know I have got no alcohol in my rider and they clean out my mini bar before I even get to my hotel and...   I may be closer to that life but I you know I am conscious of the fact that I have a job to do and I am working. And it is important to be professional about it as opposed to like I do not know Cristal in the van over here or whatever.  Well Ella Yelich-O'Connor thank you so much for speaking with us.  Thank you for speaking to me.   Ella Yelich-O'Connor aka Lorde. Her debut album Pure Heroine is out now. You can see Lorde performing Royals at nprmusic.org. 