 Finally this hour the seductive blend of Frank Sinatra and bossa nova. Back in the 1960s Frank Sinatra and the Brazilian musician Antonio Carlos Jobim recorded an album together. It features one particular song that still inspires singersongwriter David Gray and it is the song that he brought us for our series You Must Hear This.  Ten years ago on an American tour I was relaxing in my luxuriant motel suite at the Red Roof Inn when I heard for the first time Quiet Nights of Quiet Stars.   From the moment you step into this song you cannot help but gaze in wonder at the glorious architecture of a musical age gone by.  the arrangement elegance itself and the execution by the musicians' faultless.     Quiet nights of quiet stars...  And leads us by the hand into a dreamlike scene of starlight and almost magical stillness. Then the lyric unfolds in a series of meditative haiku subtly gathering pace until bang with barely more than a minute on the clock there is a dramatic change of chords and an equally dramatic confession.    I who was lost and lonely believing life was only a bitter tragic joke have found with you the meaning of existence my love.  Back to the song and the orchestra steers us effortlessly on Frank repeats his confession and the whole thing is over in little more than two and a half minutes. There is real magic here and it is all so perfectly concise that I do not think I have ever got to the end of this song and not wanted to go back for a second listen. They simply do not make them like this anymore.    I who was lost and lonely believing life was only a bitter tragic joke have found with you the meaning of existence oh my love.  Singersongwriter David Gray's albums include White Ladder. His pick for our series You Must Hear This is Quiet Nights of Quiet Stars with Antonio Carlos Jobim and Frank Sinatra. You can find that song and a lot more You Must Hear This recommendations at nprmusic.org.   I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Madeleine Brand. You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 