 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Robert Siegel. While families struggle to keep up with the growing cost of higher education colleges and universities are struggling too. A growing number say they can no longer afford to ignore students' ability to pay their own way when deciding whether to admit them. NPR's Tovia Smith has the story.  The trend lines could not be more clear. With endowments and donations down and student need up it does not take an honors math student to see something's got to give.  And just to conclude as we continue to give more and more aid the numbers do not add up.  That is Raynard Kington president of Grinnell College which has an endowment bigger than most schools dream of thanks in large part to the guidance of billionaire investor Warren Buffett. For years that is enabled Grinnell to admit students on a need-blind basis and then give them as much aid as they need. Today Grinnell effectively writes off more than 60 percent of its tuition. That is more than any other school except Harvard Kington says but also more than Grinnell can afford without compromising the quality of its education.  We do not get in room and say OK do we give more aid here or do we give a raise to our professors over here? It is never that stark but behind curtain that is what is happening is this tradeoff.  Grinnell is one of many hoping to save money by turning some of its student grants into loans instead. People borrow for other things he says.  The average new car loan is 28000 a year. You may not want to go that high but its not unreasonable to expect students to carry a slightly higher amount of their aid in the form of a loan.  Provost Barbara Knuth says Cornell just converted some of its grants into loans. She says the university is committed to supporting needy kids.  On the other hand we have institutional fiduciary responsibilities and responsibilities to future Cornell students to have an approach that is truly financially sustainable.  Recently MIT also switched some of its grants into loans but Chancellor Eric Grimson says admissions will still be need-blind.  That is one of the just rock-solid principles. It is sort of built into our DNA.  In fact you would be hard-pressed to find a school that does not believe in need-blind admissions in principle. But Wesleyan president Michael Roth says just being need blind alone becomes meaningless if students who are admitted are not offered enough aid so they can actually enroll without taking on a load of debt.  And I think at many schools the label need-blind actually can conceal a certain amount of hypocrisy.  Rather than be a purist on need-blind Roth's plan for Wesleyan is to admit students without regard for finances only until scholarship money runs out. Then for the last five or 15 percent of the class he says Wesleyan would only admit those who can pay their way.  I do not think in good conscience I can maintain policy that absent some miraculous change in the future is just unsustainable.  The proposal has caused backlash on campus. Junior Leonid Lu who is on full financial aid says he came to Wesleyan because of its reputation as diversity university.  I mean it is kind of like a slap in the face for students like me.  But equally upset is classmate Benny Docter who gets no financial aid  I would never want to get into school because of my parents' financial portfolios.  The need-blind policy should stay agrees student Rachel Warren what Wesleyan should focus on instead is cutting costs and what she calls the extravagances on campus.  You know have people that clean up after us and people that cook for us and you can go to lots of concerts for free. But I do not think any of them is more valuable than having students like Leo here.  Well I think that is a pretty naive way of looking at problem.  Grinnell President Kington says cutting expenses cannot solve the problem of an unsustainable trend.  So OK we cut landscaping this year. What do we cut next year? OK let us stop cleaning the windows. OK what do we do next year? Well pretty soon you go from cutting fat to cutting meat and bone.  And ultimately Kington says even the most aggressive cuts will not be enough to close the gap between money coming in and financial aid going out. Tovia Smith NPR News. 