 Halloween this year may become another casualty of the coronavirus pandemic. Trick-or-treating is being discouraged and going to a haunted house may be a truly unsafe experience. But for anyone who feels 2020 has not been scary enough already some car washes have turned themselves into tunnels of terror. Melanie Peeples drove through one of them in Birmingham Ala.  Now you might ask yourself what is so scary about a car wash? So I decided to go check it out with my son.  Hi. This is Max.  But before we can even get to the car wash creepy characters and clowns are messing with people in the long line of cars.  Make sure the doors are locked.   He is banging on it with a knife. It is just funny at first. That person - oh he got me one of those Scream guys. From the movie Scream - he is in a black robe and a mask with the mouth stretched open. Max remains steadfastly cool. But again and again they get me by distracting me with a seemingly harmless character on one side of the car.  And a small child . Oh God he is back again . Oh. It is one of the creepy clowns. I make the mistake of rolling my window down...   ...Because of course you have to have a chainsaw.   Windows back up which is good because it is finally time to enter the car wash.   Red neon lights make the water look like blood raining down.   The fabric cleaning strips lapped the car like The Tell-Tale Heart.  Da-duh da-duh da-duh da-duh da-duh da-duh da-duh .  Finally we see the end of the tunnel.   It is the guy from the movie Halloween. His crazy hair is being blown all over the place as he raises his machete and points it at Max. Next time he seems to say. And then we are spit out in the parking lot to celebrate our escape as the next car comes out. Hey.  Hey.  Hey.  How are you all doing?  All right. That was nice. It was fun. It was very fun.  Fantastic. They did a good job doing that.   I liked it.  I liked it.  Can I get your name?  Shay.  Kiki.  Carmen .  McKai .  Why did you all come out to do it?  It was just something to do. And you know since the kids cannot go anywhere else - I mean we are in the car so COVID-free.  And we all have a clean car to boot. The haunted car wash was such a hit traffic blocked up for miles with cars lined up to be next. For NPR News I am Melanie Peeples. Happy Halloween you all.  