 Dozens of colleges are under federal investigation for their handling of sexual assault cases. So now as students arrive for the new semester colleges are spending more time trying to teach incoming freshmen about the issue. We wondered what kinds of conversations parents are having with their kids as they had to campus. Youth Radio reporter Sayre Quevedo is about to head to college himself and for NPR's series on campus sexual assault he spoke to families about the discussions that they are having.  Rachel Swinehart has commandeered her family's living room in Cedar Rapids Iowa filling it with large plastic tubs containing stuff like pink bedding and a coffee maker.  I am very tidy and neat and I want everything to be put into a box and in its place. S.  Rachel's 18 and about to head off to Shenandoah College a small arts school in Virginia. She will be setting harp performance. Organizing her stuff is the easy part. Talking about the risks of college life - that is a bit harder for Rachel and her mom Robyn who is spoken to her daughter about some things.  Yes you are of legal age. Yes you are a big girl now. But you still have to be aware of when bad things can occur and be conscious of what could happen.  One thing stuck with me from both of my parents - it is like you cannot really trust anyone fully so just be careful of who you know and who you make friends with. S.  These two have talked about peer pressure and sex. They have not talked explicitly about sexual assault. Neither has the Reilly family.  Mom is the suitcase still in your room?  Yeah yeah the suitcase is in my room. S.  In Berkeley California19-year-old Erin Reilly is getting ready for her freshman year at Kalamazoo College in Michigan. Her parents Gail and Dennis talk to her about partying. G.  To be careful about drinking. E.  Do not get a drink from...  Someone else. S.  But Erin's shy. So while her parents want their daughter to be's aware of sexual assault they do not want to scare her away from making new friends including boys. D.  I tell her that there are nice guys in this world and usually they are the ones that do not have a date. . S.  But as far as talking about sexual assault... E.  Yeah I think we just barely graze on it. G.  That is one thing I might be relying more on the college orientation helping them through and giving them some guidelines and things to look out for. S.  But Oneida Cordova has been talking openly about sexual assault with her daughter Onaja Waki for years. They live in Oakland California and Onaja's heading up north to Humboldt State University.  I have been getting advice from my parents my aunts friends - making sure I stay safe.  If you see something going on you are supposed to report it or you are just guilty as the person who has done it. And if I find out that you are not doing that I am going to hold you responsible. S.  And if Onaja's assaulted Oneida says...  Call me first. That is the rule. You must warn boys I did not come here to be assaulted and attacked and violated. S.  It already seems hard to imagine your kid being violated and very few parents I talked to had investigated their school's policy on handling sexual assault. Talking with their kids about not becoming a perpetrator seems even harder. Some families are having that conversation.  I will always try to keep a clear head make the right decisions and not be afraid to help someone around me. S.  That is 17-year-old Rae Dallett reassuring his mom that he will do the right thing. He will be a freshman at UCLA. His mom Cassandra tells Rae it is no excuse if a girl is drunk and it does not matter how she is behaving and he may hear all kinds of justifications.  I think what concerns me the most is not to fall into this group mentality of like oh she is a slut or she came wearing a short skirt or already had sex with one of the guys therefore it is OK everybody does it. None of that is okay and acceptable. You have to treat every single woman that you encounter like that is your mom - your sister. S.  I am also heading to college at the New School in New York City all the way across the country from my home in Oakland. All these conversations had me thinking about my own family. We have always talked openly about sex and consent. This one time when my brother was younger he even asked our mom how do you know it is OK to kiss somebody? MRS.  You ask them can I kiss you? It is really easy. Can I kiss you? It can be really sexy and hot. It does not have to be weird. You can you know put it into your game. S.  And even though I am gay and my twin brother Connor is straight she tells us the same thing. MRS.  If you cannot talk about sex you should not have it. If you cannot have a conversation with someone that you are about to have sex with that is an indication that you should not be intimate physically. S.  Got it mom. It is awkward talking about sex with your parents and sexual assault is way more complicated but these conversations are showing up on the checklist of more and more parents as they get their kids ready for college. For NPR News I am Sayre Quevedo.  And that story was produced by Youth Radio. 