 In a little over a month the delayed Summer Olympics are scheduled to begin in Tokyo. Organizers athletes and the main TV broadcaster that will bring the games to U.S. viewers are all charging ahead despite continuing skepticism about holding the event while the pandemic is still a very real concern. NPR's Tom Goldman reports.  Remember doping? The use of banned drugs and talk about it has been a constant in Olympic sports. But in the past year and a half it fell off a radar screen dominated by the coronavirus. Well it is back.   Do you believe there will be cheaters competing at the Olympics in Tokyo?  As always unfortunately.  So that is a yes.  Yes.  That was a recent exchange between USA Today's Christine Brennan and swimmer Lilly King an outspoken anti-doping advocate at the swimming Olympic trials in Nebraska. It is as good an indication as any that the games warts and all are in full steam ahead mode even though Japan's vaccination rate still is less than 10 of the population and some health experts continue to warn the pandemic games are fraught with risk. Donovan Brazier is a world champion 800-meter runner for the U.S.  Now that we are closer to it it is easier to not think about all the what ifs because we are just so headstrong in that it is happening now.   NBC Sports welcomes you to Night 4 of the U.S. Olympic swimming trials.  Brazier and Lilly King are just two of the many headstrong athletes showcased on NBC this month at the trials for prominent Olympic sports like track and field swimming and gymnastics. It is business as usual in a very unusual time. Media reporter John Ourand of the Sports Business Journal says the skeptical narrative has some merit as to why NBC and the International Olympic Committee are pushing ahead.  This is about money.  Ourand says two-plus weeks of live global sports in Tokyo bring in a ton of advertising money and help NBC's streaming service in the hypercompetitive streaming market. And with the IOC taking in a reported 1 billion in rights fees from NBC and other networks around the globe Ourand says this does seem to be the fat cats getting fatter. But he says it is important to remember where the bulk of the IOC money goes - to national Olympic committees that use it to prop up often underfunded sports.  If they do not play these games there are unintended consequences with sports that - like archery water polo that are not going to get the funding and really are almost going to cease to exist in many countries including America.  Another reason to push on is both obvious and forgotten says former TV producer Jim Bell.  The athletes I think are the one piece that often get overshadowed in a lot of the hand-wringing about money or corporate sponsorship.  Bell worked 12 Olympics for NBC four of them as executive producer for games coverage.  I try to remind myself and anybody I talked to let us not forget the athletes. This is their one chance. They are competing in these sports that outside of the Olympics do not get much attention.  In fact 74 of all summer Olympians compete just once making U.S. distance runner Jenny Simpson the exception.   The battle for bronze is on. And it is got to be the American Simpson heading into third.  A bronze medal winner in the 1500 at the 2016 Olympics Simpson is trying to qualify for her fourth games and drawing on her sense of history to counter the concerns about Tokyo. The closest parallel she says was fear about the Zika virus in Brazil going into the last Summer Olympics.  COVID is its own wild monster that - you do not know which direction it is going. But there are ways in which it is similar to things in the past that athletes have overcome and excelled. So this year will be no different in that way.  She and others hope at least as the ticking clock to the opening ceremony gets louder each day. Tom Goldman NPR News.  