 Native American residents on the remote Wind River Reservation in central Wyoming already say the federal government neglects promises made to help them survive. Over half the population lives below the poverty level. Now with the government shutdown people are bracing for even harder times. Wyoming Public Radio's Melodie Edwards reports.  Eastern Shoshone member Jean Harris is a single mom with three children working as a part-time accountant at a health clinic. But her paycheck is not covering the bills these days. The shutdown coming on the heels of Christmas - it hit her hard. In fact she is already way behind on rent and expects eviction any day now.  I am currently packing and getting things prepared just in case. And at this point we do not really have anywhere to go.  Next month she will not get her per capita check. That is her cut from oil and gas profits on her tribe's land. These checks are not much - about 200. But Harris says they do help.  Normally a per capita check would be something that I would pay my utilities or use for extra gas or extra groceries or something like that.  That distribution is not going to take place until the government's restarted.  That is Eastern Shoshone councilor Leslie Shakespeare. He says the shutdown kept the Bureau of Indian Affairs from meeting this month to decide the amount of those checks. It is not only families that will not get those funds. His tribe's government will not either.  People start really struggling and then it becomes a real life and public safety issue.  Literally a public safety issue since the tribe uses those funds to provide food shelter and emergency assistance to its members. Jean Harris would have been one of those receiving emergency help. And the public safety issue - Shakespeare says tribal police are federal employees. And despite the shutdown they are still on the job.  That gets tough on them as you know they are working and providing the service for our communities and they are not getting paid. And they have their own families to worry about as well.  Shakespeare says if the shutdown goes on much longer than a month people will begin to truly suffer. At the University of Wyoming in Laramie Arapahoe and Shoshone member James Trosper directs the High Plains American Indian Research Institute. He says government services for tribes are not just handouts. They are payment for vast amounts of land given over to the U.S. government.  My great-great-grandfather signed a treaty and there were agreements in that treaty. We have lived up to our end of it. Chief Washakie gave up a lot of land. My personal opinion is that the federal government needs to live up to their end of it.  And their end of it was to take the land in exchange for health care education and other basic needs. Trosper says the law needs to change to protect tribes from government shutdowns. He says the per capita checks paying for oil and gas extracted on Indian land are a good example.  You know they got the oil. They have the land. And so we are expecting the payment for that oil and gas.  Meanwhile single mom Jean Harris continues to pack her family into boxes with no idea where she is going to go next.  Right now I am just praying and I am just waiting for a miracle and just kind of leaving that in God's hands right now.  In God's hands and federal lawmakers'. For NPR News I am Melodie Edwards. 