 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Madeleine Brand in California.  And I am Robert Siegel in Washington. Speaker Nancy Pelosi said today that the Democrats have enough votes to pass a health care bill in the House. But that does not mean matters are squared away on that side of the U.S. Capitol.  Negotiations are ongoing with a group of seven fiscally conservative lawmakers known as Blue Dog Democrats who hope to force big changes to the measure. President Obama met with the Blue Dogs last night.  One of them joins us from Capitol Hill now - Representative Jim Matheson Democrat of Utah. Welcome to the program. Representative  Thank you.  Some objections from the Blue Dog Democrats center on the idea of a public insurance option that President Obama favors. Can you accept one in a bill? Rep.  Well I think that we do have concern about making sure that there is competition and - among a lot of different providers for health insurance. We are worried that something in the lines of a public option is going to tilt the playing field in a way that is not really competitive anymore. And so that is a big concern for us is how things are structured and making sure that individuals have choices and they can keep what they have got.  But could such an insurance company go out and offer competitive insurance policies where there are private companies operating? Rep.  Well again it is all in terms of definition. I would suggest that one model that we could look to is a discussion going on in the United States Senate right now in the Finance Committee which is talking about doing not-for-profit co-ops in different states. That would create a situation where it is not one program out of Washington but various non-profit co-ops owned by members if you will - kind of the co-op model. And I think those are the ideas we would like to see flushed out to see if there is an option that people could get comfortable with.  Can you and the other Blue Dog Democrats accept the mandates on individuals to make sure they are insured and on employers to make that they provide insurance? Rep.  I think that the Blue Dogs are concerned about the way the mandates are structured in the bill today. There is some real concerns particularly when it relates to small businesses. Both the mandates and the penalties associated with small businesses in the House bill seem rather onerous. And again we can look over to the other side of the Capitol in terms of - there are two different committees producing bills in the Senate but the Senate HELP Committee has already produced legislation which has a different structure for dealing with small businesses. So again I think that is an area where there is some room to move the House bill and I hope we can do that.  Those are a couple of problematic things in the bill from your standpoint. What are the problematic elements that are absent from the bill? Rep.  Well I think one of the goals of health care reform is making sure that we can address concerns about excessive growth in health care costs. And the House bill as it is written now was scored by the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office as not achieving those types of savings in terms of excessive cost growth. So I think that is a top-line issue that really does need to be addressed in this legislation before coming forward.  You and your colleagues on the House Energy Commerce Committee are Blue Dog Democrats but you are Democrats. And your party enjoys majorities in both houses of Congress - big majorities. And the White House. Do not you think the country should assume that the Democrats can produce a health care bill this year? And if not that would be a terrible failure for your party. Rep.  Well I would make a couple of comments to that. First of all I think that everyone in America should hope that we can come up with a health care reform bill that is going to address this future excessive growth of health care costs. Otherwise most people in America who may be happy with their health coverage today they all know their premiums keep going up great inflation. And they may lose what they have got today. So I think everyone -Democrat Republican or independent - ought to want this to happen...  But I am not going to ask about - hope or want. I am asking about hoping or wanting. You have such majorities. Should not the country reasonably expect that the Democratic Party can get that done? Rep.  I think that on an issue this complex that you should expect a bipartisan bill. And I think in the United States Senate in the Finance Committee you have got a number of meetings taking place to pursue that goal. I think this is a tall order but again I think it is an issue that needs to be addressed because I do not think we can sustain the growth over time. So I would expect everyone in this country to want that health care done and expect something to happen.  Representative Matheson thanks a lot for talking with us. Rep.  Okay. Thank you.  That is Jim Matheson a Democratic congressman from Utah. 