 Many large employers offer workers financial incentives to stop smoking. A new study finds that those programs could do a better job of tapping into human nature and get more bang for the buck. NPR's Richard Harris looks at a new approach that motivates some smokers to quit.  This new advice comes from a study involving the employees of CVSCaremark some of whom got postcards asking them if they wanted a cash reward to quit smoking. Camelia Escarcega says one came to her household in Rialto Calif. addressed to her sister.  I asked my sister do you want this? And she said no? I said do you mind if I use it? She said go ahead.  Escarcega who is 55 had smoked for many years and was ready to quit.  Money - incentive right? .  She did not know it at the time but the study was comparing different financial incentives to help people quit sucking. Hers was straightforward - over a span of six months she would get up to 800 if she quit and did not start again. She stopped and she did not even use the free nicotine patches that she was offered as a part of the plan.  I did pretty good. I have been smoke-free for a year-and-a-half now.  Scott Halpern at the University of Pennsylvania and his colleagues designed this study to explore the best way to entice people to quit smoking with financial incentives.  A dollar is not a dollar and how you design smoking cessation programs of the same approximate value goes a long way toward determining how effective these programs will be.  Halpern's study compared a few approaches some like Camelia Escarcega simply got cash rewards for quitting. Other people were offered a carrot-and-stick approach. They would get a similar financial reward if they quit but they would also lose 150 of their own money if they started smoking again.  People are much more afraid of losing 5 then they are motivated to earn 5. And so people's actions go with their psychology.  No surprise the researchers found it a lot harder to convince people to put down a deposit of their own money. But when they did the results were remarkable.  The deposit programs were twice as effective as rewards and five times more effective than providing free smoking cessation aids like nicotine replacement therapy.  More than half of the people who had money on the line stopped smoking for at least six months. These results are reported in the latest New England Journal of Medicine. And Halpern argues it is much more effective than what most companies do now.  Many programs are structured such that employees who stop smoking are rewarded by having less money taken out of their paychecks for insurance premiums the following year. But by bundling the rewards into paychecks they are relatively invisible to people. And the fact that they occur in the future makes them less influential than if people were handed the same amount of money more quickly.  Mercer a benefits consulting company reports that 21 percent of large employers currently offer financial incentives to non-smokers by reducing their health insurance premiums. More than half of the nation's biggest employers use that tactic as well. Halpern says that is not the best way to go.  Employers and insurers could do a whole lot more to curb smoking than they currently are. And by doing so they would actually reduce costs to themselves and improve public health.  This is potentially tricky ground to navigate though. Oleg Urminsky is at the University of Chicago's Booth School of Business.  Companies may have a concern that if they sign people into this kind of a wellness program and they lose that deposit they are going to feel really badly right which is why it works in the first place. And the worry is that that may split over into other things. Are they going to resent the employer? Are they going to be complaining? So it is a powerful tool but it is also one that has to be used carefully.  Done right though everyone stands to benefit. Richard Harris NPR News. 