 The writer and director of Rudo Y Cursi Carlos Cuaron is at his office in Mexico City. And Mr. Cuaron is Gael Garcia Bernal's singing voice really that bad?  I mean I want to defend him but yeah he is a better singer.  Oh he is actually a better singer.  Yeah I mean you have to understand that who is singing there is a character and for plot reasons he needed to sing that way.  These brothers love soccer but of course you have a very famous brother as well Alfonso Cuaron who directed the film Y Tu Mama Tambien with you. You are both filmmakers. He is your older brother. It just seems sort of coincidental maybe?  Well I mean it is not autobiographical at all only probably the - what Alfonso and I share with Rudo and Cursi is probably the fact that we are totally idiotic and the fact that we tease each other all day long and you know brotherly relationship are all alike. I mean the way I relate to my brothers - I have other brothers so the way I relate to them is probably very close to the way you relate to your own brothers because the theme is universal and also the patterns are universal and they repeat themselves. And the fact that as in any relationship it is all about power-playing and how it shifts from hand to hand depending on the moment.  Now all the people involved with producing this movie you your brother Alfonso the directors Alejandro Gonzalez Iarritu Guillermo del Toro I mean you guys are just the giants of what is being called new Mexican cinema behind some of the most acclaimed films over the past few years Pan's Labyrinth Babel Amores Perros Y Tu Mama Tambien one of the Harry Potter films I can go on and you are actually all old friends.  Well it is - Alfonso and I have known Guillermo for the last 20- something years and Alejandro Gonzalez at least 15. So it is - yeah it is a long time and what I guess is what happens is that we all admire each other and are not you know afraid to say so.  Now this is your first feature film as a director of course.  Yeah.  You have written several films. How is your sort of vision of filmmaking different from say your brother Alfonso as?  Well start with we are different persons. So that creates a difference right from scratch right? And because of that we also share different knowledge. You know I mean part of it is common because yeah we sucked the same breast or breasts when we were babies but he was born a director and I was born a writer who now is directing and the same way with Alfonso. He was born a director that now he is writing also. You know so we have like complimentary opposite ways.  Many of the films made by your group of contemporaries are not set it Mexico but is there an element you see in all of these films that is identifiably Mexican?  I do not know if identifiably Mexican as you say. I mean in all of their films there is always Mexican that I see and I laugh but it is almost like a private joke. It is - what I think we all share in common is the fact that we do not believe in nationalities. We believe in cultures and therefore we believe about in good movies and we try to make good movies you know and we work with very universal themes but the contexts are always very specific and particular.  I was talking with our film critic Bob Mondello and he reminded me that the golden age of Mexican cinema was in the 1940s.  Yeah.  But when you and your brother were growing up it was sort of pretty much sex and wrestling films. What did you and your brother watch growing up? Did you watch mainly American films?  Well sex and wrestling.   And then we tried to mix them you know and make a sex and wrestling movie but we failed at the attempt. No that was in the '80s. In a way we were really very lucky. Our generation was very lucky because Mexico City in the '70s and '80s had a lot of art houses. We got the best from you know the American directors in the '70s you know like Altman and Cassavetes and Scorsese and all of those guys. And we also got the great Japanese or Asian and European filmmakers like Bergman and Kurosawa. We grew up with that and also with the franchise movies that started in the '70s. People always think of Star Wars but the one I remember the most is The Planet of the Apes that I really loved so...  Some sort of film critics are talking about this sort of the so-called new Mexican cinema wave and kind of comparing it to other movements like you know French new-wave cinema and you are sort of part of this thing. Does it feel like there is this real movement that you are part of or is it something that you will not be able to really know for another 10 or 20 years?  Yeah I mean I guess so. I mean with new-wave it was a whole way and style of doing things you know that they share together and in this case I just think it is friends doing their thing and trying to help the other friend.  Carlos Cuaron wrote and directed the new film Rudo Y Cursi. He also co- wrote Y Tu Mama Tambien with his brother Alfonso Cuaron. Carlos Cuaron thanks for taking the time to speak with us from Mexico City.  Thank you Guy.  Unidentified People  . 