 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And Melissa Block. Medicaid is the nation's largest health insurance program. It serves nearly one in five Americans. As a result it is putting increasing strain on the budgets of states who pay about 40 percent of its costs.  If the 2010 health law proceeds as planned Medicaid could see as many as 11 million more people added to its roles over the next decade. That is a prospect that thrills some and terrifies others. As part of our series Solve This NPR's Julie Rovner looks at the very different ways Democrats and Republicans would deal with the Medicaid program.  When you say the word Medicaid most people think of moms and kids on welfare. And it is true moms and kids who get welfare do also generally get Medicaid health coverage. In fact says Harold Pollack of the University of Chicago working-age adults and children make up about 75 percent of Medicaid's population. But they are responsible for only one-third of its costs.  Two-thirds of the dollars that are spent on Medicaid are spent on elderly and disabled people many of whom have multiple challenges and a good number of whom are either in nursing homes or are disabled people who also receive Medicare.  And while Medicaid is the health program for the poorest of the poor it is also the program for the medically needy people whose extreme health needs are not met by their private insurance people like Marty and Shannon Svikhart of Baltimore Maryland and their three-year-old daughter Simone.  Where is your high fives?  Simone was born prematurely and despite a huge smile and a headful of blonde hair she still suffers from a long list of ailments says mom Shannon.  Cystic fibrosis is her primary diagnosis hydrocephalus a brain bleed. Right now she also has high blood pressure. Eventually will have to have open heart surgery.  Shannon quit her job as a dietician to care for Simone fulltime. Husband Marty works for a company that makes decking equipment and they have good health insurance but it is not enough. Because Simone still needs to be on a ventilator at night she needs a night nurse and Marty Svikhart's insurance will only pay for 90 days of coverage per year for that.  If we had to pay out of pocket for home nursing that would average about 140000 out of pocket per year - financially unmanageable unless we hit the lottery or something.  Under a special program Medicaid helps pay the family's night nursing costs. Shannon Svikhart says it is made a huge difference.  That means that Marty and I can sleep. Marty travels so if we did not have that he would have had to quit his job probably work locally.  That is all well and good say critics of Medicaid to allow families like the Svikharts to stay safely middle class. The problem is it is simply too expensive.  For many states it is the biggest item in their budget. They are all struggling to figure out what to do.  Grace Marie Turner is a conservative health policy analyst and was a member of the Bush administration's Medicaid commission in 2005. Turner says one of the biggest problems is the amount of micromanaging of Medicaid that comes from Washington.  So you wind up with all of this red tape and bureaucracy and it is costly. And in my opinion we wind up with a program that provides the worst care to the most vulnerable people. We have got to solve this.  Mitt Romney says he would solve the problem basically by ending Medicaid's status as a shared federal-state program. He would turn the money back to the states in the form of block grants and let them craft their own programs. But he would also make his Medicaid plan a money-saver. Romney told 60 Minutes last month he would do that by allowing the amount of federal funds to grow more slowly than medical inflation.  That is a lower rate of growth than we have seen over the past several years a lower rate of growth than has been forecast under federal management. And I believe on that basis you are going to see us save about a hundred billion dollars a year.  Conservatives insist states can run their programs more efficiently without cutting people or services. Liberals like Harold Pollack are far more skeptical.  And when we are talking about really critical services for people that is a heck of a gamble to run.  By contrast President Obama's Affordable Care Act originally required states to expand Medicaid to most non-disabled adults with incomes under 133 percent of poverty. That is about 15000 for an individual. Pollack says that is important for more than just those getting the new coverage.  It also allows the people who are taking care of that individual to get reliable payment which is a really important issue for public hospitals and for many other organizations that just desperately need that support right now.  But the Supreme Court this summer made that expansion optional for the states. Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius thinks eventually most states will opt in if only because the federal government will pay nearly all the costs.  We think at the end of the day this is a deal that states will not want to turn down.  But as with few other programs the fate of Medicaid will be very different depending on who the next president is. Julie Rovner NPR News Washington. 