 We have asked you our listeners to send us trade lingo from your line of work some bit of slang or jargon that would be meaningless to people who do not do what you do. And wow have you responded. We have heard from more than 1000 of you - lots and lots of waiters and IT professionals - also truckers a puppeteer submarine engineer a bassoonist hula-hoop dancer orchid grower many many more including a whale-watch captain out of Lahaina on the Hawaiian island of Maui. She is Becca Johnston and she joins me now. Hi Becca.  Aloha.  Well what is the trade lingo that you want to talk about from your world of whale watching?  Well one of the ones that we commonly use on a whale watch is - we talk about flying pickles.  Flying pickles?  A flying pickle is a newborn baby humpback whale generally less than six weeks old learning how to breach or jump out of the water.  And you call it a flying pickle because?  Well it looks pretty much like a giant flying pickle.   As simple as that?  Yeah they are very uncoordinated when they are first learning to do this. But when we are talking about a baby humpback whale we are still talking about an animal that is 15 feet long and around 2000 pounds.  Wow. So a tons worth of pickle there flying through the air.  Exactly. And they tend to be very repetitive about it. Whereas the adult humpback whales are very random with their breaching - they do it once maybe twice - a flying pickle will jump out of the water 20 30 sometimes even 40 times in a row.   So if you are on the boat captaining a whale watch how would you be using the term flying pickle?  Well it would not be uncommon for say another boat to call me and ask what I was watching. And I would say well we have got a flying pickle over here. And their response would be that is great. It would be even better if we were being mugged by the flying pickle.  Mugged by the flying pickle which means what?  Well when you are mugged - and one of the best things that can happen to me at work is to get mugged...  Not too many people can say that Becca.   That is very true. New Yorkers tend to not like to hear this. Because humpback whales are an endangered species everyone is required to stay 100 yards away from them. But should the whale become interested in the boat and approach the boat you are mugged. It is mugging you. And occasionally they will do this especially the younger ones the pickles because they are curious. And at that point you pretty much have to shut down even if you have schedules to keep - it will not matter at all - and just enjoy what the whale is doing.  You know I am wondering whether this term the flying pickle - is it specific to Hawaiian humpback whales or if you were to be talking to a whale watch captain out on Cape Cod say would they know exactly what you are talking about?  I would doubt it. But it is very common in Hawaii. And they tend to do more of the aerial displays here on their breeding grounds than they would say on their feeding grounds which would be more of Alaska or Cape Cod area.  Well maybe we will hear from a captain somewhere else who can either confirm or deny what we are talking about here. They may have their own term - who knows?  Yeah absolutely. I would love to know.  Well I hope Becca that you may - if you are going out today maybe you will see a whole bunch of flying pickles. Sounds like it would be a great way to spend the day.  It is a wonderful way to spend the day. But all the whales are up in Alaska right now. We expect them back in the fall.   The pickles have gone.  The pickles are gone. They will be back in a few months.  Becca Johnston it is great to talk to you. Thanks so much for telling us about the flying pickles in Hawaii.  Oh mahalo. Thank you so much for having me.  And we would like to hear from you also. If you have got a term from your trade you can send it to us on Facebook or Twitter. We are npratc.  This is NPR News. 