 Americans started adopting children from South Korea more than 50 years ago. Today there are an estimated 200000 Korean adoptees in the U.S. For years the stories about Korean adoptees came from parents and adoption agencies. Now they are telling their own stories and it is challenging the way people think about adoption. Reporter Kaomi Goetz has more.  Julianna Gonska is at a recent meet up for other Korean adoptees in New York City. Its called Also Known As or AKA. Gonska is 22 petite with red glasses and a short bob haircut. She grew up in New Jersey and until recently didnt know any other adoptees except for a sibling. She says connecting now has been positive.  These people went through the same exact things that I did - that Im going through. And I never thought Id find that. And its extremely validating.  Gonska felt alone struggling with why she was given up and with racial identity. Thats common for Korean adoptees. Holly McGinnis started Also Known As 20 years ago so they could support each other. She was also trying to come to terms with feeling biracial with an Irish last name and a blond-haired mother.  Because even though physically I wasnt mixed race being adopted trans-racially made me mixed culturally. And I realized that the tension that I felt with my racial identity was really because of what others imposed upon me.  Like other Americans assuming she was a foreigner or that she could speak an Asian language - that can be troubling for many Korean adoptees who dont grow up feeling particularly Asian-American. For years adoptive parents were told to ignore racial differences. Amanda Baden is a clinical psychologist and studies trans-racial adoptions. Shes also a 46-year old trans-racial adoptee from Hong Kong. She says the love-conquers-all theme has been prevalent.  Theres this traditional adoption narrative you know? There was a baby that needed a home so they found a family who wanted a baby and needed one. And so they put them together and everyone was happy. And a lot of folks think that is pretty much how adoption works.  Baden says historically adoption was viewed as an event an intervention. And everything after adoption was good. But that narrative can prevent adoptees from feeling good about themselves or where they came from. Some Korean adoptees have discovered they werent actually orphaned or abandoned as previously believed. And theres another problem.  No one ever remembers that we actually grow up.  Joy Lieberthal was adopted in the 1970s from South Korea. Shes one of a growing number of clinical social workers who are also adoptees.  There is an understanding that that place that that adoptee is in is a place that is familiar to me. Its not something that needs to be explained or educated. Its not something that I pathologize.  Adoption is not widely taught in graduate psychology programs. And there is little research. Until recently most of the studies have been by adoptive parents and focused young children. JaeRan Kim is a 46-year old Korean adoptee with a PhD in social work. She says studies like that fail to understand how an adoptees identity changes over time.  When I got married and when I became a parent and when I earned my PhD those are all different times when your identity changes. So of course you would think that your identity's not going to be formed when youre eight years old.  In fact Kim switched to her Korean birth name at age 35. Shes had to think about transmitting her own racial identity to her biracial kids. Many adoptees say thats a challenge because they were never encouraged to explore their own racial identities as children. Some adoption agencies have started to listen. Theyre playing catch up to offer support services for older adoptees. But for thousands of adoptees this acknowledgement is bittersweet. For NPR News I am Kaomi Goetz in New York. 