 The words of this song come from an ancient Latin text. The melody is brand-new. Stabat Mater is a Catholic poem from the 13th century. Many great composers have set it to music over the years - Haydn Vivaldi Rossini. The text describes Mary weeping at the cross over Jesus. It is an ancient story with contemporary echoes - a mother suffering as her son dies.   .  It is all to do with the sort of dignity of the relationship between the mother and the child and the child and the mother. And how that dignity is something that is - is sort of the bedrock of humanity  John Studzinski is a philanthropist who founded the Genesis Foundation to support young artists. His organization commissioned three composers to write new choral arrangements of this poem. The CD is called Stabat Mater Spirit Strength and Sorrow.  There are so few sources of unconditional love in society and I think the mother and the relationship the mother has with the child is probably the only major source of unconditional love.  I asked each of the three composers to describe how they approached this text. These are some of their thoughts.   .  My name is Alissa Firsova. I was born in Moscow but have been living in England since I was 4 years old.  I am Matthew Martin and I am a British composer.  My name is Tonu Korvits. I am a composer from Estonia.  I was most inspired by the end of the poem because it all leads up to paradise where the mother can be reunited with her son. And so I decided to focus on that and make the whole piece really positive as opposed to - there is a lot of Stabat Maters where they are concentrating on the weeping weeping. And I think we have had enough of that in our world.   .  I actually wrote the whole piece as a set of variations on a little hymn tune which is sung in a lot of Catholic churches during the stations of the cross.   .  As a very simple rather dreary tune.  Could you sing it for me?   Da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da dum .   .  So it is not very interesting but I used that all the way through the piece and I have got two choirs going on. And one of them is often singing the hymn very plainly whilst the bigger choir is commenting on it.   .  I heard Vivaldi Rossini Arvo Part Stabat Maters but anyway if you begin to write it yourself then everything is different and everything is in a new light.   .  We are very lonely people and everybody have our own song to sing. So I think composer must not think about what the other composer have done. But you have to sing your own song.   .  A key moment in my Stabat Mater may be the very ending the three amen's I wrote in the very end. So it was a kind of goodbye for me to this text and also I felt very thankful.    Amen.  The CD is called Stabat Mater Spirit Strength and Sorrow new music for an ancient Latin poem. The composers are Alissa Firsova Matthew Martin and Tonu Korvits.    Amen. 