 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Michele Norris.  And I am Melissa Block.  leaky ceilings peeling paint and interruptions many times a day from trains barreling by her classroom. Part of the school is condemned.  The letter asks us for help and says we are just students trying to become lawyers doctors congressmen like yourself and one day president...   So we can make a change to not just the state of South Carolina but also the world. We are not quitters. That is what she said.  They had a welcome home celebration for Ty'Sheoma Bethea at J.V. Martin Junior High today. Afterward I reached the school district's superintendent Ray Rogers who says it is time to start over.  We in this community have passed a bond referendum. The only problem is is the bonds will not bring what we thought they would bring when we passed the referendum. And right now we are on hold and we are shovel-ready. We have got the plans laying on the table but no money to build with.  How much would it cost?  If you cut it to the bare bones you are talking about somewhere in the neighborhood of 24 million.  And that would be moving the whole school someplace else.  Yes madam. Yes madam.  What happened with that local bond issue that passed?  Well you know it is like the economy. Right now when you put bonds out to bid the problem is is that no one wants to bid on them. And the banks they are not real enthusiastic about dealing with loans like that. We were looking for somewhere in the neighborhood of 60 million for all three school districts in our first phase. And right now we are looking in the high 30s low 40s and that just will not get it done.  Well there is some money for school construction in the stimulus package but not as much as originally was in there. How confident are you that you might get funding for that?  Well I am not confident because I do not know. But it is just like Ty'Sheoma you can dream and you can hope it does not mean that it is going to happen but you do not quit trying and you do not quit thinking about it.  And your school certainly got some attention from Barack Obama during the campaign. He visited twice.  He did. Yeah he visited Dillon twice and he was very positive. And you know he said I will not forget you. And in his mind I do not think he ever has.  Is this true that the Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke went to J.V. Martin?  Yes madam. Ben Bernanke graduated I want to say 1969 '70. The part that has been condemned was the auditorium that he received his high school diploma in.  I gather J.V. Martin is involved in a court battle along with other schools - a court battle against the state saying that the state has failed to provide minimally adequate education to students in these schools.  That is correct. Thirty-six school districts sued the state of South Carolina and eight school districts actually went to trial. And the thing that we are saying is you take a look across the state and you take a look across the nation and you see the haves and the have-nots. And you know there is got to be some median somewhere that we can hit. And it is just not this is not it.  You know it struck me that for this eighth grade girl Ty'Sheoma Bethea it is a tricky position to be in. I mean you want to be proud of your school and there is all sorts of pressure involved with that. And you also she obviously wanted to be honest about what she thought the problems were there and got a lot of attention for it.  You know the thing about it is it is a double-edged sword. And you know people do not like to air their dirty laundry. But there becomes a time when there needs to be change and things need to be done different. And we are at that stage with this school.  That is Ray Rogers superintendent of Dillon School District Two talking about J.V. Martin Junior High School in Dillon South Carolina. His student Ty'Sheoma Bethea was the president's guest last night at his address to congress. 