 A boy with autism in Iceland has built the world's largest Lego Titanic replica. It is 26 feet long 5 feet wide and took 56000 Legos to build. Brynjar Karl Birgisson built the replica when he was 10 years old with the help of his mother and his grandfather. He is now 15. And he has spent the last five years following it around the world as it travels to different exhibitions. The Lego replica is now on display at the Titanic museum attraction in Pigeon Forge Tenn. And Brynjar joins us from there. Hello welcome.  Hello.  And I understand your mother Bjarney Ludviksdottir is also there. Hello.  Yes hello.  If I could start with you Brynjar why the Titanic?  The Titanic it is such an inspiration for me because the first ship that I ever discovered on the internet when I became a ship fan or into ships was the Titanic. And it just was so beautiful that I wanted to make the Lego ship out of it because it was such an inspiration for me. I loved it and I chose it.  And I would like to ask your mother Bjarney. When your son said I would like you to buy 56000 Legos so I can make a model of the Titanic what was your reaction?  My reaction in the beginning was here he is asking me to assist him with - we call it the crazy project. And in the beginning I was not going there in my mind. But he was determined so I went for it with him.  And how long did it take you to complete?  It took me 11 months and 700 hours to fully complete it.  After you spent so long working on it in private what was it like to see the public response to this?  It was so weird. The thinking of me and my mother - we are just thinking ah it is another ship day with the Titanic. But it is so fun to see their faces. Like they are fascinated by my project. That makes me more happy.  Has this project and its worldwide success made you think differently about your autism?  Well first of all autism is not a negative thing. It is not a negative thing. It is a gift because many autism people are really intelligent. Like many autism people can do stuff too. We are people as well. We just seem a little bit different on the outside. But the inside we are always the same.  Bjarney what has it been like for you to see your son achieve this dream?  It is undescribable. I mean we never thought that this project would take us - the family on this journey. To tell you the truth in the beginning it was only to train him and teach him to start something and finish it. But when we discovered that it was motivating other kids - and it was also like a lesson for other kids that have autism that they can do whatever they can if they just follow their dreams and do not give up - I mean we were amazed.  Well thank you both for talking with us. And I hope you enjoy your visit to the United States.  Thank you very much.  Thank you so much.  