 Through the decades classical cellists have studied the masters - Casals Rostropovich Jacqueline du Pre Angus Young.   All right so maybe Angus Young does not usually make that list. But cellist Maya Beiser loves playing his music. She is giving some of her favorite rock and blues tunes a modern cello work-over on her new album Uncovered. Maya Beiser is here with me in the studio. Welcome.  Thank you so much.  So the first thing what I want to ask you while I am hearing this music in my ear is how did you get that awesome electric guitar sound out of the cello for Back In Black?   Well I am lucky to have great sound engineer.  But you know it is really my acoustic cello processed through an electric guitar fuzz box and re-amped.   We should say though that this is - you are an established - people would call you a classical cellist. I mean you play a lot of nontraditional repertoire and you use that kind of processing that we talked about. But this is still a departure for you.  Yeah I guess it is although you know if you look at the trajectory of all the things I have done this is very much within line because my whole kind of career mission has been to re-introduce new ideas and new sounds for the cello.  You know I have this feeling - it is something I complain about - is that I feel like classical music in America feels very conservative - that it - sometimes it is hard to hear music that is been written in modern times.  Oh it does. It does Arun. It is a big problem.  So have you had resistance in playing the music you play and now playing rock 'n' roll?  Yeah. Initially there was this sense of oh you know contemporary music - nobody wants to hear it. But the truth is that it is kind of the reverse these days. You know we need to make concert music part of the cultural landscape. And its great to play the great old masters from the past. But in order to really make it a relevant art form the only way is really to play music that is relevant to our culture.   One of your teachers was the great violinist Isaac Stern. And I understand you had a conversation with him about rock 'n' roll.  I did. You know he was my first big mentor. I grew up in Israel. And I was discovered by Stern when I was 12. And around - a little after that time I started to listen to rock 'n' roll. And I fell in love with Janis Joplin and with you know Brian Eno. And so I did go to Stern and told him about this music. And I was kind of a naive little girl you know and I said you know this music is so great. I would like to try to do it on the cello. And he looked at me very upset  and said you know this is really not serious music. .  Tell us about your first experience hearing Janis Joplin. I understand that had a big impact on you.  It did. Well you know the first time I heard Janis Joplin it shook me to the core.    Summertime time time - child the living is easy.  You know you have to imagine a young accolade of any dogma experiencing her first transgression.  .  And I was you know very much you know classical music geek. And she just made her way into my inner shrine.   And I just vowed right there and then that I would play - I wanted to play the cello the way that she sang.   I am speaking with cellist Maya Beiser. Her new album is a collection of her versions of some classic rock and blues tunes. It is called Uncovered. You know something we associate with classical music is a certain perfection - like a purity of tone and that kind of thing. And one of the things you seem to embrace in this - I am thinking of your cover of Lithium...   ...Of you know Kurt Cobain - that you kind of embrace the imperfections a little bit.  Yeah. I - actually I love that.   I mean the idea of embracing the imperfection because one of the most problematic thing in the whole sort of you know Western classical approach is this incredible strive for - you know you learn for years and years just doing everything in the most perfect way. And I think it takes away from the personality of the performer. And you know for me the performers that I have always loved the most were the ones who were kind of imperfect in a way. Pablo Casals is one good example of that. You know there is...  Great cellist.  Yeah great cellist. Glenn Gould - there was always this really strong sense of personal voice. And when you talk about personal voice then it is never about perfection. It is about something else. It is about expression. It is about imperfection in some way. You know and so I think one of the things that I have learned to do is just kind of like to embrace that.   That is Maya Beiser. Her new album is a reimagining of a bunch of great rock and roll and blues songs. It is called Uncovered. Maya Beiser it is been a blast speaking with you. Thank you so much.  Thank you so much Arun.  