 And to talk more about the year in politics past and of politics to come we turn now to our weekly contributors. E.J. Dionne is a columnist for The Washington Post. And Reihan Salam is joining in today. He is a blogger at the National Review and policy advisor at Economics 21. E.J. hello. Reihan hello. Mr. E.J.  Hello. Happy New Year. Mr.  Hi.  So let us start with you Reihan because health care dominated the dialogue this year. I mean completely dominated the dialogue. Is this going to be all we are talking about in 2011 as well? Mr.  I am sorry to say that I do not think we are going to talk about health care as much as we ought to. And I think we ought to talk about it a lot more because it is closely tied to the unemployment problem. What a lot of folks do not understand is that the numbers for how much we expect a bill to cost came from the Congressional Budget Office based on an assumption that unemployment would tumble to 7.7 percent in 2011. And we now know that that is a really really optimistic assumption. So the truth is that with a realistic assumption of where unemployment is going to be for the next few years it is going to cost much much more than we expected. And that is going to make it much harder to do a lot of the other things that we need to do to get the economy moving.  E.J. Mr.  You know I think it is a kind of tribute to Democrats that so much of what they passed is setting the agenda for the Republicans because they want to repeal a lot of it. Now they have said that they want to take up a repeal of the health care bill in the House early January. That could mean that they just want to get the vote out of the way to satisfy their base and move on to other stuff. Because the Senate is not going to repeal it President Obama is not going to sign a repeal. I do hope we actually debate health care because I think the case for what was done still needs to be made. I think it was the right thing to do. I think insuring 32 million more Americans was the right thing to do. But people who believe that still have not persuaded a sufficient majority in the country. So I hope there is a big health care debate but I think the Republicans may not want to argue a lot of parts of the health care bill that are popular.  And not everyone is convinced about health care. I mean President Obama certainly took a hit for it. I mean this could also be considered the year that the president was essentially knocked around on his pedestal. I mean we heard his line back in November about taking a shellacking. E.J. I mean is he effectively - how does he govern in this year to come? Mr.  Well you know now we know he is not Jesus. He is not Moses. He is not even Michael Jordan or Tom Brady.  Mr.  But in effect we knew that already. And maybe - I think it will be a little bit useful to have Obama as a politician - a smart and good politician rather than a pedestal figure. And I do not think he could possibly be in 2009 and 2010 what he was in 2008. But one thing he lost that he needs to get back is his ability to persuade to explain and inspire. He kind of lost that in the course of the last two years. He needs to persuade to join him in the direction he wants to take because he persuades them that it is the right road. And I think he is got to be focused on the arts of persuasion and inspiration again.  Reihan did you see anything from the lame-duck that gives us an idea of President Obama's plans going into next year? Mr.  I actually think that the president is going to have a fairly good 2011. I think that the unemployment rate will likely improve somewhat at the margin. And I also think that the president has a very big strong and vocal base of support. When you think about the 20 million or so civilians who work for the federal state and local governments they really feel threatened by a lot of folks like me who think that we need a more cost-effective government. And so they are likely to rally around the flag. And so I think that we are going to see a recovery in the president's political prospects. And we are likely to see a president who is going to go on the offense which is why folks on the Republican and conservative side need to be very careful about how they take on the president.  And of course a big theme of this year I think was the rise of the outsider. I mean whether you are talking about tea party activists putting the squeeze in the Republican primaries whether you are talking about media types -Glenn Beck or Jon Stewart or Lady Gaga weighing in on do not ask do not tell - it seemed like there were influences coming from all over. E.J. what does this mean for the way lawmakers are I guess going to deal with the year's agenda to come? Mr.  Well now we are dealing with outsiders like John Boehner Mitch McConnell a re-elected Harry Reid...  Right. Right. Right. They are the consummate insiders. Mr.  Yeah. And now you know I think outsiders have played a role in our politics before. For goodness sakes Ronald Reagan was an actor who was a very politically-aware actor and got very involved. May be Lady Gaga will be governor of California one of these days. The tea party movement I think reflected an anger on the right end of politics partly at Obama. Some of it was disaffection with President Bush. But the tea party and that right end of the Republican Party has a cost to them. You saw it with defeated candidates you know they lost a lot of Senate races because of the candidates nominated by those folks. And it could make managing the Congress difficult.  And Reihan in our last 30 seconds give us your sense. I mean what did it mean to have the rise of these voices this past year? Mr.  Well I think that it was actually a very encouraging sign. When I think of the tea party I do not think of anger and resentment. I think of hope and I think of the belief that lots of citizens banding together can really make a difference in our society. That is true of the tea party and it is also true of Lady Gaga and all of the other voices that we have seen clamor to have an impact. Mr.  Amen to that.   And of course we will be hearing from more voices this year 2011 will be when I am sure we will see many presidential challengers stepping up. Thanks to both you so much. Mr.  Thank you. Mr.  Thank you.  That is E.J. Dionne of The Washington Post and Reihan Salam of the National Review. 