 Coming up we will hear what the police chief in Tucson makes the new law which he will have to enforce but first NPR's Ted Robbins is in Tucson with public reaction.  I stationed myself in the parking lot of a Home Depot in Tucson and asked people what they thought of the new state immigration law. No explanation necessary everyone had something to say.  Well I think it is terrible. I really do. People have just gotten so afraid of everything.  I do not know. I am worried. This does not make us look very good. You know this looks bad.  It is good.  And you would be happy if the state have no illegal immigrants in it?  I am sure every state would.   Everybody would.  Bernadette Genoa Todd Burkowski and Steve Holbrooke. Holbrooke is a native Arizonan. He represents the majority of likely voters who said in a poll that they support the law. That poll was taken before Governor Jan Brewer signed it. Holbrooke hopes the immigration measure overcomes court challenges to take effect because he says it will help rid the state of criminals.  The country was built on laws. If they are here illegally they are breaking the law.  So what good do you hope will come out of the law? This new one?  The ones that are here illegally will either be prosecuted sent back home or make them legal. How many of them come over here that have criminal backgrounds criminal records come over here do their crimes and go back home?  No one knows how many illegal immigrants commit other crimes. Everyone agrees though that it is a minority. Those opposed to the law like Elizabeth Goode say it paints everyone with the same brush and who can tell who is who.  The police has no training in this area. I think it is just asking for racial profiling.  Goode came from the Netherlands. She is been a U.S. citizen for two years. She thinks illegal immigrants should be allowed to work legally and pay for the services they use.  I am for them coming in. There is a semi-legal status like a work permit. Pay into their taxes and help the system. Right now they are illegal. They do not pay taxes and we support them in the hospital.  Then there are folks like Teresa Martinez who spoke with me from her car. Regardless of whether the law is good or bad she worries about the damage it is doing to the state's reputation.  I think the rest of the country is looking at us like what are they thinking in Arizona?  Ted Robbins NPR News Tucson. 