 NPR's Lynn Neary has this profile of the publishing phenomenon.  When Chelsea Handler's last book Chelsea Chelsea Bang Bang was first released the comedian-turned-writer accomplished something very rare. She had three books on the best seller list all at the same time. Not only that she beat Karl Rove to the top of the list.  When we found out that I got you know came in one and he came in two my sister said she called me and she said Do you think Karl Rove is just sitting in his study in his boxer shorts thinking who the hell is Chelsea Handler?   Handler's surprise at her own success seems genuine. Not so long ago she says she was doing stand-up at Starbucks. Now she regularly hosts celebrities like Will Ferrell and Jennifer Aniston on her talk show Chelsea Lately. And she is known for quick comebacks in conversations with stars like Rihanna.   Hey hot stuff.  Hi cutie how are you doing?  I like your dress.  You like - I like your body.   As Handler tells it she began thinking about doing stand-up comedy during a mandatory driving class after she was stopped for a DUI. She had to go in front of the class and tell them about her arrest.  I got up there and I told my story and how my sister turned me in. And I was using her fake ID and how I called the cop a racist and he was white we were all white. So nothing really made any sense.  Wow maybe I should do stand-up.  On her show she surrounds herself with a motley crew of regulars including a Mexican dwarf named Chuy.   I do not even think Chuy knows what this holiday is. I am guessing he thinks it celebrates his favorite condiment because he calls it Cinco de Mayo.   So I am left on my own to celebrate. Tonight I will strap on my sombrero fire up the blender and spend the rest of the evening thinking about what is really important on this day Why the hell Mariah Carey named one of her children Moroccan.  Handler says she first started thinking about writing after she read a book by humorist David Sedaris.  Before I read David Sedaris I did not know you could just kind of write disparate stories and put them together and have them be about whatever. So that kind of opened my eyes and that is - when I read one of his books I thought Wow I could do this. I could write like this.  Handler can be brutal about other people but she is also brutally honest about herself. In her first book My Horizontal Life she mined her own sexual exploits for a laugh.  She does not play by nice-girl rules.  Grand Central published Chelsea Chelsea Bang Bang and DeGuzman says Handler promoted that book tirelessly.  So after we saw how good the book was and how committed she was to supporting the book we knew we wanted to continue to be partners with Chelsea.  For the first book released by her new imprint Lies that Chelsea Handler Told Me Handler commissioned her oft-abused colleagues friends and family to write about the ruthless lies and practical jokes she has inflicted upon them over the years.  But this book to me is kind of like - it is kind of the end of the road as far as my practical jokes go because I do not know who is ever going to believe anything I say again after this.   It is like the girl who cried vodka.   As for the future Handler says she would love to discover a great comic writer. And she knows one thing She wants to publish books that make her laugh a lot.  And we have all had that where you really think you are going to pee you know like you are laughing so hard and you cannot get it together and you know it is totally inappropriate. That is what I want people to be doing.  When they read your books?  Yes.   Lynn Neary NPR News Washington. 