 There is this great recurring sketch from the Comedy Central show Key And Peele where Jordan Peele plays President Obama and Keegan-Michael Key plays his alter ego the guy who is actually allowed to say what Obama thinks. He is called the anger translator.    Governor Romney in the recent debate I laid out the inconsistencies in your stated beliefs.   OK governor - I am going to tell you - Governor Romney why are you smiling while you are getting your ass kicked? Are we debating or are you trying to sell me a Lexus?  Key and Peele have both moved on to other things. For Keegan-Michael Key one of those things is starring in a new Netflix show called Friends From College. It is a dramedy  with an ensemble cast. And when I talked to Key about the show and about his career he started by telling me how Friends From College is about making mistakes even in your 40s but not necessarily learning from them.  One of the mottos of our show is that you are never too old to screw up. And you are never too old to be childish. We are thinking more about the mistakes we are making yet perhaps we do not have the tools to change the mistakes. That is the thing that is hard about being in your 40s. Now when you are in your 20s we are all just blissful idiots. And sometimes it is fun to just be an idiot and say this is what the world is and this is how the world works. And we do not know anything. And then when you start to have a little more perspective on the world and you are looking at it you kind of go oh gosh what is wrong with me? Why do not I change? And there is a lot of that struggle happening.  Let us listen to a little bit. In this scene one of the friends in the friend group Marianne is thanking your character - his name's Ethan - for taking her rabbit Anastasia to the vet. But what she does not know is that you have accidently killed her rabbit and...  Yes.  ...Replaced it with a look-alike rabbit. Let us just listen real quick.    She is acting really lethargic.   The vet gave her Vicodin.   Bunny Vicodin.   Yep. And he said that might make her drowsy.   Oh I wish they had not done that. I hate Big Pharma.   Horrible.   Thanks so much for taking care of her today.   You are welcome.   You are a really good guy Ethan.   No no no.   You are the best.   I am not the best. I am...   You are the best.   ...Literally the worst.  You are like I am literally...  Literally the worst. Yeah.  ...The worst. Right. This is...  And I am using the word literally correctly .  Exactly. I am literally the worst. So you are saying having these characters be so bad is a way to explore agency in your 40s like this idea that you can be bad but like you now have the tools to fix that. And so the question hanging over these characters of like are they going to get better that that is what is driving this?  That is - yes. And I think that is part of what makes it exciting. There is a self-awareness. That is the twist of the show. And it is what makes it more delightfully excruciating.  So your 40s have been very good for you. You said...  Professionally.  Yeah OK.  Professionally they have been good .  Oh OK. So now we are splitting it up.  Yeah.  But let us talk about professionally. Obviously you did this hugely popular show Key And Peele. You did it for five seasons. You stopped you know when you wanted to. You were at the peak. You have been getting some interesting acting roles since then. And you said you never thought you would be doing this well. I mean what was it? Like what is the special sauce? Like is it luck? Do you just have like a really good manager? Like how has it all come about?  And now I give you the most unexciting answer of all time.  .  It is all of those things.  Yeah.  I just never - I am from the Midwest. So I always assumed well I have to think badly of myself because that is being humble. And where I am from you get points for being humble and you get an extra special big house in heaven. That is the rule right? Now you have these dirty dreams in the back of your mind that you are not supposed to really obey. You are not allowed to have those dreams.  Right.  But what if there was the first black James Bond and it was me? You are going to hell. You are never allowed to dream that big.  Just way too proud.  So I was completely prepared to be poor - very happy and fulfilled artistically but poor. And that is fine 'ecause it is what I deserve. Kelly if I am anything I am a good Catholic. It is not just Catholicism. It is America. We still live with these puritanical underpinnings that you are supposed to stay in your lane.  Wow.  And I really believe there are millions of people in this country going I cannot do that. Who do I think I am?  So you are like the worst - you would like be the worst self-help book ever. It would be like do not...  I have three self-help books. They are called Stay In The Lane...  .  Check The Speedometer and You Better Use Your Turn Signal. Those are my three books. The funny thing is all the information on the inside exactly is the same all three books.   Just do not.  There is no expanding from it. Just do not. And that is the fourth book. Thanks for the title Kelly.  Wow. So then you are saying then that the answer to my original question is like it is a lot of luck.  A lot of luck. Oh yeah I stumbled up into this because I was doing everything in my power to get in my way.  It is funny 'ecause there is this moment I heard about that you were talking to an acting teacher and telling this acting teacher how you always wanted to play Horatio in Hamlet. Can you tell me that story?  Yeah my styles teacher in graduate school. I said I mean Horatio's such a great guy. And I would like to play that role. And it is very consistent. And he goes well that does not make any sense. You should play Hamlet. And I am like well why would I want to play Hamlet? And he goes you are sexy. You are funny. You are dynamic on stage. You should play Hamlet.  And you are like nope .  No. God no. No absolutely not. I do not want to be number one on the call sheet. And that has haunted me. And what is so funny - it is like now I do not have an excuse anymore because one of the hottest directors on and off Broadway has offered me the role of Horatio in Hamlet. So now what can I do Kelly?  Right.  I am screwed now. I painted myself in the corner. The only way to get out of the room is to play bigger roles.   Yeah exactly. You got your dream and you are like mid-40s. There is only - you know you can only keep stumbling up.  I can only -  exactly. Exactly.  We should just say you are playing Horatio in the production of Hamlet at the Public Theater in New York alongside Oscar Isaac.  Yes.  You of course you know came up during the time of Obama. We are obviously in a very different moment right now...  Yes yes very much so.  ...Culturally. Given that what kinds of things do you want to be making going forward? Do you want to be making things that are responding to this moment and the way it is different?  I do. But I think they do not have to be about this actual moment because there is something else happening underneath. And I want to make movies and pieces of television and pieces of art that crack everyone's assumptions. It is just tell an effective story so that some militia member who lives in Idaho goes I would feel that way if that happened to my kid. Now you have to tell a story that makes the Idaho guy penetrate the story and not the people in the story. Well those are black people. Nothing that happens to them is going to happen to me in my life. My partner has done I think a wonderful job. You are going to make what ostensibly is a social horror movie. That is what Jordan made.  Get Out Jordan Peele's Get Out.  And so the film itself Get Out is so exhilarating and exciting and novel that people went to go see it in droves. And it is still making a social point. I would like to either pick up the mantle or stand next to my partner and hold the torch as we you know run into the Olympic arena  of this society and discourse because are not we losing Kelly discourse? It is black or it is white. And that is not the way the world works. We live in a gray world. And I want to tell gray stories.  Yeah. Ooh that is the name of the book.  Gray stories.  Gray stories . Sounds...  I am going to - and it is going to - you know what I am going to do?  That actually sounds terrible. Like I would never buy a book called Gray Stories.  But what if you went into Barnes and Noble Kelly and it said G-R-E-Y-parentheses-T-parentheses grey  stories? I know you still would not buy that book.  Keegan-Michael Key thank you so much.  Thank you.  Friends From College premieres on Netflix tomorrow.  