 Now to the big Senate race in Big Sky Country. Back in 2006 Republicans lost the majority in the U.S. Senate in part because of the Democrats' razor-close victory in Montana. This year Republicans are within reach of retaking the Senate. And it is that same Democrat who is fighting to keep his seat as NPR's Martin Kaste reports from Missoula.  If Jon Tester is going to win again in Montana he has to turn out a lot of younger voters the way he did in 2006. And on that front he does have some allies.   Pearl Jam gave a benefit concert for Tester last night at the University of Montana. It was a favor from the bass player Jeff Ament who grew up in the same small town as Tester. The concert allowed the senator to dangle the state's hottest ticket in front of thousands of potential voters and for him to bask in the praise of lead singer Eddie Vedder.   Vedder saluted Tester and the Democrats for preserving the social safety net. But the opinions of a rock star do not carry much weight in Montana's more conservative communities - places like tiny Belgrade where everybody comes out for the homecoming parade.   Talk of the social safety net certainly does not win over Cory Simpson a cheerful woman wearing a hot dog suit.  You know our life - I will just tell you my husband's an electrician and he is put in bids and come in third over and over. So you know the American dream - he bought a hot dog cart and we started our own small business.  Republicans like Simpson seemed to be the majority here. Still Sen. Tester works the crowd shaking hands with the kind of small-town familiarity that Montanans expect from their elected officials. SEN.  How you doing man?  Pretty good.  Good good good.  Jon how is it going?  Very well thanks.  And Tester certainly looks like he fits in. A burly guy he dresses like the farmer he is. In 2006 he campaigned on the merits of his famously cheap flat-top haircut. But this year no amount of down-home charm can change the fact that he is a sitting Democratic senator and that rubs a lot of these people the wrong way.  How are you?  Cannot wait to help put you out bud.  People like Robert Schlosser who shakes his head as Tester walks away. The way Schlosser sees it Tester and President Obama have been moving the country toward socialism.  National health care? Sorry. People should be independent should do their own thing.  President Obama is not popular in Montana and Republicans never miss a chance to link him to Tester.   At the headquarters of the challenger Republican congressman Denny Rehberg a sign on the wall says He is a Hypocrite Stupid - referring presumably to Tester. Rehberg himself was not available to talk to NPR but his campaign manager Erik Iverson was.  Montanans are - they are getting it. They know that the candidate that they voted for in 2006 is not the senator they got today.  He says Tester voted for anti-gun judges environmental rules that hurt the coal industry and an arms treaty that ended up cutting military spending in the state. To him Tester has betrayed Montana.  It is about a guy who throws on a Carhartt gets his flat-top haircut and stands in front of a barn and tries to sell himself as a conservative Democrat. When in actuality he is a dyed-in-the-wool garden-variety liberal.  But congressman Rehberg has his own image problems. While he identifies himself as a rancher Democrats love to point out that he sold off his herd when he went to Washington and that his operation now looks more like a real estate development. Still Rehberg is slightly ahead in most polls and the race is attracting record amounts of outside money to Montana along with wall-to-wall attack ads.    Tester admits to some concern about those ads.  They cannot beat Jon Tester the farmer from Big Sandy Montana and the record that he is done while he is served in the U.S. Senate. They can possibly have a chance at beating somebody that they are trying to define.  Of course Tester still is a farmer with a cheap haircut and his Montana cred is not really what is in question. What is in question is how many Montanans this year are willing to re-elect a senator who belongs to the same party as President Obama. Martin Kaste NPR News Missoula.  