 Before last month no woman had ever won the Country Music Association's Musician of the Year award. Then fiddle player Jenee Fleenor did. Jewly Hight met Fleenor at a Nashville studio to learn how she played her way to the A-list.  Jenee Fleenor has tuned and soundchecked for countless sessions a few of them here at Sound Emporium.   That is probably going to be louder than me talking. .  She did plenty of demonstrating while recounting the journey to her CMA award win.  .  It all started in the late 1980s in small-town Arkansas. Back then Fleenor was a 3-year-old classical violin student in the rigorous Suzuki method. But when she was 5 Bob Wills' Faded Love transformed Fleenor into a fiddler.   I would heard it so much in the background and I just picked up my fiddle one day and started playing it by ear. Honestly that is the moment that I was like wow I can kind of play what I want to on this thing.  What she wanted was to explore the country side of her instrument. Her parents drove her anywhere that could happen.  There was a Arkansas fiddle association down the road from me. And I am like maybe 7 8 years old. And I am - it is all men over 60 probably. So I mean really throughout my whole life I have been playing with a bunch of hairy-legged men.  By age 10 she was in the staff band at a regional Arkansas opry house. Then it was on to lessons camps and competitions which require their own style of playing.  Gosh I have not played contest stuff in so long but let us see. . So like Sally Goodin  would be really smooth. You would not really want to pick up your bow. So in contest fiddling  - something like that.  Fleenor found there was something she enjoyed even more than performing live when she stepped into a local studio for the first time.  I just remember putting those headphones on and hearing my fiddle through that microphone. And I am sure it had some reverb in it. And I was like oh my gosh this is the best my fiddle maybe ever sounded. It just was a spark in me.  Fleenor moved to Nashville for college in 2001. She would only been here a couple of weeks when she ran into a friend at a bluegrass show who asked his boss Larry Cordle if Fleenor could sit in with the band. Cordle a songwriter known for a tune that laments the loss of traditional country elements like fiddle loved what he heard.  I actually wanted to ask her that night if she wanted to work but I made myself wait till Monday.  When he called to offer the gig he was mindful of the fact that she was still in her teens.  I said well you tell your momma that I will take real good care of you and I am going to help you - all this stuff big sales pitch. She is just I do not have to ask my mom.  Fleenor held her own in Cordle's group and soon made her Grand Ole Opry debut.   Would you make her welcome for her first appearance by the way on the Grand Ole Opry Miss Jenee Keener?  Fleenor whose family name was Keener went on to bigger touring gigs with Terri Clark then Martina McBride. But by the early 2010s there was less demand for fiddle in general as country leaned harder on hip-hop pop and rock. Fleenor adapted by picking up acoustic guitar and mandolin. Then she got a call from a young artist named Jon Pardi who had a different musical agenda.  You know Nashville's like follow the leader sometimes you know? And so you got all these artists that are not really incorporating this fiddle. But then you know I came from California. It was high-energy. I had a fiddle player. I kind of studied country music. I knew what to listen for in players. Jenee is automatic man.  Pardi's single Heartache Medication was the first radio hit in a good long while to kick off with fiddle.   By the time that album Pardi's third with Fleenor came out people recognized her signature playing.  I can definitely be very traditional but you know if there is a call to be outside the box I try to be that too. So like . I owe a lot to Jon you know because he kept putting fiddle and steel guitar turned way up in the mix. And I am like oh my gosh maybe this thing will come back around someday not really thinking that maybe I would be the one that might help turn the thing a little bit you know?  Eighteen years into her Nashville tenure Fleenor splits her time between working in the studio and backing Blake Shelton and Steven Tyler. Her industry peers decided this was the year to give her one of the highest honors a country player can get.  There is not a whole lot of females in this business you know? And I honestly never thought about it too much. Being a session musician is just what I wanted to do. And I never thought I could not do that because I was a female. You know it is just something I wanted and I went after it and got it.  Jenee Fleenor's way of marking the occasion was to make a little music of her own.  The single's called Fiddle And Steel. So appropriate right?   She co-wrote the song expecting it would likely be sung by a man then decided she should be the one to deliver it.    Oh pickups drown my soul down the dirt road .  For NPR News I am Jewly Hight in Nashville.    Old No. 7 tastes like Tennessee . 