 President Trump invited congressional leaders to the White House today to see if they could strike a deal on funding a border wall and pave the way for federal agencies to reopen. No such luck. Here's Democratic Senator Chuck Schumer just after leaving that meeting.   I said Mr. President give me one good reason why you should continue your shutdown while we are debating our differences on homeland security. He could not give a good answer.  And so 800000 federal employees remain without pay on this Day 12 of the partial government shutdown. We are going to bring in now Senator James Lankford. He is a Republican from Oklahoma. Welcome to the program.  Thank you. Good to be with you again.  So House Democrats say they want to vote on a plan that would reopen government agencies keep most of them funded through September and the Department of Homeland Security through February 8. It does not have the 5 billion that President Trump wants for the border wall but it is quite similar to legislation that the Senate approved just last month - right? - clean appropriations without funding for a wall So why not take it?  So it is interesting. Chuck Schumer and Mitch McConnell both agreed 10 days ago now to not bring up anything that did not have the House Senate and White House approval. And they stuck with that all the way through the last couple of weeks as they try to negotiate together to keep everyone in good faith. And then suddenly now with the transition I guess tomorrow and Democrats taking control Chuck Schumer seems to be walking away from that deal and saying no he wants to now bring up things that do not have all three parties. The best thing that we can do is try to keep all three parties at the table and keep everyone negotiating. I am a little confused why this was not resolved days and days ago. The White House made a proposal to Chuck Schumer and said this is a reasonable proposal - it was not a 5 billion proposal it was much less than that - proposed that to Chuck Schumer. He said he would get with Nancy Pelosi and counteroffer and then never did counteroffer. And that was now...  I want to...  ...Eight days ago. And so it is been a little frustrating. It seems to be this has just been a stall to get to a time...  But let me jump in here...  ...When Democrats control the House.  ...Just for a second because even the president has contradicted at times his own...  Sure.  ...Vice president - right? - about whether the White House would accept less money for the border wall. Is he really the only Republican who can do this negotiating?  Well when you are...  Would anyone else be undermined?  When you are going to make law you have got to have the White House the House and the Senate agree. That is how it always works. And if any one of those walks away from it then you have got to be able to keep negotiating till all three are on board. And at this point it is been different. Sometimes the House has made a proposal. The Senate's made a proposal and the White House has not been in agreement. We have got to get all three parties. And I am glad the president got everyone together today at the White House to be able to talk it through. It is not going to be helpful to have any one party - the Senate propose something and to say that we passed it but the House will not take it up or the House to be able to pass something and then to stand up in front of the media and say look we passed something. The best thing that can happen is to continue to negotiate with all three parties in the room coming to an agreement and then pass it.  Do you still see a clear path to get there as you said last month? I think this was on Fox News. Today did that give you any faith?  You know what was really funny some of my public comments the day the shutdown began was - I really saw a clear path on how this could be resolved that day. But if everyone walked away then this is going to be a very long time. And I still feel that and it is been way too long. We were a few million dollars away from trying to be able to get an agreement last time. And it was a little confusing why that could not have occurred 10 days ago. But I still think we are very close to trying to get there if everyone would agree to it. Now I do not know where Leader Pelosi - where she will fall once she is elected as speaker of the House tomorrow...  Right.  ...What the negotiation will be. But I think we have been very close in the past.  On one other issue - incoming senator from Utah Mitt Romney today penned an op-ed about President Trump's character - much criticism for the president. Romney also said he is not ready to endorse Trump for re-election in 2020. Are you?  Well No. 1 I would say for Mitt Romney these are not brand-new comments from him. These are things that obviously he put out in a new statement as he comes into the Senate. But he is made those same statements before. And yes I would support the Republican nominee as I did in the past.  Even if it is Trump.  Even if it is Trump the reason being is that we are going to continue to have a united front as we work through a lot of very difficult issues. And we have got to be able to do that in the days ahead.  Oklahoma Senator James Lankford thank you for speaking with us.  You bet. Thank you.  Elsewhere in the program we will talk to Democratic Senator Dick Durbin of Illinois. 