 If the Olympics are not your thing and you are in the mood for a little road trip from the comfort of your couch NPR's movie critic Bob Mondello has a suggestion. This week he is looking at a 1963 comedy featuring 47 - count them - 47 comedians. No joke.  They called it the biggest comedy ever.   Three hours 22 minutes on a super wide Cinerama screen starring Spencer Tracy of all people plus Milton Berle Sid Caesar Buddy Hackett Mickey Rooney Phil Silvers Jonathan Winters Ethel Merman Terry-Thomas and kicked off by The Schnoz himself Jimmy Durante who survives a desert car crash just long enough to make sure that everyone knows exactly where to find a stolen 350 grand in a state park.   For anyone still thinking subtlety might the order of the day he then quite literally kicks the bucket. And the race for cash begins for carloads of comedians joined by such bit players as Peter Falk Jack Benny Jerry Lewis even Buster Keaton on their way to a finale on a fire truck swinging hook and ladder.   Director Stanley Kramer whose resume was not terribly comic after the Nazi war crime movie Judgment at Nuremberg and the nuclear holocaust saga On the Beach made the reserved-seats Cinerama version a long long long long world at three hours and 22 minutes. But when the show hit the suburbs the studio cut more than half an hour. That cut footage was largely lost but this Criterion release has both the digitally spruced up short version plus a longer version that gets the running time close to the road show original by cobbling together missing sequences from prints with Japanese subtitles or even just a bit of soundtrack without pictures. Because the cobbled together stuff has not been cleaned up digitally you can see where the studio made the cuts which is interesting very few actual jokes disappeared. Also in this five-disc package are some Stan Freberg commercials that are easily as funny as anything in the film.   Modern audiences may not be sick with laughing. Comic rhythms have changed in the last half century. But if like me you sometimes yearn during It is a Mad Mad Mad Mad World for the comparative subtlety of the three stooges you are in luck. They are in it too. I am Bob Mondello.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 