 And now we are going to spend some time catching up on GOP presidential politics. The candidates are flocking to Iowa in advance of the upcoming Ames straw poll. In past years that contest has helped set the early contours of the presidential race but there are new wrinkles this year. For more we are joined by Carol Hunter. She is politics editor for the Des Moines Register. Welcome back to the program Ms. Hunter.  Thank you. Glad to be here.  Well one of the big changes this year is that the perceived frontrunner Mitt Romney is not putting that much muscle into competing in that straw poll. Mitt Romney is in Iowa today but I understand it is the first time he is been in the state since May. Why has he been so absent from the state?  It is a strategy this time around for Mitt Romney. Mitt Romney of course competed very hard last time around in 2007 and in fact won the straw poll in Ames. But he spent millions of dollars doing it put lots of time energy in the state. But then his campaign sort of lost steam and he came in second in the Iowa caucuses which is the big prize to Mike Huckabee the former Arkansas governor. So this time he is leading in many national polls so he is kind of taking a been-there-done-that attitude toward the straw poll.  Now has Romney's absence opened up the field for other candidates to perhaps surge forward? Or for some sort of surprises as the campaign moves ahead. What does this mean for instance for someone like Michele Bachmann?  It does open up opportunities. Of course there is another big sort of looming-over factor this time around in that Rick Perry the governor of Texas is expected to make his intentions clear about the race on Saturday - the same day as the straw poll. And he is expected once he gets in - it is expected that he will jump in - to be quite a factor in reshaping the race.  Now it seems like Minnesota is overrepresented in the Ames straw poll with two candidates from the neighboring state Michele Bachmann and former Minnesota Governor Tim Pawlenty. Pawlenty has spent a lot of money in Iowa and yet he is dogged by headlines like Tim Pawlenty campaigns for attention. Is this a make or break poll for him?  I think what he is looking for is a top-tier finish here. He spent a lot of time trying to dampen expectations ever since our June Iowa poll. The Des Moines Register Iowa poll in June he was sixth place and that was a disappointment for him given all the time he had spent in the state. So if he comes in a fairly close second to Michele Bachmann say he will try to make the case that hey I have made progress and I have gotten traction now with my campaign.  One other thing that is interesting about the straw poll when it comes to Republicans is that you see lots of different brands of Republican orthodoxy represented there. But I am wondering if the rise of the Tea Party Movement has moved the entire field to the right. And what does that mean for people who are more moderate and because moderate Republicans are large in number in a state like Iowa.  It is true. You have this ongoing tension in the Republican Party between the strong social conservatives and then the more moderate fiscal - although they do not really like the term moderate. You might call them establishment Republicans often associated with the business community. They are most concerned about the economy and fiscal policy. You have some candidates like a Tim Pawlenty who will say I can bridge that gap and appeal to all of them. But the Tea Party movement has really added another wrinkle to it. Michele Bachmann is a favorite of the Tea Party. So if you combine Tea Party activists and the social conservatives who also flock to her she is got a very strong base here in Iowa.  Carol Hunter thanks for talking to us.  You are welcome.  Carol Hunter is the politics editor at the Des Moines Register. 