 Before that luncheon hours before crowds of people holding tickets for the inauguration lined up outside checkpoints. As NPR's Neda Ulaby found some of those people never made it to their allotted places.  Darian Singer and Christopher Roland thought they had it made. The two had scored a pair of tickets to the blue section right on the grounds of the Capitol. The got in line this morning at seven a.m. and they waited and waited and waited.  It was ridiculous. And they over-ticketed. At the end of the day there is no way all these people could have fit in this space on the Mall that was designated blue. It was just over the top.  A massive crush of people held the streets around First and Constitution in human gridlock for hours. They included Judy Holmes and her daughter Madeleine Middlebrooks from St. Louis Missouri.  We were purple ticket holders and there is supposed to be two gates open. And now they have only opened up one gate so those who were up against the first gate we just never got in. We are just in the huge crowd and no information. Police officers would not talk to us security would not talk to us. There was no information.  Police on the scene would not verify any of the stories circulating through the crowds that overflow from more expensive sections took up room in the purple silver and blue. Or that mobs pushing past barriers resulted in gates being sealed. Capitol Police Chief Phillip Morse told the Washington Post that the crowd was cut off after a surge at the end. Mark Peters was among those turned away at the purple gate.  I feel like we just were - I do not know just doomed or cursed with these tickets that were supposed to be great and we were just really shut out.  Peters like many other inaugural ticket-holders says he wishes he would bailed earlier and stood with the masses further down on the National Mall or even at a bar. For that it is not too late says frustrated ticket-holder Christopher Roland.  We are going to go watch the reruns on TV and drink.   Roland says at least the crowds were generally orderly. And he says although he participated in a cold unfun part of history at least he was sort of there. Neda Ulaby NPR News. 