 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Melissa Block. Secretary of State John Kerry accused Russia today of stirring unrest in eastern Ukraine. He says Russian special forces and agitators are behind the seizure of government buildings in the region. Thousands of Russian troops and armored vehicles are masked nearby just over Ukraine's border with Russia.  The Ukrainian government says it ended the occupation of one office building in the eastern city of Kharkov today arresting 70 separatists. But further south in Donetsk pro-Moscow militants are still in control of a local government building. They say they will not leave until the region gets to vote on independence from the rest of Ukraine. NPR's Ari Shapiro reports from Donetsk.  I am standing in line in the square in central Donetsk which is where huge protests started on Sunday. Now the square is virtually empty except for somebody feeding pigeons. On the far end there are a few tents with flags flying over them and there is no Ukrainian flag. There are Russian flags and Soviet flags. Let us talk to some of these people staffing the tents. In Kiev they say this protest is instigated by Russia. What do you say in response? The whole crowd is saying  shaking you heads waving their your fingers no not Russia protest.  Nyet.  A man named Vladimir Yurivitch shouts the protests in Kiev were organized with European and American money. It is you who funded neo-fascism. To people here in eastern Ukraine Kiev is a land of right wing nationalists even fascists. These people insist that they are not separatists as the Ukrainian government describes them. Instead they say they just want regional autonomy. Americans would call it state's rights. A woman named Natalia says it is the protestors in Kiev who threw Molotov cocktails not here.  We want to communicate with people who are our family and our brothers Russia  Russia one nation.  I guess the question is if you have to choose between aligning with Kiev or aligning with Moscow what do you choose?  About the government Kiev right now? No Russian. I pick Russian as  because our...   It is just a firecracker. No gunfire here yet but a few blocks away the atmosphere feels more tense.   This local government building has a huge crowd in front of it with militaristic music playing balloons in an arch red white and blue the colors of the Russian flag and an enormous crowd outside. On one hand there are guys wearing balaclavas and carrying lead pipes pacing behind barricades of razor wire tires and sand bags. There are Molotov cocktails in a corner. Everyone insists they are only for defense. On the other hand there are kids and families sitting on the grass in front of this building like it is a picnic. A woman in heavy makeup and stylish clothes is chilling with her tiny dog. There are lots of guys in their late teens and early 20s here. Alexi who will not give his last name is 24. He wears a hardhat and an anti-fascist black and orange ribbon.   These guys are metal workers and coal miners. We are just simple workers. People say we are paid to be here. That is not true. No.  Alexi confesses that he does not think this area will ever leave Ukraine but he has demands he says regional autonomy respect for Russian-language speakers and he plans to stay here until those demands are met. Will that take weeks or months? He says hopefully not that long. Ari Shapiro NPR News Donetsk. 