 The head of one of the largest police organizations in the U.S. has formally apologized for quote the role that our profession has played in society's historical mistreatment of communities of color. Terrence Cunningham president of the International Association of Chiefs of Police said that yesterday at the group's annual conference in San Diego. And then he got a standing ovation. Cunningham acknowledged a quote dark side to his profession's history and a quote almost inherited mistrust between many communities of color and their law enforcement agencies. He says he hopes to break that cycle and he is with us now. Welcome to the show.  Great. Thanks for having me Kelly. I appreciate it.  So I just want to make sure I characterized that right. Was this an apology?  It was an apology. It was an acknowledgement and an apology for you know the past role that our profession's played.  Yeah when - I know there is been some emphasis on the past when it comes to this apology. Is it also an apology for what I think some people consider you know contemporary problems?  Well you know the meetings that I have had - one of the things that I have learned is that if we are really going to have a true dialogue it is got to start with some type of an acknowledgement about the past and what is happened and how we got to where we are. And quite frankly I had this conversation directly with the president on two occasions and...  President of the United States.  President Obama yep and I think this was an opportunity for us to say look we need to get both sides out of the corners. I have been thinking about this - actually I started thinking about it back in July after the five officers were killed in Dallas and then the officers were killed in Baton Rouge. And you say OK this has to end. This violence against the police needs to end.  I mean not everyone has been supportive of what you said. I just want to read...  Shocking.  Right.   In this day and age - I want to read something from Lieutenant Bob Kroll who is the head of the Police Officers Federation in Minneapolis. He told The Associated Press our profession is under attack right now and what we do not need is chiefs like him perpetuating that we are all bad guys in law enforcement. I think it is an asinine statement. We have got officers dying on almost a daily basis now because of this environment and statements like that do not help. What would you say to him?  I would say directly to him you know read the entire speech. I said right in the speech that the history of law enforcement profession is replete with examples of bravery self-sacrifice and service to the community. And you know I recognize those officers for all that hard work they have been doing. Every place that I have gone I have talked about the fact that you know 99.9 percent of the officers in the millions - literally 11 million arrests a year - the millions of contacts that those officers make - and we have these very very small percentage - I mean one is too many but we have a very small percentage of officer-involved you know fatal shootings.  I mean it sounds like it is a really fine line that you have to walk though. I mean the police maybe are as divided as the public about this. You are either supposed to defend police actions no matter what or you are somehow seen on - as someone who is on the side of protesters and people who want to commit violence against police. How are you going to find this middle ground?  You know it is a - it is walking the razor's edge and it is really difficult. But again I hearken back to those days in July when I was sitting in the memorial service for those Dallas police officers. And I was sitting in the next room over from the families and I watched those little kids sleeping on their mothers and fathers arms waiting for the president to come in for three hours. And as I sat there and I reflected I thought to myself you know what? We have to do everything that we can to stop this violence against the police and to keep our community safe at the same time. And if it means that I have to stand up and I am going to take some hits from you know some of the police organizations and people who feel differently from me that is fine. I am you know - I have got thick skin and I am willing to do that if it means that we are going to keep our community safe and we are going to keep our officers safe.  Terrence Cunningham president of the International Association of Chiefs of Police thank you.  Thank you very much Kelly. I appreciate it. 