 Strong earth shaking and decisive - that is the response Jordan vowed after a video was posted today by the self-proclaimed Islamic State that appears to show the murder of a Jordanian pilot. People in Amman took to the streets in anger after the video's release.   .  Muath al-Kaseasbeh was captured in Syria in December. ISIS had threatened to kill him unless Jordan released a woman who attempted to participate in a series of al-Qaida bombings in Jordan 10 years ago. Jordan's King Abdullah spoke with President Obama at the White House late today. The King said he is cutting short a trip to the U.S. to head back to his country. NPR's Alice Fordham has been covering this story for weeks and joins us now and a warning here that there will be some graphic descriptions in the story. Alice can you begin by telling us what is known about this video released?  Sure it begins with images of Jordan's King Abdullah meeting with President Obama. The king's one of a handful of Arab leaders to join the U.S. in the fight against ISIS and the group of course reviles him for this. Then there is some news footage of the pilot's capture. This is all kind of typical and familiar in a grim way from the videos of beheadings of hostages the group's released so far but the next part is even more grotesque. In a slick sequence with slow-motion parts he is led to a cage in an orange jumpsuit apparently doused in something flammable and he is set alight and burns to death. It is now come out that Jordanian and American officials believe he was likely killed a month ago despite all the negotiations we have seen.  Now you recently met with the pilot's family and what more did you learn about him?  Yeah his plane crashed in Syria while he was flying sorties with the coalition about the end of December. And I met the family not long after and his brothers who look just like him and his parents. They talked about a quiet young man more of practical guy than a talker - really reliable really hard-working. He would recently gotten married. His brother had actually been in the air force with him and they were just proud of him. There were pictures of him up all over the house. They are an educated very dignified family but they are also very traditional tribal religious and they said he was religious too. And especially his father said he did not believe Jordan should be in this coalition fighting against fellow Muslims.  And Alice the family's doubts about Jordan's participation in the U.S. bombing campaign against ISIS were widely shared in Jordan right? I mean what is going on there today?  Yeah no doubt this is a shock. A military spokesman vowed punishment and revenge as huge as that of the Jordanians' loss. It is a difficult unpredictable time I think for the Jordanian authorities because this hostage situation like you say Audie really highlighted a lot of doubts in Jordan about the coalition. But as far as the response so far to this situation the tone seems to be more aggressive rather than less. There are reports that the female prisoner that ISIS demanded has been moved to a place where they might execute her.  We have mentioned that King Abdullah is planning to head back to Jordan from his trip here. What other reaction are you hearing right now from Jordan?  It seems mixed and somewhat confused. A colleague working with NPR in Amman was at a kind of gathering of people in the street there.   .  He said they seemed sad and angry.  .  This is a human rights activist Adbdul Karen al Shredah who said he could not describe his sorrow and rage. He felt like there was a volcano inside him. And an argument actually broke out among the crowd there about whether Jordan should leave the coalition or whether it should take revenge. So there is a lot of confusion there amid the grief and the fear.  That is NPR's Alice Fordham on the death of the captured Jordanian pilot Muath al-Kaseasbeh at the hands of ISIS. Thanks so much for speaking with us.  Thank you. 