 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Mary Louise Kelly.  Mr.   I am in a motel room in Davenport waiting on the resurrection...  And this is new music from Peter Himmelman.  Mr.   Waiting for this high life story of mine to end.  His new CD is The Mystery and the Hum. Peter Himmelman has been in music for decades writing rock 'n' roll music for kids scoring TV and movies. He is been nominated for Grammy and Emmy Awards. But if you do not recognize him you are not alone. Himmelman's career has cruised steadily below the radar. Peter Himmelman says he always put his wife and four kids ahead of fame. Mr.  You know maybe I would have sold a few more records and hundred thousand more and you know we could be divorced and living in Marina del Rey with a shag carpet. And instead of pictures of the kids I could have some pictures of myself with rock stars and some gold record on the wall. But I think it is better this way. And I have not given up that is the other thing.  Yeah. Mr.  I still you know I am just doing it in a different order.  You explore a lot of different styles on this album. And it was interesting to hear all the different influences and the different directions you reached. Let me play a little bit from the second track Change My Channel.  Mr.   Nothing satisfies and nothing entertains. I have been wasting too much time staring out my window.  I hear a little bit of Elvis Costello in there I have to say. Is that somebody who is influenced you? Mr.  Yeah. I mean he was an influence on me when I was a kid. I mean he was a few years older than me. But when I first heard him in 1978 I am like well this guy is great. It sounds like '50s music. The guitars were not too distorted. It was not like Journey or Boston. I really resonated with that.  Mr.   I like the speed of time. I like to change my perspective because all I can think about is you. Change my channel change my channel because all I can think about is you. I need to change my channel change my channel. But I think what he and I probably were both going for was more of a soul sound in some way too. If you saw me you would not think of myself as that but everybody has a picture of themselves inside sort of channeling maybe Marvin Gaye or some sort of soul - Curtis Mayfield or something. My influences are so diverse - Steve Goodman Taj Mahal. Certainly the Beatles. Just different colors. And I really embrace them all.   Is it all that time at home with the kids that led you to want to write children's music? Mr.  Well that put me in the mood to write. I do not want to dispel anyone's notion about how artists work but the thing that really made it happen is somebody came with the two things that make music manifest most - a check and a deadline.  Mr.  And just like in your work or in anyone's work...  And thus the genius is born. Yup. Mr.  Really it does summon up all your best gifts.  Mr.   Imagination yeah. It gives me the ability. Imagination yeah. I would not have it any other way. Imagination yeah. Now tell me do you want to play? Do you want to play? Listen to this. What really got it started was a woman in Minnesota called me and said you know I love your stuff. Do you think you could do it a kids' record? Here's a check and I need it by such and such a date. An award-winning children's record thus was born. Certainly my experiences with my kids had helped. It was a little difficult for me to write for children at first.  How come? Mr.  I just did not know the simple thing that I do now know which is everything is exactly the same but you are writing about things that are within the context of a child's experience.  Mr.   Tell me do you want to play? Do you want to play? Do you want to play the drums? Listen to this.  It is catchy. Peter Himmelman one other interesting thing worth noting in your background is you are an observant Jew. I read - is this true - that you turned down The Tonight Show because the appearance they were offering you conflicted with your worship schedule? Mr.  Yeah there was - I think it was still when Johnny Carson was on. It was Sukkot I believe holiday of festival holiday in the fall. And just you know I could not do it. I think that helps to have time that cannot be purchased to know that I have things values that just - they simply cannot be purchased. And understand when I said that I wanted to be a rock star that is number two. So I was not going to go on The Tonight Show. And I waited a year or two and I was on it on another day that I could perform. All worked out well.  It must be tough though I mean for your agent for example to be touting this musician who he cannot book to play on Friday nights. Mr.  Yeah. You will have to ask him. Usually they look at it as something that they wish they could do. Particularly now in this age of encroaching ever encroaching technology where you are never away from the bit and harness of your iPhone or something. These are days if you follow the Jewish observance that you are completely off the grid not being able to be reached or tampered. Your mind tampered by the media particularly things that are trying to sell you something trying to influence your thinking to make money. I do not know what it is but I imagine that the accumulation of 23 years that I have been doing this of taking myself off the grid for 65 days each year it must mean something.  Hmm. Now all that said you have reached out in all kinds of directions in your career. What - do you think that is maybe a side benefit of having limited your tour schedule that you have time to reach out and explore all these different avenues? Mr.  Yeah. I guess I do. I mean if I were playing to giant crowds and generating all sorts of income from playing it on stage it probably would not even come to mind to do these things. You know where there are spaces in my time I fill them. The expression you have some time to kill there is something about that that just viscerally disturbs me. Perhaps because my father died very young and my sister died in a car crash I just have this need to utilize every second.  Mr.   Hey hey hey time slips away. Baby can you be so sure that we will endure?  Peter Himmelman thanks so much. Mr.  Thank you very much.  Peter Himmelman talking about writing for kids and about his new album for grown-ups. It is called The Mystery and the Hum.  Mr.   They are telegraphing signals in zeros and in ones. We could go on forever if we only...  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 