 Finally today how many times do we say here is a person who needs no introduction? But our next guest really needs no introduction. In fact over a five-decade career when he is been introduced along with his bandmates it often went like this.   .  .  He released his 19th album on Friday. It is called Give More Love.    Give more love. It is what we know we need more of. I love that song. You know I love it.  You like it? And joining us now from London - you have figured it out by now - is the one and only Ringo Starr. Ringo Starr welcome. Thank you for joining us.  Thank you Michel. Michel could I have a bit of screaming first?  Sure. Let us have some screaming. Let us have some more. Here it is.   .  No I want it from you.  Oh no. You do not want to hear that.   Only kidding. Let us get on with the gig.  OK.  Ringo here Give More Love.   OK. Do you remember when you first realized just how big the craziness was around the Beatles? Did you all - because I know you all spent so much time together as a group. Did you all kind of look at each other and say what is happening here?  Yes. Well I think you know though we started and we were playing clubs and then we stepped up to theaters that was like well we are on the move. And then we were big in England of course. And then suddenly we were big in France and Spain and Denmark and - but none of them compared to when we got off that plane in New York. It was incredible. And then we thought wow because you know America all the music we loved came from America. And we were there and we had a number one. And then we got to Shea Stadium as it was like what?    I want to hold your hand. I want to hold your hand.  We looked at each other then - I promise you - what? Look at this. I mean it was just far out. Anyway so to answer your questions yes.  So let us talk about the latest album Give More Love. You have so many genres of music on this new album. You have classic rock 'n' roll blues country. You actually rerecorded a song that you wrote for the Beatles' White Album Do not Pass Me By. I want to listen to some of the original and then we will play the new version. So let us hear that.  OK.    I listen for your footsteps coming up the drive. Listen for your footsteps but they do not arrive. Waiting for your knock dear on my old front door. I do not hear it. Does it mean you do not love me anymore?   More.   OK. Here's the new one. Here it is.    I listen for your footsteps coming up the drive. I listen for your footsteps but they do not arrive.  So you kind of countrified it.  It is a really interesting track because every July the 7 at noon you know I do the peace and love moment. And I have been doing it for nine years now. So last year the bands that were playing playing my songs and this is a band called Vandaveer. They did their version of this and I said have them do it in my key and I will sing. I am making a record. And that is how this all came about.    Do not pass me by. Do not make me cry. Do not make me blue 'ecause you know darling I love only you.  So how do you decide who you want to work with?  It is magic.   I write - you know we write the songs. I write them with you know different writers. I mean of course when I wrote Laughable with Peter Frampton you know he is the guitarist so he is going to do the solo. So that was answered. But it is all done mainly with feelings. And for Show Me The Way Paul McCartney would be great on that. And you know thanks to our history together I can just give him a call and he came over and played bass.  Well one would hope.  Yeah .  You spoke of - you mentioned Laughable. You want to hear that? You mentioned you did Laughable with Peter Frampton? You want to hear a little bit of that?  I want to hear a bit of everything.    Woke up this morning I was feeling good. Turn on the radio I understood. Things are changing like never before. Should I go back to bed and close the door? It would be laughable if it was not sad.  Well what were you thinking about with Laughable? I mean what is it that - the sad that you were talking about in the lyric?  You know it was a great line. It would be laughable if it was not so sad. I would rather it was laughable than sad but a lot of things in the world today are sad. And I had a song on the last album where I actually mention it is not all knives and bullets. It is from hunger too. Millions of people are hungry. Millions of people do not have water. Millions of people are being like blown up. You know there is a lot of craziness going on in the world at every minute of our lives and we try and do our best to help the suffering.  So you know it is one reason I was curious because you are a person who is traveled I think more than most people in the world and have seen probably more of the world than most people for most of your life. I was surprised when I read that you support Brexit it. And I think a lot of people find that surprising given that you have had so much exposure to the world. I was just wondering about that.  Well yes. There is nothing to wonder about. I was asked the question. And the English people voted. And they voted to leave. And they voted on Brexit. And you know I - it is a democracy. I mean I think you have had the vote. The people have voted and it should go through. That is my point. You know I have been all around the world but this is the people's choice. And you know I am afraid we should go along with that.  So before we let you go you know it is sort of great that you still are able to work with Paul with your colleague. And you know you have had so many you know losses. I mean we are losing some of our sort of great performers. I cannot even sort of name all of them in the last year.  I know. It does seem it was a bad year. But I think if you look back Michel every year is a bad year. And even when we were young out there we were losing people all the time. It is just part of the life we lead you know. A lot of my dear friends did not make it to 30 did not make it to 40. And that is just how it is. I have actually made it.  So what do you want the legacy to be for you? What do you want people to think about when they think about Ringo Starr?  What a great drummer he was.  .  What a beautiful human being and he was so tall.   All right. Ringo Starr what song do you want to go out on?  Well let us go out - We are On The Road Again. Let us rock it up.  All right. Let us rock it off. Ringo Starr joined me on the line from London. His latest album Give More Love is out now. Ringo Starr thank you so much for speaking with us. I hope we will speak again.  All right Michel. Peace and love.    Got up this morning packed my bags. Headed for the studio to finish this track. The alarm going on and a lot to do we got to get it done 'ecause we as not coming back. 