 In North Carolina the ads are starting early - the political ads that is. Republicans are setting their sights on defeating first-term Democrat Kay Hagan. Senator Hagan's GOP opponent will not be known until the spring but her support for President Obama and the Affordable Care Act has already hurt her with voters. She is also being targeted by outside groups spending millions of dollars hoping to unseat her. NPR national political correspondent Don Gonyea reports.  Yes the 2014 election is almost 11 months away but you would not know it from local TV in North Carolina. The attack ads are already up and running.   This one is paid for by Americans for Prosperity a group with very close ties to the Tea Party Movement and with lots of cash from the billionaire Koch brothers. That and other similar anti-Hagan ads have been running for more than a month. Then just this past week Hagan the Democrat has gotten some backing from a friendly group the Senate Majority PAC.   That pushback comes as Hagan's poll numbers have slumped says Tom Jensen of the North Carolina-based Public Policy Polling a Democratic-leaning firm.  She is dropped over the last three months from leading most of her opponents by about 15 to being tied.  It is a big decline and Jensen attributes it to all of the attention surrounding the troubled rollout of the HealthCare.gov website and to the early drumbeat of attack ads. I talked to some North Carolina voters in the small town of Selma as they stood curbside waiting for the start of the annual Christmas parade one night last week. Where is your head right now in terms of who you might support?  Well I still like Hagan you know. Right now unless something changes drastically that is where I will be.  That is 61-year-old Dale Austin. He describes himself as an independent voter. As for Obamacare and what the problems with its website may mean for Senator Hagan...  Well that is not her fault. It is not her fault.  But just a block away 70-year-old Ethel Brown who is here with her grandkids puts full blame for Obamacare on Senator Hagan.  If it had not been for her we would not have - we would not be having this Obama thing insurance stuff. She did vote for it.  Then Brown adds something that will be a concern to the Hagan campaign.  I am a Democrat. I am a registered Democrat but I do not always vote Democrat. I voted for her. But I would not no more.  Moments later the parade was starting so I quit talking politics and let people cheer on the local high school marching band.   Political strategists Gary Pearce and Carter Wrenn - a Democrat and a Republican - publish a political blog in North Carolina. They say people often forget that this is such a big state with a changing population. It is becoming less rural more suburban. Here's Pearce.  A lot of new people coming in here gravitating toward the cities. Obama won by a hair in 2008. He lost by a hair in 2012. There may be one or two other states that are that close that volatile but not much.  His Republican blogging partner Carter Wrenn says Senator Hagan will likely go up and down in the polls over the course of the next year as will Republicans. But he adds...  She is just in a race that she is going to win narrowly or lose narrowly and she cannot change that. And the other thing to worry about is what about Obama. She cannot control his popularity.  And he says the president's standing will absolutely have an impact in Hagan's chances for re-election. Don Gonyea NPR News. 