 This pianist plays with feeling. When this piece The Lark by Glinka turns sad he does too.   He is Oscar Paz Suaznabar of Alexandria Va. He is played in Carnegie Hall at the Kennedy Center and on the NPR show From the Top. That is where I heard him and invited him to play for us here. Oscar is nine and a half. He started playing his older sister's keyboard by ear when he was two. And that sorrow that he conveys when he plays The Lark is drawn from the kind of loss that any nine-and-a-half-year-old can understand.  It reminds me of when I lost my pet bunny. I named her Symphony.  Symphony?  Symphony.  .  And we let her run around in our yard. And we always closed the fences but at night we always put her back in her cage so she could sleep. And once when I came out to put her back in her cage the fence was open and Symphony was not there.  Symphony was gone.  Symphony was gone. And I was really sad and this reminds me of The Lark. It is a very sad and emotional piece that have ups and downs.  And when you are playing it do you think about the bunny?  I think about many sad things that happened like especially my bunny.  You want to feel that sadness as you are playing a very sad thing.  I want to show the sadness.   Bravo.  Thank you.  Boy when the lark starts flying and fluttering it is a pretty fast piece. When the piece is upbeat what do you think about then?  I think about a prankster.   A prankster.  Like in the Haydn Sonata.   Unlike Beethoven Haydn was a happy composer. He wrote very joyful pieces. It is like a prankster is trying to do a trick on you.  Tell me more about the prankster.  Well sometimes it is like the prankster stays quiet but then like some loud parts the prankster does the prank. And it reminds me of like the contrast of the piece and dynamics - like two opposite things like black and white. But in music it is forte and piano which is forte - loud - and piano - soft.   So you know you are doing all this. Your hands are not fully grown yet.  No they are not fully grown.  So what is your reach now with them?  A ninth. .  A ninth - an octave plus one. You can go from C up to the D above that.  I was trying to get to the E but I cannot reach.  Not yet not yet.  Close though.  But what you expect? How many notes do you think you will be able to do when you are...  C to G.  C to G. Wow.  .  I do not how to do that.  But the Rachmaninoff Prelude In G - the - . It had these - since I only had a small hand I could only reach to F to E. It was really hard for me to do the octaves in the second page like...  So how did you do it?   I do not know.  .  I just had to reach as much as I can.  So how - you have increased over the years how many notes you can - you can play.  I used to only go to the C to G.  Used to do a fifth. That was all? When you started playing you could only...  No not when I started playing when I was doing it by ear - C to G.   That would be very limiting if you could play but that is why there is so few great two-year-old pianists in the world.   I read that one of your nonmusical interests is comic books.  Comic books yes.  Yeah? Really?  I like the series Calvin And Hobbes. My mom bought me the whole series. It is about a tiger and a boy and the boy's a troublemaker. And also Garfield.  And Garfield. I see.  The cat.  OK. Well is there one more piece that you would just like to surprise us with or play for us before you go Oscar?  Yeah I would like to pay a three-page piece called the Lyadov Bagatelle in D-Flat Major.  OK. Oscar Paz Suaznabar thank you very much for taking a break from the fourth grade to be with us today.  Thank you.   Along with his appearance on From the Top Oscar has a Jack Kent Cooke Scholarship. We should note that the Jack Kent Cooke Foundation is also a supporter of NPR. 