 Ever wonder what outdoor cats do all day? Well it turns out they may be having a big impact on the local ecosystem. NPR's Lauren Sommer has more on a new study.  In research studies scientists are supposed to disclose any conflicts of interest. So are you a cat person or a dog person?  I am actually more of a ferret person. I love the weasels so we are just like those independent weirdos off on the side.  Right so Roland Kays does not have a dog in this fight and he is a scientist at North Carolina State University. He wanted to know what kind of harm outdoor house cats are doing to birds. So with some colleagues he put GPS trackers on almost a thousand cats in six countries to see where they go all day.  These cats are moving around their own backyard and a couple of their neighbor's backyards but most of them are not ranging very much further. So initially I thought oh this is good news. They are not going out into the nature preserves.  But then Kays factored in how much cats kill in that small area. Some cats in the study were bringing home 10 or 11 dead birds rodents or lizards a month. And that does not include what they did not bring home.  That actually ends up being a really intense rate of predation on any unfortunate prey species that is going to live near that cat's house.  Kays reports in the journal Animal Conservation that compared to wild predators house cats have four to 10 times the impact on local wildlife.  The simplest thing to do is to keep your cat indoors.  But some people do not like Susan Willson. She is an associate professor at St. Lawrence University. Her rescue cat known as the Gorilla was killing a lot of birds.  I am a biologist. You know I am a bird biologist so that is just horrifying. And I...  So she found a special brightly colored collar.  It looks kind of like an Elizabethan collarscrunchie around the cat's neck.  So birds can see the cat before it pounces. She tested it on her cat and dozens of others. It dramatically reduced the number of birds the cats brought home. Small rodents were not so lucky.  Which is not surprising because mammals see in black and white. You know they are not as visual as a bird.  So as for Willson's cat...  Gorilla is now a happy indoor cat loving his life.  Lauren Sommer NPR News.  