 There is a word we are hearing a lot these days when officials talk about the Ebola epidemic in West Africa.   It is spreading faster and exponentially.   Ebola is an exponential crisis.   It is advancing in an exponential fashion.  We heard President Obama U.N. Secretary General Ban Ki-moon and David Nabarro another U.N. official speaking this week. Now exponential is a word you do not ever want to hear in the same sentence as Ebola. NPR's Michaeleen Doucleff explains why.  Right now we have had more than 5000 cases of Ebola and at least 2600 people have died. Alessandro Vespignani at the Northeastern University in Boston is one of the scientists taking numbers like that and putting them into computer models to see where the epidemic is going.  And you know for instance in our modeling we see that mid-October we are already between 10 to 25000 cases.  Five-thousand cases of a Ebola is bad. Ten to 25000 cases is crazy. And that is why you want to pay attention to the word exponential. This outbreak is following an exponential curve. On a chart it looks a little like a J. So what does that mean?  Well an exponential curve is a curve that doubles every certain amount of time.  Right now this outbreak doubles within a month. If help does not arrive in time and we have about 15000 Ebola cases in mid-October then there will be 30000 cases by mid-November 60000 by mid-December.  And you see that right away you get very scary numbers.  So every day or week that goes by the epidemic gets harder and harder to control. The number of cases rises. The number of beds doctors and nurses needed to stop it keeps going up quicker and quicker. And Alessandro Vespignani says the actual number of cases is likely much higher than what is been reported which means the models are underestimating the situation anyway you look at it.  The window of opportunity is closing in a sense. And that is why it is very important to understand that this is the moment to act.  OK when I heard this I thought it sounded a bit alarmist. But then I talked with several more disease modelers and the message was similar. Jeffrey Shaman of Columbia University is making models for the U.S. government. And in fact when he first saw the results of his models the numbers were so high that he was afraid to make them public.  I did not want to scare people but we are really in uncharted territory here. We have never had a sustained outbreak of Ebola like this certainly nothing of this magnitude. It is never penetrated into cities and city slums.  Before you fall off your chair at these numbers the world did get some welcome news this week. On Tuesday President Obama announced plans for the U.S. military to provide 1700 hospital beds in West Africa. It will also help set up training facilities for health care workers. Do you think that 1700 beds is enough? Is this something that you think could actually start to turn the tide?  Well I hope so and I know that does not give you a really great answer.  Because here's the thing about the exponential curve it can turn on a dime. Tiny changes in how the virus spreads can make huge differences in the number of cases. If these countries could even get a little bit of help perhaps slow the spread so that sick people only infect one person instead of two it dramatically cuts the total cases Jeffrey Shaman predicts for October.  For our improved scenario we have something about 7700 cases instead of 15000 come October 19th.  Now we do need to remember that these models come with a lot of caveats. For starters they do not do a good job at making predictions far out into the future just like with weather forecasts.  The farther out you go the more uncertain it is.  That is because to really predict what is happening way out in November we need to have a good idea what will happen in October. And of course we do not know that yet. But Shaman says there is one thing they are sure of - help needs to come fast because even if the new beefed-up aid starts to slow down the epidemic next week it will take a year or a year and a half to wipe out Ebola from West Africa. Michaeleen Doucleff NPR News. 