 NPR's Claudio Sanchez reports on how that news could tarnish the reputation of former Chancellor Michelle Rhee.  Washington D.C. Council Chairman Kwame Brown says he wants hearings - and subpoenas if necessary - to find out what really happened.  We should be scrutinizing all test scores if there is anything that has to do with people cheating. And if there is one bad apple in the tree we need to take the apple down.  In her first public comments on the matter Rhee appeared on PBS' Tavis Smiley Show and fired back.   When the academic achievement rates of a district like D.C. go up people assume that it cannot be that - because the kids are actually you know attaining higher gains in student achievement but that it is because of something like cheating - which in this case was absolutely not the case.  Are you suggesting then that this story is much ado about nothing that this lacking is in integrity - this story in USA Today?  Absolutely.  Michelle's initial response was unfortunate.  Rick Hess of the American Enterprise Institute is a fan of Rhee's.  The notion that it is an attack on D.C.'s children to raise questions about test validity is I think an unfortunate declaration. I understand where she is coming from. I think Michelle has been subject to any number of cheap- shot attacks in the last four or five years.  But Hess says the USA Today investigation does point to serious problems with the security and reliability of tests in D.C.'s public schools - problems that Rhee's critics are too eager to believe and Rhee has been too quick to dismiss.  There has been a tendency to romanticize the gains that have been made in D.C. and to oversell them.  Jack Jennings of the Center for Education Policy says tests were not designed for this.  And yet the reputation of schools the reputation of teachers hangs on how well students do on these tests. So we are just creating a high-pressure situation where there - unfortunately - is going to be some bad conduct because of human nature.  As for Rhee she told NPR affiliate WAMU that she too now wants an independent investigation.  It is better to kind of lift the cloud and make sure that the gains were real. And if there were problems in isolated instances then those problems should be dealt with directly.  Claudio Sanchez NPR News. 