 In Yemen the Trump administration has stepped up military action. The U.S. has been bombing al-Qaida targets there this week. The U.S. effort against al-Qaida is just one of three separate conflicts in Yemen and the country is also suffering a terrible humanitarian crisis. NPR national security correspondent Greg Myre is here to talk more about it. Welcome to the studio Greg.  Thank you Audie.  What more can you tell us about the scope of these U.S. strikes in Yemen?  The U.S. has carried out about 30 bombing strikes in the past two nights. And this is very unusual in Yemen. What we have traditionally seen is the occasional drone strike. And this stepped up activity that we are seeing comes on the heels of a very rare ground raid about a month ago. That ground raid did not go smoothly at all. A U.S. Navy SEAL Ryan Owens was killed. Several colleagues were injured and their aircraft had to be destroyed. They did gather some intel but we are hearing today from Defense officials that that was not what led to the most recent airstrikes that we have seen.  Do we know what the U.S. goal is here?  I think specifically what they fear from al-Qaida in Yemen is the ability to make very sophisticated bombs - bombs that do not have metal in them and could be used to carry out an attack on an airliner. So it is a specific skill that they associate with al-Qaida in Yemen.  Now it is not just the U.S. and al-Qaida here. There are many other players in the conflict in Yemen. Can you give us a sense of what is going on on the ground?  Sure. Saudi Arabia and Iran are waging this major battle for supremacy throughout the Middle East. And Yemen is one of their main battlegrounds. For the Saudis Yemen is a country on their southern border. They do not want this chaos. And for the last two years they have been conducting air strikes with a lot of U.S. assistance. It has not gone well. It has not changed the trajectory of the war in any significant way. And the Saudis are being blamed for a lot of civilian casualties so not a real success from their point of view. On the Iranian side they are aligned with the Houthi rebels - they are fellow Shiite Muslims. And it is hard to get an exact fix on how much Iran is or is not doing in Yemen. But it is clearly a way for them to be poking at Saudi Arabia so it is part of this bigger proxy battle.  Right. Proxy because Yemen has its own civil war going on.  That is right. And it is been an absolute disaster for the country. This is a very poor country. And now you have this multi-sided civil war. We will not get into all the players but I will just mention two. One I have already noted the Houthi rebels - they took over the capital two years ago and they still control it in other parts of the country. But they are not a functioning government in any real sense of the word. And they are fighting against primarily the president's troops. And there is the president Abed Rabbo Mansur Hadi but he is been out of the country for two years. He is got a loyal army fighters still waging war on his behalf. But he is been mostly in Saudi Arabia. So you have this inconclusive war that drags on with many different actors.  Is it something that can be compared to what is happening in Syria?  It is a fair analogy. In both these countries the Arab uprisings of 2011 is where all this trouble began. You have had multi-sided civil wars a downward spiral into complete chaos in both countries. The U.S. is carrying out air strikes against the Islamic State in Syria against al-Qaida in Yemen and again just a humanitarian catastrophe in both places.  That is NPR national security correspondent Greg Myre. Thanks so much.  Thank you Audie. 