 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Guy Raz. Good-bye Qwikster. We hardly knew you. Netflix announced today that it is dropping its plan to split its DVD and streaming services. Qwikster was announced less than a month ago. And as NPR's Ted Robbins reports it was received with close to universal scorn.  You may have a problem when you get negative website comments emails and blog posts. You can be pretty sure you made a big mistake when Saturday Night Live takes you on.   Netflix for streaming video and Qwikster for DVD rentals. That part was real. Then the SNL skit satirized Netflix by saying it had split into three new sites then merged with a nut company and the insurance business Aflac which uses a duck for its spokesman.   Netflix violated a cardinal rule of marketing. Do not make it harder for your customers to get your product.  We completely underestimated the appeal of the simplicity of the Netflix website.  Steve Swasey is spokesman for Netflix.  It will stay just as you have known it all along. One website one sign in one account one set of ratings one simple service for everybody at Netflix who wants both unlimited streaming and unlimited DVDs by mail.  A price hike announced this summer remains in place. Customers are now paying 8 a month each for streaming video and DVD compared with the old base price of 10 a month for both. Netflix lost a million customers in the U.S. when its prices rose even though as Steve Swasey points out customers understood Netflix needed to raise prices to cover the rising costs of acquiring content and mailing DVDs.  Most reasonable people understand that but we did not do a good job communicating and explaining that.  Even as it was losing U.S. customers Netflix gained a million customers when it expanded its streaming business into Canada last year and it is just begun offering its streaming business in Latin America. The U.S. is the only place Netflix offers DVDs by mail. Andy Hargreaves an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities thinks the decision to kill Qwikster is the right move. The PR problem caused by the mistake is another issue.  The problem is this is a management team that for a long time was perceived as being able to do no wrong and kind of the smartest guys in the room and I think that that image is definitely getting tarnished.  Hargreaves says Netflix still offers a lot of content for customers at a reasonable price. Even though it will soon lose Starz movies it is gaining DreamWorks Animation. He still likes the company.  You know as long as they do not make any more bad decisions I think that they can kind of get back on the horse so to speak but it will take a while. I mean they have definitely done brand damage.  Tony Wible thinks it is more than brand damage. He is an analyst at Janney Capital Markets. He calls Netflix the AOL of streaming predicting it will slowly fade among expanding online streaming competitors like HBO Hulu Apple and Amazon.  Netflix is the first person to walk through that door but they certainly will not be the last. And the people that are now getting ready to start launching services have billions and billions of dollars on their balance sheet to spend.  It will be a battle over the next few years for companies to acquire rights to movies and TV shows. But as of today you will not be able to watch any of it through Qwikster an idea whose time never came. Ted Robbins NPR News. 