 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Melissa Block. Time for a cloud computing edition of All Tech Considered.   Our tech team is all over the cloud this week and you are forgiven if you are still a bit foggy about what exactly that term - the cloud - means. Technologists still argue over exactly what it is. But it is undeniable that a shift has taken place. More and more companies and consumers are storing their digital stuff somewhere other than their own computers. We are going to hear about some of the options for putting your pictures music documents and videos in the cloud. First the basics. Where is that cloud anyway? Here's NPR's Steve Henn.  You hear the term the cloud and you picture something puffy white clean and quiet. Cloud computing is anything but. Even from a distance you can hear the hum.   This building Santa Clara in the heart of Silicon Valley is about a quarter of a mile long.  And it is about the same size and length as a Nimitz aircraft carrier.  It is owned by DuPont Fabros.   Please step into the door.  Paul Hopkins a regional VP here is showing me around. And this place SC1 is not fully built out yet. But when it is it will use enough electricity to power more than 57000 homes. Just inside the door there is a corridor that will stretch in a straight line for more than a thousand feet.  The guys that work here a lot have their own little Razr scooters to get around. I mean it is a heck of a long walk you know if you are walking back and forth all day.  DuPont Fabros is one of a half-dozen cloud storage providers you have probably never heard of. But their business is to build out these enormous buildings that house and cool millions of computer servers. This company's customers include Microsoft and Facebook. Picture dozens of cavernous ballrooms all lined up in a row. Now elevate those rooms' floors then run super-powered air condition systems underneath and then stuff the space with as many racks of computers as you can possibly imagine.  In one of these rooms here we could fit 450 cabinets. Each cabinet has 30 to 50 servers - just a ton of compute.  All those machines running full-out use a huge amount of energy and throw off a ton of heat. This sound...   ...is the industrial chilling plant. The cloud consumes enormous quantities of energy. Researchers at Greenpeace estimate that if the cloud were a country it would be one of the biggest consumers of electricity on the planet.  It would rank around sixth in the world.  Gary Cook is at Greenpeace. So sixth - where does that put it?  That is right after Russia and right before Germany.  Other estimates are smaller but the figures are still staggering. And the cloud is growing faster than China expanding by more than 30 percent year over year. So to control electric costs big cloud computing companies are traveling to the ends of the earth.  My name is Joel Kjellgren and I work for Facebook in Lulea as the data center manager for a data center here in Sweden.  Lulea is just south of the Arctic Circle but that does not stop Joel Kjellgren from biking to work every day. His bike does have special tires.  Yeah yeah with steel studs on them to prevent - well you do not want to go on ice especially without them. It can be a bit slippery.  Temperatures are brisk.  Right now it is just about freezing. But like I mean generally it is pretty cold. See in Fahrenheit it would be down to like minus 20 25 maybe something like that.  But that is one reason Facebook is here. The company uses the arctic air to cool its machines for free. Cheap reliable hydroelectricity powers them. Facebook's Lulea data center is one of the most efficient on the planet. And more than 4000 miles away in central Iowa Facebook is building another one.  Right now we are on the project site.  But this project is not a data center itself. It is a wind farm. In a few more months more than 60 windmills will take root here. Each will be more than 400 feet tall. In the past few years Greenpeace has leaned on companies like Apple and Facebook pushing them to invest and use renewable energy. Apple now runs its iCloud on a mix of solar hydro and wind. But other firms are not moving as fast and Gary Cook at Greenpeace is worried that as the cloud grows it could easily foul the planet. Steve Henn NPR News Silicon Valley. 