 We have been talking about the comedy business and some of the women breaking the rules of what comedy can be in 2019. For instance social media is the new calling card where you can build your audience maybe be discovered and booked for shows. The comedian Aparna Nancherla has made her struggles with the social media side of the job part of her stand-up routine. Here she is on The Late Show With Stephen Colbert.   I think social media is my main vice though I did have a big development with Instagram. I discovered the mute button and just went wild with power. Like I turned into someone I did not know but I am glad I met her. I tried to start out conservative. I picked out a few people and I was just like I will just work back up to not being threatened by her level of success you know?   But then before I knew it even puppies were being silenced. I was just like ugh. They are just getting younger and younger you know?   Now this brand of comedy made Aparna Nancherla a star. Recently she did back-to-back sets at the Outside Lands Music and Arts Festival in San Francisco.  Everyone please welcome to the stage Aparna Nancherla.   And that is where we sat down to talk before a sold-out crowd. I last interviewed her in 2016 the day before the presidential election and she told me then her little online community was called sad girl Twitter. She has more company now.  Yeah it is interesting. After the election I think I started talking about almost the gentrification of mental health a little bit where a lot of new people started moving into the neighborhood...  Right.  ...Of anxiety and depression.  Acted like they invented it...  Yeah. You are like welcome but I have always lived here.  That is because she is struggled with anxiety her whole life. OK. Some people say they were a shy kid but according to your parents you were very very shy. What did that look like?  Well the interesting thing is a lot of people do say they were shy kids but it is always framed as a story of triumph. And they are like look at me now you know? Like I have got seven shows and I am never not telling it like it is. And I feel like I am still shy and I think my thing is kind of like I do not think it is something you have to overcome necessarily because I think it is something we often as a society look at as something that is a flaw or a weakness. And I think I maybe came from a shyer place. Like I was definitely heavily introverted. I lived in books. My parents made me practice being more assertive by like ordering pizzas over the phone. Like that was one of the many...  That is high pressure.  It is very high pressure.  How old were you when this is happening?  I think maybe 8.  That is like...  Such a high-stakes - like an action movie just like - OK I am going to need two mediums.   So nobody in her family in Virginia outside Washington D.C. where she grew up imagined she would do comedy for a living. She told us that one summer when she was home from college - on a mental health break actually - she went to an open mic stand-up show and took a turn on stage. She loved it. So I asked her about when she started to pursue comedy for real because it sounds like it was another story. Your father has said that you know you would come home from those early attempts at stand-up and sometimes be in tears.  Yeah.  And again it is that moment of - like what pushes you?  I think there was a part of me that was sort of stubbornly like no. I am going to make them listen to what I have to say and if I - if it does not work tonight I am going to figure out like a halfway point because I think I have often lived enough of my life in my head that a lot of times I just want to like translate what I am seeing to the rest of the world.  Now that she is a pro and in the public eye and on social media there are a lot more people listening.  There is a lot more people yelling at me like all the time and I think that is made me a little bit more wary of it. If it is a political tweet or something it will be trolls. Sometimes it will be someone who saw some of my work and they will be like you know you are terrible. I do not think you should be allowed on - you know to have a career or whatever it is. But it is just enough noise that I think as someone who absorbs everything at face value I am kind of like I do not know why I care so much about like a faceless entity but the fact that I do is maybe making me second-guess this whole thing. Yeah.  You were talking I think in your set last night about - you would made a passing comment about Taylor Swift and felt the backlash was almost immediate.  Yeah. So I said she has a new single out called ME! which is also ironically what she called all her relationships which...   I know.   Oh wow.  Whoa.  Wow.  Hit the mute button for the rest of the afternoon.  I was like - I was ready to be dragged.   But yeah all of her fans they came for me.   Thoughts and prayers...  Yeah. Thank you Audie. Thank you.  But it is not just about jokes. Aparna Nancherla's whole brand of humor lives at the intersection of laughter and sadness and I asked Nancherla about the pitfalls of offering up one's vulnerabilities for laughs.  I think I started talking about mental health on stage as a way to essentially cope with it. I was struggling with depression at the time and I was not able to write about anything else so I would just start writing - trying to write some jokes around the depressive thoughts that were filling my mind. And then I tried that on stage and received more of a reception for it than I expected. But the more I have talked about and the more I have almost been branded that way where it is like oh she is a woman of color who talks about mental health I have worried a little bit about the real estate I have given it in my brain in terms of like - are you now making this a part of your identity? Or are you giving it room to be like no this is all you are about which I think in a way has - I almost think it is been like fuel for my anxiety where it is like oh you think you can make money off of me? Well I will show you what I can do - where it is like gotten worse in a sense and depression too around like factors like success or like career has gotten louder in a lot of ways.  And yet in the last few years she is toured the country and done shows for Netflix and Comedy Central and frankly it feels like the tale of triumph she first told me this interview would not be. Is there something you feel like you could tell 8-year-old Aparna - right? - who is like trying to make that pizza order and is terrified?  Yeah. I think it is just you - I mean it is just the simple kind of self-care I think thing that you hear thrown around a lot but I think is actually true in a deep way which is that like you are enough. And like you are enough regardless of you know how many followers you have what you have done in your work or how many - how well your relationship is going. Like you could literally just sit on the ground and not do anything and you are like a worthy human being.  Well I want to thank you. Aparna Nancherla thank you...  Thank you.  ...So much for speaking with us here at Outside Lands.   Comedian Aparna Nanacherla. We spoke to her before a live audience in San Francisco for our series on the rule-breaking women of comedy. 