 In Rwanda a filmmaker who once told stories about genocide is now hoping to make romantic comedies and to build a film industry in the country. NPR's Eyder Peralta met him in the capital Kigali.  I ask Eric Kabera to take me to his favorite part of Kigali. He is a filmmaker the first Rwandan to make a feature film about the 1994 genocide that killed some 800000 people. And he does not miss a beat. There is a hill on the edge of the city he says where he bought a plot of land. And he has big plans for it.  What I really wanted to do is actually to put up a big sign that reads Hillywood . So it is a bit crazy.  So we drive past some rice fields and onto a dirt road. And then we start to climb and the city's density comes in full view - rows of homes winding up the steep hillsides.  You can feel that even the air is starting to cool and you are getting the right oxygen.  Rwanda is known as the country of a thousand hills. And when we get to Eric's place it is spectacular an unobstructed view of the capital city. This is where Eric wants to build a huge Hillywood sign. And this is where he imagines two of his movie characters might end up one day. This is where they might see the city lights flicker on as the sun sets and where they might realize that they are in love. So you are planning a romantic comedy. Why?  You know I am somehow labeled to be like the guy who goes to film festivals and present all these sort of sad and traumatic and dramatic films. But at the end of the day you know there is also a new dynamic. You know the city's changing. You know people are aspiring to live you know as normally as anybody else.  Standing there at the edge of that ravine all I see is a bustling city the modern dome of a brand-new convention center. I see life.  I think everybody first and foremost gets shocked to walk around in the city that does not necessarily have the scars of the genocide. They go like you know really? Is this what we saw? So Kigali has that feeling. And it has that life to itself but life that is also covered by that pain.  I guess I do see it. But I wonder if I am just reflecting that.  Maybe. Maybe I am crazy. Maybe it is actually to do with the kind of history and experience that I have gone through for the last 20 years because I know that I am bruised in one way or another. Each time maybe the way I even lead my life I try as much as possible to not reflect upon it day in and day out. But it is there. It is present. And there is no way how you can run away from it.  Eric wants that Hillywood sign to be on the same scale as the iconic Hollywood sign. But that takes money. Once it is done though he hopes it will be a reminder that even amid hurt there can be love and there can be humor. Eyder Peralta NPR News Kigali.  