 Even if you have never actually eaten a Twinkie you undoubtedly grew up seeing these little yellow cakes in the store or in TV ads.    Me and my Twinkies cake are super well-known sponge cake and filling with a taste all its own from Hostess.  Super well-known. NPR's Nell Greenfieldboyce has the story of one box of Twinkies that contained a surprise that sent two scientists on a quest.  Colin Purrington lives in Pennsylvania. And one day for sentimental reasons he bought Twinkies.  Well this was back in 2012. I am sure I heard on NPR that the company Hostess that makes Twinkies was going bankrupt.  For eight years the Twinkies sat in his basement. But last week he had a sugar craving.  If you are in a house with no desserts you get desperate.  Still after eight years why reach for the Twinkies now?  I was just so bored with the pandemic.  The official shelf life for Twinkies is 45 days. But like many people Purrington believed Twinkies are basically immortal. He removed a Twinkie from the box unwrapped it. He took a bite and retched.  It tasted like old sock - not that I have ever eaten old sock.  So he examined the other Twinkies. Two looked weird. One had a dark-colored blemish the size of a quarter. The other Twinkie was completely transformed. It was gray shrunken and wrinkly.  It looked like a shriveled morel mushroom the dried ones you can buy.  He posted photos on Twitter and they caught the attention of two scientists - Brian Lovett and Matt Kasson. At West Virginia University they study fungi. Kasson says fungi are everywhere and have an amazing ability to break down all kinds of substances.  You know you find fungi growing on jet fuel.  In the past their lab has tested how well molds grow in Peeps the classic Easter treat. Kasson says fungi found the Peeps challenging.  In a way they are kind of like an extreme environment right? The food industry has crafted the ability to make foods that have a long shelf life.  So these researchers were intrigued by the old Twinkies and Purrington happily mailed them to the lab. Kasson used a bone biopsy tool to sort of drill through the tough outer layer of the gray mummified Twinkie.  I think it hit the icing.  Hitting the soft filling was a surprise. They thought it would be all hard. Lovett says whatever ate the Twinkie...  It seems that the fungus was more interested in the cake on the outside than the filling on the inside.  They put the Twinkie samples in lab dishes with nutrients commonly used to grow fungi. From that one Twinkie marred with a dark circle of mold they found out it was a very common indoor fungus. But from the mummified Twinkie they have no results. Lovett says none of its fungi has grown yet.  It may be that we do not have any living spores.  They are not giving up. They will fill lab dishes with all kinds of sweet concoctions to try to coax something back to life from the mysterious Twinkie mummy because people just seem fascinated by this gray shriveled snack cake. Kasson says it is such a harsh contrast to the golden Twinkie that lives in our memories.  When those memories are tainted by like a visual reality like the Twinkie experiment we are kind of like caught off guard. And we are like wait. No that is a symbol of my childhood you cannot take that from me too.  But nothing lasts forever - not Twinkies not us. The scientists point out that like these Twinkies someday even we will be food for fungi. Nell Greenfieldboyce NPR News.  