 A lot of cities in East Africa have a big problem - traffic. Populations are booming the use of cars is increasing but few countries have kept up. Tanzania's biggest city is an exception. It has found success with the region's first bus rapid transit. NPR's Eyder Peralta reports.  Shaibu Hussein Cheche is standing on one of the platforms of Dar es Salaam's new bus rapid transit stations. He is leaning against a rail as passengers hurry to catch a bus.   This is a different Dar es Salaam than even two years ago. Cheche says before the bus rapid transit he had to wake up hours before the sun came up board a crowded minibus which crawled its way downtown.  Even four hours it was something normal. But right now it could take 40 minutes 45 minutes.  It means that Cheche has gotten hours of his life back.  It is just like you get time to rest and think much what to do next.  Saleen Mwaemu another passenger says she did not used to take public transportation and now she does. It is safe. It is clean. It is 40 cents a ride. And she is even happy it is not light rail.  I prefer bus. I am so scared of electricity trains so I prefer buses.  In a lot of ways this system in Tanzania with its elevated platforms and dedicated traffic lanes has become the envy of East Africa. The day I interview the CEO he is hosting a delegation from neighboring countries and they pepper him with questions about how they have made it work.  The success is the big transformation we have brought to Dar es Salaam.  Ronald Wakatere says when they started looking at transit solutions in the year 2000 they looked at subways and they looked at light rail. Ultimately a bus rapid transit system made more sense in large part because it was an infrastructure project that Tanzania could afford. The whole project financed in large part by the World Bank cost 450 million.  We saw that it is also - it has an inclusive element in it.  One of the hurdles to building public transport systems in East Africa is the political power wielded by the operators of small privately owned buses. With this BRT system the so-called daladala drivers were brought into the fold.  I think we had a condition that at least 75 percent of the drivers should be those who are the daladala drivers.  Wakatere says they have had many challenges. They have had to train drivers to leave on time for example and they have had to train motorists to keep off dedicated lanes. Maja Mbuya a public transit advocates says there are still a lot of problems with the system. As ridership has gone up reliability has gone down but as he stands on a rooftop patio looking down at one of the dedicated bus lanes he says the system is also responsible for a change in the way Tanzanians think about public transport.  First of all they are clean and second those buses as you can see they look like somewhere in Europe or somewhere in the western country. So people say oh I can take that. You know I have seen people on Sunday they take their family not just because they do not have cars just because they want to get that experience.  For now the system has two lines. It is expected to grow to 11 lines by the early 2020s. Mbuya says that is essential because Dar es Salaam is still losing 2 million a day because of time lost in traffic. Eyder Peralta NPR News Dar es Salaam. 