 As a little kid moving from one town to another can be difficult. But moving from Ireland to Chicago that is like relocating to another planet. MICHAEL W.  I had a very difficult time fitting in when I started elementary school. I had an Irish accent. I wore Irish clothes Irish fashions. And so learning to deal with other people was a real challenge one that left me feeling isolated quite a bit.  That is Michael W. Clune. For him school was cliques and bullies. Home was a refuge for a while until his parents started fighting.  When I was 12 my parents divorced and so the safety net of my childhood the aspect of my childhood that really was a warm and safe environment shattered at that moment. So that is the basic arc and it is one I think that is shared by you know many people who grew up when I did. It is a story that if you just reduce it to bare outlines you know it sounds quite stereotypical.  And like many kids who grew up in the '80s Clune sought refuge in video games. But here's where the stereotype breaks down. He was not obsessed with Pac-Man or Mario Bros. Clune found his joy in role-playing games like Bard's Tale and Ultima III fantasy worlds with orcs and dragons spaceships and robots where hand-eye coordination takes a backseat to thinking and character development.  When I sat down to write this book I really wanted to tell the story of my childhood. But because so much of the stories we tell about our lives involve our relations with other people and because my relations with other people were so complex I was really - did not know how to tell that story. And I finally got the idea while I was playing a lot of these games - let me try to explain my childhood or just explore childhood through the lens of these different games. And so in a strange way my interactions with the games provided a template for my interactions with my childhood friends family and so forth.  The story of your socialization in this book it is pretty sad. You are a pretty lonely kid. I mean do you think that the life that you lived in video games was to the detriment of your social life as a middle schooler?  My mother told me early when I was young that what is most meaningful in life are the relations you have with other people. In this book what I really wanted to explore was the part of life we have - the part of life we live when we are not with other people the part when we are alone. There is the cliche that we are born and we die alone and I take that quite seriously. And I believe that our most powerful and profound experiences in many ways are solitary experiences. And I believe the computer games like literature and like some other devices in my life were a means of training me for that kind of solitude.  You have another memoir that is been very highly praised and that was about your battle with heroin addiction.  That is right.  This is going to seem awfully glib. Forgive me for asking this but it is natural to ask if there is some - something in common between addiction and this kind of relationship with videogames you describe in this book.  I believe that heroin addiction for me and drug addiction was the absolute opposite of the experience I had when playing games. Addiction removes you from any worlds. It present - it completely - it isolates you but not - it does not give you - your isolation has none of the richness of the solitude that I experienced in games. With addiction I was continually like a rat in a maze trying to capture the very first time I ever had that first hit. With games the first time I played them was very difficult and awkward. Only gradually when I mastered their commands was I able to inhabit that world. And so if with addiction I was trying to continually recapture a first time I never with games I was exploring a world and exploring myself in a way that I found meaningful whereas I felt addiction strips my life of all meaning.  There is a reference in the book to you playing games as an adult and also getting kind of absorbed in them. Do you still play are they still - you still get a kick out of them?  I absolutely do. And I will tell you a story. When I got clean from heroin which was 14 years ago I did not play any games for three years. I believe that there may well be a connection between games and addictions so I stayed away from them. And then I accidentally more or less started playing a game about three years after I would been clean. And it was the best decision I ever made.  What was the game?  The game was called Call Of Duty. It was a sort of World War II or one of these World War II games. And I started playing it and I was just completely enraptured. And I felt this you know sort of feeling of joy and connection but it was not like with addiction. I did not find myself compulsive. I have never played games for more than an hour or two a day. They have never interfered with my work or my relationship with my significant other or anything like that. They have just been really enriching. So I continue to play games an hour or two a day at this moment.  Michael W. Clune's new book is called Game Life. It is out this Tuesday. Michael it is been a real pleasure speaking with you. Thank you.  Thank you so much. 