 And NPR's Mike Pesca joins me now to talk about it. Hey Mike.  Hello.  Mike it was the entire membership of player's union ratifying this collective bargaining agreement. Did the vote change anything?  So a lot of teams had practice under the lights last night to finally get some of these new players in pads and on the field.  And let us talk about some of those new players. Which teams have been stocking up on some of this new talent?  But the biggest team for free agent signings has been the Philadelphia Eagles. What a haul they have. They signed the most sought-after free agent Nnamdi Asomugha. And then they got another cornerback Dominique Rogers-Cromartie. They add guys like Jason Babin and Cullen Jenkins the quarterback Vince Young Ronnie Brown. I would say that if you took half of the free agents that Philadelphia signed and assigned them to another team that other team would have had the second or third best free agent haul. That is how great the Philadelphia new players are.  What other teams Mike have beefed up their rosters in a big way?  Matt Hasselbeck who is a good quarterback but has always been injured he is now in Tennessee. And one of the reasons that the Eagles got Dominique Rogers-Cromartie or the main reason is that they traded their quarterback Kevin Kolb who is a very promising player and has started few games. But that is just a potent offense that died last year because they had a horrible quarterback. So the Cardinals just by getting someone decently competent they immediately become at least an interesting offense to try to watch.  And the resolution of this labor dispute means the Green Bay Packers finally get to go to the White House to celebrate their Super Bowl victory. How do the Packers look and their opponent in last year's Super Bowl the Steelers?  And the Bears really did not add too much. They have Roy Williams who was once a promising wide receiver but he really had such a couple terrible years in Dallas. Roy Williams once said that the balls thrown to him in Dallas were all wobbly and inaccurate but the balls thrown to other receivers seem to be much more accurate. That is how he explained his drop off in production. I think there are other more logical explanations like perhaps Roy Williams has lost a step. So the Bears maybe are not going to be as good at least in terms of personnel as they have been in years past.  OK. NPR's Mike Pesca enjoy the season.  I will. Thank you. 