 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Robert Siegel. There are dozens of uses for the online bulletin board Craigslist. You can find an apartment a job a Barcalounger - all fine and legal. But you can also find sensual massage nude house cleaning and other erotic services many of which are neither fine nor legal. And Tom Dart who is the sheriff of Cook County Illinois is suing Craigslist to take down those erotic service ads. He joins us from member station WBEZ in Chicago. Welcome. Sheriff  Thanks for having me Robert.  What is the problem here with Craigslist? Sheriff  The problem is is that they are actively facilitating a commission of a crime namely prostitution and it is not the consenting adult prostitution. We are talking quite frequently about juveniles being involved here.  However it says on Craigslist that you have to be 18 to proceed to that part of the what is on offer and there are other cautions they take. Sheriff  And if you are not 18 nothing happens. And that is been my problem with them from the get-go Robert. I told them you have a great site for 99 percent of it. But there is one part of it that A is illegal that B is causing people to be victimized primarily women in the prostitution field if you want to call it that. And I have asked them I have said either shut it down or monitor it. And they will do neither of them and that is the thing that is perplexing to me.  But in a statement that Craigslist offers online which explains its policy on erotic services it points out newspaper classifieds alternative weeklies and the telephone yellow pages have all featured escort and sensual massage ads similar to those on Craigslist for several decades. And they say the difference is that in the case of Craigslist they actually give the revenue they receive from this area to charity. And they also enable their users to flag inappropriate ads for removal whereas there is no such service in a newspaper. Sheriff  Well a couple of things. One the flagging that goes on actually is being hijacked by other prostitutes. The flagging is done by people going into sites. So as you can imagine the people looking for prostitutes are not terribly offended by much and so they are not flagging anything. It is other prostitutes who are trying to knock another prostitute's ads off. They will flag it. That is A. The money that they are donating to charity I find to be somewhat comical and very sad because here they are getting money quite often from people who are either juvenile pimps or into human trafficking and the money then is subsequently being given to people to prevent juvenile pimping and human trafficking. And so that is troubling in and of itself. But when they try to liken themselves to newspaper ads it is so different. I mean you seriously have...  What is the great difference between an online site with classifieds and newspaper classifieds? Sheriff  Well one of it is they have specifically tailored their site to facilitate it. Unlike an ad where people put content in they have an opportunity to put content in specific subcategories depending on what it is you like. And then within the subcategories the photographs this is not something where under any one's interpretation you could say this is an escort service. The photographs are either naked or semi-naked quite often showing sex acts in addition to which they actually lay out the prices as to how much they charge for different acts for how long a period of time there. None of that is in any other it is not allowed in any other newspaper that I have ever seen.  Honestly would you expect to see any decline in the amount of prostitution in Cook County after a couple of years of enforcing at this level? Sheriff  I have no delusions that we are going to change a crime that is been around since history has begun. But we know this has become a hub of it. We know this is a conduit for prostitution. But because they have otherwise legitimate interests we will walk away from it. And this - no no. Be a responsible member of the community. We are not trying to be prudes here but just do not help facilitate crimes.  Well Sheriff Dart thanks a lot for talking with us. Sheriff  Thank you so much Robert. I appreciate it.  Tom Dart who is the sheriff of Cook County Illinois. He is suing Craigslist to try to get them to take those erotic service ads off the site. 