 Arielle Jean-Baptiste was born in Haiti. She works with the Haiti Democracy Project in Washington D.C. And she says she is been thinking a lot in the past few days about what Haitians have lived through years of natural disaster political corruption poverty and violence. All these she says has both strengthened and weakened the Haitian national character. Ms.  There is been resilience and resignation. They resign themselves to what they have. They do not demand accountability from their government. There is a saying in Haiti where they say you know God is good and they continue their lives. It is frustrating to watch because you say to yourself you know can they continue to work like that? But they have been doing that for years for years and you cannot understand it. I have watched it. I have analyzed it myself Why they accept everything. It is resilience. It is also the fact that we resign - myself I do not have anything else. They have no other options. And when they do not have any other options they deal with what they have. I was in West Africa a couple of times. I was  West Africa when I was a young girl and then I went back about two years ago. The difference is that there is been progress in a lot of the countries in West Africa and Haiti has gone backward. So it is frustrating because there is a certain mindset in Haiti where they get together to get rid of a bad government but they are unable to get themselves together to build. But I do not think it is a complicated country to fix. I think that the last 15 years the Haitians have watched supposedly democracy. Their lives never got better after the election it got worse and they have become disillusioned even more now. And the earthquake gives the opportunity to the international community for the first time to really really now stop putting a Band-Aid on Haiti. Okay? But it has to be a long-term project and which will make it sustainable. We should get more involved in agro industry in Haiti and economic growth. The governance is - once people start getting money putting their kids to school having a better life you can have a new generation that will be - they will ask for accountability. Okay? Money in people's pocket is what is important. If not you have to teach them how to fish. Do not give them things. Anything that is free people do not take seriously. They do not take seriously. You can do free now because it is an emergency. After that pay a dollar. They appreciate it more.  That is Arielle Jean-Baptiste. She was born in Haiti. She now lives in Washington D.C. 