 Democrats and Republicans in Kansas will choose who they want to be the president tomorrow. Both parties are caucusing on a Saturday this year as a way of accommodating people who might not be able to participate during the work week. But Elle Moxley of member station KCUR reports there is one group that will not be participating - Orthodox Jews.  It is a Friday afternoon like any other for Victor Bergman and his wife Susan. There is a cookbook open to a recipe for Moroccan chicken stew several braided golden loaves of challah on the counter.  OK so one of the things that has to be done before the Sabbath starts is to get the food preparation - anything that needs to be cooked - cooked.  The Bergmans are among the 15000 or so Jews who live in Johnson County Kan.  Right here in our neighborhood there are lots of Jewish families and an overrepresentation of Orthodox Jewish families.  Daniel Rockoff is a Rabbi at the nearby Orthodox synagogue.  A Sabbath observer in Judaism in the Orthodox tradition is someone who would walk to synagogue on Saturday and Friday night someone who would not write with a pen or use technology or answer phone calls.  So no caucusing?  Would not be allowed to rip something to write something to drive to get to the location we would have to caucus. That is why those technicalities become very real for us.  Im Margie Robinow. I live in Kansas. I am an observant Jew.  Robinow was disappointed she could not participate in the 2012 caucus so she called up the Kansas Republican Party.  They noticed that they probably were not diverse enough and have made huge efforts to reach out to people.  Kansas Republicans were already using a ballot at their caucus. It was not hard to mail an absentee version.  I got it I voted and I mailed it in.  But the Kansas Democrats do it differently - think standing in the high school gymnasium rallying for your preferred candidate. There is no ballot. You have to come in person. That upsets Mark Levin a Reform rabbi.  Some people think religious means Orthodox. I consider myself to be a very religious person.  Levin who describes his politics as Bernie Sanders-esque is not Sabbath-observant in the traditional sense. He will drive to synagogue and go out to eat with friends after. But he generally reserves the day for rest and reflection.  I have heard no one say that they are feeling discriminated against because they cannot attend a caucus. Do I still think that it is wrong to do it that way? Yes I do.  So does Victor Bergman. As his wife continues Sabbath preparations he tells me as a lawyer he often gets questions about accommodations for the observant.  If elections were held on Saturdays and you could only vote in person on Saturdays I would probably be in court and I am sure others would have been there long before me.  He says there may be a simple explanation for why more Sabbath-observant Jews are not upset about the Democratic caucus - Kansas has not gone blue in a presidential election in half a century. For NPR News I am Elle Moxley in Kansas City Mo. 