 More than 550000 people in the U.S. have died from COVID-19. We are going to take a moment now to revisit the life of one of those people. We first brought you his story late last year.   .  A musician and actor a mentor an activist a devoted father a humanitarian.  That was Noe Montoya. If I were to give you a definition that would be it.  Graciela Serna lived next door to Noe Montoya who died Thanksgiving morning at his home in Hollister Calif. He had tested positive for COVID-19 the week before.  Serna says his world was one filled with music.   .  Through the walls she would hear him play his guitar an instrument he picked up some 50 years ago around the time he and Serna first became friends marching alongside migrant workers sometimes led by Cesar Chavez.  Like the marches from Delano to Sacramento or Salinas to Sacramento - we would march and sing the entire way.   .  On what would have been Chavez's 93rd birthday Montoya posted a tribute to the labor leader on his Facebook page.   Cesar Chavez would be the first one to tell you do not honor me honor the farm workers - los campesinos. For they even today they are out there picking and harvesting for all of us.   .  Montoya was himself the son of Mexican farm workers but he ended up with a career working as a county employment counselor helping people from all backgrounds step into the workforce.  Giving them different tools on how to interview or how to go out and look for a job - he was good at getting you to understand it is not just about oh got to find a job there was more to it. And he was beautiful in that way.  Montoya was also an actor a beloved member of the theater company El Teatro Campesino.   .  But in the months before his death his focus was on his adult son Robert who has been living in a care facility since suffering a stroke. Montoya was unable to visit in COVID time so he played guitar for Robert daily over FaceTime and sang him his favorite songs.    I love tortillas and I love them dearly.  Graciela Serena says she and Montoya sometimes discussed life and death even talked about what he would want for his family and friends when he was no longer physically with them.  And what he would say is I want everyone to remember what it is that I did with them. Take a piece of me and put it in you and up your game.    There is no tortillas. Ay-ya-ya . There is only pan.  Noe Yaocoatl Montoya died on Thanksgiving Day. He was 66 years old.    Son of a gun. And my grief... 