 And now we are going to hear from a community center that is been turned into a shelter in Pasadena Texas. That is a city just outside of Houston. People started arriving there earlier this morning. On the line with us now is Lieutenant Luis Villanueva. He is the commanding officer at the Salvation Army there in Pasadena and he is coordinating things at the shelter. Lieutenant Villanueva thank you so much for speaking with us.  Thank you for allowing us to share what is going on here in Pasadena.  Well tell me a little bit about where you are.  Right now we are located in Pasadena Texas. We are about 20 30 minutes located from Houston. And here in the city of Pasadena was really severe damage last night about midnight. So we started to have a few calls from the city. And they asked us to see if we can open our gymnasium at the shelter. So we said yes. Sure we can do that. And since then people have been coming you know little by little. By right now we have about 65 people. And we have a capacity of a hundred right now in our gym.  So what did you have there to offer people when they got there? Do you have any cots or blankets or water or food anything like that?  Yeah. So in this command we had about a hundred blankets already in storage. And we have about 40 beds that were distributed mainly for children women and seniors. And also we also have a food pantry. We took some of the food pantry to feed also to the people that is here with us.  So what were some of the conditions that brought people there?  Most of the people that is here is because their houses are flooded. But most of the people they were trapped in their houses. So not even the trucks of the city they were not able to get into the houses. They were not because the water was so high.  So can I talk to one of the families there? I think Mr. Johnson there - Elliott Johnson  is there with you.  Yes madam. Yes. He is right here.  Yes hello?  Hey Mr. Johnson. It is Michel Martin from NPR. How are you?  Oh I am fine. Thank you.  Do you mind telling me what was going on with you like what happened?  Well about 1 of the clock in the morning my daughter came up and woke me up and said there was water in the house. And so when I got up and I stepped out of the bed it was like water up to my ankles. And I was like oh my God what are we going to do? We have got to do something. So when I opened the front door a bunch of water crashed - more water crashed into the house because it was like I could not even see the mailboxes. I thought that well we have got to get out of here. We have got to get up high. So me and my family we moved up into the attic. We brought the little stairs down and sit up there. And we had our cellphones with us. And then we were just calling and calling. Finally I found the number for the city of Pasadena. And I was like well we have to get out of here. And they said OK we are going to send somebody to you. But then when they tried to get the truck to come to us the water was so high in the neighborhood that the trucks were dying out. They said well we cannot get to you. You are going to have to try to come to us. And I said oh my God it is going to be kind of impossible because I have a 1-year-old daughter. I have two puppies. I do not know. I do not know how we are going to do it. So they came in like little rafts and threw some of us on there. And we had to walk through the water to get to the lower level to get to the other truck.  It must have been scary.  Yes it was scary it was. I was worried about getting out in the water because I did not know if the lights or the power was still on but the water was coming up to the sockets. And I was like - I was kind of scared to step in the water. I am afraid that if - they are going to get electrocuted you know 'ecause the water was that high.  Wow. Well thanks so much for speaking with us. Our very best wishes to you and to your family.  OK. Thank you.  Can I talk to Mr. Villanueva?  Hello?  So Lieutenant how long can you shelter people there? I am told it is still raining. And they say it might be raining through Wednesday which means you have to assume more people are probably going to find their way there. Well how long can you take care of people?  Well we will be open as long as the city want us to be open. As long as we have the resources we will be open and helping these people. But I am pretty sure that they are going to be really really anxious to come back and probably going to leave before Wednesday or something like that. Yeah.  Yeah. OK. That is Lieutenant Luis Villanueva. He is the commanding officer at the Salvation Army in Pasadena Texas. And the Salvation Army's community center there has been turned into an emergency shelter. And we have been speaking with him from there. Lieutenant Villanueva thanks so much for speaking with us. And we hope we will talk again under better circumstances.  Thank you so much for allowing us to share what is going on here. 