 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel. 7.7 percent that is the current unemployment rate. It is a full percentage point lower than this time last year. That sounds like progress a modest number of new jobs are being added every month. But labor force participation a measure of both people who are working and those who are actively looking for work is at its lowest point in three decades. As NPR's Yuki Noguchi reports it is not clear why so many people continue to leave the labor force and how many of them plan to come back.  The storyline is familiar by now. In the face of an uninspiring job market over the last several years people have retired early gone back to school or just plain threw in the towel on finding a job. Sixty six percent of working-age adults were in the workforce when the recession began. Now that is down to 63.6 percent a few percentage points that add up to millions of people. So are those people gone for good or will they be coming back when their job prospects improve?  That is one of the questions du jour that is for sure.  Joel Prakken is chairman of Macroeconomic Advisors. He says the decline in the labor force far exceeded what the models predicted.  So we have to decide whether this is some permanent structural change or whether it is a temporary aberration that is going to reverse itself over the next several years. And the answer to that question has a very important bearing on what employment circumstances and the unemployment rate will look like in 2014 and 2015.  If the change is temporary then you would expect people to come back over the next couple of years if they feel their chances of getting a job are pretty good. And that influx could push the jobless rate up - that is right up - because more people would be officially looking for work. If the change is permanent those people who left would never come back. And that could keep the jobless rate down but it would mean many many people are forever sidelined from the job market. Phillip Levine is an economics professor at Wellesley College. He does not see this as an eitheror scenario. He thinks some people will return but fewer with every passing year because our working population simply is not expanding that quickly.  We just do not need as many jobs as we used to just to keep pace.  It used to be about a decade ago that the economy needed to grow by 150000 jobs a month just to keep pace with population growth. Levine says demographics have changed that.  So there is three things that affect labor force change it is the retirement at the end of one's career it is the entering the labor force at the beginning and then there is the impact of immigration.  Baby boomers are retiring in greater numbers people are staying in school longer and fewer immigrants are entering the country. Levine says the economy today probably only needs to add about a third of the jobs that it used to - about 50000 a month - in order to have the jobless rate hold steady. But holding it steady at the relatively high rate where it is now is little comfort for the 12 million people who remain unemployed. And Heidi Shierholz an economist with the Economic Policy Institute believes a majority of those who left the workforce will have to at some point try to come back. But she says history offers no good guide.  We have never seen a situation like this where we have good data. We probably saw a situation similar to this following the Great Depression but we do not have good data from that era. So we have no comparable situation where we had this big a pool of missing workers.  How when and how many of those missing workers will come back is a big question for the coming year. Yuki Noguchi NPR News Washington. 