 We have seen a flurry of reports recently about high school dropouts - all include dire warnings about the drag the dropouts put on the economy and the nation's future. To understand why a million kids drop out of school every year NPR's Claudio Sanchez visited Central Falls Rhode Island and asked a few of them.  The thing you cannot help notice about Blake Wilcox Kristina Rivera and David Walker is how young they look almost child-like. Although make no mistake they are street-hardened kids and they say much more mature than they were a year and a half ago when they stopped going to school. Mr.  I honestly think it is my fault because I did not put the time and effort to stay in school. I cannot really blame anybody for what I did.  That is Blake - tall reserved soft-spoken and nearly 19 years old now. Mr.  I do not think any teacher really let me down because I do not know I did not really want to go to school anymore. I worked.  Blake says money was more important to him than school. For Kristina the problem was school. It was boring not a single class interested her so she just stopped going. Ms.  When I did go to school I just put my head down and slacked off and most teachers did not even bother saying anything.  If you do not put in the effort most teachers feel you are just wasting their time says Kristina. You become invisible to them. She repeated both ninth and 10th grades. Problems at home also got in the way. A family member's hospitalization put enormous stress on Kristina and her family. She says kids who have issues at home think they are all alone in the world. This makes them angry and moody at school. Ms.  You know they are going through things that they are not going to take nothing from nobody. They are just going to you know lash out. I could get into arguments with people to the point like one time I actually got into a fight in school and I have gotten suspended.  Suspended might as well have been David Walker's middle name. Mr.  I was the tough guy trying to show off in front of the teachers and try to yell at them throwing stuff in class and stuff walk out of class and go meet my friends inside the hallway because we would just act up in the hallway and stuff.  Like many struggling students on the brink of dropping out David was a troublemaker disruptive disrespectful. He says teachers and counselors did not think he would ever amount to anything. Kristina and Blake say they too felt teachers had given up on them. So what changed? I asked them. What made them want to enroll in a dropout prevention and recovery program and earn a high school diploma? Not a GED but a real diploma. Mr.  I know what I have to do to get like through life.  I grew up says David. I am not a troublemaker anymore. Mr.  I have responsibilities now. I cannot act up in class and still think that I am going to make it to college and stuff like that. In order for me to like get to college you have to sit there and actually do your work and all that other stuff.  For Blake it was the realization that without a high school diploma he would never make enough money to afford an apartment a car let alone support a family working at Burger King. We have all had to learn the hard way says Kristina. But in her case it was finding the right program and teachers who really do want her to succeed. Ms.  They are helping us look for jobs. They are letting us know about internships. They are pointing us to the right direction. They are just - they are showing us the different ways to get there.  Kristina David and Blake all plan to go to college next year. Kristina wants to be a child psychologist David a policeman. And Blake? He wants to study film at the University of Rhode Island. Claudio Sanchez NPR News. 