 Saturday is international Jazz day and who better to celebrate with than our friend Christian McBride?  .  A little sound check for you there. McBride is a bassist and host of Jazz Night in America and he is in town for a White House celebration - an all-star jazz show. We sat down to highlight a few of his favorite artists from around the globe starting with a singer who takes after the gypsy jazz tradition of Django Reinhardt.  Cyrille Aimee - she is absolutely amazing.   .  What I love so much about Cyrille is that her background is so diverse. Her mother is Dominican and her father is French. But she is been in New York City for a very very long time so she actually grew up in the same town as Django Reinhardt. So you talk about gypsy jazz. I cannot think of anyone who is really carrying on that tradition with more authenticity than Cyrille. And what I love about her singing is that not only is she very true to her roots but she seems to have grasped the sound of American jazz with great strength.    Three little words - oh what I would give for that wonderful phrase - to have those three little words. That is what I would live for the rest of my days.  That is so cute.   And I do not mean that in a belittling kind of way but it is really cool.    Three little words eight little letters than simply mean I love you. Three little words...  It is interesting to hear that French jazz is still inspiring people. It makes me think of the 2016 Grammy winner for best vocal jazz album this past year - is Cecile Mclorin Salvant who is American-born but...  Yes.  Studied in France and still records in French.  She is another incredible incredible vocalist.   .  I think it is time for Cyrille and Cecile to do a duet album in French.  Ladies can you hear that ?  Hook it up.   .  She joins a really long tradition though - right? - especially of American jazz singers who went to kind of seek and make their fortunes in Paris.  I think yeah...  But were very accomplished in singing in French.  And I think that is the case for a lot of instrumentalists as well. France has always been very welcoming to American jazz artists - just artists in general. I believe that the French culture really understands the power and the importance of being able to create art. And it is not necessarily about selling the art. It is about the power of touching the soul.   .  That was Cecile Mclorin Salvant and that track off her album For One To Love. Now the next artist on your list I am really excited about because he did some original film scoring for the Oscar-winning movie Birdman.  Yeah.  And the director of Birdman is of course Mexican director Alejandro Inarritu. And this artist is a drummer and composer right? Tell us about him.  Rooney - my man Antonio Sanchez. I love this man from the bottom of my heart. We spent many years on the road together with Pat Metheny's trio and he is just such a brilliant brilliant musician.  Let us play a little bit of it. This is the song Just Chatting from the Birdman soundtrack.   Did you say the song just chatting?  Yes.  This as not no song. It is a drum solo.   All right. There are going to be a lot of drummers out there who are going to be very upset Christian McBride  See I can say that because Antonio's my man.   I will direct his call your way.  I love you Rooney.  I understand he was actually trained in classical piano.  Yes classically trained. And what is interesting is he told me that he originally intended to be a rock drummer. That is kind of where his passion was before he discovered jazz. He was going to be like the next Keith Moon  you know? But I just love everything about Antonio's personality his musicianship. And I love playing with him and he is - I am very happy for him that he had this success with Birdman.   All right Christian before I let you go I want to get back to international jazz day for a moment because I understand you are going to be at the White House tomorrow...  Yes.  ...At a big splashy performance  with like Aretha Franklin and Esperanza Spalding Herbie Hancock. I mean this is like all-star.  Yeah.  The name that jumped out at me though was Hugh Masekela of South Africa - super famous and this is an excuse for us to play this song.  Let us play it.   Grazing In The Grass 1968.  That is right.   I was very honored to play this with Hugh Masekela and Stevie Wonder at the first international day of jazz.  Oh about five years ago.  Yeah that is right. And what an honor to be around Mr. Masekela. He is a very wonderful wonderful spirit. He and Abdullah Ibrahim were part of the first wave of South African jazz musicians that kind of you know put South African jazz musicians on the map in the late 1950s.  And still very much performing still very much a part of the scene. And we have a clip from him at a performance from our member station KPLU. And here he is. He is playing along with Larry Willis. The song is called Abangoma.   Still has a very very beautiful sound...   ...Round robust.   I hope I get to play with him again tomorrow.  So what is your plan for tomorrow? Do you know what you are going to be playing?  I am very thrilled that I am going to get to play with Aretha Franklin. At least that is what I heard. I hope that is going to be the case  .  And another one of my dear old friends Diana Krall. We are going to do a duet.  Wait a second. Let me dial this back for a second though. You do not know what you are playing at the White House yet.  Well you know there is like 90 people on the concert.   That is true. You are like way down on the bill.  Yeah I am telling you.  I mean no offense but ...  Oh no. I am totally a bench player on this gig.   Well I am sure you are going to be great. Bassist Christian McBride host of NPR's Jazz Night in America thank you so much for coming in.  Always a pleasure to see you. 