 If you are looking for the last-minute gift for that book lover in your life we have got a handy tool that can help. NPR's Book Concierge on npr.org has more than 300 recommendations from NPR staffers and freelancers. Books editor Petra Mayer joins us now in the studio to walk us through it. Hi there Petra.  Hi Allison. Thanks for having me.  Yeah sure. So tell us - how does the Book Concierge work?  It is very simple. Well you can make it as complicated as you like actually.   OK.  It is a giant matrix of more than 300 books. And down the left side of the screen is a list of filters and there are things like book club ideas ladies first science fiction and fantasy funny stuff short long - you name it we have thought of a filter for it. And those filters are stackable so you can pick more than one. You know you can click - I want a nonfiction book and I want it to be kind of long because I need to while away the long winter nights. I picked those...  Got it.  ...Tags at random. But you can - that is how you can sort things.  I get it. So you can pick your filters. So let us say I want a book for a friend of mine who loves to cook. She also likes mystery novels and she loves to travel. What do you got for me?  So we have just the thing for you. It is called Yashim Cooks Istanbul. And it is...  Yashim Cooks Istanbul?  Yeah. It is based on a series of mysteries set in 19th-century Istanbul about an inspector Yashim. And as he solves mysteries he cooks. And so the guy who writes the series you know I guess he got lots of requests for the recipes because they sound so delicious. And so he ended up doing a cookbook of all the things. So you can cook right along with Yashim as he solves crimes. And they are like incredibly delightfully evocative names like assassin's steak tartare ladies thighs - which I had to look up because I was like what is that? - it is a kind of lamb meatball apparently that you deep-fry.  OK. I love it. So it is mystery stacked with food...  Yeah.  ...Lots of intrigue there. I want to challenge you here for a moment.  Yeah.  I am looking for a nonfiction book. It is got to be short. And I want it to appeal to the other people in my book group. So if I toggle through and I check - you know book group nonfiction short side - do you have anything?  You will get a real treat. You will get Alive Alive Oh! by Diana Athill. And she is a legendary British author and book editor. She was an editor for something like 50 years and she worked with pretty much every big name of the 20th century like everyone from Jack Kerouac to Margaret Atwood. And she also has written a series of really interesting memoirs. I mean she is had this crazy life and worked with all these famous people. It is a wonderful book club idea actually because Diana Athill connects to sort of six degrees of separation-style to so many other authors.  Sounds wonderful. Petra what are you finding about how people are using this site? What do they search for the most?  The most popular thing people tend to search for every year is staff picks which is great for us this year because we have way more staff picks than ever. It is lots of fun because you get books that way that kind of are not the big buzz books. You get the things that tweaked people's individual interests. And in a place like this people's individual interests are really interesting.   I see that there is a category for books on the dark side. Wondering if there is anything that skews the opposite - a little more affirmative uplifting.  Huh...   You know...  Please tell me there is something.  Well there is plenty of affirmative and uplifting books in the Concierge. But we do not have a specific tag for it unfortunately.  People just do not search that way.  No no. But there is a lot of dark books so we had to kind - we felt like we had to kind of set that aside on its own special tag.  OK. We will leave it at that.  Yep.  NPR's Petra Mayer and the NPR Books team put together our Book Concierge. You can check it out at npr.orgbestbooks. Thanks Petra.  Thank you. 