 Guilty on all counts. That was the verdict that a Pennsylvania jury handed down today in the sexual assault trial of Bill Cosby. The case was brought by Andrea Constand who accused Cosby of drugging and assaulting her. Here's her lawyer Dolores Troiani.   She came here 14 years ago for justice. I am so happy today that I can say that although justice was delayed it was not denied.  In this trial five Cosby accusers other than Andrea Constand testified. One of them was Lise-Lotte Lublin. She was 23 when she met Cosby in 1989. He invited her to practice improvisation in a hotel suite. She believes that while there Cosby drugged and assaulted her. She is now a sixth-grade teacher in Las Vegas and she was at school when her husband called her with news of the verdict.  He said it is guilty. And I just said are you messing with me? And he said no it is guilty Lise on all three counts. When he said all three counts that is when it became real that he is really guilty. I hung up the phone with him and my body started to shake. My heart was pounding inside of me. And my mind was going wild because at the same time that I am hearing what he is saying it does not feel real. It does not resonate as being this is true.  There was a time not long ago when Bill Cosby's accusers were not believed. And then they were believed but there was no legal accountability. Now not only is there legal accountability but there is a national MeToo movement in which women are openly talking about experiences that they did not use to talk about. Can you put this conviction in the broader context of where the country is right now?  I tell you when I first talked about it publicly the messages that came through that my husband would kind of run interference with - death threats that I was some type of whore that I was money hungry. I mean just the assassination on a person's character - it just supports why victims do not come forward. The Cosby women had to suffer through all of the hatred and bigotry and racism that was let out because we came forward. They talked about us like we were animals that were old and disgusting and no one would want any interest in. This is not about someone being interested in. This is what a predator does. This is his craft and his hobby and he enjoys it. That is the nature of who he is. And there is so many that are still out there. And the MeToo movement is getting there. It is helping. I want to see every single statute of limitations eliminated abolished for sexual assault. A person needs that time. We need that time.  When you took the stand to testify at this trial and faced him decades after this encounter what was that experience like for you?  When I saw him in the courtroom he just looked pitiful. He looked sad and pitiful. And I had to tell myself look at him. Look at this man who is not really a man. He is just a sad sorry excuse for a human being. And he has no power over me. I have all the power.  Lise-Lotte Lublin thank you so much for talking with us today.  Appreciate it.  She is a teacher in Las Vegas and one of more than 60 women who have accused Bill Cosby of sexual misconduct. 