 From NPR News this is All Things Considered. I am Michele Norris.  And I am Melissa Block. On Capitol Hill today General Eric Shinseki aced his job interview for a cabinet post in the Obama administration. Shinseki is up for the top job at the Department of Veterans Affairs and as NPR's Mary Louise Kelly reports he appears to be a shoe-in.  You did not have to sit through much of today's hearing before you got the distinct sense that Eric Shinseki enjoys something close to hero status on Capitol Hill. One after another senators from both parties were falling over themselves to praise him. Senator  You have the experience. You have the leadership skills. You have the determination needed to serve. Senator  I want to tell you that I admire and respect you as much as anyone I have ever known in the armed services. Senator  In my perspective your reputation is impeccable and it is   That is Democrat John Tester and before him Republicans Kay Bailey Hutchison and Richard Burr. Senators were so determined to sing General Shinseki's praises that it was a full hour and fifteen minutes into his own hearing before he got the chance to speak. General  Thank you very much Mr. Chairman - Chairman Akaka Senator Burr and distinguished members of this committee on Veterans Affairs. I am deeply honored by ..  Shinseki is a retired four-star general and the first Asian-American head of the Army. But he is famous as the general who questioned Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld's strategy on the eve of the Iraq war in 2003. Today Senator Jay Rockefeller a Democrat remembered the moment as pivotal. Senator  The effect that that had on the American people was magical.  But Rumsfeld and his deputies found it less than magical they rebuked him. And Shinseki quietly retired from the Army a few months later. Since then he is mostly kept his own counsel giving few speeches or interviews never stepping forward to say I told you so and it was the same today. The general never mentioned the episode with Rumsfeld. He gave no clues as to whether he feels vindicated by the nod to return to public life. Instead he appeared entirely focused on the matter at hand how to fix the VA. It is a big job. Veteran Affairs is the second largest bureaucracy in the government only Defense is bigger. The VA is plagued by everything from a rising suicide rate among vets to a backlog in disability claims. General Shinseki. General  There is in my opinion no reason why a veteran submits a claim and then takes a number and waits for six months. We need to do something about this.  Democrat Patty Murray agreed. She noted that the VA has developed a reputation for trying to cover-up problems. There was for example the VA's mental health director who got caught in a private email trying to hide from the public the alarming increase in suicide attempts. Today Senator Murray pressed Shinseki how would he go about transforming a bureaucracy that as she put it has been more focused on avoiding public relations disasters than on actually helping vets. Senator  How do you change that culture and what will we see under your administration? General  Senator good question and I do think it is about leadership.  Leadership was a recurring theme in General Shinseki's testimony today more so than specific solutions. He said if he could deliver one message to his future colleagues at Veterans Affairs it would be this... General  Treat our veterans with respect and dignity. They are not here begging for a hand-out. They are truly our clients. They do not have anywhere or else to shop.  Gen. Shinseki may himself have the chance to act on that advice in the very near future. Senator Daniel Akaka who chaired today's hearing said he anticipates the general will be confirmed next Tuesday the same day Barack Obama is sworn in as president. Mary Louise Kelly NPR News Washington. 