 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  NPR's Scott Horsley was there.  Democratic Senator Mark Warner of Virginia says that includes a lot of popular programs from NASA to children's nutrition but it is only about 12 percent of the federal government's budget.  If you keep coming back to this 12 percent and that is the only focus then programs that have provided real value you know are going to potentially be fully eliminated or dramatically cut back. I think everybody recognize that we have got to get our deficit under control and that means you have got to broaden the debate to where the money's at.  Republican Senator Saxby Chambliss says to get a long-term handle on the government's budget those are the areas Congress needs to look at. He and Senator Warner are leading an unusual bipartisan effort to do just that.  For a Republican to put revenues on the table is significant. For a Democrat to put entitlements on the table is significant. The only way we are going to solve this problem is to have a dialogue about all of these issues because there is no silver bullet.  Just as all parts of the budget have to be on the negotiating table Warner says both Republicans and Democrats have to be sitting around it.  At the end of the day it is about trust. It is about making sure that at some point you are going to have to link arms with somebody and take a jump. This will not happen unless there is a grand enough bargain that everybody feels they have got some skin in the game.  Virginia banker David Addison said after the meeting he is encouraged Warner and Chambliss are working on a plan to curb the federal debt. But he wonders if their colleagues in Congress have the political will to move forward.  I think we are moving in the right direction but it is definitely going to require more cooperation and more realization that this is the issue. We have to deal with it now.  Warner admits his fellow senators were initially skeptical of the debt-cutting effort. And he is still not sure many lawmakers are betting on the project. At least though he and Chambliss are not being ignored. Chambliss adds lawmakers cannot afford to do nothing.  If we do not do it then those people that buy our bonds i.e. the Chinese are going to dictate to us exactly how we do it. And I do not think there is any American that wants to see that happen and certainly no member of Congress who wants to see that happen.  Scott Horsley NPR News Richmond. 