 In New Mexico the nation's only nuclear waste dump is closed. It is been several weeks since radioactive material was detected in the air at the site. As NPR's Geoff Brumfiel reports the incident is shaping up to be yet another setback in the quest to find a home for America's nuclear waste.  If you live near a nuclear power plant - and a lot of you do - then you are living near something else nuclear waste. Right now pretty much every plant in the country stores its own used nuclear fuel. It is been there for decades but it is going to be radioactive for a lot longer. And that leads to an important question.  Do you want to just leave the waste where it is or do you want to actually put it in a place that will be secure for 200 million years?  That is Jim Conca a geologist at Columbia Basin College in Washington state. The government's original plan for old nuclear fuel called for putting it into Yucca Mountain in Nevada. But in 2009 after decades of legal delays and environmental concerns President Obama killed the project. Suddenly the nuclear industry got interested in another site the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant in New Mexico. Right now WIPP as it is called holds a lot of radioactive junk left over from the Cold War - contaminated clothing and tools. But Conca thinks it could hold pretty much anything.  It is the best place to put nuclear waste of any sort from any source.  WIPP has a series of tunnels and rooms deep underground cut from an ancient bed of salt left over from when New Mexico was an ocean.  The nice thing about massive salt like this - I mean it is massive 10000-square-miles 2000-feet thick - it is solid it is molecularly tight. So it takes about a billion years for water to move an inch.  In other words Conca thinks it would be perfect or storing old nuclear fuel from the power plants. But WIPP has plenty of opponents. Don Hancock is with the Southwest Research Information Center in Albuquerque an environmental group. He says WIPP is not a good solution. For one thing it is completely surrounded by people drilling for oil and gas. He says all this interest in WIPP actually comes down to desperation. Nuclear plants want to get rid of their waste and so they look at it and say...  Oh there is only one hole in the ground with nuclear waste in it so maybe we ought to see what else we can put there.  Then on February 14th came a major accident. It is believed that a chunk of salt fell from the ceiling onto a drum or drums. Radioactive dust came out. Some of that dust made it to the surface and at least 13 workers on the site inhaled it. Nobody has been back into WIPP since.  I would hope that the idea that this facility could handle more waste has now pretty much been totally debunked.  Jim Conca who supports the WIPP expansion still thinks it could work. The data he is seen so far shows the accident was contained underground. WIPP's safety systems worked.  I mean no one would get hurt. No one is contaminated enough to get cancer in the future. There is no environmental effect.  Still the accident will have to be cleaned up new safety procedures will have to be developed regulators will have to review the changes.  My feeling is that it will take about a year to get WIPP operational again.  The U.S. government still says deep underground is the best place to store nuclear waste from power plants. But after this accident it is just less clear than ever where underground to put it. Geoff Brumfiel NPR News. 