 Venezuelans have been protesting and dying in the streets of Caracas demanding that President Nicolas Maduro resign. While this has been happening two banks one American and one Japanese have provided hundreds of millions of dollars to Maduro's government. It is been done through the sale of Venezuelan bonds. Charles Lane of member station WSHU reports.  The Venezuelan government has been burning through cash. Low oil prices have sent the country's economy into a tailspin. This has dried up imports of important things like medicine and food.  They are starving - the people are starving because there is no food and they are protesting because they want a change of government.  Russ Dallen is managing partner of the investment bank Caracas Capital Markets. He is also a foe of the Maduro government. Every day he watches money flow out of the country's central bank as it tries to meet the basic needs of its people. But last week something unusual happened. There were deposits.  There was one for 300 million on the 24 another one for 400-something million on the 25 and that is when we knew something was strange.  Goldman Sachs acknowledged on Monday that it paid 865 million for bonds worth nearly 3 billion. That is about 31 cents on the dollar. The Japanese bank Nomura spent 100 million in a similar deal. The banks say they did not buy the bonds directly from the Venezuelan government. Therefore they are not directly funding it. But industry experts say this distinction is meaningless. These particular bonds were purchased through an intermediary and the last known owner was Venezuela. Francisco Rodriguez chief economist at Torino Capital says the Maduro government has numerous intermediaries like this.  They have brokerage accounts with many important U.S. banks and they have the channels through which they can sell those bonds and convert them into cash. I mean there is no impediment to them doing that in the U.S. neither practical nor regulatory impediment.  Rodriguez says Venezuela has access to roughly 18 billion in bonds like this and there is lots of demand from investors.  There is a very high rate of return. If the bond actually gets paid you are talking about a rate of return of higher than 40 percent a year.  The Venezuelan opposition calls the securities hunger bonds because instead of buying food and medicine for its people the Maduro government has been paying Wall Street. But in a statement Goldman says that its bond purchase will give the Venezuelan government cash so it can buy the supplies it needs. Risa Grais-Targow is a bond analyst for the Eurasia Group. She says the money is only a short-term fix.  The imports maybe helps a bit but it is not enough to dramatically change the scarcity levels right? I mean they need multiple billions of dollars in order to kind of work their way out of the current hole.  When the debt service does come up later this year the Maduro government will have to make a choice - pay investors or buy food. Also as a side effect Grais-Targow says the more banks willing to buy these bonds the longer the government can stay in power and the longer the violence continues. For NPR News I am Charles Lane. 