 The Brazilian singer and guitarist Wanda Sa is performing several nights this week in New York City. They are her first U.S. performances since 1999. Critic Tom Moon says the shows are a chance to experience one of Brazil's best-kept musical secrets.  If somebody asked me to pick one living singer who deserves much wider recognition without hesitation I would say Wanda Sa.  Ms.    That is from Wanda Sa's debut album Vagamente. She recorded it in 1964 when she was 19 years old. It was the year saxophonist Stan Getz did his memorable version of The Girl From Ipanema helping to make bossa nova an international sensation. In Brazil this triggered sudden demand for new talent. Wanda Sa had this distinctively breathy easygoing style and a knack for picking great songs. Plus she came up among a group of young songwriters and musicians who were frequent guests at the home of the form's compositional genius Antonio Carlos Jobim. On her debut she introduced a song that is one of his most admired ballads.  Ms.    Somehow in all the attention surrounding bossa nova that first Wanda Sa record with its photo of the artist lazily toting her guitar along the beach got overlooked. It is become one of those lost classics known mostly to DJs and connoisseurs. The singer and guitarist did not exactly help her cause. After making a few more records in Brazil and the U.S. she dropped out of sight.  Ms.    In 1969 Wanda Sa married the gifted songwriter Edu Lobo and devoted herself to her family. She says now that she was not prepared for the demands of the music business and was perfectly happy to walk away. Crucially though she did not stop singing. In the 1990s she made a slow cautious return to performing after reconnecting with the great songwriter Roberto Menescal who'd been her very first guitar teacher when she was 13. Here's the two of them on a disc released in 2006 doing a lazy much more chilled-out version of the title track from her debut.  Ms.    In a way Wanda Sa reminds me of a Brazilian Bettye Lavette a singer who despite working in relative obscurity somehow kept alive the basic underpinnings of an important genre. Hearing her later work it is clear that Wanda Sa has continued to develop as both a singer and a musician. Check out her acoustic guitar on this Jobim classic. She is all business snapping out an exacting rhythm that serves as the tune's foundation.  Ms.    And then on top Wanda Sa sings like she is floating. Ms.    There is something else too. In bossa nova very few of the top female singers had long careers. At 66 Wanda Sa probably deserves notice as one of the last links to an amazing era. But listen to the spirit behind her notes that dazzling poise. There is very little nostalgia in her game. She is just a flat-out amazing singer who is been amazing for a long long time whether people were paying attention or not.  Ms.    Our critic is Tom Moon. Vanda Sa is performing this week at Birdland in New York City. 