 The fortunes of the so-called public option a government-run health insurance plan now hinge on the attractiveness of an opt-out. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid included a public option in the Senate's version of the health care bill. But in view of intense opposition from Senate Republicans and from some of the more conservative Democrats to that provision he added a sweetener States would be free to opt out. Senator  I think it is the fairest way to go. I think at this stage in the proceedings a public option which has received so much attention and a public option with an opt-out is one that is fair and gives states - in fact if they do not want to be part of public option - option to get out.  Well how sweet does Senator Reid's sweetener make the public option to state capitals? And joining us to answer that question from Pierce South Dakota is Governor Mike Rounds. He is a second term Republican and chairman of the National Governors Association Committee on Health Care very active in their taskforce on health care. And Governor Rounds do I understand also that when your business is not in a trust because you are the governor it is a real estate and insurance brokerage? Governor  That is correct sir.  So this is your business? Gov.  That is right. That is my background.  Well first are you opposed to a federal public option? And if one were passed would you then propose that South Dakota opt out of it? Gov.  The devil will be in the details. We have not seen a copy of the bill yet. But as we understand it all of the states even if they were to opt out would still be subject to all of the taxes that it is going to take to put together the public plan. In addition to that we would still be subject to the additional increased cost that would be cost shifted from the public plan to all of the private plans.  I would like you to explain what you just said. Gov.  Sure.  You are saying that if for example that the bill were to mandate that South Dakota raise the income level for Medicaid eligibility let us say and you to had to cover more people in the state on Medicaid you say that would result in the higher premiums for people who now have private insurance plans. Gov.  That is correct. If you base the public plan on any kind of a Medicaid rate it means that other people that would not be a part of a public plan would have a higher insurance premium to pay to pick up the added cost that the insurance companies would be billed by doctors and hospitals.  But why would not the state insurance regulator in South Dakota say no you cannot increase rates and put some pressure on the doctors hospitals pharmaceutical companies other providers to get their prices down? Gov.  Well remember that divisions of insurance do not regulate the cost that doctors and hospitals charge. They can regulate premiums. The unfortunate thing is that if you regulate premiums and simply say you cannot raise your rates an insurance company is not going to continue to run business in a state in which it is going to cost them more for the cost of paying for the expenses than what they can bring in premiums.  What about your colleagues on the Governors Task Force on this? Do they face - do they have similar situations? Gov.  It depends upon the state. Some of the other states - and I will go even more I would not limit it just to the people that are on the task force. I will tell you that in some of the states right now they have real challenges and that they have not done the reforms that the National Association of Insurance Commissioners have recommended in the past. The challenge comes in is that every single state has some specific areas in which they can do a better job than having a federal bureaucrat make the decision for everybody.  Well here's a challenge to our idea of federalism. You say things are run better at the state level where the people who are dealing with these things are closer to people but you also say that there are states that have not come through with the reforms that are recommended by the insurance regulators. One seems to be an argument for local control of serving providing. The other one seems to be an argument for federal laws that mandate standards that everybody has to live by. Gov.  We have suggested that there are some good reform activities that could go nationally and I think a number of the states simply they are concerned about a federal regulator stepping in and telling us how it is going to be done but at the same time taking away our ability to take care of individuals who do have concerns.  Governor Rounds thank you very much for talking with us. Gov.  Thank you very much for the opportunity.  That is Governor Mike Rounds Republican of South Dakota who is very much involved in the National Governors Association's task force on health care. 