 Our story comes from KJZZ's Monica Ortiz Uribe of the public media collaboration Fronteras.  During a Fourth of July weekend a few years ago Martin Gomez's mother became sick. He took her to a hospital in the Mexican border city of Juarez where doctors determined she was bleeding internally and needed a transfusion. But there was a problem no blood. His mother was O negative one of the rarest blood types. Hospital staff told Gomez it was up to him to find the blood.  I had to go get a phonebook and start calling the hospitals and then ask for the blood bank and then ask do you have a unit of O negative? And every hospital said no.  After a two-week struggle Gomez's mother passed away. Seven years later Gomez now works for United Blood Services in El Paso.  Because of what happened to her is the reason why I work here.  Gomez is in charge of recruiting volunteer donors. United Blood Services delivers the blood to U.S. hospitals but in Mexico every hospital collects their own blood. Patients or relatives must find donors to replace the blood they use. Gomez says it is a broken system.  It is something that I wish one day can stop that blood is not dependable on people donating at the last moment.  So Gomez has been instrumental in helping a blood bank at a hospital in northern Mexico make that change.   The campaign is held outdoors on a university campus. The mood feels festive. Students who have donated sit under tents and socialize while others sit quietly outside the donation truck waiting their turn.  My name is Pablo Gonzalez and I am 20 years old and I am going to give some blood to the people who need it.  And is it your first time?  Yes it is my first time.  Sixty-five students showed up to donate. That makes Dr. Avitia proud. With all the drug-related violence going on in Chihuahua Avitia says they have had to increase their stock by about 15 percent. Reforming the donation system now is more important than ever.    For NPR news I am Monica Ortiz Uribe in El Paso. 