 Last week PBS announced that it was suspending Tavis Smiley's late night talk show indefinitely after multiple allegations of sexual misconduct were made against the 53-year-old host. Smiley fired back. In an interview with Fox News he said he was never told about allegations or an investigation and that PBS only agreed to meet with him about all of this when he threatened a lawsuit.   And in that three-hour conversation I was never told what the accusations were who the accusers were. I was never allowed to provide any data or evidence to debunk anything that perhaps I could have debunked about - did not know what we were talking about anyway. But they frankly did not give me due process. And on top of that...  We are starting to hear a lot of that phrase - due process - as the MeToo movement unfolds. PBS says they handled their investigation privately to protect those who came forward with allegations. And all of this made us wonder what kind of process are those accused of sexual misconduct entitled to? What is fair for everyone involved? For some answers we called Elizabeth Price Foley. She is a professor of law at Florida International University and she is written about due process. Professor Foley welcome. Thanks for joining us.  Well thanks so much for having me.  Well let us start by defining what precisely we mean when we say due process. Now you wrote that as a legal matter whether the matter is a civil matter between two private parties or a criminal matter there are three ingredients. What are those ingredients?  Yeah. I mean there is sort of the three pillars - right? - of due process at minimum. One is having some sort of notice of the charges that are being levied against you. The second one is having an opportunity to rebut those charges. And then the third one is having some sort of neutral decision maker to hear the charges and make whatever ruling is appropriate.  So let us say Tavis Smiley is accurately representing the sequence of events at PBS. In a legal sense let us say he did not get due process. But is he entitled to it?  Yeah. That is the fundamental question I think a lot of people skip over. When he works for a private organization it is a corporate entity. It is not a government actor. He is not entitled to constitutional due process because those due process protections that we all enjoy are in the Constitution. And the Constitution gives us rights that we enjoy against government action but not private action. It might come from some sort of contractual understanding you have with your employer or maybe even a statute but it is not going to be constitutional at all.  So before we let you go I mean obviously people use due process both in a strictly legal sense but they also use it in a sense of what they think is fair right?  Yeah yeah.  And at the end of the day it is about being fair to both parties and seeming to be fair. So apart from the court system where the rules are spelled out clearly you know what does that look like in a private workplace? I mean is there a way to get to a middle ground where both parties all parties will walk away feeling like it is fair?  I certainly hope so right? I think you are right that in the colloquial sense we all have a gut sense of what is fair process. And I think it does include those sort of three pillars that I talked about. I think we would all agree as citizens that we would want anyone who is accused of this kind of impropriety to get notice of the charges against them an opportunity to rebut those charges and some sort of at least quasi-neutral decision making process. I mean think of the personal damage that can be done just hurling certain accusations at someone. But I think that means it is incumbent upon all of us to either put pressure on our employers to give us those processes or alternatively even to lobby to make sure we enact statutes that give us those kinds of procedural protections.  That is Elizabeth Price Foley. She is a professor of law at Florida International University. Professor Foley thanks so much for speaking with us.  Thank you very much for having me. 