   This is it. This is it.  In the 1970s and '80s the TV show One Day At A Time pushed boundaries. It was about a divorced mother raising two teenage daughters in Indianapolis. Netflix has now rebooted the show and this 21st century version pushes boundaries in its own way.    So up on your feet - somewhere there is music playing.  As you might guess from the Gloria Estefan cover of the theme song the family is now Cubin. They live in Los Angeles and the mother Penelope is a veteran who served in Afghanistan. She is still raising two kids without their father. And even though the show is set in the now it still has a very '70s sitcom sensibility. It is mostly filmed on one set and in front of a live studio audience just the way legendary TV producer Norman Lear intended. He is the executive producer on this reboot as well as the original. And as Justina Machado who plays Penelope told me the Lear stamp goes beyond how the show looks.  I always loved that about his shows. They had so much heart and they had so much humor. And they dealt with things that were important. So it was easy. It was good. It was great to get into that kind of classic Norman Lear storytelling.    And how dare you keep a secret from me?   Lydia take it easy. You have a history of stroke.   You had a stroke?   I kept it a secret from you.    You kept it a secret from me.   It was nothing. You were pregnant with Elena. I did not want to bother you.   This was 15 years ago. I cannot believe you.   I have a hammer toe that needs to be shaved.   OK so the show was created by Norman Lear who is 94. And it also - as long as we are talking about elder states people of Hollywood...  .  Your co-star Rita Moreno is 85. It is safe to say she is one of the greatest living performers - Emmy Grammy Oscar Tony Presidential Medal of Freedom - I could go on. What did you learn from working with somebody who has been at this decades and decades longer than you have?  My God - endurance her incredible artistry. She is still playing. She is still discovering. She is an incredible partner. She is never bored. She is so smart. She is always involved. She is in it 150 percent. That is why she is still around. That is why she is so fabulous. That woman has a six pack. You know that right?   What?  Oh my God.  You are talking about her abs.  I am talking about her abs OK?  I mean I know she is a great dancer but she is also 85.  She is 85 and looks amazing. I have never been in her kind of shape my whole life. And she is just - she defies everything.  The family in this show is not just Latino but Cuban like...  Yes.  Capital-C Cuban.  Right yes yes.  Your family's Puerto Rican I think. Is that right?  It is yes. My family's Puerto Rican yes.  So is Rita Moreno.  So is Rita.  What did you do to learn about the Cuban stuff?  Well our showrunner - one of the showrunners - she is Cuban - Gloria Calderon. A lot of this is based on her family and Mike Royce's family. And I also happened to date a Cuban for many years.  Well that is convenient.   It is very convenient. So it was not as difficult. And Gloria had her eye on that. I mean it was - she was the authentic police - little things like this the specificity of how Latinos will store sometimes leftovers in butter things .  Oh you mean like a Country Crock Tupperware-type container.  There you go.  Yeah yeah.  Right like we will use everything. We will use everything and anything. And so that was something that she was very stern about. She was like no we need that. It - just little specificity...  Like none of this fancy Tupperware. You got to get an old Country Crock butter tub.  That is right. That is exactly right. Let us have that cafetera right there on top of the stove because...  The little coffee maker yeah.  There you go - the little coffee - sorry - the little coffee maker.  .  So things - I know. I am getting bilingual on you. Things like that is what she was really hardcore about.    So you want to crush my heart into pieces...    ...After I worked so hard to give you an opportunity in this land of the free and home of the brave.    That is not me. That is her.    And you make me sound like I have an accent.   In a way it feels like your character Penelope is sort of a bridge between her mother's generation and her daughter's generation kind of between traditional values and feminism - straddling that.  Absolutely. I think it is because how a person of my generation actually feels. One of the things that - when the sexism episode came about it was important for us to show the levels of you know my daughter being this Millennial and you know black and white - that is how it is - and me kind of being like well I have dealt with it. It is not that bad. It depends - and my mother just being in another world. And I think that is super representative of how it is with certain generations.    Mom I am not talking about old people sexism. It is much more subtle now. Men assert their power through microaggressions and mansplaining.   Oh mansplaining - is that like man-scaping? I just learned that and I love it.   No mansplaining is when a man...   It is when a man explains something to a woman...    ...That she already knows but he acts like he is teaching her. Does that make sense?  What happens episode after episode though whether the issue is women being paid less than men or immigration is that while your mother's character may have attitudes that are outdated they are not just dismissed or mocked or treated as totally unworthy.  Exactly. What we do on the show is we talk to each other. There is a lot of compassion. There is a lot of listening. There is a lot of learning from each other. And that is what I love the most about this show. And I think Norman said it either in his documentary or in his book. People do not want to be around people who disagree with them anymore. They do not want to have those conversations. They do not want to be uncomfortable. We are not going to get anywhere insulting. We are just not going to get anywhere that way.  The big story arc of the first season is whether your teenage daughter will have a quinceanera the big party celebrating her 15th birthday. Did you have one when you were a teenager?  I sure did .  OK tell me about it.  Well mine was - Oh my God - please - my mother did not want to give it to me.  Why not?  Because it is expensive.  OK.  And we did not have a lot of money.  Yeah.  And so I went to every family member and I asked them to buy stuff for me - the cake the invites. My cousin made my dress.  So it was really important to you to have one.  Yes but...  Why?  I did not - because it was a party. And I get to dress in a white dress. I had no idea what the heck it was about. I did not even know there was a church ceremony to it. I was like oh I have to go to church. I had no idea. To me it was like this big party where you get to dress up and look like a child bride.   Did you have flashbacks as you were filming this season and this was like the focus of the debate in the family?  Oh yeah because I was the one that - 'ecause - it is so funny 'ecause I really wanted a quinceanera and then when I had one I was like man this is so lame - it was so - I mean 'ecause everybody had fun except me 'ecause I was constantly taking pictures with family members.  OK Justina Machado I am going to ask you the most difficult question of this interview.  OK.  Will you share your quinceanera photos with us and let us put them on the NPR website?  Of course.  Really?  Of course.   that is great.  Are you kidding me?   They are tragic and it is hilarious.  All right. Well Justina Machado it is just been great talking with you. Thank you so much.  Thank you.  Justina Machado stars in the Netflix reboot of the sitcom One Day At A Time. And yes she did send us her quinceanera photo. It is just as awesome as you would think. And you can see it for yourself at npr.org. 