 Among those in attendance was Joshua Stacher. He is an assistant professor of political science at Kent State University. He says the meeting dealt in part with how the White House could navigate the treacherous waters of Mubarak's then hypothetical exit.  My sense was that they have a relationship with this president for a really long time. He is on the ropes. He is in trouble. And they are trying to find a way that they can communicate with him in a way that they are signaling what they want and they leave no room for maneuver on his part. But at the same time that it is not embarrassing or sends a message to other allies that the U.S. is only your friend when you are in power.  How would you characterize their level of concern about what was happening? 'ecause we are taking it back to the weekend before we saw the massive protests into this week.  And there was some concern about why are not they going on these news channels to kind of explain their positions?  Why the administration is not actually appearing on Al-Jazeera?  This really puts the Obama administration in an extremely hard corner because twice now about an hour after President Mubarak has addressed his people President Obama has come out and basically repeated and agreed with how President Mubarak is handling this. The line in the concrete has been drawn.  What do you mean by that?  It is now time for the administration to decide if it is going to amplify the clear articulated demands of the protestors that they no longer want Hosni Mubarak and they do not want to be ruled by military generals or not.  Did they talk in the room at all about what democratically held elections might look like?  I actually cannot remember that elections came up. And the reason I cannot really remember that is because the majority of the time was spent thinking about what powerbrokers were thinking.  Powerbrokers?  The majority of the time was spent thinking about what Egyptian generals were thinking. They are concerned about what the Egyptian military is thinking as opposed to what protestors who are making rational and articulate demands might say.  Joshua Stacher thank you very much for coming in.  Thank you very much.  That is Joshua Stacher. He is an assistant professor of political science at Kent State University. And he was speaking with us about a meeting at the White House where the administration met with several experts on Egypt. 