 Michael Vick is back with a vengeance. The Philadelphia Eagles quarterback threw four touchdown passes last night and ran for two more as his team routed the Washington Redskins 59 to 28. It is an astonishing turnaround for a pro athlete who missed two full seasons and was not long ago considered past his prime. But things get complicated when you remember why Vick missed those two seasons. He served a year and a half in federal prison for running a dog fighting operation. So Philly fans and football fans nationwide have had to make a choice consider Vick redeemed a true inspiration and root for him or gnash your teeth and turn off the TV. We are going to talk about this with Sam Donnellon. He is a sports columnist with the Philadelphia Daily News. And first Sam just how outrageously great was Michael Vick last night? Mr.  Melissa I do not think I have ever seen it like that. There were times where the other team was so bewitched by his running ability that they just kind of stayed in almost frozen in place trying to figure out whether he is going to throw it to the guy they were covering or whether he is going to run at them. And they - I mean he just - the speed the oozing through people is just - it is almost like watching like somebody be a ghost through bodies. I mean it was about as dominating I think you can possibly at the pro level.  Well Sam here's the thing though when you were watching the game last night knowing what you know about his history and the animal torture that he was responsible for how squeamish were you watching him do these great things? Mr.  I am doing what you just did to me in context all the time. I am dealing with the context of it. He is the ultimate modern sports dilemma. And you also are doubting whether his repentance is sincere in that or whether it is generated by the desire to make more money and pay off his creditors and such. So it is a very hard thing to be for a casual fan because I think a casual fan needs the hero to be virtuous as well as a victor.  Let me run by you something that Sally Jenkins the sports columnist wrote in The Washington Post about this sort of dilemma you are talking about. She says somehow Vick has overcome my deep suspicion - sucker I tell myself furiously. Mr.  Yeah. He has not overcome that for me. I have been around too many of these guys. I tell the story all the time that when Lenny Dykstra patrolled centerfield here in Philadelphia people wanted him to be the character that they saw out on the field. And they would ask me about him and I would describe him in very inglorious terms. And at the end of it all they would say but he is a good guy right? You know they...  They do not want to believe it. Mr.  Yeah. Virtue and victory are very - in sports it is always been you know going back to Babe Ruth we want to be charmed. Even their ruffian natures sometimes are portrayed in a more charming light. So if you saw the pictures if you are an animal lover if you are a human being it is a hard hard thing to get over. And right now if you stand in front of Michael Vick you are impressed by the words out of his mouth. You are impressed that he goes to schools and says you know I am not that guy anymore and what I did is unconscionable. You want to believe it just as Sally said you want to believe it. I think though you are a sucker if you believe it too soon.  Do you get a sense of what Eagles fans are thinking feeling saying today? I mean is it just diehard support or are people sharing this ambivalence you are talking about? Mr.  People are sharing the ambivalence. I mean we have beaten this subject to death. He is not just been here this year. He came last year and was not even a significant player which made the debate on why we have this guy around even a stronger one. And many people wanted them to cut ties with him in the spring the same people right now that are elated I am sure that they did not.  Well Sam Donnellon it is good to talk to you. Thanks. Mr.  Thank you.  Sam Donnellon is a sports columnist for the Philadelphia Daily News. 