 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  And I am Robert Siegel. YouTube has pulled some videos from its site that feature an American-born imam Anwar al-Awlaki. He calls for violence against the West. The videos were pulled in response to pressure from American and British officials. But as NPR's David Folkenflik reports it is not likely to limit access to the cleric's message.  It is a nasty world out there and radical cleric Anwar al-Awlaki well he is been openly calling for attacks against the U.S. Mr.  To the Muslims in America I have this to say How can your conscience allow you to live in peaceful coexistence with a nation that is responsible for the tyranny and crimes committed against your own brothers and sisters?  This video was still available as of this morning featuring al-Awlaki who is cited by authorities for links to the Fort Hood shootings the foiled Christmas Day plot and the package bomb scheme thwarted just a few days ago. Mr.  How can you have your loyalty to a government that is leading the war against Islam and Muslims?  Though YouTube has taken what appears to be a small number of his videos down thousands more are still available. Congressman Anthony Weiner a New York Democrat is calling for all the Awlaki videos to be removed. Representative  In my view there should be a blanket prohibition at the corporate headquarters at YouTube and Google to say We are not going to post any more of this man's hate -because it is clear that it is leading to violence.  Weiner says even his purely religious videos should be taken down. Rep.  It is not as if this person is casually invoking violence. This is pretty much his raison d'etre. This is - the reason he is using YouTube is to get his words of hate out.  In a statement to NPR a YouTube spokeswoman says the company removes all videos inciting violence or involving organizations designated as terrorist by federal authorities. Mr.  Taking Anwar al-Awlaki videos off of YouTube is not going to end or prevent people from getting access to either Anwar al-Awlaki videos or to other forms of jihadi content online.  Brian Fishman is a research fellow on counterterrorism at the New America Foundation in West Point. He says Awlaki is especially appealing to English-speaking Muslims. Mr.  But he is not unique in that there are lots of other jihadi propagandists distributing very similar messages online. And many of those people are still distributing their propaganda via YouTube.  At YouTube a team works around the clock to review videos flagged as objectionable - just as they do for complaints of pornographic material and copyright violations. The only trouble is those employees have to check after the videos are posted. Every minute people around the world upload 24 hours' worth of video to YouTube. It is tough to keep up. David Folkenflik NPR News. 