 Are most people more likely to pull the trigger of a gun if the person they are shooting at is black? A new study takes on that question. Yara Mekawi of the University of Illinois is one of the co-authors of the study. Yara welcome to the program.  Thank you.  So Yara does race affect whether a target is more or less likely to be shot?  Well what we found is that it does. And so in our study we found two main things. So first people were quicker to shoot black targets with a gun relative to white targets with a gun. And the other thing that we found was that people were more trigger-happy when shooting black targets compared to white targets. So what that means is that they had a bias or a tendency to shoot black targets more than white targets.  Your study is a meta-analysis meaning you took the results from dozens of studies to come up with your analysis. What kind of studies were you analyzing? Were these done in a lab? What kind of conditions?  Yeah they were all conducted in the lab. And so our inclusion criteria was pretty much that they used what is called a first-person shooter task. And kind of how the task generally works is that participants are told that police officers are often put in high-stress situations where they have to make very quick shooting decisions. And so they are presented with images of targets from various races that either have a gun or they have some kind of neutral object - so sometimes it is a soda can other times it is something like a cell phone. And what they are told is to make the decision to shoot when they see a target with a gun. And so they are given less than a millisecond to respond and if they do not respond quickly enough they get a little error message saying please make the decision faster. And that was our main inclusion criteria it was just that the study had to include that task. They had to report data from that task.  In the audio of this story our guest incorrectly says that participants in the studies had less than a millisecond to respond. In fact they had less than a second.  Now you also found a correlation between the bias and states with more permissive gun laws. Could you explain that?  So that was one of our surprising findings. And so what we did was we basically coded the cities in which the data was collected by how permissive the gun laws were. And we used the Brady Law Campaign which gives basically states a score of either being very permissive so this means that you know they do not require background checks in the same way that other more strict states might or have other kinds of limitations on who is allowed to purchase a gun. And basically what we found was that in states with relatively permissive gun laws the shooting threshold for black targets was lower than for white targets.  The simple question that seems odd to ask maybe - but why do you think you observed this bias?  Well there is lots of different theories. A couple of them - so one theory states essentially that when people view images of black targets with a gun it is what called stereotype consistent which means that it is something that you expect and so people typically respond to things more quickly when they are congruent - when they make sense to be together. So that is one theory. Another theory is that it could be something to do with threat. It could be that individuals perceive black targets as being more threatening and so they inhibit their shooting behavior less because they are more threatened. So you can think of it as kind of a defensive response.  So talk about the implications of your findings for law enforcement.  I think generally speaking what this highlights is that even though a person might say I am not racist or I am not prejudiced it does not necessarily mean that race does not influence their split-second decisions. One implication could be that there should be education about the fact that these biases exist and that they could be outside of one's control. So even if you think that you are not prejudiced you are not biased that does not certainly mean that that is true in terms of split-second decisions you might the real world.  Yara Mekawi of the University of Illinois. She is one of the authors of a new meta-analysis of race and trigger bias. Yara thank you.  Thank you. 