 Another unit knows all too well how deadly Afghanistan can be. The 3rd Battalion 5th Marines recently returned to Camp Pendleton in California after an eight-month tour. The unit has suffered the highest casualties of the Afghan war to date 25 Marines died and more than 150 were wounded many with double and triple amputations. As Gloria Hilliard reports one of those welcoming the battalion home was the father of a Marine who wanted the world to hear the story of these warriors.  Mark Soto a high school football coach from Granite Bay California says it began with gratitude. That feeling of there but for the grace of God he says. His son had escaped injury returned whole from one of the bloodiest tours in Afghanistan. Other young men in his son's battalion had not been so lucky.  The average age is 20 years old. So you know these were kids two years ago that I was coaching. So I wanted to get this story out there and...  With a borrowed camera and his assistant coach serving as cinematographer they spent time with some of the 35 Marines and their families. The result is a documentary called The Day Remembered.   Yeah I went up in the air and I realized whoa you know this - my number got called this really happened to me. And it is kind of overwhelming because...  That was 21-year-old Marine Lance Corporal Tommy Parker. On this day he and his mother Lisa Jennison are sitting at their kitchen table. Seven months ago Jennison left her two younger children with relatives in Montana to care for her son in San Diego.  The worst phone call a mother or parent could ever get is that their son has stepped on an IED and has no legs only has one hand.  Parker looks at his mother and runs his hand through his short cropped hair. This has not been easy for either of them.  Losing your legs is kind of like becoming a little kid again. I have to learn how to walk. I have to learn how to go to the bathroom again. And then on top of all that I was left-handed and now not having my left hand I now have to learn how to do everything right-handed.  All right. Let us bend these fingers. Let us try it with isolate and bend them out.  Another Marine profiled in the documentary is Sergeant Charlie Linville. As an explosives specialist in Afghanistan it was his job to disarm IEDs.  This one still pretty sensitive?  I think they are both right around the nerve.  Linville is being treated at the Naval Medical Center in San Diego where many of the battalions wounded are cared for. An IED explosion left him with two amputated fingers and a crushed foot. But the 25-year-old father of two insists he is one of the lucky ones.  Knowing that you know I have both of my lower extremities I consider myself lucky every day.  Although it is painful for him to walk each day Linville makes his rounds of the therapy rooms offering encouragement. Today he spots another Marine from the 35 he is in a wheelchair rail thin with no legs and one arm.  You ever want like a home-cooked meal call my wife will definitely - either I will bring it down to you or you come down. All right.  Linville knows the struggles ahead for these young men.  Some of the injuries that these guys have you know at 19 years old I do not think there are a lot of people in the - that would be willing to go through that journey you know or even make that sacrifice.  Mark Soto hopes this documentary will make people more aware of those sacrifices. And he will donate the money generated by the DVD to assist the wounded warriors of the 35.  There are lapses that need to be cared for and taken care of bills that are not paid a car that may need to be bigger.  While that is cooking I am going to go fold the laundry.  Back at their home Lisa Jennison and her son Lance Corporal Tommy Parker navigate the before and after of their lives. He has at least another 18 months of rehabilitation including more surgeries.  And I am still alive and I am still able to do stuff live life. You know I can play video games go out with the guys. I mean there is really nothing I cannot do.  And as a mother Jennison knows there will still be challenges along the way.  And I told him since day one if I could trade places with him I would do it in a heartbeat. I am just thankful he is still with me. I love him with all my heart.  For NPR News I am Gloria Hilliard. 