 We wanted to hear more about what today's agreement actually means for the countries involved. So we are turning now to Jennifer Morgan. She is the director of the climate program at the World Resources Institute - that is an international research institute. She is been at the talks all week and she was actually at the vote today - actually just left there. Jennifer thank you so much for speaking with us.  Sure thing.  Now we just spoke with our reporter Chris Joyce who described what seems to be a great sense of euphoria there surrounding the deal. Is that what you are seeing and hearing and what do you feel about it?  Oh it is a sense of euphoria it is a sense of relief it is just a sense of determination. I am just feeling incredibly grateful and excited and a bit relieved too.  Why relieved?  Well you know when you are trying to get oh 196 countries to agree by consensus on one of the most complex problems in the world and you are ticking against a clock it is tough. And until the - you know the gavel comes down you do not know if it is going to succeed or not.  I imagine there have to be some critics there. What are they saying?  I think the critics are saying that it does not go far enough that there should have been more about perhaps a carbon budget or that type of thing. But you know everyone signed on. Africa is happy the islands are happy the United States is happy. So I think it is a pretty collective euphoria.  To that one point that you just made though about whether there should be more demands made of the people who sign on to the agreement. The agreement as I understand it is largely voluntary. There are no major mandates for any of the countries. So what are the consequences if these guidelines are not followed other than obviously the big picture of the effect on the planet? But I am just saying are there any consequences?  Yeah actually this is a binding international agreement that has binding rules and procedures in it. So countries are now obligated to put forward a national climate action plan every five years and to strengthen it every five years. They are required to report and be verified on what they are doing. And there is a compliance committee that will check whether or not they are complying with the national targets that they have set.  As I said our colleague Chris Joyce talked about little bit about the next steps here. And he indicated that in the U.S. - that the administration is likely to rely on its interpretation of a past treaty. Do you think that that offers the opportunity for a speed bump where the U.S. is concerned?  I mean the president will have to determine how to move this forward. But from our analysis it is indeed the implementation of the framework convention on climate change. It can be met through existing domestic laws and regulations.  What about in other countries? What is the process likely to be like there?  In each country they have their own process. I think in most countries it will go through a parliamentary ratification process and each one will have to do that. The European Union I think China I think - I can imagine there would be a rather rapid sense of gratification here.  Before...  But every country - yeah go ahead.  Go ahead Jennifer. Sorry forgive me we are almost out of time. Before we let you go how soon should we be looking for results? If this - if all goes ahead as planned and if the countries actually ratify and embrace this as you hope they will how soon should we be looking for results?  I think we should see results immediately because the results should be that the price of coal drops and the price of renewables and the share of renewables grows because the signal out of this agreement is clear. We are going to net zero emissions.  That is Jennifer Morgan - she is director of the climate program at the World Resources Institute. She spoke with us from Paris. Jennifer Morgan thank you so much for speaking with us.  Sure thing. 