 While Florida is just taking stock of the damage from Hurricane Irma southeast Texas is in the recovery phase after Harvey. In a typical hurricane this phase may be even more deadly than the storm itself. Earlier today I spoke with someone in the thick of it. Francisco Sanchez is with the Emergency Management Department in Harris County which includes Houston. I asked him about the leading dangers he has seen since the storm.  For us because this was more of a flooding event than a hurricane most of that danger came in focus as we urge people to stay out of flooded roadways. We had 33 deaths in Harris County. I think 32 of those were related directly to flooding one for electrocution. Now typically what folks will be seeing in Florida is indeed that most of the dangers there will occur post-landfall. You know storm surge aside carbon monoxide poisoning is one of those things and I think that is something particularly to be watchful for...  From running a generator inside the house generally.  Yes that typically is the cause of that. And because they have so many people without power in Florida that is going to be a major concern.  Given the threat of carbon monoxide that you described how should a generator be used safely?  One do not put it in the garage. Do not put it in the home and do not put it by a window. So at least a few feet from the structure is your safest bet. And also try not to keep it running overnight when you might fall asleep. You always want a generator running when you can keep your eye on it and know that all the safety precautions are in place.  And carbon monoxide is odorless. It is not like gasoline fumes that you can tell if it is seeping into the house.  And that is why it is particularly dangerous - because you could be putting yourself in a dangerous situation and not even know it. So that is why it is very important to have it outside. And also it is one of those things - if you have got a generator much like heavy equipment if you have not operated one in the past it is best to rely on a neighbor or a friend or a family member that has one to come and walk you through it to make sure you are doing it safely.  When I have covered storms in the past I have heard people express concerns that as folks go out to check on their flooded homes they might go check on the roof. And if the roof has taken on a lot of rain it might not be stable and there could be injuries or even deaths.  Yes. You want to do a damage assessment of your home but it may not be as it seems. Everything from getting on the roof trying to go to the attic - if you have seen any kind of significant damage you always want to make sure those issues are addressed by a professional. We recognize that it takes a lot of patience to do that. We realize resources are scarce. Contractors are in demand. But recognize that post-landfall and post-hurricane are very dangerous times. And just know that safety should come first.  You mentioned that one person in Houston already lost their life due to electrocution. How significant a threat are downed power lines in any of these storms?  For us it was not a major issue because ours for Hurricane Harvey was a flooding event. But downed power lines is going to be a significant issue in Florida. If you see a downed power line just simply stay away from it and wait for the power companies to get those clear before you venture anywhere near one of those things.  Is some of the threat here just mindset that people are less likely to be reckless and more likely to take precautions when a storm is coming or when they are in a storm and after it is passed people breathe a sigh of relief and might stop paying attention to the things that could be a real threat?  Certainly. I think it is an issue of perception. You see all this buildup about the dangers of the wind and the storm surge and the rain associated with the hurricane. So people have this sigh of relief that once it is over the dangerous part has passed when statistics tell us it is actually when it is starting to begin. People let their guard down. They are getting close to power lines. They are dealing with heavy equipment. Also Florida has a lot of these things that are simply going to make this even more dangerous. The power outages are going to be very significant so you are going to have downed power lines. So people will be using generators. All the factors that make post-hurricane landfall very dangerous are particularly present post-Irma so people should be very cautious as the storm passes and they start venturing out.  Francisco Sanchez of the Harris County Office of Homeland Security and Emergency Management speaking with us from Houston. Thanks a lot.  Thank you Ari.  