 For three years now the Social Security Administration has paid out more in benefits than it has collected in payroll taxes. As more baby boomers join the ranks of the 57 million people already collecting benefits that deficit is bound to keep growing. Making matters worse are the wages in this country that have increased are largely going to high earners and much of that money is exempt from Social Security taxes. As NPR's David Welna reports some Democrats say that it is time to change that.  Social Security's board of trustees predicts a nearly 3 trillion trust fund built up over decades will vanish within 20 years due to the growing gap between revenues and expenditures. But that does not seem to faze Elizabeth Warren. The Massachusetts Democrat has gotten a lot of attention for a speech defending Social Security that she delivered last month on the Senate floor.   With some modest adjustments we can keep the system solvent for many more years and we could even increase benefits.  And how to finance that? Warren and others want to lift the cap on wages taxed for Social Security.   I sure hope that we raise that cap.  That is Iowa Democratic Sen. Tom Harkin. He sponsored legislation that would gradually remove the cap that currently makes only the first 113700 in wages subject to Social Security taxes. Harkin says it is the only fair thing to do.   If I make 50000 a year I pay Social Security taxes on every dime I make. If I make 500000 dollars a year I only pay taxes on oh about the first twenty cents. After that I do not pay any more Social Security taxes. That is regressive. If you want to make it more progressive raise the cap so everybody pays their share - on every dollar that they make.  And as President Obama noted this week an ever-greater share of dollars are being earned precisely by those at the top.   Since 1979 our economy has more than doubled in size. But most of that growth has flowed to a fortunate few. The top 10 percent no longer takes in one third of our income. It now takes half.  That concentration of wealth has taken place beyond the earnings subject to Social Security taxes. Melissa Favreault a Social Security expert at the nonpartisan Urban Institute says that is meant an ever-greater share of the national income is contributing nothing to Social Security.  We do have this declining share of overall earnings that are taxed reflecting the fact that the top half of 1 percent or so has been garnering a really large proportion of total earnings.  Favreault says three decades ago 90 percent of the nation's wage earnings were taxed for Social Security. That proportion has now shrunk to 83 percent and that is made an already regressive tax even more so. Favreault says raising the rates for Social Security withholdings would be one way to shore up the program's finances but that would make the tax even more regressive. Removing the cap on income subject to the tax she says would make it more progressive.  The cap I think is a really natural place to look just because there has been this explosion in earnings inequality. And there is been stagnation for earners at the bottom and in the middle of the wage distribution. So it is definitely a good place to look.  Removing that cap could keep Social Security solvent 30 years beyond what is currently projected. But Andrew Biggs of the American Enterprise Institute the conservative Washington think tank warns that doing so would undo the original intent of Social Security which was to be an insurance program for everyone.  If Social Security comes to be seen as a welfare program a highly redistributive program that takes a soak-the-rich kind of approach then political support among - certainly among conservatives among Republicans among higher-income people is going to drop. And you need everybody on board in order to keep a system like this going.  Biggs says making all payroll income subject to the 12.4 percent Social Security tax would be a sharp tax hike for the wealthy. That is a tough sell on Capitol Hill especially for Republicans. Pennsylvania Sen. Pat Toomey serves on the tax writing finance committee.   I am not interested in tax increases.  So at least for now the wealthiest 6 percent of taxpayers will continue to be protected by the Social Security wage gap. David Welna NPR News the Capitol. 