 When James Syhabout set out to write his new cookbook titled Hawker Fare he sampled a recipe that I am going to go out on a limb and guess is not on your dinner table tonight - fire ant salad.  There was like ants crawling in and out of it. And they are like do do do . Put it in your mouth chew real fast.  Welcome to Lao food from Laos Southeast Asia. Laos shares a border with Thailand and Lao cooking is a cousin to Thai except it is the distant cousin you have maybe never met. Syhabout says that is kind of the point of his cookbook to introduce us.  The food that we know as Thai food - it is sweeter you know? It is like I call it the Coca-Cola culture. We all love soda candy you know things that are sweet.  But before we get to his food philosophy let us go back to the beginning of James Syhabout's story. His dad is Lao. His mom is Lao by language and culture but she was born in Thailand. The family came to California as refugees fleeing violence and the aftermath of the Vietnam War. James was 2. They settled in Oakland but the family still ate food that tasted of home like curried green beans with candied pork.  When we came to America our situation was very - with welfare and food stamps you are only able to buy certain things and we could not buy fresh meat. We would only buy Oscar Mayer bacon. So my mother was intuitive enough and she used use bacon to make the green beans for us and it is just as fantastic.  Love that yeah.  And that is something to remember. And you know from like a chef's standpoint I thought it was brilliant. She was just trying just to survive and she was homesick but bacon it is and it is fantastic.  His mom opened a Thai restaurant and Syhabout told me as a kid he remembers asking her why do you cook Lao for us at home and Thai for the restaurant? Her answer...  They would probably say it smells bad and it is too spicy and it does not appear you know appetizing. It was like look it is like murky green. This thing looks like a bowl of swamp.   And you are hinting at some of what is different about Lao food as opposed to Thai which most Americans would still be more familiar with. You are saying its smells are more pungent. The colors are different.  Yeah. I think Thai food is - it is a good introduction to Lao food. You know it is not a...  It is the gateway drug.  It is kind of a gateway drug. But you know a lot of Thai food as we know it - laap papaya salad - it is - originated in Laos. It is actually Lao food.  If you are trying to make Italian food everything's got olive oil. If you are trying to cook French cuisine everything is you know based with butter. Is there a signature base or ingredient that comes up in dish after dish? Yeah...  We use fish sauce as - for salinity. We use oyster sauce for salinity. And you know MSG - it is just the fabric of what the cuisine is.  Syhabout's path to becoming a Lao chef was not direct. After culinary school he moved to Europe and trained in classical French techniques working with butter and cream and cheese until he got the itch to come back to Oakland. He opened the city's only Michelin-starred restaurant serving fancy California cuisine. And so then I mean you have done - you have done like the thing every chef sets out to do. That is amazing. What then prompted you to say OK I want to do this next thing now? I am going to do Hawker Fare which is a totally different gig.  Yeah. I do not know. I think it is - maybe it was a coming-of-age. You know as you get older you - nostalgic starts to kick in. And what got me cooking in the first place was this food that I would crave and miss. It is a shame I do not know how to cook it for myself. I did not feel complete as - soulfully as a cook. I could make a perfect ice cream. I could do that. Make bread - I can do that. But make jaew padaek - I had no clue .  So Syhabout opened Hawker Fare a more casual Bay Area place - Lao and Thai street food. The cookbook it inspired features plenty of exotic-sounding dishes - rice-fermented cabbage with pig's ear and scallions anyone? But today I have asked him to cook me Lao comfort food.   Syhabout does not have a restaurant here in D.C. - at least not yet. We can hope. So he has taken over Thip Khao for us. It is his friend's restaurant. And the dish he is whipping up here in the kitchen for us is khua mee. It is noodles similar to a Thai staple you have probably eaten.  Everyone knows pad thai so this is like the stepbrother stepsister of pad thai. I call it pad lao .  The flavors are deeper than pad thai and less sweet. There is no meat here. For protein - just egg omelet.  OK right now I am going to make the egg omelet so I am just beating the eggs.  A few glugs of oil go into a hot wok.  Mom's way - one-pot dish.  I like it - less to clean.  Roll the eggs around. We can do a little flip.   Ooh. Next step - make a caramel. But unlike the caramels he is made in formal European kitchens where sugar is cooked in a dry pan...  You caramelize the sugar in oil.  Huh?  Totally go against the grain of what I was taught you know in pastry kitchens and all the like - all the Michelin-star restaurants.  Into the wok go water soy sauce fish sauce a little bit of oyster sauce.   We are going to bring this sauce to a ripping boil. Then we add our rice noodles.  So this is dry...  Yeah it comes in dried packets that you pre-soak.  ...Rice noodles - super thin. I mean this is finer than spaghetti.  Yeah it is the width. This looks correct. . I think my mom would be happy.  Syhabout spoons the steaming noodles and sprouts onto a big plate. He throws on bright green cilantro bright red chili powder.  What you see in the book it is always like you know for four or six people or six or eight or it is part of a meal.  Sharing food.  Exactly.  We sit down to a table groaning with sauces and sausages and more chili powder grab some sticky rice and dig in. James thank you so much.  Oh it was a pleasure and honor.  It is just...  And thank you from like taking interest in Lao food because it is this little country that could.  The little country that could - I like...  I always like the underdogs.  Underdogs because everybody knows Thai and this is cooking that - most Americans have not ever sat down to have a meal that looks like this yet.  Yet. Yet. You know there is not enough out there.  Well thank you. This is my first Lao feast.  Thank you so much.  The chef James Syhabout presiding over a feast from his new cookbook Hawker Fare. It is out now.   Wait Mary Louise what did it taste like? My stomach is growling here.   Amazing. So good so spicy. Did you hear me mention chili powder in there about 14 times?  Yes.  I was trying to interview him with tears rolling down my face.   But amazing - I recommend it.  