 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. While President Obama attends the G8 meeting in Italy he is been forced to wade into a domestic economic debate that just will not go away - debate that can be summed up with one word stimulus. As the unemployment rate rises to a level much higher than the White House once predicted there have been calls for a second round of stimulus spending. NPR's Mara Liasson reports.  President Obama is in a difficult position. He has to defend his 787 billion economic stimulus package at a time when there are few visible signs that it is had an effect. Unemployment is at 9.5 percent even though the White House back in January predicted that with the stimulus bill it would only rise to about eight percent. The White House had to justify its response to the recession again this week after Vice President Biden with his trademark candor said this to ABC's George Stephanopoulos. Vice President  We and everyone else misread the economy. The figures we worked off of in January were the consensus figures of most of the blue chip indexes out there.  So from overseas the president engaged in a familiar ritual walking back the vice president's words. Here he is on NBC. President  Rather than say misread we had incomplete information. In some areas you are seeing the economic engine turn. But what we always knew was that A this recession was going to be deep B it was going to last for a while.  But if the administration did misread the problem does that mean it misdesigned the solution? The stimulus bill has been criticized for not being stimulative enough for not getting more money into people's pockets faster. After all only 14 percent of the 787 billion has been spent so far. But the president told ABC yesterday that even if his diagnosis was wrong he still believes the medicine was exactly right. Pres.  There is nothing we would have done differently. Now the question that some have argued is okay what next? Maybe you have stopped the freefall but you still have close to 10 percent unemployment. And you know this is something that we wrestle with constantly.  What the president is wrestling with is whether to borrow even more money for a second round of stimulus something liberal Democrats say he should do. But at the same time that voters are increasingly unhappy about unemployment they are also increasingly concerned about rising deficits and that puts the president in a tight spot says Democratic pollster Geoffrey Garin. Mr.  If you want to describe the president's challenge in pure numbers terms there are two numbers that they have to weigh against each other one is what the unemployment rate is going to be in the spring and beyond and what the deficit and fiscal condition of the country will look like.  The official White House line on the second stimulus plan is that the president is not ruling it in or out. Although White House say it is acknowledged that passing another stimulus bill at a time when Congress's agenda is already overloaded with energy and health care is unrealistic. So that leaves the White House with the less-than-satisfying argument that although the economy is bad it could be a lot worse. Here's White House Press Secretary Robert Gibbs onboard Air Force One this morning. Mr.  Were it not for this recovery plan you would see states in a more difficult place with far deeper holes to dig out of in terms of state budget deficits you would have even greater job loss.  President Obama's approval ratings while still healthy are dropping as unemployment rises. And in the all-important blue collar swing state of Ohio a new poll shows his job numbers skidding from 62 percent to 49 in the last two months alone  a warning sign for a White House that is asking voters to be patient while it tries to turn the economy around. Mara Liasson NPR News Washington. 