 OK it is not news that the Midwest gets cold in the winter. But this week could be the coldest in a generation. Today parts of the Dakotas and Minnesota hit -27 degrees. That is not just uncomfortable it is dangerous. To understand what those kinds of temperatures do to the human body Dr. Jeff Schaider joins us now. He is chairman of Emergency Medicine at Cook County Health in Chicago. Thanks for being with us.  Hi Ari.  OK I spent the first eight years of my life in Fargo N.D. so I know what extreme cold feels like. But what is actually happening physiologically to our skin and our lungs when our bodies are exposed to these temperatures that are so far below zero?  Well I think you know obviously it is a stress on the body. And I generally divide it into two phases as far as the cold goes. Number one people often think about the cold affecting you on your skin in frostbite. And the other thing is when your body temperature drops as a result of being exposed to the cold more prolonged. And obviously you know both these things can cause severe injuries sometimes death as well.  In the kinds of temperatures we are talking about - I mean as far as 25 below zero - how long does it take for those kinds of effects to set in?  From a frostbite perspective I have seen patients develop frostbite with an approximate 10 to 15 minutes after being exposed to these extreme temperatures. So people would actually get outside you know walk down the street for about 10 minutes or so and develop frostbite in the back of their ears by not wearing a hat. So you know we always tell people very very important - this is common sense obviously - they need to cover their extremities to not be exposed to these extreme temperatures.  And in terms of the internal effects when the body temperature cools that you were describing?  Exactly. So that is what - we call it medically when the body temperature goes lower it is called hypothermia. Initially when you are exposed to the cold you will obviously shiver and try to warm your body up. That is your initial response. But as your body gets colder and colder your response to the cold actually becomes less and less. You will stop shivering then your body temperature will start dropping at a more rapid rate. And if you think about your body as I guess an engine as it gets colder it moves slower. Your mind thinks slower. Your heart moves slower. And as time goes on you become confused. You can go into a coma. And your heart would go slower. Your blood pressure will drop. And it really affects your whole body. And people could die from the cold in these types of circumstances.  Are there common mistakes that people make when they try to go outside in these kinds of temperatures?  Of course. I mean we all make mistakes. But you know obviously in this type of situation if you go out and you think you will not be exposed to the cold you have to anticipate that might happen. If you are in the car bring additional clothes bring a blanket bring an extra hat extra gloves just in case something happens to your car. Alcohol does play a role too. People that go out and drink might walk outside because they do not feel the effects of the cold that much when they are intoxicated. And then in these types of situation they might be exposed to the cold for a long period of time and their body temperature would begin to drop.  Dr. Schaider thanks so much for talking with us today.  Ari thank you so much.  That is Jeff Schaider chairman of Emergency Medicine at Cook County Health in Chicago. 