 We turn now to breaking news from the world of fashion. And if you are on social media this has probably already popped up on your feed. And we feel it is our duty to report on this because it could be the hot trend for the summer for men or the worst idea ever. We are talking about rompers for men a onesie. You probably wore one yourself when you were say Prince George's age. And the reason this is all over social media is part of what makes it interesting. It is due to a Kickstarter campaign on behalf of a company called RompHim which has raised more than a quarter of a million dollars in just a few days. This is just to get the seed funding to start making rompers.   On May 15 2017 ACED Design will introduce the original RompHim and you will see why this summer is about to get romped.  As we said we feel this is a must discuss so we called on Pulitzer Prize-winning writer Robin Givhan. She reports on fashion and culture for The Washington Post. We called her at her office probably to be sure she did not throw something at our heads for wanting to discuss this.  .  Robin thank you so much for joining us.  My pleasure.  Who knew there was a pent-up demand for male rompers?  Well I am going to argue that I still am not really convinced that there is a pent-up demand for this strange little garment. I think there is a pent-up demand for amusement.  Now for people who have not seen this could you describe it?  It looks like abbreviated coveralls right? It looks sort of like a jumpsuit that is been hacked off high up on the thigh and looks like something that you might wear at a keg party.  You know I am getting the impression Robin - correct me if I am wrong - that you are not exactly a fan of this look.  Well I think it is not a particularly attractive look for the vast majority of men. I think if you are a 5-year-old boy it probably looks adorable. But I also think that it is you know a sign that the men's market is becoming much more fashion-oriented and much more trend-driven. And as a result it is seeing these kinds of odd ill-considered ideas pop up to see if anyone bites.  Now I just - in doing the research for this our producers turned up Sean Connery as James Bond wearing a blue terrycloth romper in Goldfinger. So that would seem to be some rather elegant inspiration maybe. No? .  I would argue that just because a Hollywood movie says it is so does not make it true.  So do you think we are honestly going to see these on the streets this summer?  I am not going to say absolutely not because I think that you know there is always the possibility that some risk-taking quirky fella might decide that it is just the kind of thing to wear on a 95-degree day with lots of humidity. So it is possible but I do not think that it is really a good idea.  How come?  Well for me the biggest issue beyond the aesthetics of it I think that there is this aspect of it that is extremely infantilizing. And so it is you know - it is the same reason that it sort of irks me when I see an adult woman sitting on her boyfriend's lap. My initial reaction is that you are not a 10-year-old girl. So I think you deserve to have your own seat. So I just think that when adults infantilize themselves it is never a good idea because it just sort of helps our culture devolve in ways that are just not healthy. That is a really big notion for little rompers.   And we will take it though. That is why you are the Pulitzer Prize-winning writer. That was Robin Givhan Washington Post fashion editor. We reached her at her office. Robin thanks so much for speaking with us.  My pleasure. 