 If you are the type of beer drinker who prefers imports to domestics listen up. Your import may not be what it seems. Take Becks. This beer was brewed in Germany for more than 140 years. But for the past three years Anheuser-Busch has been making it in St. Louis. And as NPR's Jason Margolis reports the company wound up in court.  The class-action lawsuit boiled down to a basic question. Was Anheuser-Busch deceiving its customers? I put that to Erik Gordon who teaches at the University of Michigan's business and law schools. We went to a liquor store on State Street in Ann Arbor.  Here's a carton of Becks beer. Let us see what it says on the side. Well in big letters German quality brewed under the German Purity Law of 1516. That would lead one to possibly believe this is German beer.  InBev the Belgian-Brazilian beer maker bought Anheuser-Busch in 2008. It began brewing some Becks in St. Louis to reduce shipping costs and improve freshness. But there is no made in the USA on the carton. Gordon looks to the bottles.  Somewhere on here it is going to say that it is actually made in the USA but I cannot actually find it.  Eventually Gordon finds tiny white letters against a silver background that read product of USA. Anheuser-Busch argues that is sufficient. The company sent a two-sentence e-mail saying our labeling packaging and marketing of Becks have always been truthful transparent and in compliance with all legal requirements. Duncan Williams cannot speak to legal requirements but as the head brewer at the Old German bar in Ann Arbor he can speak about Becks' claims that it is brewed the German way.  Is it potentially disingenuous? Yes. OK what does brewed in the German style mean? Is the kettle fired or is it maybe powered by steam?  He is unequivocal though about Becks' use of North American barley malt.  It is much much different. The climate and everything it is grown in is much much different.  Now could you and I taste that difference - questionable. Still beer drinkers pay more for imports. Six packs of Becks retail for about two bucks more than comparable domestics.  They should not have to pay that price premium. The consumer should be fully informed and pay a fair price.  Tucker Ronzetti is the lead attorney in the class-action suit. Thanks to his efforts Becks drinkers can soon recoup 12 from Anheuser-Busch - 50 with receipts. The total payout is not yet known. The four law firms in the case could take home 3.5 million. Ronzetti defends that.  We are doing our best to keep corporations honest. And frankly it is a huge risk - big national litigation against a powerful multinational firm. I mean we could easily lose the case.  Erik Gordon at the University of Michigan says he is no fan of big payouts to attorneys but class actions serve a function.  The idea of a class action is that it protects consumers. Otherwise you could have somebody you know doing small amounts of conning over millions of people none of whom will ever stop it.  The new settlement requires Anheuser-Busch to label Becks clearly as American-made or they can go back to only brewing it in Germany. Jason Margolis NPR News. 