ROBERT SIEGEL.  From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Audie Cornish. Before you could upload funny videos to the Web like Will Ferrell...    Look why do you need your money so fast?   I need to get my drink on.  ...or record podcast like Marc Maron...   I am Marc Maron. This is WTF. Welcome to the show.  ...or sell stand-up specials for 5 a download like Louis C.K.  LOUIS C. K. I have a lot of beliefs and I live by none of them. That is just the way I am.  Yeah. Before all of that there was at least one surefire way to make it big in comedy...   ...an appearance on The Tonight Show starring Johnny Carson.   You cannot do any better than that?  Show your great shot. No way.  Thanks. Appreciate it. You know Johnny Hen is a friend of mine from Cleveland. He got called over too so he owe me five bucks man.  That is comedian Drew Carey getting the much-coveted handshake from Johnny Carson back in 1991. Nowadays comedians are able to get their name out there without the help of Carson and his couch. This week we are exploring a few of the ways the industry has changed with the rise of the Internet starting with YouTube and comedy producer Walter Latham who has seen traditional platforms for urban comedies slowly disappear.  HBO used to do Def Comedy Jam. BET they are not doing comic view anymore. Comedy Central was generally a white comic station. It does not exist. And that is where the Internet comes into play.  Latham is the brains behind The Kings of Comedy tour which led to the popular Spike Lee documentary The Original Kings of Comedy in 2000. Now he is trying to recreate that success on YouTube. The Web channel dubbed Walter Latham Comedy launched this past summer and features both new original content and old stand-up clips from the likes of the late Bernie Mac Cedric the Entertainer and Steve Harvey.  It is like that big movie that came out the Titanic. You as not never in your life heard of 3000 black people dying at the same damn time.  You never hear that on the news do you no 10 11 black people getting killed all together because we run. I am with you and you start running. Well damn it I am gonna start running. It is just how it go.  It is not about black and white. You know but they do  different. When they go on break on a job 15 minutes. They go to their desk eat their cheese sandwich. Fifteen minutes they are back on  job. My people I do not know   growing up. When we go on break that is just  we do.   We break.  And that is the late Bernie Mac Cedric the Entertainer and Steve Harvey. Walter Latham I heard you chuckling a little bit. Are you remembering those days?  Oh I laugh every time I listen to it. I - those are some interesting days. The funny thing about Kings of Comedy - a lot of people do not know this - they think you know we went out on tour we were successful immediately and you know then we made this movie. But it was really a labor of love and it was a very difficult thing to do especially when we transition to Hollywood and tried to get the tour made into a movie.  Now you are at the forefront of this because you essentially have a channel one of these YouTube channels where you are going to get to do your own kind of comedy showcase. So tell us what is different in terms of how you present a comedian in this format versus the old way you would package.  Freedom. Freedom. And that is what needed right now. A channel is needed or a platform is needed to give these people an opportunity to showcase their talent. In the Internet it is almost like the chicken or the egg. The Internet is right there it is not TV yet but it is right there. So we have an opportunity now to really start developing the platforms tweaking the platforms. So when Internet does become television which it will we will already have the formula for success.  Help us understand for you logistically what are some of the challenges in presenting comedy in this format. I do not know if it is length of the routines or what they are allowed to say. What are the kind of top three things you have thought oh gosh it is got to be different?  A-D-D. That is what I call it. This audience does not want an introduction. For instance I used to love intros. Steve Harvey was the best intro guy I knew. Like I used to get chills hearing him intro a comic. Well they do not want that. They want a video to start with the guy telling a joke and they want it to end three minutes later maybe six minutes later maybe. It all depends. It just depends on what mood they are in that day. So you know it is all a matter of trying to figure that out. It is all a matter as far as the language. You know when you are a YouTube-funded channel and they give you millions of dollars like they do for some people you have one thing that you got to abide by and that is TV-14 because if it is not TV-14 people have a chance to actually write a complaint and get your content taken down. And they do not want to...  Oh so by TV-14 you mean the rating system.  Exactly yeah.  ...which given the clip we played earlier and the amounts of times we had to use the little bleeping sound I could imagine...   That is interesting though.  ...it would be difficult.  It is difficult for the new programs. It is not difficult for my library. My library is it is what it is. So those jokes you just played they are on my channel and they are in their entirety. There are no bleeps because YouTube did not fund those programs. The things that they fund they are scared. It is like you can take chances here or there but we are just hoping no one says please take this down. And so far we have been taking chances.  Well what kind of chances? Any one you want to point out?  If you look at Michael Blackson on Friday it is called Black Friday on my channel Walter Latham Comedy he goes all the way out in the middle of the ocean without a paddle.  We actually cannot even play a clip of that show the Black Friday show...   It is bad is not it.  ...because it would involve - so we would probably get in trouble if we aired that at all.  Yeah it is tough. It is very tough. But the other thing we do on Wednesday we have a young lady that you can play. And her name is Miss P. And women love her.   I love Chopped but the only thing is if I was a judge honey I could not be eating all that mess that they have. Why in the world did you fry the squirrel and put a mango puree on it?  She is not a stand-up. She is just the most witty. She is Oprah but funnier. She just...   She will make you - she - trust me. In one year maybe two you will hear about her and you will say you know what Walter Latham told me about her.  What scares you or makes you nervous about approaching this new audience or approaching the audience through this new format?  I have a lot of fears. You know I just do not understand really what makes them tick. The cool part about YouTube is you know immediately how somebody feels. So I am saying OK these 10 people said this but these 30 people said that and these 20 people said this. I do not even know how to answer this. How do I fix this you know? And so again you got to go back to your creative instinct and say you know what they may not see it yet but I see it.  Walter Latham comedy producer behind The Kings of Comedy and now a new YouTube channel. Walter Latham thank you for speaking with us.  Thank you for having me. I appreciate it.  Tomorrow we will hear from Julie Klausner who hosts the comedy podcast How Was Your Week. 