 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Lynn Neary.  And I am Robert Siegel. In 1957 the Marriotts of Washington D.C. who owned a chain of family restaurants called Hot Shops opened a hotel. The patriarch J. Willard Marriott did not see much of a future in hotels. But his son J.W. Jr. or Bill Marriott did. And he went on to create the global hotel empire that bears the family name and the familiar red letter logo. Bill Marriott is vacating the CEO's office next year when he turns 80 leaving it to a non-family member longtime Marriott executive Arne Sorensen. We visited corporate headquarters today to hear from Bill Marriott about his life in hotels as the big date approaches. March 31st is what we are talking about.  Right.  This is an early exit interview I guess.  Early exit interview that is right.   So I have been - from what I have read you do not want us to use the R word to describe what you do.  No no. No R word.  No retirement.  No retirement.  Are you stepping down stepping up stepping aside? Where are you stepping?  It is a partnership. Arne has got to have the title and the role of chief executive officer and I will be executive chairman of the board. I will not be as heavily involved day-to-day as I have been but I intend to be engaged in the business. It is a family business. In 85 years there is only been two CEOs. My dad for 45 years and I was of CEO now for 40 years  I would like you to describe the situation 50 years ago or so when as I understand it this Marriott was the Hot Shops. Marriott was all the rest stops on the turnpike as I recall.  I ran the Hot Shops Restaurant drive-ins in Washington. We have a whole bunch of drive-ins in Washington and cafeterias and that type of thing.  That was the company your father had created.  In 1957 we opened our first hotel. That was 30 years after the company was founded in 1927 it was a root beer stand.  My vague memories of my family driving across country in 1958 and 1960 was that in the cities there might be a big hotel an elegant place with a fancy dining room. And then in between the cities there would be motels. And if we are lucky we would find one with a high AAA rating or a Howard Johnson's Motel or something.  Or a Holiday Inn.  A Holiday Inn perhaps. The entire level the entire genre of hotels that I now associate with Marriott did not exist.  That is right. The highway system that Eisenhower developed in the '50s really started opening up to more highway travel. And the growth of the suburbs the sprawl - the suburban sprawl - and business is located in the suburbs is used.  So you stick a hotel in the suburbs. You have got all the business travel that is going to and from those suburban business.  We looked for a corporate headquarters in the suburbs to locate our hotels next to. And that is how we developed along with the suburbs. Our first hotel is Marriott Motor Hotel was in Virginia across the bridge from Washington. Everybody said it would be a total failure because it was not downtown. And it struggled the first couple of years. But we are next to the Pentagon. So when Boeing came in to do business at the Pentagon they started staying with us because we were across the street. They did not go downtown and commute. So that really started us going.  Did you see all this happening 50 years ago? Did you see the interstate highway system come in and saying I am going to see hotel? Or did you just go with it and watch it as it developed?  We went with it as it developed. We did not have this great vision that some day Bethesda was going to be the headquarters from Lockheed Martin you know or...  Because you have got to be awfully nimble to take advantage of changes as you are seeing them.  Well yeah. But we started to follow the trend. I mean when companies would move to the suburbs we would move in with them and build a hotel in that suburban marketplace.  I want to ask you a couple of questions about yourself not just about business. The Marriott family is a Mormon family.  Right.  You have been active in your church and close to the Romneys. I am just curious what you have made of the discussion this year of Mormons between Governor Romney's candidacy and Governor Huntsman's candidacy. There is been some discussion. Have you found it at all disturbing? Or are you pleased the way it is worked out?  Well I have known Mitt a long time. I have known Jon Huntsman since he was five years old. So I have known him a long time. And I think that both of them would tell you that they if they are elected they intend to govern appropriately and that the church would have no effect on the way that they govern the country.  Do you find it odd though that there seems to be more discussion of Mitt Romney's faith than there was of George Romney's faith decades ago when he was a presidential contender?  I think it is probably the rise of the evangelicals and the strong Baptist Belt in the South that are concerned about the Mormons and about our church. And the Mormon Church was not as well-known back then. And today we have got 14 million members around the world. So we have gained a lot of members and people are looking at us wondering why and wanting to know more about us. And there is an amount of criticism that comes with that.  So with greater awareness and a higher profile comes more of a discussion of what the church is all about.  Right.  I am told that the subject of food preparation is something that you - I do not mean to say it this way - you relish.  Well I started out in the kitchen when I was 18 when I went to college. We had a Hot Shop Restaurant in Salt Lake City and I went to the University of Utah. And I started as a soda jerk. And I loved to make banana splits. I loved to do sundaes. I loved to do what we had in the Hot Shops the hot fudge ice cream cake. And you made that ice cream cake. It was a pound cake. You cut it in half. You put a block of ice cream in there a piece of cake on top of the ice cream and then you poured hot chocolate all over the top of it. But you had to leave a spot in the middle so that you could put whipped cream and a cherry on that spot. If you put hot fudge on that spot the whipped cream and a cherry would slide off the side and the presentation was gone. So it is the details of leaving that little spot in the middle of the ice cream cake so you do not lose the whipped cream and the cherry.  You had to master that.  You had to master that. That is part of the deal.  Presentation is no small thing when you are...  Presentation is very important and the details are extremely important.  In my very brief experience of the hotel dining room industry the only wisdom I recall hearing from these Miami Beach hotel people who would come north and work in the Poconos in the summer was that everyone in the world is making it on the drinks.  In the Hot Shops we made all our money on coffee because we did not serve booze. But in hotels we are serving liquor and that is a very profitable part of the business. It is very hard to make money on food unless you have a high-volume and a very simple kitchen.  But a beverage is...  That is why McDonald's makes money.  So between the coffee which you shun I gather...  I personally shun but we sell a lot of it is.  And alcohol...  I am glad we do and I...  ...which you personally shun.  I shun but we sell a lot of that too.   One has to draw a boundary. I will not even go near the cable TV possibilities of the movie rentals that people are watching in your hotels. The hotel is not a devout business. It is...  It is a commercial enterprise.  Commercial enterprise.  Sure is.  And you like this business.  I love it.  Well Mr. Marriott thank you very much for talking with us.  Thanks Robert. Good to be with you.  Bill Marriott who is stepping down as CEO of the family hotel business next March.   This is NPR News. 