 For how the newly struck nuclear deal is being received in Iran we go to Scott Peterson. He is Middle East correspondent and bureau chief for The Christian Science Monitor. He joins us from Tehran. Scott welcome to the program.  Thank you.  So you have been out reporting and I understand actually at celebrations. What does that look like? What does that mean?  You know it is Ramadan now so people really did not begin celebrating today. The temperature got up to 102 degrees so there really were not too many signs when the deal was actually announced which kind of came midday and early afternoon. But people were not out on the streets. And so finally when the sun went down the temperature dropped and people broke their fast for Iftar. Then we really then began to see a lot more people out on the streets - really people today trying to you know show the degree of jubilation they have about the deal which they have been waiting for on an emotional rollercoaster watching their pocketbooks and everything else and just kind of hoping and praying and sometimes even crying that the deal is going to be made. And today it actually took place and now they are kind of showing their pleasure with that.  Obviously this is country that is had a lot of animosity - right? - with the U.S. Where there were people who were unhappy about this new partnership what did they have to say?  Well it was interesting because a number of people when I asked them today - and this was just on the street reporting. And when I asked them about what they thought about the nuclear deal they immediately framed it in terms of a U.S.-Iran approach rapprochement. You know they would say something like we have a real passion for the United States for Americans Americans should know that. I heard this several times completely unprompted. And of course both leaders - President Obama and also Ayatollah Ali Khamenei Iran's supreme leader - have hinted that there might be other issues that can be discussed if in fact this nuclear deal proves to work out. The fact that we have had these years of very intense negations - of course both sides know each other a lot better but the bottom line is that a lot of Iranians themselves actually couch this deal in terms of an opening not just to the West but also possibly a further opening to the United States. And many of the ones who I have spoken to today really were very very much in favor of that. They really feel that this is going to be a transformational deal for Iran that it is kind of a stepping out of the cold into the warm and kind of the first big step that President Hassan Rouhani has been able to show them in terms of his campaign promises to reengage with the rest of the world.  You have been reporting in and out of Iran throughout the period of sanctions. Help us understand what this has looked like on the ground every day for Iranians dealing with these sanctions and how you think that is going to look moving forward.  Well Iranians of course hope that these sanctions are lifted because one of the Iranians that I spoke to today she was a math teacher. And she reckoned that the quality of life for most Iranians had basically fallen by 30 or 40 percent even up to 50 percent because the sanctions because of economic mismanagement simply because of the state of the economy. It does not look like sanctions in Iraq in the late 1990s where you know basically you had children starving to death. The sanctions here - sometimes you cannot tell they exist at all because there is so many Western goods that are in fact still in shops if you have the money. But for many people here who do not have the money they have seen a real drop in their purchasing power. They have seen real hardship over these last few years. So there is an impact and that is how it is felt by Iranians.  That is Scott Peterson. He is Middle East correspondent and bureau chief for The Christian Science Monitor. He spoke to us from Tehran. Thank you so much.  Thank you. 