 Our next story involves coulrophobia and do not feel bad if you do not know what that is because we did not either until we spotted a news story today about free workshops to help people get over that specific fear. Coulrophobia is the fear of clowns. And a circus now touring in Britain is offering help to people who are shaken to the core by the idea of big red noses and oversized rubber shoes. For more we turn to Paul Carpenter one of the so-called clownselors in John Lawson's Circus. In clown suit he is known as Popol but for now we will call him Mr. Carpenter. Welcome to the program. Mr.  It is nice to speak to you.  Now do I understand this right? Coulrophobia is the third most common phobia in all of Britain? Mr.  Yes there was a national poll in the newspaper recently of the nation's biggest fears and coulrophobia the fear of clowns was number three after spiders and needles.  And above fear of flying I understand. Mr.  It is. People are more scared of clowns than flying in a plane. Is not that amazing?  It certainly is interesting. How does this phobia manifest itself? Is it a bit like claustrophobia where people break out in a sweat and cannot seem to function? Mr.  Well it is amazing. Sometimes we are in the circus and the audience are coming in and I am there in the front of the circus with another clown greeting people. And then someone will say oh no no. Keep them away from me. Keep them away from me. And they will get nervous. They will start shaking. They are genuinely scared. So we thought right we are going to overcome this and show people that they are - to get them into the big top not to let their fears stop them coming and having a good time.  So how do you do that? How do you help people get over that fear? Mr.  Well if anyone wants to come for some clown therapy -we are also calling it clownseling - we invite them to the big top during the day when it is quiet and they meet me and our other clown but they meet us in our normal everyday guises not in makeup or anything. And then we take them into the circus ring and they watch us as we slowly transform ourselves into our clown personalities. We put on our makeup very slowly and then we put on our costumes. And if that goes well and they have not run for the door we then try and get them interacting with us in the circus ring. We go through a few clown routines getting them involved. And if that goes well our ultimate aim is to get the person themselves dressed up in costume and makeup and then we help them find their own inner clown.  Mr.  So they come into the circus being scared and then they end up leaving as a clown themselves.  Now I kept hearing you say if that goes well would suggest that sometimes it does not.  Mr.  Well we have had varying degrees of success. But you know it is something we are - we have only been doing it for a few weeks and we are still refining our process and working on it but we have had some great results.  I am wondering if this is the beginning of a trend. Will other circuses follow suit? Mr.  Well but there is been a lot of interest in it over here in the U.K. so it could well be that it will catch on with other clowns. I hope it does because we are doing everything we can to keep clowning alive.  Mr. Carpenter thank you very much for your time. It is been great to talk to you. Mr.  It is been a pleasure. Thank you very much.  That was Paul Carpenter. He is one of the so-called clownselors in John Lawson's Circus that is part of a program that they run to help people get over the fear of clowns - a fear that is called coulrophobia.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 