 An obscure animated show about a drunk talking horse - it is an unlikely place to challenge assumptions about the nature of comedy but this Netflix series is a story about a one-second gag that ended up being about much more. Here's NPR's Neda Ulaby.  It is about who gets to be funny.   Oh my God.  Let us be clear. The show BoJack Horseman is not intended for kids. It stars Will Arnett as the alcoholic horse. In this cartoon some characters are people some are animals. And there is a lot of joking or punning about that.    Wait wait wait - you stole muffins from a Navy seal?   I did not know he was a Navy seal. I just thought he was a regular kind of seal.  When the show is team of writers make up these characters they turn to production designer Lisa Hanawalt. She is hanging out now in the Hollywood office of the show is creator Raphael Bob-Waksberg. He says they will go to her for example when they are making up an animal who is also a famous movie director.  Our options are Quentin Tarantuna Quentin Taran...   Tarantulino?  Quentin Tarantulino or Quentin Tarantucan.  In this case Hanawalt picked Tarantulino.  'ecause we had not had any spiders yet.  These two obviously get along really well but while they were putting together the show is first season they were surprised to find themselves creatively clashing over something seemingly minor a tiny little visual joke.  Yeah. Often in the background we will add gags when it is between larger scenes just to you know have fun.  For funziez.  So here's what happened. Raphael Bob-Waksberg and the writers came up with a super quick sight gag. There is a dog and a business person standing on a corner.  A car wooshes past and it causes the dog's tongue to woosh and cover the business person in slobber.  Both the dog and the business person were written as male but when Lisa Hanawalt got the script she decided to draw them as female.  You know so my first reaction when I saw these characters was it felt weird to me.  Bob-Waksberg said change them back. Lisa Hanawalt said no. She said this kind of thing is usually not a big deal and she usually does not argue.  But with this it really stuck in my mind. Like wait - but why is it weird if they are women?  This triggered a huge controversy among BoJack Horseman staff and executives. It felt to Hanawalt like everyone got involved.  The first reaction I heard was like well it is gross if a woman slobbers. It is not funny anymore.  Hanawalt stood her ground even though it seemed ridiculous even to her to fight for days about a background joke about slobber.  Even though a lot of our story-boarders are women a lot of the designers are women a lot of the writers are women all the like stupid throwaway gags were men because it is just funnier if like a man is goofy or gross or ugly or weird. And your first thought is not to make that a woman. But I am gross and funny and weird and I slobber. Like...   It is true. She does.   ...That should be OK - to show that in a cartoon and it should be funny.  Hanawalt won. They did the bit with a female dog and a businesswoman. It literally lasts a second and it worked. Of course it worked says show creator Raphael Bob-Waksberg.  And it feels so dumb now. It is what is weird...  Yeah.  ...Talking about it. It is like I am trying to - like I am also a feminist and like I - you know this is something that is important to me but it is so deeply ingrained it is like I was not thinking about it.  What was ingrained was the idea that men are the default - that women characters slow down the joke just because they are women. Some people said to Lisa Hanawalt the only reason why you want to make these characters female is because you are a woman too.  But that is not true. My first instinct is always to make characters male and I have to challenge that and think like well really does this need to be a man and why and what is the problem if I change it? And then I have to do it. It is like always an extra step.  Hanawalt and Raphael Bob-Waksberg were struck by a recent study about the dismal state of women's representation in the media that came out from an industry think tank.  How that like as audiences you know we see a crowd that is like 15 percent women and we see it like oh that is like half men half women.  So they are mindful of that in their crowd scenes. Now Raphael Bob-Waksberg and Lisa Hanawalt do not for a minute think the story of their little spat is even vaguely as important as stories about the Middle East or health care.  But I do think if we can do a little to normalize the idea of women existing...  Yeah. .  ...Then like that is like the least we can do.  Raphael Bob-Waksberg says ever since he started telling the story lots of people have congratulated him for learning a lesson. That is not the point of the story. The point he says is that Lisa Hanawalt was right. Neda Ulaby NPR News. 