 Storytellers are getting better and better at finding fans keeping them and bringing in money. We are going to hear about one of them now a 26-year-old comic strip creator who raised a hundred thousand dollars in one hour on Kickstarter. Here's NPR's Neda Ulaby.  The main character of Check Please is a college hockey player. Bitty Bidwell is blonde southern super sweet undersized and gay.  In the audio of this story the main character of Check Please is referred to as Bitty Bidwell. In fact the character is Eric Bitty Bittle. Check Please is like a comic strip or a graphic novel that is updated every few weeks online. Here's an actor reading an early panel where Bitty's skating down the ice in the middle of a game.    And this Dartmouth D-man revs up at me right off the dots.  Although Bidwell is a star athlete he is terrified of getting checked. That is when an opponent slams into you.   And I am like please do not check me. Please do not check me. Please please please do not check me.  The creator of Check Please is the daughter of Nigerian immigrants. Her name is Ngozi Ukazu. She does not even know how to ice skate.  Maybe it is my need to see these things - I could be seen as the enemy  - like to see it and then like learn about it infiltrate it and then subvert it.  Ukazu grew up in Atlanta the kind of overachiever who got into both Harvard and Yale. At Yale Ukazu became fascinated by hockey culture fraternity culture in general by bros.  I do not want to other them too much  which is like - I mean as a black woman who am I to say like I am othering a bunch of white guys who play this sport? But it was like I was doing like this anthropological study.   That meant mastering the rules of hockey and dreaming up masculine characters who fall in love. Bitty is sensitive and vulnerable. He loves baking pies when he is not on the rink and he is smitten with his hunky teammate who coaches him through his fear being checked.    Stop stop stop.   I came at you slow and I do not even have pads on. Seriously Bittle you have got this stupid mental block about getting hit. If it is the only thing holding you back we are going to get you over it. Just trust me OK.   Then how long are we going to keep doing this?   Until you stop being scared.  Check Please has absolutely exploded.  Gary Tyrrell writes about the world of web comics on his blog Fleen. While not the type to normally go for a gay college hockey romance Tyrrell is among its estimated 120000 regular readers. That is according to creator Ngozi Ukazu. She updates the comic only every other month or so but Tyrrell says she is brilliant at keeping her fans on the hook.  There is almost daily process updates. Here are some sketches. Here's a little piece of story that did not make it in. Here's what these other characters were doing while the story was happening on panel.  The characters have their own Twitter and Tumblr accounts that drop hints about future plot developments. Ukazu has been writing and drawing Check Please for more than three years. Year two officially debuts this month. She says at the end of year four when the characters graduate she will be done. In the meantime Ukazu sees Check Please as a playful exercise and something like appropriation.  I am taking - not so much appropriating this culture as saying like here's a culture and this is how it would be if - in an ideal world where someone like Bitty could thrive.  That is to say a talented outsider who figures out the rules who breaks them knowingly with nerve and who makes things more interesting for everyone - like creator like creation. Neda Ulaby NPR News.  