 If you care for an elderly parent or spouse or a disabled child you are among a large group of Americans 30 percent according to report released today by the AARP and the National Alliance for Caregiving. As NPR's Joseph Shapiro reports the time and energy of caregiving becomes something like an unpaid part-time job.  In the new study caregivers said they spend about 19 hours a week providing care. They do everything from bathing dressing and toileting an elderly parent or a loved one to balancing a checkbook or doing household chores. That sounds about right to Kathleen Bolweg. In 2001 she was working in New York. But back home her father had Parkinson's and her mother was struggling to care for him. Ms.  My mother needed help so I closed up my apartment in New York packed up my stuff drove here to Wisconsin and moved in with my mother and father.  She took a six-month leave of absence from her job as a flight attendant. The new report says about one in five caregivers needs to take a job leave. When Bolweg's was up her parents still needed her. So she cut her work to part time and commuted back and forth from Wisconsin. Now it is been five years since her father died but her mother has developed Parkinson's. So Bolweg keeps her part-time hours for the airline. She will take a three-day trip to Cairo or Cape Town then come home to Wisconsin for a week to cook and care for her mother. Ms.  It is the thing I had been the most proud of. I am really proud of how I have taken care of my mom and dad.  A few years ago Bolweg's sister moved back to Wisconsin too and she helped some. That is one of the fastest growing trends. As families try to avoid expensive care like assisted living more members of a family help out to provide unpaid assistance. Most people in the survey say they do not consider caregiving a hardship and Kathleen Bolweg does not like to call what she has done her parents a job. Ms.  And I do not like saying that because that makes it sound like it is a burden and it is not a burden. But it is the equivalent in terms of time of another job exactly. Ms.  Most of our caregivers are employed as well. They have a paying job and now this unpaid responsibility as well. And they are juggling their work responsibilities their family responsibilities and their caregiving responsibilities.  That is Eleanor Ginzler of AARP. The AARP and the National Alliance for Caregiving did the survey. It was funded by the MetLife Foundation. That group also underwrites reporting on aging for NPR. The results were similar to earlier versions of the survey in 2004 and  two thirds of caregivers are women the average age is 48. Ginzler says one of the biggest changes this year is just how much caregiving interferes with regular work. Ms.  Making accommodations in the work place has increased in several ways. In most cases two-thirds of them means they either go in late leave early or take time off.  In the survey at least 12 percent of caregivers say they have turned down a promotion reduced their hours taken a less demanding job or they have given up work entirely to devote themselves to caring for a loved one. Joseph Shapiro NPR News. 