 The airline industry today forecast a slight decline in the number of holiday air travelers this year. The projected two percent drop is not likely to make a noticeable difference at airport check in and security lines. But NPR's Brian Naylor reports the Transportation Security Administration is tweaking this screening process hoping to make it less onerous and more focused on people likely to pose threats.  Here behind the scenes at the Delta terminal at the Detroit Metro Airport bags zip thru a maze of conveyor belts to X-ray machines. Officials brag that a traveler's suitcase will arrive at his flight before the passenger does. But if that traveler is a very frequent flier it may be more of a race. Detroit is one of four airports testing a new program the TSA calls pre-check. Here frequent fliers with so-called elite status that is they fly more than 200000 miles a year with Delta can use a special security lane. They can keep their shoes on and their laptops in their bags. Robert Ball is the TSA's security director at Detroit Metro.  It is really utilizing this program for those folks that use an airplane like you and I use a car - where they travel that much.  The TSA feels it knows these travelers they fly so often and are unlikely to pose a security threat. Not surprisingly the pre-check lanes are a big hit with frequent fliers like Mark Swett a rock band tour manager who is on the road a lot.  I love it. I think it is great. You know for a frequent traveler it means everything to be able to get through a little quicker and I mean the convenience factor is amazing.  And you get to keep your shoes on?  Yeah. That never bothered me but you know yeah it is always great. You know I like not having to take my laptop and printer out. That is a big bonus. You know it just speeds everything up.  So far it is just the elite travelers from Delta and American who can use the pre-check program at the four airports. If all goes well the TSA plans to expand it to other major airports and airlines. The TSA is testing another program in Detroit based on watching behavior. Passengers at one gate are asked some questions as the TSA checks boarding passes and IDs. Where have you been? Where are you going? That sort of thing. Some are calling the interviews chat-downs. The TSA's Robert Ball says the officers are trained to listen and look.  The underlying part of the program is that there are involuntary actions that you and I give off that they are trained to recognize no matter what is going on with them. And then if they cannot resolve it there is a step built in to bring in law enforcement.  The program is similar to but far less intensive than the questioning done by Israeli airport security. It has not caught any terrorists Ball says but has led to some arrests.  Certainly there have been individuals that have had illegal drugs on them that have had outstanding felony warrants. So yeah there are those behavioral ticks that come up and again our officer's intent is to try and resolve that when cannot bring in law enforcement.  The passengers I spoke with did not seem to mind the brief questioning. Conceita English said it was not all that different from dealing with a pesky reporter.  What was my trip here for and you know just basically why did I come to Detroit and what was my visit for. Did not bother me.  The new screening questions and the pre-check program are small steps towards making the security process less focused on detecting troublesome objects and more focused on detecting troublesome people. It is something critics who deride the screening process as security theater say is long overdue. Noah Shachtman is a scholar with the Brookings Institution who blogs for Wired magazine.  The current TSA system basically treats us all like potential terrorists. You know treats the little old lady and the 10 year old kid and the guy with a long rap sheet and it is all kind of like equally possible terrorists and that is just not a good way to go. And so they are trying to introduce you know the smallest teeny tiniest bit of sanity and intelligence and reason into the system.  And for those passengers traveling with small children kids 12 and younger do not have to take their shoes off at all anymore as they go through screening. It is another step in TSA's efforts to make the process less intrusive and smarter. Brian Naylor NPR News. 