 White House counsel Don McGahn is leaving his post this fall. As he is done many times in the past President Trump made this personnel announcement in a tweet today. And if McGahn's name sounds familiar that is because his extensive cooperation in special counsel Robert Mueller's investigation recently made headlines. NPR White House correspondent Tamara Keith joins us now to talk about all this. Hey Tam.  Hey.  So do we know if the Mueller investigation played a role in McGahn's exit?  We do not know for certain. But McGahn's departure has actually been discussed for some time now - since well before we knew about the level of cooperation. The New York Times reported that McGahn sat for some 30 hours of interviews with investigators from Robert Mueller's team. President Trump today at the White House had nothing but praise for McGahn.   Don McGahn's a really good guy - been with me for a long time. Privately before this he represented me. He is been here now - it will be almost two years - and a lot of affection for Don. And he will be moving on - probably the private sector - maybe the private sector. And he will do very well. But he is done an excellent job.  Any concern over what he said to the Mueller team?  No not at all not at all.  So the question there was any concern about what he said to the Mueller team. President Trump says no. He was not worried about it. He signed off on letting him sit for those interviews and sharing documents. But then the president also said he did not know what McGahn had told the special counsel team. And then the president said we do everything straight. We do everything by the book. And Don is an excellent guy.  Well if Don - if McGahn's a really good guy and Trump loves him so much why is he leaving?  Well a person close to the White House told me that President Trump could not stand McGahn and that he regularly and openly complained about him to White House aides. One source of this tension was likely that McGahn as White House counsel was not the president's personal lawyer. He represents the presidency.  Right.  And that put him in a position of saying no to President Trump on a number of occasions. And you know the president is not used to that. In the private sector he had lawyers who said yes. And here was McGahn saying no. But even in the face of all that he was able to secure two Supreme Court nominees and a number of other judicial picks that will be in the judiciary for a long time to come - leaving a legacy for sure.  What else has McGahn been able to accomplish under this administration besides the Supreme Court pick?  Right all of these judicial nominees - and one question that comes up now is who might replace him. The person that is getting the most talk is Emmet Flood. He is someone who was brought into the White House to help deal with the Russia investigation earlier this year. He has a history. He defended President Clinton during impeachment and was part of the Bush administration making a case for executive privilege. And it is not clear whether he will actually get the job. But there is thought that he was brought into this current role with the idea that he would ultimately replace McGahn.  That is NPR White House correspondent Tamara Keith. Thanks Tam.  You are welcome.  