 While the two candidates wasted no time today stacking up the swing state miles we are going to linger for the next few minutes on the Democratic Convention and President Obama's performance last night. To do that I am going to turn it over to my co-host Audi Cornish who is still in Charlotte.  Thanks Melissa. And I am going to turn it over to our regular political commentators E.J. Dionne speaking with me in Charlotte and David Brooks who is already made his way back to Washington. Gentlemen welcome.  Good to be here. E.J.  Good to be with you.  So first impressions right this big speech for the president. We had President Obama actually acknowledge that the last few years have been hard on the country and humbling for him. Here's a little snip of the speech.  And while I am very proud of what we have achieved together I am far more mindful of my own failings knowing exactly what Lincoln meant when he said I have been driven to my knees many times by the overwhelming conviction that I have no place else to go.  So David he had a touch of the conciliatory here but also you know some defiance. Did this speech work for you?  I thought it was good against the Republicans. Both parties are making a good case against the other. I really was struck by the president's lack of really a big agenda for the next four years. Two-thirds of the country thinks we are headed in the wrong direction. That suggests this is a change election. They want a change and the question is does Obama have a new burst of change in him and if he does I do not think we really saw it. We saw some very familiar policies very familiar goals. A lot of them are very good. They are things like helping more people go to community college longer life for batteries things like that but they are not exactly a big grand change agenda. And so you know there is a cliche in  politics you cannot beat something with nothing. And the Democrats apparently are going to test that proposition.  E.J.?  I guess both parties may be testing that proposition. I was struck that a lot of people have said this was a state of the union address. But precisely because of what David said that there were not a lot of detailed policies in here at all. I thought it was more like an inaugural address summoning the nation to action and sacrifice. You know one commentator after another has said that President Obama cannot inspire the elation he called forth four years ago and that is true because times are tough. And I thought a little humility was a good idea in these times. So Obama turned things around. He challenged those who supported him to stay in the fight for the long term and do the work required for saving their original vision. It was still hope and change but it was hope and change made of sterner and more demanding stuff. I heard in parts of the speech echoes of John F. Kennedy's ask not what your country can do ask what you can do for your country. So it was not at all a traditional political speech. This was not transactional politics here's what I will do for you. It is what you citizens ought to do with me and that is an interesting approach.  At the same time E.J. I want to stop you there because you have had so many people come to the stage of the Democratic National Convention who made the case for the president defensively. And so were not people looking for specific policies?  Right. No I agree with the general critique that there were not a lot of specifics here. And I thought that Romney had opened a big door for the president to walk through by in a sense having even fewer specifics than President Obama had. And they you know you sometimes wondered if the Obama campaign thinks it is on a good track to win and just did not want to mess things up by being more specific. I too was looking for somewhat more specificity. One specific thing however that was interesting is he mentioned climate change. That issue's been dead since 2010. I thought that was the one striking courageous moment or one of the striking and actually courageous moments in the speech.  And obviously the issue that people are talking about far more than climate change are the jobs numbers at least today. 96000 jobs created in the most recent jobs report. And while the unemployment rate fell to 8.1 percent that is largely because people gave up looking for work. So it is interesting President Obama's message last night about jobs and the economy was pretty blunt. Here's what he had to say.  Now I will not pretend the path I am offering is quick or easy. I never have. You did not elect me to tell you what you wanted to hear you elected me to tell you the truth.   And the truth is it will take more than a few years for us to solve challenges that have built up over decades.  Now David is that message going to resonate with voters?  If we were on the right path it would but I am not sure we are. You know the job creation in 2012 is worse than in 2011. So we are going backwards. If we had the same number of people in the labor force now as we did when Obama took office the unemployment rate would be over 11. Non-supervisory wages are just collapsing. And so we are sort of headed slightly in the wrong direction. And so that is going to be a drain on the administration and there is a case where you really could imagine a bold agenda. You know one of the things that characterizes this joblessness is that people with college degrees are fine. We have basically recovered from the recession. People without college degrees their prospects are plummeting. And so you can imagine a bold series of things to do to get rid of that education gap and that I think highlights the vacuum the policy vacuum that we heard last night.  E.J.?  You know in partial defense of the speech actually one of the biggest sections of the speech was actually on education and training. But I think one of the things that is striking is how Bill Clinton the night before was far more specific on many of these matters both explaining why the economy is not better but that Obama still kept us from falling into a disaster and suggesting that Obama's way forward is more promising. Nonetheless I think it is almost as if when Obama gave this speech he expected the job numbers today right after his speech to be disappointing. That may explain some of the humility in the speech. And it was almost a bit of Churchill - all I promise you is blood sweat and tears - because he did not say everything's going to be easy in this speech. And there was I think a little less optimism about the long term than one might have expected.  And we just have a short time left so I want to ask lastly Which of the two parties here pulled off a more effective convention? Let us use that word.  Well very briefly I think the Democratic convention was more focused more on-message more disciplined. And I think that Michelle Obama was incredible and launched a critique of Mitt Romney without mentioning his name. Clinton was obviously Clinton and Obama was in some ways less effective than those two speakers but I think it was much more on-message and focused.  David last word to you.  I would also give the Democrats a slight edge. Michelle was better than Ann. Clinton was the best speech of the year. And his speech made the Republican convention look worse in retrospect because the Romney-Ryan campaign did not take the advantage to explain their policies and Clinton basically just filled the vacuum.  Of course we have many many weeks to go to November and far more opportunities for the parties to make their case. Of course the debates will be the next thing we will all be excited to talk about next. E.J. Dionne with The Washington Post and Brookings Institution thank you E.J.  Thank you.  And David Brooks of The New York Times thank you David.  Thank you.  And I am Audie Cornish here in Charlotte. 