 A band from the fertile Latin alternative scene in Los Angeles is poised to break out in a big way.  Their sound - laid-back grooves RB with flavors from Mexico or Brazil and a funky swagger.  Their look - matching puffy tuxedo shirts and bow ties as if they are playing a prom in 1976.  Even their name is unforgettable - Chicano Batman.    You have got an open heart. So you share what is inside thinking that all is said in confidence. But then you realize.   Friendship is a small boat in a storm.   The sun is getting heavy.  That is a track from Chicago Batman's new album Freedom Is Free. Our LA-based colleague Kelly McEvers paid them a visit.  When we asked the Chicano Batman guys to meet us somewhere they suggested this classic joint called Future Music that sells vintage guitars and amps. The walls are covered with guitars in all kinds of colors - orange yellow burnt sienna. This is where a lot of local musicians hang out. And I asked the lead singer of Chicano Batman to sing for me and he did.   This is me when I sit down. A new moon a new light a new focal point of sight makes me feel all right. How is it go?   That is great.  Something like that. You all got to get the record .  That is Bardo Martinez. He and guitarist Carlos Arevalo sat down on a few old amps and talked to me about their new album their wild stage shows and whether or not their sound could have only come from this city - Los Angeles. Here's Carlos.  I think definitely one of the inspirations for the sound of the group is like what we would call low rider oldies music you know. And that is a really Southwest thing. There is a DJ out here called Art Laboe. He is in his 90s.   And here he is Southern California's number one disc jockey Art Laboe.  And he is still pushing that music. And that music was not lost on us. I would - we would tune in every Sunday night on his show. It is syndicated. And you would hear amazing sounds like just - you were not hearing in modern music. And I think...  Like what? Like what is some good...  You would hear stuff by Thee Midniters.    I am giving up on love.  The Sunglows Ralfi Pagan Barbara Lewis you know just classic music that just does not go out of style ever.  So in part it is the stuff you grew up with hearing that you wanted to kind of incorporate into your own stuff?  Well exactly. I grew up next to the Santa Fe Springs Swap Meet you know what I am saying? So you find all these compilations made by Art Laboe you know...  Yeah. So you go get records bring them home.  So LA is definitely like because you live here you hear that music.    This is me when I sit down. A new moon a new light a new focal point of sight makes me feel all right.  You guys have a logo. And it is like a combination of basically the superhero Batman and the United Farm Workers' eagle. What is that all about? Explain the thinking there.  You know it is just to empower. And it is just like the UFW the logo it is just as powerful as Batman you know creating a voice for the voiceless. You know and that is kind of like a part of Chicano Batman's identity. But that is not the principle. I mean we are many other things as well.  Yeah. So you are many other things. But one of the things it sounds like you are is political...  Yes.  ...And unapologetically so. I mean I think people have been afraid to be political. We are obviously in a different moment right now.  Right.  Has that always been true? Again does that just come from who you are as people or is that something you kind of decided on?  I think it is - implicitly it is been political. I mean the fact that you have four you know very brown Latinos going out there and playing music on these stages that usually people like us that look like us have not really been represented on. That is a political statement you know.  Yeah.  And are our songwriting and messages have always been about you know love and acceptance and positivity. With this new record we are being a little bit more explicit in terms of the political slant.  What is an example of a song on the new album that you feel like is you know getting into the world of the political?  There is a song called La Jura that Eduardo our bass player wrote. And that is basically a Spanish language Black Lives Matter song.   .  .   .  . You know the other night was a terrible night. They killed a friend of mine. And so the next line is like . I do not understand why those who are supposed to protect us like do the opposite.   .  There is another one called Freedom Is Free.  Yes.  And when you first listen to that song it is gray. It is like kind of trippy. It just like puts you in this really good mood. It feels very SoCal.    Nobody likes you. Nobody cares. Nobody wants you. Nobody cares to extend a greeting a connecting glance. Life is just a jaded game to them. They will not give it a chance.  It is awesome. But then you start to think about it. And then I read something too where that is political too. Explain that one.  It is the title track of our album.  Yeah.  And I will say that you know I am free inside. And no one can change that. No matter like what war you are trying to fight you are not fighting for my freedom. My freedom's inside me. It is always been that way.  Well also I was thinking of this idea of I mean we heard it during the Iraq War.  Exactly.  You say freedom is not free.  Right. Exactly.  Is like is this your response to that?  It is our response to that.  Yeah.  My freedom is completely free you know. My interpretation of the I mean for me it is an empowering song. There is a lot of fear happening right now you know. And I feel like people are making decisions based on fear. And if you look back in history you will see that those decisions usually lead to a lot of human suffering you know. And I think if people can put those fears to rest and look inside themselves then their mind and spirit is truly free.    Freedom is free.  You guys have a big U.S. tour planned. I mean you are getting this kind of nationwide push. Like it is getting big. It is happening. Does that mean LA's going to lose you?  No. LA will always be you know our home base. LA's rich culturally you know. And that is something that I personally took for granted and did not realize I was taking it for granted until I traveled the country in this band you know. And there is some places that just do not have as much diversity you know for whatever reason you know. It is not a negative thing. It is just how life is in some of those places. That is a real blessing to be able to be here and thrive here.   Carlos Arevalo and Bardo Martinez thank you both...  Thank you.  Thank you. Thank you so much. Appreciate that.  ...A lot. Yeah.   That was our colleague Kelly McEvers speaking with two members of the band Chicano Batman. Their new album is called Freedom Is Free.  