 U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder visited Ferguson Missouri today. He was there to meet with federal investigators. They are one of two teams trying to figure out what exactly happened when a police officer Darren Wilson shot and killed an unarmed 18-year-old Michael Brown. Both cases are expected to take weeks if not months. And we hear more from NPR's Elise Hu. She says people in the area are frustrated with the wait.  What do we want?   Justice.  When do we want it?   Now.  This morning about two dozen demonstrators showed up not in Ferguson but in the St. Louis County town of Clayton. That is where the county prosecutor is prepared to present evidence to a grand jury considering Michael Brown's killing.  This means something to me so I had to be here.  If you ask Lamont Farr and others demonstrating across the street from courthouse the County prosecutor Robert McCullough is a problem. They say he should not even be in charge of this case.  We want Bob McCulloch off the case. That is what we are here for today.  When McCullough was 12 his father a police officer was killed in the line of duty. McCullough is White - the man who shot his dad - Black. For that reason many in the community do not think the prosecutor can be objective.  We are fighting for justices across the world we do not even have justice at home.  McCullogh says his dad's death decades ago will not affect his judgment and he is not going anywhere. Missouri Governor Jay Nixon said in a statement on Tuesday - he is not asking the prosecutor to step aside. Besides the county's investigation into Michael Brown's death is not the only one underway. The Department of Justice is investigating whether Brown's civil rights were violated. Attorney General Eric Holder came to Ferguson today to meet with FBI investigators law enforcement and other community leaders. Agents have now reportedly conducted more than 200 interviews but the answers and potential charges so many are demanding will not come quickly.  You are talking about at least months and it is not impossible in some civil rights investigations that they take years.  Paul Coggins is a formal federal prosecutor who worked with Attorney General Eric Holder in the Clinton administration.  If you are looking for answer those answers may be a long time incoming in part because of the rules - the guidelines for the Department of Justice. They are allowed to tell the community - we are on the job we are making progress - general things like that but they are not allowed to share the specific evidence until - until an indictment comes down.  But Coggins says federal involvement could help quell distrust of the county's handling of the case. He is seen it before.  Sometimes it is very difficult for a DA or a county attorney to convince a community that he or she can be objective where the police are concerned. The Civil Rights Division prosecutes police officers all the time - that is what they do.  In Ferguson on Canfield drive where police Officer Darren Wilson shot Michael Brown church pastor Cori Bush shows up daily.  I will be out here as long as this is going on.  In the middle of the road visitors add flowers baseball caps and stuffed bears to an ever-expanding makeshift memorial for Brown. Bush comes out to pass out food during the day and demonstrates at night.  One thing about it is it shifts. So whatever the shift is - so if the shift is moving off to West Forest and then we go to Clayton and protest there - just whatever it is I will be there.  She knows the big crowds will eventually dwindle but Bush is from here so she has no plans to stop participating.  This can go on until the verdict comes down. So we have got to get the indictment first and then the verdict. So it may be a while.  As the legal process plays out a neighborhood already torn by unrest and uncertainty has no choice but to wait. Elise Hu NPR News Ferguson Missouri. 