 Comedy is big business. Streaming stand-up specials comedian-led talk shows podcasts and more are yielding what some see as a golden age. And women are emerging as some of the biggest stars and rule-breakers. Over the coming months ALL THINGS CONSIDERED will feature some of them. And first up Hannah Gadsby and her new show Douglas. Gadsby Tasmanian-born with an art history degree kind of came out of left field last year with her special Nanette on Netflix.   Art history taught me historically women did not have time for the think-thoughts. They did not have time - no - too busy napping naked alone in the forest.   But this show took an unexpected detour into the trauma of homophobia sexism in art and her critique on where comedy fails us. It seemed like she was done with her own job as a comedian.   I do think I have to quit comedy though. I do not feel very comfortable in it anymore. I have a built a career out of self-deprecating humor. I put myself down in order to seek permission to speak and I simply will not do that anymore - not to myself or anybody who identifies as me.   We all thought you were going to quit.   You clearly have not. So what happened?  Well I mean it was always a theatrical conceit. When I was writing the show I am like people are not going to like this. You know if I quit comedy at the beginning people cannot say that I did it wrong.  Yeah.  So I quit in the middle of a show and then I stopped doing comedy because it was an exhausting show to perform. So there was a part of me that is like - would be nice to stop but things have happened.  Yeah a few people have seen it since.  Yeah .  Just so people understand the premise and why it would be exhausting is in Nanette you dissect a joke and a kind of comedy we have all gotten used to. And I would look back at maybe Richard Pryor as someone who really popularized this in a big way - of like here is something that is a very personal pain it may have involved violence or something scary - but I am going to make it funny. And for you this was an incident where you were attacked for being gay. Can you talk a little bit about it?  Yeah. It was when I was in Tasmania at a bus stop. And I got mixed up in a man's rage. I tell the story in the show at first like it is a joke and then I strip it back. So I do what is known as a callback. He was a bit of an idiot - drunk idiot who thought I was a gay man trying to hit on his girlfriend which still amuses me. It is like dude that is not how it works.   That is not what...  So this is you reeling me in.  Yeah. So this is...  So now I am like oh I am comfortable. I am...  Yeah. It is a funny trope and it is also laughing at the country bumpkins. You know they are the homophobe. And then later on in the show I go - he beat me up. And I was still sort of stuck in that trauma. And I realized it was because I would been stopping short whenever I would tell this story to the world. And the world's going this is an acceptable narrative - a stranger who is dumb who is from the country who is homophobic.  Right. And also she is fine.  Yeah.  Right? Like that is what allows us to laugh - hey she is fine.  They all too easily laugh at country bumpkins. But that is where I am from. There are people like me living there trying to grow up in those places.  The stakes are much higher than people realize.  Really are then yeah. Because you mock people they take it out on vulnerable people.  So you taking on these issues caused a lot of let us say consternation  in the comedy world...  Yeah.  ...A lot of discussion about whether you are even a comedian.  I mean what is incredible about all that for me is that that is what they took out of the show. Like...  It seemed like people were saying - look - there are rules. This is what comedy is this is what comedy is not. Are there rules? And has a lot of your comedy been about just breaking them?  Well if they no longer make sense I do not mind breaking them. And I am a student of art history as well. I have seen this pattern. People break rules they get accused of not being actual artists. And I was like this is old news.  Can you give an example of a rule?  In comedy?  Yeah because we do not...  You got to make them laugh .  That is a good one.  Like that is pretty much it. Like end on a laugh. Everything has to be funny. But if the only thing you have to do is make people laugh then you stop thinking about what it is you are saying.  Anything for a laugh.  Yeah.  And that has maybe real implications for women in particular...  Yeah.  ...In terms of who you have to impress.  Yeah. If you are a funny woman the world's not necessarily easy for you to navigate. Men being funny is something that culturally we accept and like. Women it is a much more of a high-wire act.  In what way? What do you think?  Well I think men find it quite threatening - as a rule. I am speaking very broadly. But also I have got a lot to back that up with.   You know another thing I want to ask about is in this show you say something along the lines of like you like to needle the patriarchy. And when people hear language like that it can be off-putting right? Like oh no - is this going to be a lecture?  Yeah. So one of the underpinnings of the show is that online hate is a thing that is quite the lot at the moment.  Right all of the shouts and murmurs from social media you get when you are a public person.  Yeah. And you know sticks and stones will break your bones - like yeah they did break my bones. But honestly I think it is - names are the issue. Like names are where the hate is born. That is where hate begins.  Yeah.  These are the seeds. This is where you got to dig them out.  One of the big reveals in Douglas although it is not a reveal because you tell us right away at the top  is that you have been diagnosed with autism. Why did you want to share that with the public? And how did you find out that you were autistic?  Well it was a long slow process of just never quite knowing what I have done wrong.  In social situations.  Yeah in social situations. Like so what people often see as rudeness - me caring but caring wrong. And once I understood that I am more compassionate to myself when I make mistakes. It is like - oh this is just not a thing you are very good at.  Yeah. How did it make you think about your approach to comedy?  Well it dramatically changed it because one of the difficult things I had in my comedic voice was how to manage this really intellectual part of myself with this childlike naivete that I have. You know I see things that other people do not. And I miss things that everyone else seems to get instantly.  You know your ability to dissect and break things down it reveals your mastery - right? - as a comedian 'ecause you can tell me - that was observational humor you are going to laugh at it. You are probably going to laugh at it in 10 to 15 minutes. And I was like she is right. I was shaking my fist in the audience. Like I did laugh at the Louis C.K. joke. How did she do it?  Well that is right because I study things. Sometimes I look into a problem and I am like - well this actually does not make sense. The world is believing a stupid thing. Right? This is made-up.  . It feels like we are in this moment - maybe because of the MeToo movement maybe because of someone like Louis C.K. and this kind of high-profile questioning of men and male behavior in comedy - that there is an opening.  Yeah I hope so. I hope so. I am aware there is quite a considerable backlash going on. I think I am an outsider. And I think it is a good thing for comedians to be reminded that that is what comedy is. It is being an outsider. So if you are getting worried that comedy is so delicate that people cannot question it then harden up.  Yeah it is interesting. There is a lot of - the audience is too sensitive the audience is too PC.  No comedians are too sensitive. Like if something as benign as political correctness can kill comedy then comedy's already dead.  That is Hannah Gadsby. Her new stand-up tour is called Douglas. 