 When writer Thomas McGuane sold his first novel The Sporting Club in the late 1960s he bought a small ranch in Montana and he is lived in Montana ever since. Along with his writing McGuane raises cattle and cutting horses. He lives in a house built by homesteaders along a river outside the tiny town of McLeod.  You know people so thoroughly. They know - I mean where I live for example they know what time in the morning we usually turn the lights on . And it is a little socially claustrophobic that way. We all know a lot about each other. But for a writer it is kind of a good thing.  Montana characters fill the pages of Tom McGuane's latest book. It is a collection of short stories titled Crow Fair. There is a divorced dad who takes his young son out for an ill-fated day of ice fishing a restless cattle breeder who takes a gamble on a more lucrative and dangerous line of work a guy who abandons his blind grandmother by the side of a river to go get drunk and chase after a corpse he spotted floating by. Mostly these characters are loners outcasts and malcontents.  You know I think the - there is only really one interesting story I guess and that is the struggle. And when I am writing I try to think of people who for some reason or another are struggling. That I guess predisposes malcontentism or something. But it is people who are not content with the situation they are in want to move on to the next thing and often occasion mistakes.  You know I am thinking that a lot of the characters in these stories are folks that you would not want to spend a whole lot of time with. They have lots of problems. A number of them have been left by their wives. They drink a lot. They get into horrible situations. As a writer you do have to spend a lot of time with them. And I wonder if that is part of the appeal for you of being with folks who are unsavory.  Well I think maybe so-called unsavory people is a people who are kind of voiceless in a way. And I try to find out what their view of the world would be by imagination - to sort of see how they see things. And also it would not interest me very much to write a lot about contented people successful people. That is I think for some other job - maybe sociology.   Not mine.  Yeah where is the struggle there right?  Yeah exactly.  The stories are mostly set in Montana your home state. And this is not the idyllic romantic gorgeous Montana that we might have in our imagination. Is that sort of a Western myth that you like to puncture?  It is not so much that I like to puncture it because I love the West and I would not want to live anywhere else. But I have long been preoccupied that the West that I see every day has never emerged into the sort of Chamber of Commerce West. We have a kind of official West - the West of the big sky and of cowboy movies and all sorts of things. But really mostly the people you see where I live are the same people you see where you live. But for some reason they are considered to be beneath the attention of local artists. And in fact I am kind of considered someone who is betraying the local...  Oh really?  ...View of things. Yeah. They think I should write more like A. B. Guthrie.  You hear that from people there?  I actually do. They think you know this is not really like that or you know people do not really eat pizza in Montana.   There are no secretaries here - that sort of thing. But it is not a matter of wanting to puncture something. It is really a matter of writing about the world that I actually know. And I have been there for nearly a half-century so I have a pretty good database on what goes on around me. But when people talk about Montana they are talking about a very small portion of it. They are not talking about the eastern two-thirds of the state where life is very tough. They are usually talking about the ski areas and the universities and things like that.  Yeah. I wonder when you think back your first book - your first novel The Sporting Club was published back in 1969. You have written 15 books I think in all if I have counted them correctly. What are the things that you know now as a writer that you had no clue about when you started out?  Well I think when I first started out I had a kind of exuberance about language comedy narrative leaps that were close to - stopped just short of non sequiturs. And I am much more cautious now. I look things over a little bit more carefully before leaping into them. I am also - I like writing that is a bit more direct because I hope the subjects are difficult enough that they supply all the indirection that I could possibly manage. And then I think living where I do among nonliterary people I probably have gotten to want to be able to write things that they could understand. I have always given the people that worked on the ranch - I have always given them books to read and I have learned what they cannot read and what they can read and why they may be right about that. And maybe that is simplified my story - style a little bit or made it a little more - or not simplified but it made it plainer.  Do you go back Tom McGuane and read your earliest books The Sporting Club Ninety-Two In The Shade?  No.  Never?  I never have no. I have never looked at a page of them.  Come on really?  Seriously. I am a - really a fanatical reviser. And there comes a point where I have to declare a truce with the text or I will keep fooling with it forever. I mean I think most of the stories in this book have been drafted at least eight or nine or 10 times. And if I went back and read my earlier books I would feel so frustrated that I could not rewrite them that I know not to look.  Wow. That is amazing to me that you would not be curious to think you know who was that guy? What was I - what did I sound like when I was in my 30s?  Right. I think maybe I - probably the most kind of over-the-top book language-wise was Ninety-Two In The Shade. And I think I have looked at that.  Uh-huh. OK.  You know I think by my current standards I found it a little flamboyant. But it was kind of fun too. I think my comic sense was more lit up in those days than it is now.  It was the '70s right? It was the crazy '70s.  It was the '70s and my - you know I mean all the people I knew were all still alive. My parents and my sister died all very close together. And after that I lost quite a bit of my sense of humor. Most of it I think has kind of come back. But I know there was a time when I did not things were funny anymore. I kind of think they are funny again.   Well Tom McGuane it is been a pleasure. Thanks so much.  OK. Thank you Melissa.  Tom McGuane. His new collection of short stories is titled Crow Fair. 