 Imagine trying to prepare your children for the day you disappear without warning. Many parents in the country illegally are trying to do that in light of President Trump's plans to crack down on illegal immigration. Michigan Radio's Jennifer Guerra reports.  Miguel and Angel are brothers. I sat down with them at a bakery in metro Detroit. Miguel is 14. Angel's 15. And they pretty much disagree on everything like TV shows.  I watch cartoons.  I watch Chinese dramas.  They also have wildly different tastes in music and games even the way they dress. But Angel says there is one thing they do agree on - what to do if they come home from school one day and their mom's not there.  I will immediately just grab the binder.  It is a black three-ring binder they keep in a closet. Their mom whose name we are not using because of her fear of being deported put it together a few months ago. Her kids are all U.S. citizens but she came here illegally from Mexico 18 years ago. And while she prays every day that she will not get picked up and deported Angel says she is prepared them all for the worst.  I will immediately just grab the binder and just call my family here call to a friend of mine that is police. I will have him come to the house and take care of us while we figure out what happened to my mom and where she is.  .  She says yes she gave her two oldest boys instructions on what to do and who to call. She also put a notarized letter in the binder giving her cousin an American citizen legal authority to take care of all six of her kids until they can be reunited with her in Mexico. Her 7-year-old daughter does not really know about any of this. She is busy well being 7 playing basketball and violin and crushing it at her school spelling bee.  I like my spelling bee a lot because last time I remember we having a competition and I was first winner.  Do you remember the word you won on?  Yeah. It was think - T-H-I-N-K.  High five. She is mostly unaware of the panic seeping in around her. And her mom says she wants to preserve that sense of innocence for as long as possible.   I have tried to talk about it with her. She starts to cry and hugs me. She is very sensitive. I felt horrible when I had this conversation with the three older kids because even though they are older they would cry and hug me. I understand that I am in a country that is not mine. But it is the country of my children. So if they were older I would not worry. But they still need me.  It is estimated there are more than 11 million unauthorized immigrants in the U.S. and millions of more kids born here in this country who have at least one parent who is unauthorized. Jess Hanson is a lawyer with the National Immigration Law Center based in LA. She teaches know your rights workshops and says the anxiety is palpable across the country. Her advice to parents - make a plan.  If you are detained in a workplace raid at 1 p.m. and you are supposed to pick your kids up at 3 who is going to pick up your children? Who is going to feed them dinner? Those types of very practical considerations need to be taken into account.  Other things to include - updated passports key phone numbers and a power of attorney to watch over your kids.  To allow a relative or close friend to make medical decisions on the child's behalf and a place for the child to live temporarily if the parents are not around.  She says if families do not make a detailed plan if they do not have their own black binder with details on who can legally step in to take care of their kids they run the risk of the state stepping in and placing their children into foster care. For NPR News I am Jennifer Guerra. 