 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Robert Siegel. This month we have been meeting hitmakers people who make and sell songs that go to the top of the charts. In Nashville and Atlanta New York and L.A. they are focused on producing the pop song of the moment. But as NPR's Zoe Chace reports they also study the music of their parents and grandparents.  Picture this Pop music writer Ryan Tedder driving around Los Angeles drumming his fingers on the dash listening to his favorite radio station. Mr.  When I am in the car I have Sirius Radio and I listen to the Forties On Four which is you know all 1940s music.  This is a guy who writes and sings pop music that plays on today's commercial pop radio. But he is not listening to those stations hoping to hear his own songs.  Ms.   Keep bleeding keep keep bleeding love.    It is too late to apologize. It is too late.    Halo. I can see your halo halo halo.  Those are songs sung by the likes of Leona Lewis and Beyonce and also by Tedder himself as front man of his own band OneRepublic. But here's the song he wants to write.  Mr.   She gets too hungry for dinner at eight. She likes the theater and never comes late. Mr.  I mean it has a soul to it that just is completely nonexistent in music today. I feel like a Frank Sinatra - and you know and I am writing it so writing a lot of what is happening today so I guess I could point the finger back to myself for propagating some of this. But you know when you think about a song like At Last...  Ms.   At last... Mr.  I could write that song now and give it to let us say a Mariah Carey or whomever and it would not work. You would put it on the radio and it would die instantly.  Ms.   My lonely days are over. And life is like a song. Mr.  Try and think about that working today that is just not - I mean it is like forget it. It is too melodical you know? It is too musical. It is not - it does not have an 808 drum kit behind it. And it is not programmed to be playing in a club.  Everyone we interviewed for our series on Hitmakers agreed with Ryan Tedder. A hit song is always a product of its moment. The very nature of a hit is that it is fleeting. Mr.  It is a blueprint.  LaShawn Daniels has been writing hit songs for more than 10 years. Mr.  You can definitely go back in the '40s and everything and just dissect the elements of that hit record the emotion of the time frame what was going on in that time period to the people because it translate the emotion of that era.  It is not just the Rat Pack or Motown that today's writers keep in their back pocket. Ms.  I was in the gym today and Thriller came on.  Makeba Riddick writes commercial pop songs with Daniels. Ms.  And I was like oh my goodness this is like the biggest record of all time. Mr.  Right. Ms.  But could I hear it on the radio today? Mr.  If it was fresh and brand-new right now if it came out today. Ms.  No.  But here's how Thriller is relevant to today's hitmakers. Here's why they study up on the hits of the '40s '50s '60s Because they will take elements of what worked then - say a lyric a bass line -and build a song that'll top the charts right now. Ms.  So many of those old records have been sampled and become number one records all over again. Mr.  Right. Right. Ms.  So I definitely think that you could give a record a facelift and it could be a hit. Mr.  Absolutely.    La-la-la la-la-la la-la-la-la-oh. You know...  This is what the 1982 hit Tainted Love sounded like when it was re-worked into the hit song S.O.S. in 2006. Evan Bogart wrote it. He is another one who is written for the likes of Beyonce Britney Spears and Rihanna. Mr.  We took what we thought were the most memorable parts of Tainted Love which were the bass line melody and the synth the doo doo and we re-interpolated that. And then you know I wrote on top of it what a young female's new version of Tainted Love would be like. The only line I used from the original is tossing and turning you know cannot sleep at night.    Y.O.U. are making this hard. You got me tossin' and turnin' cannot sleep at night.  This is what made S.O.S. a hit It is fresh but calls back to what you heard on the ice skating rink what you heard your parents play before you could choose your own music. But there is one problem with that approach. Mr.  If you sample everything today what are you going to sample in 20 years?  Quincy Jones - that is the guy we need. He is maybe the only person alive who is been making mega hits since the 1940s jazz hits soul hits Motown hits pop hits. He produced Thriller. He is going to tell us about the connection between the hits today and the hits of 60 years ago.   Now think back to today's music writers driving around L.A. listening to Count Basie and his orchestra. That is not just a writer with his head in the sand nostalgic for an era where pop cost a nickel. That is a writer who is developing tomorrow's hit songs. Because from Basie to Katy Perry what worked in the '40s worked in the '70s works right now. Mr.  In the '30s and '40s Basie was one of the biggest bands in America. And the bass drum was four to the floor - gong gong gong gong. Exactly the same. Exactly the same as disco. Exactly.     Burn baby burn. Disco inferno. Burn baby burn. Burn that mother down.  Ms.   ...teenage dream the way you turn me on.  Four to the floor. It is got a good beat. You can dance to it. It is a hit. Zoe Chace NPR News.  Ms.   My heart stops when you look at me. Just one touch. Now baby I believe this is real. So take a chance and do not ever look back. Do not ever look back.  Teenage Dream by Katy Perry was the number one single for two weeks this fall one of three number one hits she had in 2010. Here at year's end we will take a quick note of some of the biggest names on the charts this year.  And Katy Perry is one of three women who dominated the Billboard Hot 100. Going back to January a new name was zipping up the charts -Kesha with an ode to too much partying.    Wake up in the morning feeling like P. Diddy. P.  Hey what up girl?   Got my glasses. I am out the door. I am gonna hit this city. P.  Let us go.   Before I leave brush my teeth with a bottle of Jack 'ecause when I leave for the night I as not coming back.  Tik Tok stayed at the top for nine weeks longer than any other song this year.    Do not stop. Make it pop. DJ blow my speakers up. Tonight I amma fight 'til we see the sunlight.  After two months Kesha finally ceded her number one spot. Then in March Rihanna staked her first claim of the year on the Hot 100.    Come here rude boy boy can you get it up? Come here rude boy boy is you big enough? Take it take it baby baby. Take it take it love me love me. Come here rude boy boy can you get it up? Come here rude boy boy is you big enough? Take it take it baby baby. Take it take it...  Rihanna would go on to have a total of four number one songs on the charts this year more than any other artist.  By another measure there was a singer who was even more popular - Justin Bieber. His video for Baby has more views than any other music video on YouTube.  Mr.   And I was like baby baby baby oh. Like baby baby baby no. Like...  More than 400 million viewers. And Justin Bieber never once made it to the number one spot on the Billboard Hot 100 for 2010.  Mr.   Baby baby baby oh. Like baby baby baby no. Like baby baby baby oh. I thought you would always be mine mine.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 