 Secretary of State Antony Blinken and national security adviser Jake Sullivan have wrapped up a day and a half of meetings with Chinese officials in Anchorage Ala. U.S.-China relations have been frosty for months and the meetings got off to a pretty tense start yesterday with the two sides trading barbs on a range of issues. NPR China correspondent John Roberts joins us now with more. Hey John.  Hi there.  Hi. So all right you and I talked last night about how these meetings did start off pretty tensely. How did they end?  Well things appear to have settled down behind closed doors. After the meeting Secretary of State Blinken came out and said that China had a defensive reaction right when they raised these issues that they are at odds over - Xinjiang Hong Kong cybersecurity. And that was expected. But he said they were able to have very candid talks on what he called an expansive agenda. And it included Iran North Korea Afghanistan economics. Here's Blinken speaking to the media right after the meeting basically proclaiming it a success.   First we wanted to share with them the significant concerns that we have about a number of the actions that China has taken and the behavior it is exhibiting concerns shared by our allies and partners. And we did that. We also wanted to lay out very clearly our own policies priorities and worldview. And we did that too.  And after he spoke National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan said that the U.S. would continue to work with China through normal diplomatic channels.  OK. And what is the Chinese delegation - How are they characterizing these meetings?  Yang Jiechi who is the top foreign policy official in China really came out swinging yesterday. There is no doubt about it. I mean tough nationalistic rhetoric like that plays pretty well at home. You know that said reports in Chinese state media about the meeting were pretty measured. They did not play up the friction. And that is potentially a positive sign. Also interspersed with the tough rhetoric yesterday there were calls to manage the differences appropriately and work together which China has consistently said. And after the meeting Yang said that the talks were candid constructive and beneficial according to state TV.  Well one thing we have heard a lot lately is that the U.S. wants to work closely with allies and partners to pressure China to change in certain ways. What do you think U.S. allies especially like Japan and South Korea what do you think they think of that?  Yeah I put that question to Taylor Fravel who is a China and international relations expert at MIT. And here's what he said.  On the one hand I might view it as positive because the U.S. is airing concerns that I as the ally or partner share. On the other hand I might be concerned that this is the sign of a relationship that is going to sort of accelerate in terms of its decline.  He says what is tricky is that there is a lot of countries out there that would welcome more U.S. support but do not really want worse relations with China. I think we saw a bit of that before this meeting. Secretary Blinken was in Japan and South Korea as you say two U.S. allies. Japan was openly critical of China. And there was hardly a peep out of South Korea when it came to China. So that is going to be one of Washington's big challenges and it is one Beijing's taking careful note of.  That is NPR China correspondent John Ruwitch reporting from the San Francisco Bay Area. Thank you John.  Thank you. 