 In politics this week President Obama hosted the French president at the White House members of Congress threatened to shut down the government over a possible climate deal and Donald Trump did another cannonball dive in the swimming pool of presidential politics. Here to discuss all that is David Brooks of The New York Times joining us this week from Philadelphia. Hi David.  Hello.  And also Amy Sullivan of Yahoo News is here in the studio. Hi Amy.  Hi Ari.  Let us start with Trump. We have a clip here from a rally on Tuesday where he mocks a reporter named Serge Kovaleski who has a degenerative joint condition. Trump is using an article that Kovaleski wrote 14 years ago to back up the false claim that thousands of Muslims in New Jersey celebrated after 911. Let us listen.   Written by a nice reporter. Now the poor guy - you have got to see this guy. Oh I do not know what I said. Ah I do not remember. He is going like I do not remember. Maybe that is what I said.  So not the first time Donald Trump has mocked a reporter - also not the first time he is made a claim that is not supported by the facts. But David this seems like a new level on both counts.  Is it? Well he hits new levels. He started a new level and he keeps hitting them. I think for me the big question - is Trump for real? You know he is been on top of the polls for about four months doing antics like this and nothing seems to hurt him. So is he for real? And I still think the answer is no. When you look at Iowa New Hampshire in years past when the voters made up their mind they made up their mind in the last couple weeks. Eighty percent of the voters made up their mind in the last couple weeks. So it is important to remember that if - when you look at the polls of course they will give you an answer if you are asking who did they vote for. But those votes - at least 80 percent of them - are still undecided. And it just boggles my mind that when they actually do decide on something real they are going to go for Trump. So I am sticking with the camp that all this is just a pregame mirage.  Well Amy do you think this is wishful thinking on David's part? I mean people thought Trump would fade after the Paris attacks. They thought Trump would fade at the end of the summer. People kept thinking Trump would fade and he has not faded.  He has not faded and I think the Republican Party very much hopes that he will. They are hoping that this is just kind of a flash in the pan. And yet he keeps sticking around. And as far as we can tell from polling his outrageous statements which keep topping each other one after the other after the other are not pushing away his core supporters. Now whether he has anything more than what seems to be a ceiling of about 20 percent is still up for grabs. And we will know as the field starts to narrow or continues to narrow even more - farewell Bobby Jindal - where Donald Trump has some room to grow or whether you will see other candidates coming in.  Speaking of other candidates Ben Carson made an interesting move this week. He left yesterday evening for Jordan to visit with Syrian refugees. And of course this happens as Carson takes a lot of questions about how much he knows about foreign policy. David do you think this trip to refugee camp in Jordan will help?  Yeah we will see if he can find Jordan. You know I think...  That sounds like a no to me.  I think he is - he unlike Trump - Trump has had some downswings and then he is come back which demonstrates some resilient. Carson his numbers have not shown that resilience. When he starts sliding so far the slides have continued. And his level of lack of knowledge on some of these foreign-policy issues cannot be cured by a single trip to a refugee camp.  But it is an interesting move when most of the Republican Party is talking about closing the doors to refugees Amy for a Republican presidential candidate go to a refugee camp in Jordan.  Yeah well and especially someone who is comparing refugees to rabid dogs just last week. You know Ben Carson - I do not think anybody knows what he is doing including Ben Carson. But it is true that he is as time goes on starting to look more and more like what we saw a lot of in 2012 on the Republican side where Michelle Bachmann would be at the top of this polls and then she would drop and Rick Perry would do the same thing and then she would drop - he would drop. Herman Cain was at one point the Republican frontrunner.  I remember somebody memorably describing it as the Angry Birds candidacy where one after another they were go up and then plummet down. Well before the family turned their attention to turkey pardons and pumpkin pies President Obama hosted the French leader Francois Hollande at the White House this week. Let us listen to a bit of that.   We are here today to declare that the United States and France stand united in total solidarity to deliver justice to these terrorists and those who sent them and to defend our nations.  This week Hollande also visited Moscow to try to get Russian President Vladimir Putin to focus on defeating ISIS. But also this week Turkey shot down a Russian fighter jet near the Syrian border. So Amy when it comes to Syria the fight against ISIS would you say things are moving in a better or worse direction after this week's events?  I would say it is still a complete mess and continues to get a little more complicated. You know you have got Turkey going after Kurdish fighters who are fighting ISIS. You have got the Russians bombing moderate Syrians who the U.S. would like them to stop bombing. Apparently what has come out of the meeting between Hollande and Putin is Putin requested a map of the people he should not be bombing and said well you know once you can get that to us sure we will stop bombing the people we think we should not be. You know this continues to be just kind of a morass. And it was hard to know what to make of the meeting between Hollande and Obama because there is not much that the U.S. is willing to do right now - or can do - more than offer verbal support. Joe Biden said at one point like we have not just been doing most of it we have been doing it all. We have been doing 95 percent of the airstrikes in Syria.  David what would you say? There is a lot of activity but what direction is this actually moving?  Listen this thing is only going to be resolved - ISIS is only going to be weakened if the Sunnis on the ground - the normal Sunnis - take arms against it as they did against al-Qaeda in Iraq you know five or six years old. And that is only going to happen if Assad is taken out. As long as Assad is basically committing genocide against the Sunnis the Sunnis are going to stick with ISIS. And so the idea that we can have some alliance with Putin who is Assad's main backer is a chimera . And so we can have an alliance with France and hopefully we can have an alliance with the Turkmen and some of the people on the ground but we cannot have an alliance with Putin because his interests are diametrically opposed to ours. I thought what happened with the Turks and the Russians was the big story here. It showed that in a vacuum all the people with old historical claims - and of course Turkey has historical claims on Syria - are leaping in and trying to fill the void. And so it seems to me that the fount of strategic clarity here is thinking of course we have got to get rid of ISIS. But we cannot get rid of ISIS unless Assad is gone. And so there has to be this very complicated two-track policy which simply cannot involve Putin because he is against that policy.  Last item I want to ask you about just briefly - with a climate conference starting in Paris next week 200 countries meeting Republicans in Congress threatening to shut down the government over money to poor countries for climate change. David is shutting down the government becoming a standard political tool these days?  Threatening it seems to be over everything from Planned Parenthood to climate change but if you look at polls of Russian - I mean  Russian - Republican voters they hate the idea of shutting down the government so they may oppose some of the climate measures. But the idea of shutting down the government destabilizing the U.S. is very unpopular even among Republicans.  That is David Brooks of The New York Times and also Amy Sullivan of Yahoo News. Thanks to both of you.  Thank you.  Thank you. 