 Judges have been traveling the world for the past six weeks to hear musicians audition. And they have just returned to Texas where the 15th Van Cliburn International Piano Competition begins later this spring in Fort Worth. The contest is named for the American pianist who stunned the world by winning the Tchaikovsky Competition in Moscow at the height of the Cold War 59 years ago. Bill Zeeble of member station KERA caught some auditions in the Russian capital and brought back this report.  Russian native Nikita Abrosimov is 28 two years shy of the Cliburn competition's cut-off age. And he admits a little old to be hoping to become a touring pianist.  We try to get to the concert career. That is why we enter competitions.  The winner of the Cliburn gets three years of professional management international bookings and publicity. Abrosimov was a semifinalist in the last Cliburn competition four years ago. Today he is in a little performance hall in Moscow's Tchaikovsky Conservatory.   Abrosimov played a 40-minute audition for a small audience and five Cliburn judges. Though he was not even born when Van Cliburn played the first Tchaikovsky Competition he says the American pianist's win here still resonates.  It was so powerful that still after so many years it has huge impression on both professionals and music lovers. The name of Van Cliburn means a lot to Russian people. And Van Cliburn loved Russian culture Russian music. And the Russian audience also loved Van Cliburn.  One hundred forty-six pianists have been auditioning in seven cities across the world for 30 competition spots. Ten played here in Moscow. They picked their program to show off their strengths.   Dasol Kim of South Korea flew to Moscow from Berlin where he is lived for 12 years. He played Chopin's iconic Preludes.  Because it is just one big work that is really compact and really pianistic in my opinion. So I can show as many qualities as possible in one piece.  The Cliburn holds the most extensive audition screening tour by judges of any international contest.  I think this is a crucial part of the Cliburn.  Jacques Marquis is the organization's president and CEO.  When you think of hearing them on tapes or today on videos there is nothing that tells you more than listening to them live.  In Moscow the pianists managed distracting music coming from practice rooms and even construction sounds down the hall. University of North Texas piano professor Pamela Mia Paul said she and her fellow judges were hoping to hear that special voice rise above the din.  There are certain people who are just going to jump out at you. And we all may have different people who jump out at us but people that you just remember.  Another judge veteran concert pianist Michel Beroff says those kinds of talents are not easy to find.  Well you do not find a Van Cliburn every four years. So we just hope to find great talent. We are not sure. Until now I did not hear that person but I am expecting to hear it.  Twenty-one-year-old Sergey Tannin hopes the judges heard something in his performance of Prokofiev's 7th Piano Sonata. He says he was inspired to enter the contest after seeing Cliburn in a video.  It is my dream because I saw when Cliburn's playing. And of course this competition is one of the most prestigious competitions in the world.  How do you think you did?  It was good. But I wanted to play better I think .  Tannin and the others will find out if they made it on March 7. For NPR News I am Bill Zeeble in Dallas.  