 President Biden and Vice President Harris made a joint trip to the State Department today vowing that the U.S. will lead through diplomacy.   America is back. Diplomacy is back. You are the center of all that I intend to do. You are the heart of it.  Biden's aides say this was no accident that he chose to visit the State Department before other national security agencies. He wants to boost morale in an agency that Trump often dismissed as the quote deep State Department. NPR's Michele Kelemen is at the plain old State Department. She joins us now. Hey Michele.  Hi there Mary Louise.  So a morale-boosting visit - that was the goal. How did it go? How were they received?  Well because of the pandemic there were very few State Department employees who were actually in the room to hear that pep talk. There were screens on the stage though of some of the new foreign service officers at home on their computers. And he definitely hit the right notes for a department that is been kind of sidelined and politicized by the Trump administration. He said he has their backs he welcomes dissenting views but he was not very specific until he went upstairs to the more ornate Ben Franklin Room to deliver an actual foreign policy speech again mostly to an empty hall.  Well he did make some news in that mostly empty hall. He called on the coup plotters in Myanmar to quote relinquish power. He also had tough words for Russia. Tell us about that.  Yeah. I mean the big theme is about reviving alliances and pursuing diplomacy with adversaries when possible. So when you talk about Russia you know already he is extended a key arms control agreement with Russia. But just take a listen at how he described his first phone call with Vladimir Putin.   I made it clear to President Putin in a manner very different from my predecessor that the days of the United States rolling over in the face of Russia's aggressive actions - interfering with our elections cyberattacks poisoning its citizens - are over. We will not hesitate to raise the cost on Russia and defend our vital interests and our people.  So he is hinting there of course at sanctions. He also threatened sanctions on Myanmar where the military toppled the civilian government. And he said he is going to work with partners on that too.  Biden also made some news on Yemen. Let us listen to that a bit.   This war has to end. And to underscore our commitment we are ending all American support for offensive operations in the war in Yemen including relevant arms sales.  Michele what does that mean ending all American support?  Well he is talking about arms sales to Saudi Arabia which has been leading the fight against an Iranian-backed rebel group in Yemen. And this is a conflict that is often called the world's worst humanitarian disaster. Critics have complained that the U.S. arms sales and other support have fueled the conflict. Biden says he wants to focus on diplomacy. He is also going to have a career State Department official Tim Lenderking as the envoy on Yemen. Lenderking is someone with a lot of experience in the region.  So fair to say a clear theme emerging already here of reversing Trump policies.  In some areas yes - for instance on refugees. The Trump administration capped the number of refugees to 15000 this year. That is an historic low. Biden says his goal is to get to 125000. And he said he is going to start rebuilding the program at the State Department. He also says he wants U.S. diplomats to do more to promote LGBTQI rights around the world and he signed a memorandum about that today.  That is NPR's diplomatic correspondent Michele Kelemen at the State Department. Thanks Michele.  Thank you. 