 Donald Trump promised today that he will not run as an Independent and he will support the Republican nomination for president whoever that may be. Meanwhile Jeb Bush who has been damaged by Trump's campaign has decided to take Trump on directly in what is become a high-profile fight between the two contenders. NPR national political correspondent Don Gonyea has been following the back-and-forth and he joins us now from Manchester N.H. Don let us start with Trump. He met with RNC chair Reince Priebus to discuss this loyalty pledge. That is a pretty big deal.  It is certainly for the party which does not want Donald Trump launching an Independent run next year. But it also represents a reversal for Trump. Recall almost a month ago that first big Republican debate. The Fox News moderators started by asking the candidates if they would each pledge to support the GOP nominee in 2016. Trump and only Trump refused that night to make that pledge and he is refused ever since. But today at Trump Tower in Manhattan he met with Republican National Committee chair Reince Priebus. Afterward Trump held a news conference and said this.   So I will be totally pledging my allegiance to the Republican Party and the conservative principles for which it stands. And we will go out and we will fight hard. And we will win.  Don why did Trump say this today? Why now?  A couple of things are at play here. First here's Trump's answer. He says he is become the clear frontrunner in this race and that the party is finally showing him more respect as a candidate. And you know he says he is confident that he is going to be the nominee. But mostly it sounds like it is about respect. But here's a more practical answer. Individual states were beginning to look at loyalty pledges as a condition for getting on the ballot in those states. South Carolina third of the four early states to vote already has one. And the deadline to sign the pledge for South Carolina was the end of this month. Trump did not want to be left off the ballot in that state. Also I should add Virginia North Carolina - again two important states - have also been considering this same sort of pledge as a condition for getting on the ballot.  So is it a done deal - no Independent bid by Donald Trump next year?  OK. Nothing that he signed today is legally binding right? And he could always change his mind you know based on that respect question - right? - if he feels the party's not treating him fairly. He did say though that he cannot foresee any circumstances under which he would tear up the pledge.  Now Donald Trump has been mocking Jeb Bush the man who was considered the likely frontrunner at the beginning. Bush is starting to push back. What is he doing?  Right after a period where he was just kind of letting Trump have his space. But he was in Hampton N.H. this morning and during his opening remarks at this town hall he went after Trump directly. Here's Bush.   Donald Trump's view is that the end is near. His pessimistic view is let us close the borders let us create tariffs. Let us do this let us do that - all based on negativity. And the net result is that all of us will suffer if that philosophy gains favor.  So he is taking the gloves off there but you can also kind of tell he does not feel really comfortable doing it. You know he is out of his comfort zone but the campaign feels he needs to do it to try to contrast himself with Trump in Trump's style. And they are counting on there being a significant anti-Trump vote out there and maybe they can coalesce that.  That is NPR's Don Gonyea reporting for us from Manchester N.H. Thanks Don.  My pleasure. 