 In the Bahamas the government is offering free ferries and flights for people affected by Hurricane Dorian so they can get to the capital Nassau. While many of the shelters there are full the prime minister says there are still some spaces available. He is also calling on private citizens to open their homes to evacuees from Abaco and neighboring Grand Bahama. With so much destruction particularly on Abaco the plan is to move people off the island and offer them assistance in parts of the Bahamas that were not hit so hard. NPR's Jason Beaubien reports from the settlement of Cherokee. That is just south of Marsh Harbour. It did not suffer significant damage but residents there are still trying to figure out whether to stay or go.  Over the last few days there've been wild rumors spreading about cholera outbreaks in Marsh Harbour marauding gangs of machete-wielding Haitians and new hurricanes lined up in the Atlantic about to hit the Bahamas none of which appear to be true. The Pinder family however was not taking any chances. On Friday they were loading their dogs and their bags into a skiff at the dock in Cherokee to catch a fishing boat to Spanish Wells.  Come here quick.  Twenty-six-year-old William Pinder claims there is been a complete breakdown of law and order further up the coast. People are looting and he is convinced they will soon come here.  Now the government says we cannot protect ourself or nothing. If we shoot anybody they are going to send us to jail. So are we supposed to just sit up there and let us get shot or chopped up?  Most of the family is in the skiff ready to go.  Get the dog food.  But one of the dogs keeps jumping excitedly out of the boat and no one can get the dog crate to fold up.  This here's left a lot of people devastated. You see my cousin here? He just got a bank loan. He as not even a quarter of the way finished paying his bank loan. His house is ruined. The island of Abaco is going straight to hell.  As the boat pulls out William Pinder says he is not planning on coming back.  If I have to go and find a new job and I get work I am not coming back here to guess what I am doing.  On Friday Greg Albury decided he too had to get off the island.  It is been tough the last 24 hours - really really tough.  A lot of his friends and family members have been leaving. A whole group of them had departed on a boat the day before.  I got really upset. Thirteen of my family members - they left yesterday. It is a very emotional day.  Even though he has limited electricity and only sporadic water Albury's house did not suffer significant damage. He however used to work at the Abaco Beach Resort in Marsh Harbour which was destroyed.  None of us here are rich people. You know we are all working people and we have to have an income. And without the income I mean how can you survive?  Walking from the dock back to his house Greg runs into his dentist Jacqlin Denise Archer. She is herding her family into a pickup. She tells Albury she is going to try to get on a boat to Spanish Wells.  The boats from Spanish Wells - they were here yesterday.  They are bringing another two boats.  They are?  Yes.  We need to get our aes on those boats.  Archer however has to drive to Marsh Harbour first to pick up passports for herself and her 6-year-old son which she would left at a relative's house.  The rumor about not being able to get in Marsh Harbour because there is some kind of cholera outbreak - is that true or no?  There is no cholera outbreak.  OK fantastic. OK I can go get my passport.  She says she decided to leave Abaco because she fears it might not be safe to stay.  The possibility that there is no law and order here. And also there is my son. He has to get into school. School is just starting so I can keep him on a regular pace.  Albury rushed off to talk with his wife about the possibility of getting on the boats to Spanish Wells. Archer and her family drove off towards Marsh Harbour to collect the passports. That was two days ago. Today they are all still in Cherokee. Albury continues to try to find a flight or a boat out. Archer has changed her mind and decided to stay. There were two main reasons for this. First after seeing Marsh Harbour for herself she says it did not look as threatening as people said. It did not appear there was about to be an uprising. Residents were just trying to survive.  Just driving around Marsh Harbour it was not as bad as they made it seem. I mean it is horrible because there are still dead bodies and stuff like that. But as in what I can see I feel hopeful. I feel hopeful.  The other key factor in her decision was that the teacher at Cherokee's two-room schoolhouse decided to restart classes today.  Does that rhyme with lamb ?  Yes.  Good job.  This morning they raised the Bahamian flag outside the school. There were supposed to be 21 students starting this fall. So many families have left however that this morning there were only five. But one of them was Jacqlin Archer's 6-year-old. And for that she is grateful. Jason Beaubien NPR News Cherokee the Bahamas.  