 If it had been up to the voters of Louisa Kentucky Barack Obama would not have a second term. Louisa is in Eastern Kentucky where the top concern going into November's election could be summed up in one word Coal. President Obama is seen as an enemy of coal mining and he only got 27 percent of the vote in the county. And now comes word that Louisa is going to lose its biggest industry a power-generating plant that is been burning coal since 1962. NPR's Noah Adams visited the town as it faces an uncertain future.  Stand outside the courthouse in Louisa - it is a small town 2000 people - and you will see it is easy to meet a coal miner. Mitchell Maynard is a third-generation miner not happy with the president.  Anything to do with coal Obama is against it. So that hurt us real bad. I mean everybody is losing their job. I just got back to work just two weeks ago from being laid off. Everybody you talk to is against coal anymore.   Four miles north of Louisa on some days 200 coal trucks will arrive to unload at the big Sandy Electric Power Plant.  You see that red cab on that truck down there?  Yeah.  He is getting ready to raise his bed and he is gonna dump his coal that he is brought in here from a local mine.  Our view is from the roof of the plant. This is David Mill the operating supervisor. This power plant has been online for 50 years sending electricity through the grid even to New York City. Now the emission technology is out of date. The EPA pushed by the White House wants cleaner-burning plants. And the company says they will shut this one down in 2015. American Electric Power does say that one of the furnaces might be converted to natural gas.   God bless America land that I love. Stand beside her and guide her...  The Louisa Rotary Club meets at the First Baptist Church and has Kentucky Fried Chicken. Lots of Big Sandy Power people here including retired engineer Bill England.  We moved here in 1962 when they opened up Unit 1. We raised a family they are both UK college graduates they both have jobs. Louisa's still a small town. It is a friendly town and I love it here.  My great-grandfather ran a depot when the trains started coming in with all the coal on them.  Elaine DeSario rotarian has a long Louisa family history. She is moved back to town after earning three degrees. Dr. DeSario is an optometrist.  It is scary now. I have just hired three new people at my business. A large percentage of my patients come from the power plant. I provide their safety glasses their regular glasses. I know that I am going to lose a lot of them. My appointment book is not nearly as backed up as it used to be.  In downtown Louisa watching the big trucks rumble past all day you would not think the industry is slowing down.   Here's a truck coming through town right on the main street going over the railroad crossing here. These drivers they look so determined. They are sure not stopping for lunch. If the Big Sandy Power Plant indeed closes two years from now more than 100 jobs go away and the tax money 400000 a year for the county schools and 60000 a year for the new library. Actually it is a new building. The library dates to the 1930s when they used packhorses. Evie Burchett showed me that scene in a library mural.  They had like a small collection of books that they would pack up in their saddlebags and ride out to the rural people and deliver books to be read.  A basketball a driveway teenagers. Cody Endicott is 16. The family job is coal.  My dad's a highwall miner. My uncle works on the strip mine. My pa-paw runs a 475 Komatsu dozer. Then the rest of them work in coal too but I am not sure what their jobs are.  Cody Endicott will finish growing up as Louisa Kentucky starts another new chapter. He says he will not work in coal. It will be health care. He plans to go to college and train to be a nurse. Noah Adams NPR News.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 