 Two new films look at women who in mid-life find themselves in drastically altered circumstances. One is Jackie with Natalie Portman playing Jacqueline Kennedy. The other is the French film Things To Come starring Isabelle Huppert. Critic Bob Mondello says they would make a fine award season double feature.  The philosophy professor played by Isabelle Huppert in Things To Come is happiest when surrounded by books. She lives a life of the mind all business when her school is engulfed by protests complaining to her publishers that their gaudy new cover makes her bestselling textbook look like an ad for MMs...   .  ...Or just sitting in the apartment she shared for 25 years with a husband who also lives a life of the mind. Or so she thinks until he mentions meeting someone.   .  So why tell me? she wonders. Remember they are French.     Because he is moving in with her.   .  .  This is not the only thing Natalie's dealing with but it is the one that shakes her up. She tells a former student who is himself going his own way and challenging her that she and her husband listened to Brahms and Schumann for 20 years and now at 50-something she gets to change the tune. Just think she says my kids are gone...   .  ...My husband left me my mom died. I have found my freedom.   .  Her eyes tell you that liberte as an intellectual construct does not quite match what she is experiencing. Huppert has always been natural on camera but playing a character based partly on herself partly on writer-director Mia Hanson Love's mother she is breathtakingly understated wanting to be defined by ideas not circumstances even as circumstances buffet her. The film's title in French is The Future but the translation Things To Come feels more accurate. Huppert peering into a middle distance head held high sees not so much a future bright or dark but a lot of disconcertingly unpredictable things to come. The unpredictable has already happened as Jackie gets under way. Jacqueline Kennedy nerve endings still raw is meeting a journalist who wants her perspective on the assassination that shattered her life and the dreams of a generation.    It is been just one week already they are treating him like some dusty old artifact to be shelved away. It is no way to be remembered.   And how would you like him remembered Mrs. Kennedy?   I - you understand that I will be editing this conversation just in case I do not say exactly what I mean?  Editing does not quite do justice to the control Natalie Portman's Jackie plans to exert over this interview. Though fragile she has an exacting notion of how her story should be told. Something that is also true of Chilean director Pablo Larrain who does not so much tell the story as piece together a mosaic jump cutting from this framing interview...    What did the bullet sound like?  ...To the almost stream-of-consciousness memories it prompts the camera staying close to the first lady as she staggers through a psychological minefield breaking the news to her children...    How do I do this?  ...Watching Lyndon Johnson assert himself...    What an awful way to begin your presidency.  ...And most of all determining the shape of a funeral that will both promote her husband's legacy and have a whole world in tears. The riderless horse the heads of state walking with her behind the coffin.    What do you say to those who say he did not deserve it the scale of it? I mean he was a great president but he did not win the Civil War for instance.   It was a funeral for the president of the United States.   Your husband drove cars he did not ride horses.   Yes and there should have been more of them - more soldiers more crying more and more cameras.   I am guessing you will not allow me to write any of that.   No because I never said that.  Portman makes the former first lady mesmerizing in her contradictions - uncompromising yet wracked by doubt fearful that with the Kennedy legacy in the balance her best efforts have fallen short.    You were at the center of it all Mrs. Kennedy. And I would imagine it is impossible to have any perspective from that vantage point but I can assure you that it was a spectacle.  Much the same could be said of the film Jackie a harrowing portrait of a woman who shaped history with her grief. I am Bob Mondello. 