 Mexico's health minister said today that the swine flu outbreak seems to have peaked and fewer people are flocking to the hospitals. Still the political impact of the outbreak could be long-lasting. NPR's Jason Beaubien has more.  Unidentified Man  . Unidentified Man    The Mexican federal government moved quickly to launch public service announcements warning people about the potential dangers of swine flu.  Unidentified Man  .  This radio spot urges people to quickly seek medical attention if they have flu-like symptoms but it is also part of a public relations campaign to assure Mexicans that the federal government is in control of the flu outbreak that is spreading fear across the country. Most of the suspected cases of swine flu have been in Mexico City but the federal government quickly took over managing the crisis. First the schools were closed then museums stadiums and other government-run venues. Later bars nightclubs and finally all restaurants were shut. Even with the rush to close down this bustling city the government has been criticized for not moving fast enough. President Felipe Calderon has largely stayed out of the spotlight as this crisis enveloped Mexico appointing his health minister as the face of the federal government on the issue. So far Calderon has only given one televised address since the emergency began assuring the nation that Mexico can overcome any challenge. But the problem is that after hundreds of years of secretive governments many Mexicans do not believe him. Ms.    Forty-one-year-old Marta Beatrice Sadillo says she thinks the swine flu outbreak is a political issue and not a viral disease. She believes - and other people in Mexico City say this on the street too - that the crisis is being fabricated to distract Mexicans from the faltering drug war and the mounting economic crisis. Calderon's drug war has claimed more than 10000 lives and the global economic crisis according to the IMF is going to hit Mexico harder than any other country in Latin America. Beatrice says fabricated political distractions have appeared before. Ms.    There was one time with those damn chupacabras she says when President Salinas de Gortari left us without any money and he became the owner of so many things. It was in that time that the chupacabras appeared. Now it is the same thing. The chupacabras she is referring to are mythical beasts that grabbed the national spotlight in the middle of the 1994 financial crisis. As the peso went into a freefall and Mexico faced its worst economic crisis since the Great Depression there were widespread reports of a mysterious predator that was sucking the blood out of goats. Federico Vazquez Calero a political analyst with the U.N. Development Program says the Mexican government has hurt its own credibility on swine flu by confirming some deaths and then retracting the confirmations but he says the influenza crisis is real and he says it is a minefield for any politician. Mr.    The possibility of making wrong decisions is very high Vazquez says. If President Calderon declares the crisis over and more people die he will be blamed. If he waits to open the schools restaurants and businesses the economic crisis will get far worse. Mr.    The economic crisis is not going to go away when the health crisis ends he says. The drug cartels are not going to disappear with the influenza. These issues are going to return to the national agenda in a month at the most. Over the course of a little more than a week Vazquez says Calderon has gone from facing two huge challenges to facing three. Jason Beaubien NPR News Mexico City. 