 About a quarter of the world's estimated seven billion people speak English. How well they can understand one another is another matter. In Uganda there is a form of English called Uglish and it is getting its first dictionary. NPR's East Africa correspondent Gregory Warner reports.  Let us say you want to bench a pretty woman and launch your manifesto on her. That would mean you want to sit her down for a heart-to-heart and express your feelings. Only you go to her muzigo you get bounced because she is chasing some pensioner - that is you got turned away from her one-room flat because she is going after one of the older one white men that retire in Africa to date younger women. But in the end you were lucky because she is just a de-toother. In fact she is got a Masters in dentistry. De-toother or dentist is a gold-digger a woman after your money. I learn these terms from Bernard Sabiti. He speaks and writes at least a dozen local languages in Uganda but has compiled the first dictionary of a language that many educated Ugandans deny is a language at all - the Ugandan-English variant known as Uglish.  But however educated you might be you are actually not immune from using it.  Sabiti says he is got two university degrees but sometimes even he finds himself accidently slipping Uglish into official communications.  I have to catch myself some way and say oh see what I just did?  Now some Uglish terms come right from popular songs like this tune that links the English phrase double bed to a made up word mazongoto which the song then defines as a really big bed - 6 foot by 6 foot.    Double bed mazongoto. Hey double bed mazongoto.  This song says that wealthy Ugandans get more divorces than poor ones because a super-king-size bed - a mazongoto bed - makes it easier to sneak off and cheat. But mazongoto is now standard Uglish for king-size whether you are ordering a mattress or describing government corruption. Now of course words coined by artists have often entered the official lexicon of English - Shakespeare's eyeball or Lewis Carrol's chortle or Beyonce's bootylicious are all invented words now in the OED. But Uglish is still as controversial as Ebonics. Even Sabiti who spent four years of nights and weekends to compile this first Uglish dictionary worries that its prevalence is a sign of Uganda's deteriorating education. Uganda's competitive advantage in the global economy is that it is an English-speaking country. Uglish is both poetry and a threat. Gregory Warner NPR News Nairobi. 