 We are going to turn our attention now to the alarming rise of missing and murdered Indigenous women. Tribes are pressuring federal and state authorities to devote more resources to the crisis. This week the South Dakota legislature voted overwhelmingly to create a special law enforcement office to investigate. In South Dakota 77 of the 109 people currently listed as missing persons are Indigenous. NPR's Kirk Siegler reports.  Two summers ago Molina Richards got a call that made her stomach sink. One of her best friend's teenage daughters had gone missing on the Rosebud Reservation.  There was a lot of rumors out there. Oh she was here. She was there. We have seen her at Turtle Creek Store or we have seen her over here. All the leads - they did not find her.  So it took more than seven days before a formal search party was organized.  I was part of a group of six on ATVs. And we found Autumn. We found Waniyetu.  Waniyetu Rose Loves War - Autumn was her English name - was dead at 19. Nobody knows how many Indigenous people go missing or are murdered every year. There is just not a lot of data yet. But drug trafficking prostitution and domestic violence are rampant in isolated neglected places like Rosebud. Many crimes are going unsolved too especially those that cross multiple jurisdictions.  With Waniyetu's situation I promised my friend I would never let anybody forget her name.  To that end Molina Richards recently wrote and won a grant to open a shelter for women and homeless teens on this reservation. The first of its kind staffed 247 will be a safe house for people who are otherwise walking out in the cold all night Richard says moving from boarded-up gang-run houses to drug parties their feet swollen or far worse.  I label it like a pandemic here too. It is everywhere. Everybody has heard of someone has known someone. The murders have touched probably everybody here. I mean it happens too much.  This same alarm was sounded in the South Dakota legislature this week. Democratic State Representative Peri Pourier is from the Pine Ridge Reservation where you will hear anecdotal reports of people with out-of-state plates and tinted windows driving the reservation back roads. She worries the Indigenous are being targeted.  And sometimes the dots are not connected that this is a human trafficking issue. But the most vulnerable of our populations is Indigenous women and children.  Twenty-four people went missing in this rural state last month alone. Nineteen of them were Indigenous.  And we are hearing these stories. But who is investigating it? You know sometimes natives - they do not feel comfortable reporting that type of thing to law enforcement.  There could be better data available soon to help connect those dots. Pourier just got a bill through the Republican-controlled legislature that if signed by the governor would create a full-time missing Indigenous person specialist in the state attorney general's office. They would coordinate with the FBI and tribal police on the unsolved crimes. Tribes here are also committing to help the state lobby the feds for more resources. For many the urgency is long overdue.  Within the past year here in this community we have had two murders of two young women here.  In St. Francis on the Rosebud Reservation tribal Councilwoman Sharon Swift says plans for that new shelter are coming together quickly thanks to money from last year's CARES Act and a group of dedicated volunteers.  I am just going to run up here and check where we are going to put phones...  On a recent snowy morning the temperature below zero Swift stood by a new mobile home that is being converted into a badly needed safehouse.  The day they brought this trailer it had a whole procession.  It is a huge deal. St. Francis colloquially referred to as the reservation's skid row is a border town near a remote part of Nebraska and a no man's land for police jurisdictions. Swift says they chose this site because a recent homeless count found that more than a hundred teenagers were living around here unsheltered and vulnerable.  We consider it a state of emergency in Indian Country not only here on the Rosebud but everywhere.  The safehouse should open by the end of the month. Organizers hope that is symbolic. Spring is when the new year begins in Lakota culture. Kirk Siegler NPR News Rosebud S.D. 