 And now the terrible news that Debbie Reynolds died today. Reynolds was Carrie Fisher's mother and Fisher of course died just yesterday at age 60. Right now we have NPR's Neda Ulaby to tell us about Debbie Reynolds who was a major star for over five decades on TV in the movies on stage. Neda what happened today?  Robert the details are still unclear but it appears that Reynolds was taken Cedars-Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles today after having trouble breathing. She died at the age of 84. It is a sad ending to a life that in many ways was not easy. She talked about her early years in the 1974 documentary That is Entertainment!   I was only 16 and still Mary Frances Reynolds when I entered the Miss Burbank contest. I did it as a lark to get a blouse and a scarf that they were giving away to all the contestants. Well as fate would have it an MGM talent scout was in the audience and in a year I was under contract to the biggest studio in Hollywood.  And it was in Hollywood that she filmed her biggest hit...  At...  ...In 1952.  That is right at MGM. She starred as an aspiring starlet in Singin' In The Rain.    When we left the movie show the future was not bright. But came the dawn. The show goes on and I do not want to say good night.   So say good morning.   Good morning. Rainbows are shining through.  Neda what do we know about what those years were like for Debbie Reynolds?  Well Singin' In The Rain the movie that really launched her into international stardom was a grueling experience for her. She did not know how to dance. Gene Kelly her choreographer and co-star made her practice until her feet bled.  Debbie Reynolds also made dozens of other movies. She starred in two television shows two Broadway shows. And she was also a cabaret star in Vegas.  Yeah she also owned her own hotel there for a while. But Reynolds' professional life was occasionally overshadowed by tragedy. She married three times lost one husband to Elizabeth Taylor in a scandal that was huge at the time. She had two other husbands that took terrible advantage of her financially but she really just kept her head up. Debbie Reynolds had a great sense of humor about how Carrie Fisher would poke fun of their relationship even in the book Postcards From The Edge which got turned into a movie. Reynolds wanted to play the role that was basically herself but it ended up going to Shirley MacLaine.  You know I first remember being aware of Debbie Reynolds as the actress who played Tammy in a movie back in the 1950s when I was a kid. I wonder what you think she will be most remembered for.  So much Robert. What a life she had. She was the Unsinkable Molly Brown. She was the voice of Wilbur in the 1973 animated version of Charlotte's Web. She was Debra Messing's mom in the TV show Will  Grace. And she was deeply involved in all kinds of charities ranging from mental illness to preserving various kinds of Hollywood memorabilia - it was really hard for her when she had to sell a lot of that stuff a few years ago - to the Girl Scouts of America. Debbie Reynolds believe it or not was a Girl Scout leader for many years.  Neda Ulaby thank you for talking with us about the sad news today - the death of Debbie Reynolds one day after the death of her daughter Carrie Fisher.  