 Hurricane prep evacuations emergency shelters - people along the East Coast are bracing themselves for Florence. The storm is churning now in the Atlantic as a Category 4 hurricane and it is expected to make landfall Thursday or Friday. FEMA administrator Brock Long says Florence could be the most dangerous storm in the history of the Carolinas but states as far north as Delaware should be ready.  In a moment we will look at the factors that make Florence so threatening. First North Carolina is preparing for the brunt of the storm. Today Governor Roy Cooper had this warning.   Even if you have ridden out storms before this one is different. Do not bet your life on riding out a monster.  No emergency services will be available because the vehicles will not be able to reach people. There will be no shelters open in the county or surrounding counties.  That is Marilyn Cullison of Swansboro a town that is on the Intracoastal Waterway. She was planning to shelter in place with her husband dog neighbors and their pets.  The fact that our home is relatively new with the latest hurricane standards as far as tie-downs reinforcement shutters glass that is hurricane-proof - and we have weathered several hurricanes in the house. However none of them have been a Category 4.  Cullison says she is worried about flooding inland if she evacuates. But as far as staying all she can think about are past hurricanes that have hit North Carolina like Hazel in 1954.  I have seen pictures of that devastation. So I am not sure I want to stay here for that.  About 80 miles away outside of Wilmington N.C. John Albert is planning to stay put.  None of my immediate neighbors are leaving which is about five people within a mile. Some of them are elderly in their 80s. And I feel like they are making that choice and I should respect that.  Even though he is not evacuating he did send his daughter inland to Durham to stay with family. Albert has filled up his truck and he is gotten his generator ready.  I made sure that I have enough feed for my animals and I am going to pick up a bunch of round bales of hay for my horses ID tags braided into their manes.  That is a trick he remembers from Hurricane Matthew two years ago - braid ID tags into his horses' manes in case they get away. He says his property is not prone to flooding but he is worried about the damage in the city where he works as a math teacher.  Bill Firmer is the store manager of a Lowe's in the south part of Wilmington. Things have been busy. People are buying the usual storm supplies - plywood flashlights batteries and tarps.  This is probably the first time I have seen people prepare so far in advance. I think it has to do with some of the storms that we have seen in the past and then the fact that this storm is forecasted to be such a serious storm that people are paying attention.  Not just customers - Lowe's management too. They will close stores in the path of the storm tonight so that employees can evacuate or make their own storm preparations. 