 In the U.S. for the first time in six years the number of seizures of methamphetamine labs has increased. And federal authorities say the number of meth labs is increasing because of a simpler technique to cook the drug. That means law enforcement is trying to find new ways to combat an old problem. Gail Banzet of member station KOSU reports from Stillwater Oklahoma.  Methamphetamine has been around since the 1970s. In 2006 law enforcement made big gains. That was after a federal law placed its main ingredient pseudoephedrine behind pharmacy counters. The next year meth lab seizures dropped by half but the reduction did not last. Mark Woodward of the Oklahoma Bureau of Narcotics says addicts have found an easier way to make the drug. Mr.  You essentially combine all of the ingredients in one two-liter soda bottle or sports bottle. It creates its own heat because of the chemicals. So what they do is they shake it up and it is creating a heat which is causing the cooking reaction.  Woodward says this new method called shake and bake is different. Unlike elaborate and clandestine meth labs of the past this latest way is portable and can be done in small places like a car. Mr.  Go get a suitcase or a duffle bag  Mr.  But inside the meth lab - the suitcase they can have an entire meth lab of jars and canisters and you know different types of chemicals.  Jason Ewing is a former meth user. The 21-year-old is a graduate of drug court and he says he has not had a hit of meth in a year. Mr.  There is a lot of things that can go wrong when you are cooking it. We burned up a couple of my buddies' bathrooms just from the reaction.  The federal pseudoephedrine law only limits the amount a person can purchase so meth cooks have enlisted friends and relatives to help buy the household ingredients. But because this new manufacturing method makes smaller batches addicts can skirt federal law and buy fewer cold pills. Mr.  You know you go to Wal-Mart and you spend 65 bucks or something and you have got all the ingredients there to make 2000 worth of crank.  Crank is a street name of meth and the drug's proliferation has vexed law enforcement.  Officer  Let me just - this is Jason. What is your tip number?  In Tulsa Oklahoma police officer Jason Willingham writes down a drug tip. Authorities here report 200 meth lab busts since January just a few shy of their all-time record. One of Tulsa's most recent meth labs was found in a stairwell of a state office building. Mr.  What we have seen already I think we have had like 10 house fires that have started off these labs particularly a couple of them in apartment complexes.  It is not just an Oklahoma problem - California Kentucky and Missouri have all seen big spikes in meth lab seizure. Indiana had a 20 percent jump in cases this year. Sergeant Paul Andry of the Indiana State Police says it is a constant cat-and-mouse game. Sergeant  As we find a way to battle one trend the manufacturers come up with a new way to do something. It is one of the problems that we really do not have an answer for in our rural areas because we just do not have the resources available.  Meth and its manufacture have caused millions of dollars in property damage. But Rusty Payne with the Drug Enforcement Administration says it is more than just a loss of property. Mr.  This is what people need to understand about meth any kind of meth production there is no other drug that has more consequences for the innocent than methamphetamine.  Law enforcement officials say they need even tighter regulations on the sale of pseudoephedrine. They point to Oregon which requires a doctor's prescription for certain cold medicines. That state saw a decrease in meth lab seizures last year. For NPR News I am Gail Banzet in Stillwater Oklahoma. 