 In Los Angeles one of the city's largest homeless encampments is being broken up. Last night hundreds of protesters faced off with police officers.   Our streets. Whose streets? Our streets. Whose streets? Our streets. Whose streets?  The encampment at Echo Park Lake near downtown LA has become a flashpoint in the city's homelessness crisis. Reporter Anna Scott of KCRW is with us now. Hi Anna.  Hi Ari.  Paint a picture for us. I used to go for runs around Echo Park Lake and my sense is that is not a place you would go for a run today. Why is this one encampment so contentious right now?  Yeah you do still see people running but there are a lot more tents probably than when you were last here. The big thing to know is that there are 41000 people or thereabouts at least experiencing homelessness in the city of LA proper 66000 in LA County. There is a huge lack of affordable housing and a lot of people who are homeless are also unsheltered. So the problem is very visible in Los Angeles unlike some other cities. And this park sits right at the intersection of a lot of the tensions that come up around that. It is a big encampment. It is a very popular park. And the unhoused people there many feel that they have built a community in a city with few options while many housed residents who live nearby are angry at how the encampment has transformed this public space.  We heard a little bit of that confrontation. Tell us about what happened last night.  Last night the city started preparing to close the park completely tonight - Thursday night - and to clear everyone out. There are some people still there. And there had been protesters throughout the day there yesterday. That was growing in the evening. And after dark you started to see a massive police presence around the park which led to some really tense standoffs while inside city workers started putting up fences to close the park off and posting notices saying that in 24 hours everyone would have to leave - including unhoused residents like Zack Coughlin. He is someone I talked to there. He lives in a tent with his wife. And he said that they do want to go indoors.  We are still just waiting for housing but unfortunately we are stuck on the street still. So we came back here to Echo Park because in the four years we have been here in LA it is the only safe place for us to be.  They have lived at the park full-time for about seven months now.  Wow seven months. So if the city removes these 175 or so people from the park where do they expect everybody to go?  Yeah. There are way fewer people there now because in recent weeks the city has been working with homeless service providers leading up to this to get people either into shelters or temporary hotel rooms rented by the city. Mitch O'Farrell is the council member who represents the area.  MITCH O' Every belonging that is left at the lake will be stored safely for people to reclaim it should they want to. We are taking care of any animal companions that are there. We are providing shuttle service and a really safe environment - in some cases permanent homes for people here.  In some cases but most people who are getting assistance are going to the temporary hotels.  Temporary as you say. And as the number of people experiencing homelessness in Los Angeles just continues to grow what is the city's long-term plan here?  That is a question that applies not just to Echo Park Lake but to thousands of people who have been moved into this hotel program which is set to expire September 30. It is supposed to be a bridge into permanent housing but as we know that is in short supply. So you know we come back full circle to what is driving this crisis in the first place. And I will be following all of this as it unfolds in the coming months.  And I will look forward to your coverage. Reporter Anna Scott who covers housing and homelessness in Los Angeles for member station KCRW. Thank you.  Thank you.  