 Earlier this week updated guidelines for breast cancer screening were announced. They rekindled a debate about how often women should get mammograms but research shows that many doctors do not follow best-practice guidelines. NPR's Anders Kelto looked into why that is the case.  Let us start with a medical procedure that is pretty straightforward - cataract surgery. People get it when the lenses in their eyes become cloudy usually with age.  The procedure itself is relatively painless and quick. It usually takes about 15 - 20 minutes at the most.  That is Dr. Catherine Chen an anesthesiologist and researcher at the University of California San Francisco. She says there is a lot of evidence about what should and should not be done before the procedure.  There have been guidelines out since at least 2002 that have recommended that these patients do not need any additional preoperative workup prior to surgery.  They do not need chest x-rays blood work or EKGs like older patients do for more complicated surgeries but Chen had noticed that a lot of doctors ordered these tests for cataract patients anyway. So she dug into the numbers and found something surprising. Over half of ophthalmologists who did cataract surgery on Medicare patients were ordering unnecessary tests. Chen says that is the same number as 1995.  In about 20 years nothing really has changed in terms of physician performance.  Chen published her findings in the current New England Journal of Medicine. So why were doctors ordering these unnecessary tests? Dr. Steven Brown who teaches family medicine at the University of Arizona has studied that very question. He says a lot of physicians believe it helps.  Because they think somehow that this is going to make the patient more likely to do well in surgery when it is not.  Other doctors he says just do not know the latest guidelines. And a lot of times a doctor will think a surgeon or anesthesiologist requires a certain test before surgery and it becomes...  This sort of like game of tag where you are doing something because you think somebody else wants it even if you do not really want it.  So that is the case with cataract surgery. There is a clear consensus on what should be done and yet a lot of doctors do not do it. Now imagine what happens when the science is not clear. Dr. Albert Wu the head of Health Services Research at Johns Hopkins says that is the case with breast cancer screening.  There is really a lot more ambiguity about what is the right thing - what is appropriate what is not appropriate.  Different organizations he says have different guidelines. A group called the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force says women should get screened every other year beginning at age 50. Meanwhile the American Cancer Society and American College of Radiology say it should be every year starting at 40.  And in those cases it is even easier for individual preferences to reign.  In other words doctors are more likely to follow their gut when there are differing opinions. And then Wu says there is fear. Imagine that a healthy 40-year-old woman walks into your office and asks about a mammogram.  If that woman were to develop breast cancer or to have breast cancer you could imagine what might happen to you if you did not order the test.  A doctor might get sued he says. Doctors hear stories about this sort of thing all the time and Wu says it can affect their judgment.  Emotion and recent events do influence our decision making. We are not absolutely rational decision-making machines.  So a lot of doctors Wu says end up practicing medicine based on fears about the patient in front of them not on what guidelines say is best. Anders Kelto NPR News Washington. 