 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Lynn Neary.  I am Robert Siegel. And it is time now for our weekly talk on politics. And joining me are our regular political observers columnists E.J. Dionne of The Washington Post and the Brookings Institution and David Brooks of The New York Times. Hello to both of you.  How do you do? E.J.  Good to be with you.  And we will begin with the speech that President Obama delivered on Tuesday in Osawatomie Kansas the site of a famous speech by Theodore Roosevelt just over a century ago. And the president cited some of T.R.'s themes.  I believe that this country succeeds when everyone gets a fair shot when everyone does their fair share...   ...when everyone plays by the same rules.  You could say when everyone gets a square deal. E.J in your column about that speech you called it the inaugural address that Obama never gave. First what is so important about what he said? And is not it kind of late for an inaugural keynote?  Well it would have been nicer earlier but a lot of us - there is a modest fan club for T.R.'s Osawatomie speech. And so the loyalists are glad Obama brought this to everyone's attention. And I think the reason why it was like an inaugural address is he offered a clear philosophical rationale for his presidency why he thinks government has an important role. He offered a narrative explaining the causes of our travails. And he also laid out a battle plan against radicalized conservatism. And he and T.R. have something very much in common which is Obama has been criticized for being both too close to Wall Street and for being a socialist from the right. T.R. in his original speech said here in Kansas there is one paper which habitually announces me as the tool of Wall Street and at the same time frantically repudiates the statement that I am a socialist on the ground that this is an unwarranted slander of socialists. And I think that Obama must have chuckled when he read that.  David by linking his speech to Teddy Roosevelt the president could say that redressing economic inequalities or the privileges of the rich are not some kind of alien class warfare. It is in the American tradition  in fact of both parties it is in the American tradition. You think he is right?  Yeah. Well sort of. There is early Roosevelt and there is late Roosevelt. Early Roosevelt believed in making competition fair and the square deal. Late Roosevelt progressive Roosevelt put a lot of faith in experts and centralizing power. I like the early one. I think E.J. has a little more taste for the later. I thought there was a lot to like in the speech. I guess I have two criticisms of it. First I think this election is going to be about national decline. It is not going to be as this president tried to make it an election about inequality. And so he can focus on greedy bankers and CEOs and a lot of us will nod our heads. Nonetheless the core issue is economic growth and job creation. And I think he is sidestepping the core issue. The second is just a matter of substance. The only policy I can see in there was the idea of raising taxes on the rich to pay for more infrastructure spending and more basic research which I am for. But is he really going to run for president on that? It is an extremely modest agenda given the broad problems he described.  E.J.  I agree with David that this election is about national decline. And disagree with them on everything else. Because I think of this speech was actually about more than higher taxes on the rich it was very much about how do you expand opportunity for the middle-class why we need regulation to make capitalism work in a fair way. And I think it was forward-looking. I think what Obama was saying is we need to take these steps so that we do not go into decline so that we get our act back together again.  By the way E.J. are you confident that this is the tone now for the campaign? Or might President Obama you know reconfigure it re-triangulate it at some point between now and in November?  Well if you look at the history of the administration you always wonder are they going to re-triangulate it? I talked to somebody in the White House who made a good point. He said look defending the progressive tradition in America is not a problem because unlike a rather rigid conservatism progressivism liberalism is rather pragmatic and is willing to adjust to circumstances. So I think he thinks this is a message that works for liberals - and there were a lot of cheers from liberals this week - but also can work with middle-of-the-road voters.  Well the other political man of the week is clearly Newt Gingrich. The former speaker of the House has emerged as the latest challenger to Mitt Romney. And he is reminded us that he is still capable of tossing red meat to his critics. For example opining here on poor elementary school students and proposing a kind of work-study program for 10-year-olds.  What if you paid them part-time in the afternoon to sit at the clerical office and greet people when they came in? What if you paid them to work as the assistant librarian? What - and I would pay them as early as is reasonable and practical.  David Brooks you devoted a column to Newt Gingrich today very critical of his candidacy despite your feeling some real philosophical kinship with him. What Newt's problem?  Character. You know he is the real Teddy Roosevelt candidate or is in his best moments - wanting to use government to enhance growth and competition. His problem is he cannot believe the same thing for five seconds in a row. Every moment in his life has no bearing on the next moment and any word he says has no bearing on the moment after that. As I was listening to that clip I was reminded when he was speaker he would have a press person on his staff in front of him nodding his head when Newt was being good and shaking his head when Newt was straying off on some...   ...strange idea. And so you need that. And it is very interesting - Peggy Noonan made a very good point in her column in the Wall Street Journal today that the people around Mitt Romney generally want him to be president. The people who worked Newt Gingrich generally are desperately afraid that he might become president because he is inconsistent and erratic.  You had a great line about the 1950s and '60s that I want you to...  That is where we are facing a candidacy on the Republican side between Mitt Romney who looks like he walked straight out of the 1950s with his gee willickers vocabulary and Newt Gingrich who walked straight out of the 1960s wanting to turn everything into a revolution.  E.J.  I think an awful lot of conservatives in Washington are petrified at the prospect of a Gingrich candidacy. I have been surprised at how many of them I have run into in the last week - of a Gingrich presidency. You know Ed Schultz on MSNBC said he is like a blender with the top off. And another prominent Republican I know said there was a big file drawer in Newt's office. Four of the drawers were marked Newt's Ideas one of them was marked Newt's Good Ideas.   And I think there is a sense that this man can be very creative but a lot of people just cannot see him as president.  But is not it - David Brooks is not there a real gap here between the reasoned opinions of establishment Republicans conservative and otherwise and what turns on grassroots Republican activists? They seem to be very pro-Newt at this moment.  Right 'ecause he can take it to the opposition as hard as possible. And it is very interesting to watch the people who were served with him in Congress on the Republican side wondering if they should come out and endorse Romney or criticize Newt. And they have a suspicion it would make any difference and that could be right. So they are really hanging back but they are scared.  The more the establishment in Washington attacks him the stronger he might get and that is the box they are in.  You mean that they could manage to turn Newt Gingrich into the anti-Washington candidate?  The former speaker of the House of Representatives who spent years here in Washington is going to become the outsider. Politics is amazing.  E.J. Dionne and David Brooks thanks for talking with us once again.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Have a great weekend. 