 Medicaid covers about 1 in 5 Americans. And more states are handing over the management of Medicaid to private insurance companies. Iowa did that last year. As Iowa Public Radio's Clay Masters reports the transition has been rocky.  In Iowa about a quarter of the state's population is on Medicaid. And last year the state changed health care for all of those people - children the poor disabled and many elderly who need long-term care. Now all that care is managed by for-profit companies.  I am not so sure it was a bad decision to do everybody at once.  That is Jerry Foxhoven. He is the director of Iowa's Department of Human Services. The transition has not exactly been smooth. Complaints from both hospitals and patients have spiked and six disabled Iowans have sued the state. Cyndy Miller is the legal director with Disability Rights IOWA the advocacy group that organized the lawsuit.  The system is too stressed right now with the way it is being managed and it is not healthy for individuals with chronic or serious disabilities.  The lawsuit alleges the privately run program is depriving thousands of Iowans with disabilities the right to live safely in their homes. One of the plaintiffs is Neal Siegel. Four years ago the former financial consultant was in a hit-and-run bicycle crash leaving him with a severe brain injury. He lives with his girlfriend Beth Wargo.  I would probably put Neal at about 98 percent cognitive of what is going on around him but unfortunately not able to articulate it out. So it is being trapped inside your own body.  After the accident he got Medicaid. He lived in a rehabilitation center for a while. And the lawsuit says he was the victim of abuse and neglect while living there. Eventually he moved home. He is totally reliant on caregivers to assist him with all activities of daily life. Then last year Wargo says they got a letter in the mail from AmeriHealth Caritas the company that manages his care.  Stating that Neal's budget has been slashed over 50 percent.  The lawsuit says the company claimed that was because their spending had exceeded a limit set in state policy. NPR contacted the company and a spokesperson said he could not comment on ongoing litigation. When Wargo brings up the lawsuit Neal lights up.  They took it obviously you can imagine. And that is where I met...  .  Yeah. What do you say - oh yeah.  Oh yeah.  .  The state has asked to drop the lawsuit. DHS Director Jerry Foxhoven says his agency is willing to make changes especially for people like Neal with serious disabilities.  Everything's always on the table because we are always looking at everything to say how do we best serve the people that we are trying to serve and still be good stewards of the taxpayers' dollars?  Meanwhile the three companies say in statements the first 18 months have been successful. But the companies have also said to state officials reimbursement rates were based on deeply flawed cost estimates provided to them before the project began. They are now negotiating to get millions of dollars more in state funding. Foxhoven says the system is better at saving money under private management. But so far no state has actually done a comprehensive review of whether private companies do save Medicaid dollars says Kelly Whitener with Georgetown University.  You would really need to be able to see are you saving money overall or not? And if you are spending less money are you suppressing services that are needed or are you really finding efficiencies and only delivering care that families really need?  Meanwhile Iowa has to balance its books. Republican Governor Kim Reynolds had to tap more than 260 million in its reserve funds this year and officials expect next year's budget will be even tougher. And Medicaid funding will likely be a large part of the discussion. For NPR News I am Clay Masters in Des Moines.  This story is part of a partnership with NPR Iowa Public Radio and Kaiser Health News. 