 Jamie Tarabay spent much of the last decade as a foreign correspondent including three years as NPR's Baghdad bureau chief. Now she is back in the U.S. and she is just returned to work after maternity leave.  There are things you witness as a war correspondent the tragic scenes the grieving relatives the smoke the ruin the blood. More often than not those things stay in your stories. It affects you for a moment then you move on. You have to or you will never do your job and people will never know what is going on. Then there are the things that do not make it into your reporting the people on the sidelines those whose voices are not as loud as everyone else's. They are usually children. They were always my favorite people. Wherever I went I took photos of little kids. They would love posing for pictures and I loved showing them how they looked. But I did not think I was such a softie. I was not really until my son was born. And then everything made me cry. I was not prepared for this. Life as a war correspondent is rather solitary. You do not have to consider anyone but yourself. Motherhood is the total opposite. I have gone from the no-responsibility zone to one in which a tiny person demands my attention my time my love and my care. It is the perfect antidote to selfishness. And now I see my old world everywhere in this new one. Sometimes when he is playing with a new toy he looks up at me and smiles. Then I think of other children who never had anyone smile back at them. I cannot help it. I remember all the children I ever saw in tattered clothes who did not have homes let alone toys but looked up and smiled at me anyway. I remember children standing on the sides of streets in Baghdad their faces smeared with grease as they hawked black market gasoline. I remember the young girls and boys crisscrossing traffic jams in Jakarta selling boxes of Kleenex and chewing gum to motorists. I remember meeting a little Iraqi girl on the verge of prostitution. I could see it in the glitter on her chipped fingernails and the smeared rouge on her cheeks. I think of the countless funerals for dead children I have witnessed all victims of war. All these children who never had a childhood who had to grow up too soon I think about them when I look at my little boy. He is thriving before my eyes and soon words will replace his grunts and coos. Those legs that constantly kick will hoist him upward and forward. I want him to take his first steps laughingly with next to no fear about what will come next. I want him to know I will be watching ready to catch him. That his little milestones are more heart-stopping than any war zone could ever be. But I also know that as he explores this world with happy wonder I will be thinking of those countless other innocents who never had that chance.  Jamie Tarabay was NPR's Baghdad bureau chief. Now she is a correspondent living stateside with her husband and infant son Jake. 