 Markets tumbled today hard. It is a continuation of a recent rough patch on Wall Street. Already this year both the Dow and the SP are down more than 7 percent. NPR's Jim Zarroli joins us now to discuss the sour mood among investors. Hey Jim  Hi.  How bad was it today?  Oh your basic lousy damn on Wall Street - a lot of stocks down consumer stocks down. You even saw you know some of the big hot stocks of last year falling even further - Amazon down 5.8 percent Facebook down 4 percent big drops in small-cap stocks. The Russell 2000 which is an index of small-cap stocks is now down 22 percent which is what we officially call a bear market. So it is just one of those days when you know nothing was good and it is just a continuation of what we have seen in the past few days. The first week of the year was bad and now that is continuing. A lot of investors just you know do not see anything to be happy about.  It seems so weird because we have a lot of evidence that the economy on the whole is doing pretty well. There was just a good jobs report. I mean why is Wall Street not feeling the joy?  Well the jobs report is backward-looking of course and investors are worried about the future. You know I think they see we have had some weak corporate profits in a lot of different sectors banking especially energy. And also you know economies all over the world are weakening - too much capacity not enough demand. You have hot growth countries like China slowing down and then other countries like Brazil entering a deep recession. So there is less spending less demand for U.S. products and that is you know hurting everybody. And investors look at this and say yeah you know the U.S. economy may be doing OK now but how long is that going to last?  You mentioned energy and I want to ask about oil prices which have been falling which seems great for consumers who are buying gas at under 2 a gallon. But why is that worrisome for investors?  Yeah and that was really what seemed to touch off the real decline in stocks today. I mean oil keeps falling. We actually had something of a rally early in the day and then we had a report saying oil inventories were a lot higher than expected which is something that always affects prices. And after that we saw West Texas Intermediate falling below 30 a barrel which is another bad milestone. And you know of course this is very good for consumers but it is a disaster for countries that depend on oil revenues. And it is also a disaster for energy companies. I mean we are starting to see a rise in bankruptcies in the oil and gas sector and it is hurting states that has to do - that depend on energy.  Should Americans worry that this might be a sign that the U.S. economy is slowing?  Well it was funny I was watching today and a lot of stock market pundits are now sort of officially talking about recession using that word. But you do not hear that from economists really. And it sort of is a reminder of the fact that the stock market is not the same as the economy. I mean you can have the stock market going down when the economy is not. There is an old saying the stock market has predicted nine of the past five recessions.  .  You know so it can go down when the economy is still doing OK and - but it is something to watch definitely on where the market is going. And I think right now a lot of investors are worried about what is ahead.  That is NPR's Jim Zarroli in New York where Wall Street had more steep losses today. Thanks Jim.  You are welcome. 