 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Michele Norris. And it is time now for All Tech Considered.   In Austin today new tech trends are taking root. Tweets are flying and everybody's interacting. It is day four of the South by Southwest Interactive the influential technology festival. And Omar Gallaga is there as he covers technology culture for the Austin American-Statesman and tweets away with all your - would it be your tweeples?   My tweets yes.  Welcome back to the program.  Hi Michele thanks for having me.  So this is a city full of early adapters and I am wondering what are the tastiest morsels that the tech companies and the tech gurus are serving up.  Well there is not really a breakout technology or app like there was in 2007 with Twitter or last year with the location apps like Gowalla or Four Square. But one thing people are talking about is group chatting apps. Apps like Beluga or GroupMe or Yobongo. There are several of them. And what these allow you to do is create smaller private groups of people to talk with either from your contact list from Facebook or there are some apps that let you talk to complete strangers based on where you are. So that is one thing that is emerging. But there are so many of them that it is been really hard to pick one that is really standing out. Beluga seems to be the one that I have seen people use the most. But there is not really a homerun yet that we have seen at the festival.  So I am in San Francisco. I am a saxophone player. I make homemade sausage and I like the Red Sox and I want to find someone who is just like me and I can use one of these chats to find them.  You are the most interesting person I have ever met.   Yeah. But it is more based on location like finding strangers who are around you who might want to chat or finding specific people in your own contact list or Facebook groups that you only want to chat with in a private room as opposed to tweeting everything publicly on Twitter or sending emails through Facebook and other applications.  And the festival itself is newsworthy and that it is getting so big.  Right it is. It is been about 30 to 40 percent growth at last year and then another 30 and 40 percent growth this year is what we are anticipating. So it is really been about the lines and can people get into these panels. It is been a bit of a logistical problem and it is something the festival's really going to have to take a hard look at for next year. They are talking about perhaps capping attendance for next year which would be a big change.  If you spend any time on the Web on Facebook on Twitter right now there is a lot of news information chatter about what is going on in Japan and I am wondering if the terrible news out of Japan has somehow influenced the festival in some way. What is going on in that score?  Absolutely. The festival started on Friday. So as early as Thursday night people were already tweeting you know what can we do at SXSW? And by Friday morning a website had already popped up as SXSWforJapan to raise money and it is already raised 23251. A lot of the panels have shifted their focus from whatever they were going to be talking about to Japan. And there is a nonprofit called Dog Bless You that promised to donate 100000 if 100000 people like their Facebook page and they are already at 121000. So yeah that is a big hash tag Twitter conversation at the festival is how can we help Japan? How can we raise money? Some people have pledged not to buy an iPad 2 and donate the money instead to Japan. So it is definitely been a major topic of conversation this year at the festival.  That is Omar Gallaga. He covers technology culture for the Austin American-Statesman. He joined us to talk about the latest from South by Southwest Interactive. Thanks so much.  Thank you for having me. 