 A deadly car accident in the small farming town of Delano Calif. has put immigrant farm workers and their employers on edge. In March a couple was killed in a car crash as they attempted to flee Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents. Turned out ICE had the wrong people. And then as Alex Hall of member station KQED reports the agents came back.  Two weeks ago Celestino Hilario Garcia was pulling out of his driveway on his way to work in the fields. That is when three SUVs and two cars with flashing lights closed him in on both sides. The ICE agents pulled Hilario Garcia out of the truck. He was arrested and deported back to Mexico by the end of the day. At a run-down apartment complex in Delano there is a cluster of tan one-bedroom units. Sheets instead of blinds cover the windows. At one apartment a woman peeks through a window before opening the door. Hilario Garcia's wife Lucy looks small and cautious wearing a magenta shirt and Virgin Guadalupe necklace.  .  She describes her husband's arrest but asks that we do not use her last name - a name different than her husband's - because she is fearful ICE will return. Her sister speaks to her in their native Mixteco as their daughters play on the floor.  .  This was not the first time ICE carried out an operation in this neighborhood. In March Hilario Garcia's brother and his wife left their apartment in the pre-dawn hours to look for work in the fields. ICE agents in two unmarked jeeps signaled them to pull over. The driver Santos Hilario Garcia initially stopped. But when the agents got out of their cars he sped off.   911 emergency.  I am calling to report a vehicle rollover.  Someone flipped his truck.  On Cecil in front of North Kern State Prison.  The farm worker's vehicle flipped and crashed into a telephone pole killing both Santos and his wife Marcelina. After the accident ICE explained the driver matched the description of a man they were looking for. Turned out they had the wrong guy. The couple left behind six children ages 8 to 18. Earlier this month ICE came back for their original target Celestino who had been deported twice before and had three criminal DUI convictions. All of this comes in the midst of a zero tolerance crackdown on illegal immigration.  .  Lucy says I did not think they would do this to my husband. I figured they would think well at least these children have their uncle.  .  A spokesperson for ICE confirmed Hilario Garcia's deportation and said no one who violates immigration laws is exempt from enforcement. Out on West Cecil Avenue the site of the accident dry sun-bleached land contrasts with the lush green of table grape vines ready to be pruned by the hands of farmers.  It is very hard for you to get people out there now.  Maribel Rios lives on this road. She is a farm labor contractor. She says fear in the community has made things hard for her business.  Out of 13 crews I had right now I just have - I am down to two. I am down to two right now. You know and it is like nobody wants work no more. Nobody wants to be out there. And then after this accident it is worse. People are just fearing you know am I going to go home to my kids or am I not?  Before her husband was deported he and Lucy were helping their 18-year-old niece and all of her siblings pay rent in their nearby apartment now that their parents are gone. With her husband also gone Lucy says she will go work in the fields. Money will be tight.  .  She says she will work to provide for her kids and support her niece in any way she can so that the family can stay together.  .  For NPR News I am Alex Hall in Delano. 