 So the U.S. government does not buy from Kaspersky or other foreign companies but American consumers can buy whichever anti-virus software they would like. Joining me to talk about how these computer security companies do their work is NPR tech reporter Aarti Shahani. And Aarti let us start with Kaspersky which as we mentioned earlier is a corporate sponsor of NPR News. We heard Corey say that people have raised concerns about the work that this company has done for the Russian security services. Does that mean American consumers should be wary of Russian spying?   No. That is really not what it means at all. Kaspersky has millions of users and their software is a published product which means that outsiders can reverse engineer it. Plenty of people are pouring over Kaspersky and all the other major anti-virus software trying to find weaknesses so they can be fixed. It is not in the business interest of the company to leave in some obvious backdoors as a favor to hackers you know Russian intelligence or otherwise. Researchers in the community would find it and fry them for it. That is pretty much the consensus among the experts I have interviewed.  We do hear about new and novel computer techs all the time Aarti. Do the anti-virus companies respond to these alone? Do they ever combine forces to fight them together?  You know collaboration is absolutely key here. Microsoft McAfee Trend Micro Kaspersky Symantec - they all collect samples of malware - malicious software - and they exchange kind of like in a club. But researchers in those companies tell me this exchange is very in-depth and critical to the work. They need a database of malware samples that is global and cross-border because attacks do not respect borders. Basically the companies find new pieces of malware. They upload samples to a file sharing site and they give the people they trust a login to access. The way anti-virus works you can only stop something you have seen before so if an attacker comes up with something new then you need to flag it for future versions of your software to detect.  The point there being though Aarti that there is no way that anti-virus products can work all of the time against any malware.  You know that is a key point. The bad guys have copies of all the anti-virus software that is out on the market. So you know imagine they are in a lab running tests on Kaspersky Symantec whatever and they keep tweaking the malware they are writing until it does not get caught. When it looks just different enough that it cannot be detected that is when they launch it. So that is the problem with anti-virus. By its very design it cannot catch everything.  So if that is the problem what is the solution to that?  Well you know you can never get rid of all risk in the world but one way to fight back is to add an extra layer of monitoring. Get another kind of software that keeps track of every laptop desktop device on the network and right there look for attempts at intrusion and zap them. All the big banks defense contractors high-value targets have this system for incident response - so teams looking for novel attacks. But that is again for high-value targets which face a lot more risk and need more protection than everyday users.  OK Aarti thanks so much for talking to us.  Thank you.  That is NPR's Aarti Shahani. She is just back from two big conferences on cybersecurity and hacking. 