 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  And I am Melissa Block. In Oakland California last night thousands of people gathered in front of city hall. They held a vigil for Scott Olsen. The Iraq War veteran was badly injured earlier this week in violent clashes between police and Occupy Oakland protestors. Olsen has become a symbol for protestors and his injury has sparked intense criticism of the Oakland police and of the city's mayor. Denise Tejada of TurnstyleNews.com spent yesterday in the hospital where Scott Olsen is being treated. She sent this report.  The video of a concerned crowd gathered around a young man moments after he was injured Tuesday night spread all over the Internet.   His name is Scott Olsen and his bloodied face is now a big part of what is kept the national spotlight on Oakland. He is a 24-year-old Iraq veteran. He came to Occupy Oakland Tuesday night to support protestors after his workday at a Bay Area tech firm.   Video from moments earlier shows Olsen in his Marine camouflage jacket and hat. He is standing with his arms at his side next to someone in a Navy uniform with a flag that reads VeteransForPeace.org. Police start shooting projectiles into the crowd. Suddenly Olsen is down. Protestors rush towards him where he is lying on the ground. But police scatter them with a gas canister that explodes on the ground next to Olsen. Eventually protestors carried Olsen away and drove him to the hospital.  When he was getting carried away his hat fell off. And sort of like everyone was trashing away at it. I ran back and grabbed it. His military hat I thought he would want it back.  Twenty-year-old Claire Chadwick was holding Olsen's camouflage hat yesterday outside Highland Hospital. She was one of the protestors who carried Olsen away from the scene. Chadwick says she screamed for medical help but it never came.  I held his face in my hands while he was bleeding out of the mouth unconscious while his eyes were rolling in the back of his head.  Images of Olsen's injuries spread quickly on social media sites which is how fellow veterans and friends like Matt Howard heard what happened. Like Olsen Howard is a member of IVAW Iraq Veterans Against the War.  I woke up in the morning and checked my Facebook page and realized that a picture that had a Marine veteran was in fact Scott. You know I was shocked the fact that one of our own guys you know a veteran or an IVAW member that something like that happened to him was a little bit unbelievable.  Last night Highland Hospital chief surgeon Dr. Alden Harken reported that Olsen was breathing on his own and capable of moving his body. DR.  He clearly understands what we are saying - huge neurological improvements over what he was when he got here. But he is still having trouble articulating words.  Oakland Mayor Jean Quan visited Olsen in the hospital. The visit lasted 10 minutes. But according to Highland's spokesperson Mayor Quan said she was sorry for what happened and that the city was investigating. Oakland's Police Chief Howard Jordan told reporters Olsen's injury is being treated as a lethal force incident.  I am Scott Olsen.  I am Scott Olsen.  I am The 99 percent.  I am The 99 Percent.  I am Scott Olsen...  As of last night Occupy Oakland protestors re-occupied the plaza in front of city hall.  I am Scott Olsen.  I am Scott Olsen...  Many veterans gathered along with protestors to pay tribute to Olsen. Today the hospital reports Olsen is in fair condition and expected to make a full recovery. For NPR News I am Denise Tejada.  And that report came to us from TurnstyleNews.com. It is a project of Youth Radio. You can see footage of those clashes with police in Oakland at npr.org. 