 Actors Simon Pegg and Nick Frost are developing a cottage industry in movie spoofery. They first co-starred in Shaun of the Dead a parody of zombie flicks. Then they made a spoof of buddy-cop movies called Hot Fuzz. And Bob Mondello says their latest effort called Paul takes aim at the world of science fiction.  Two British nerds having soaked up the geek vibe of San Diego's Comic-Con hop into an RV for what they figure will be the road trip of a lifetime a pilgrimage to America's UFO-friendly Southwest. Graeme and Clive cannot wait to see Area 51 the town of Roswell maybe some evidence of close encounters. Then they actually have a close encounter.  Mr.   Uh hi. I am Paul.  And Clive promptly faints.  Mr.   What have you done to him? Mr.   He fainted. Mr.   Yeah but you made him faint. Mr.   But it is not like I set my phaser to faint. Mr.   You have got a phaser? Mr.   Oh God. Mr.   Are you going to probe us? Mr.   Why does everyone always assume that?  Paul who is about four feet tall with a gray spindly body bulbous head wearing cargo pants and flip-flops explains that there are men in black after him. Graeme agrees to help find his mothership. And for a few miles everything's fine until Clive wakes up assumes they are being kidnapped and gets Paul in a stranglehold.  Mr.   . Mr.   Was that Klingon? You psychotic nerd. Mr.   He looks too obvious. Mr.   There is a reason for that Clive. Over the last 60 years the human race has been drip-fed images of my face on lunchboxes and T-shirts in case our species do meet you do not have a spaz attack. Mr.   I did not have a spaz attack.  You may be sensing that this movie has a certain fanboy mentality. These guys cannot stop at a convenience store without conjuring up a sci-fi reference.  Mr.   Hey Reese's pieces.  The idea is that this cargo-pants'd stoner-E.T. with the voice of Seth Rogen has been stranded on Earth long enough to have influenced all our extra-terrestrial fantasies. So no one should be surprised when Sigourney Weaver pops by looking for an alien to blast or Stephen Spielberg phones home to Paul for screenwriting pointers. Subtle the picture is not but it is pretty funny when Superbad's director Greg Mottola is keeping things brisk. When he lets the pace slacken say for a sub-plot about a creationist whose world-view is undone by Paul's existence or to remind us that these British nerds are more alien in America's heartland than the alien-alien they are driving around the laughs tend to slacken too. Still if it does not exactly go where no comedy has gone before Paul is breezy and undemanding profane enough to be not quite right for younger kids and sweet enough that if they sneak in as they will certainly want to do you do not have to worry about them too much. I am Bob Mondello. 