 This evening Democrats hold the second night of their virtual convention. Last night Americans heard from different corners of the party but they all tried to speak with one voice and deliver a message of unity - no small task for a diverse party that has seen progressive candidates challenging and beating incumbents with history and power. One of those progressive challengers is Cori Bush. She is a candidate for Missouri's 1st Congressional District which encompasses all of St. Louis. Cori Bush joins me now. Thanks for being on the program.  Hi. Thanks for having me.  So let us begin with your reaction to what you heard last night. It was a message of unity as we said. But did it feel inclusive to members of the progressive wing of the party like yourself?  You know we have work to do. But you know I am excited to hopefully be able to be a part of that - you know of opening things up and making them more inclusive. I definitely believe that you know things were said you know that is showing that there is some unity there absolutely. But you know I bring a different - you know I bring something different you know? And that is coming from the heart of the ground out of the activist community out of the Ferguson uprising you know being unhoused being you know just a whole different - just a different outlook. And so I am just really hoping to be able to talk with people once I get there to help make sure those messages are heard.  Now that message of unity which was headlined by former first lady Michelle Obama is very much centered on defeating Donald Trump making the case against him.  Yes.  Are progressives united with more centrist Democrats in that cause?  We have to get Donald Trump out of office. So I believe that you know while - we are not a monolith you know but I do believe that there are progressives who you know are just looking at the fact that so many of the issues that we are fighting right now - that we know that those things will be amplified or that hatred may be amplified. The people that are the most vulnerable will - we - you know do I think that the attacks will increase with Donald Trump - four more years you know having him in that seat with his administration? Absolutely. You know the decisions that he is been making where it just seems like he is on his own island and he just gets to dictate everything - you know that I do not believe is going to stop. I believe it will get worse. And so looking at that looking at our unhoused population what will happen to our Latinx population our disabled population our LGBT women you know our Black community our brown community - what is going to happen to all of us? What is going to happen to our Asian community? What is going to happen to our Muslim community? You know that is what I am looking at and so that is why I am pushing so hard to make sure that we get Trump out of office.  Now do you worry though that in this effort to defeat the current president that progressive policy priorities like Medicare for All which Joe Biden and Kamala Harris have come out against or a universal living income might get lost?  No absolutely not because we have been saying these same things. At least I know I have been saying the same things. I have listened to Sen. Sanders say these same things since 2015. And so we are going to keep pushing them. You know we cannot look at you know where we have been you know how hard it has been you know? But I look at where we are now you know? And now the conversation is about Medicare for All. The conversation is about UBI. And so we will keep pushing that and we will not stop. You know I am not one to turn back you know? I am not one to allow just you know people wanting me to think a certain way - allow that to sway me you know? I am coming with experiences and the experiences that the people in this district have to walk through. And so no it will not. We are going to keep fighting and pushing forward.  In the 30 seconds or so that we have left if you win in November you will be following in the footsteps of other progressive women candidates who won House seats in 2018. There is been a lot of coverage that New York Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is only being given 60 seconds. Do you draw any conclusions about what that means about the voices they value?  You know what? She is on the stage so I am just glad that she is at least on the stage.  Right.  And she can knock it out in 60 seconds.  Cori Bush Democratic candidate for Congress in Missouri's 1st Congressional District thank you so much for speaking with us.  Thank you. Have a great one. 