 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  NPR's Pam Fessler reports.  Many states give working poor families something called an earned income tax credit similar to what they get on their federal taxes. But now several states want to cut or eliminate the break.  Four hundred dollars may not seem like a lot to a lot of people. But when you are already living on the bottom rung of society you feel the difference.  Ramona Spencer is a single mother of five who lives in Lansing Michigan. Spencer says she used the credit last year to buy glasses for her disabled adult son who she cares for.  My son would either have to go without the glasses or we would forgo doing other things. We would literally not have the gas to go or maybe not be able to pay one of our utilities.  But in some ways Michigan is in the same boat as Ramona Spencer. Money is tight. The state faces a 1.8 billion deficit. And Republican Governor Rick Snyder recently told reporters that eliminating the EITC would save 340 million.  We are in a severe budget situation. And when you looked at the priorities of what we could do my view is is let us help people on the very front end on the safety net feature and work hard to make sure we are keeping those programs in place.  Gilda Jacobs the CEO of the Michigan League for Human Services.  How does this make sense in terms of shared sacrifice?  She says eliminating the EITC will push 14000 Michigan children into poverty and hurt the local economy because the poor tend to spend the money they get quickly on things such as housing and food. So why does she think the credit is been targeted?  The people that receive the EITC they do not pay high - expensive lobbyists so they are easy pickings.  Nick Johnson of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities in Washington says it is odd because the EITC has long been favored by both Democrats and Republicans. One reason is that it only goes to people who work.  We are not necessarily talking about the very poorest of the poor. We are talking about working families who are trying to stay off of welfare trying to avoid turning to the state for other kinds of help.  But the credit has also drawn criticism from fiscal conservatives in part because it is refundable which means that people can still get it even if they do not owe taxes because their income is so low.  Actually it is a transfer payment is what it is.  Michael LaFaive is with the Mackinac Center for Public Policy a Michigan-based think tank.  In order for them to spend this money it first has to be taken from other people and business. So these transfer payments just effectively rob very productive people and shift it to lower-income individuals.  Ramona Spencer who earns 13000 a year teaching kids nutrition and gardening takes issue with any suggestion that she is getting a handout. She is received direct government aid in the past.  That part's humiliating. Being able to get a credit is not. I feel like I have earned that and I am entitled to it. It is not a poverty handout.  Pam Fessler NPR News. 