 Last week in the Syrian city of Aleppo clashes sparked fires that partially destroyed a vast bazaar. The market dates back to medieval times and its on UNESCO's list of World Heritage sites one of several in Syria. Rasha Elass sent this story on how the Syrian conflict is threatening the country's antiquities.   This is a modern interpretation of some of the earliest music known to humanity music from before there was an ancient Greece from a people called the Hurrians. The notes to this music were found on clay tablets in Syria dating back to 1400 B.C.   Syria is filled with these treasures. It is home to some of the earliest human settlements in the world. Take the famous Umayyad Mosque in Damascus it dates back at least to Hellenistic times and it served as a temple to the Aramaic god of rain. Later it became a Roman temple then a church. And finally early in the eighth century a mosque - one of the most important sites in the Muslim world today. But Syria's rich heritage is now under threat as civil war rages throughout the country. Emma Cunliffe is an archeology researcher at Durham University in the U.K. She recently documented damage from shelling and looting to every single one of Syria's major landmarks and a great deal of damage to many of the minor ones as well.  So for example the Citadel at Aleppo where there is still very heavy fighting around the citadel and in the old quarter we know that the doors to the citadel were blown apart and those doors date to 1211. The oldest occupation on that hill is at least 5000 years old.  Cunliffe says some of the worst damage has been in central Syria in Palmyra another U.N. World Heritage Site. Thousands of years ago it used to be a thriving metropolis an oasis trading hub. Now statuettes have been hacked off the site and at least one ancient temple has collapsed. Some locals accuse government troops. Majd the Palmyrian is the nom de guerre of an activist based in Palmyra. He says vibrations from Syrian army vehicles are causing cracks all over the site including the famed Roman Triumphal Arc.   Before the war cars were not even allowed to drive near the site. Now the army drives on the stone cobbled road with tanks and heavy vehicles causing visible damage.  Majd says Syrian troops are digging tunnels and looting the Palmyra site.   This video uploaded to YouTube by anti-government activists shows what appear to be Syrian soldiers in full gear posing amid the delicate ruins at Palmyra. In another video men whose faces are off-camera load pre-Roman statues onto the back of a pickup truck. Professor Helen Sader is an archeologist at the American University of Beirut. She says the looting and damage to Syria's heritage is particularly tragic because for decades the Syrian regime has actually gone out of its way to encourage and protect archeological discoveries.  Syria had a very very important cultural program archeological program. They were furthering and developing archeology. And they were preserving archeological remains and they were building regional museums for their own people.  She says for decades Syria has been a favorite for international archeologists because they were constantly finding evidence of previously unknown civilizations.   Like these words which were inscribed some 5000 years ago on clay tablets during the Kingdom of Urkesh which is now an excavation site in northern Syria. This recording is based on the inscriptions.   Rick Hauser specializes in Mesopotamian archeology. He was recently working to excavate the palace at Urkesh. He was about to return and continue his work there when anti-government protests erupted in March last year. He says thousands of tiny thumbnail-sized pieces told the story of everyday life inside the palace of Urkesh.  I will never forget the moment when this little thing appeared. Because I mean you see something that small and you study it and you say well I am now looking at a hunk of rock or dirt of what is this. And then you say oh no my god. It is a picture. It is a story of happenings.  He says today with so many sites in Syria looted and destroyed entire eras of human history could be lost forever. For NPR News I am Rasha Elass. 