 This week we have been taking a moment each day to appreciate the work of someone who died this year. At least one of them had her own theme song.    Who can turn the world on with her smile?  The Mary Tyler Moore Show ran in the 1970s at the height of the women's rights movement. It became one of the most acclaimed series in TV history.  Moore played Mary Richards a woman in her 30s working at a TV news station in Minneapolis.    No Mr. Grant it is not one of those woman things. I would like to know why the last associate producer before me made 50 a week more than I do.   Oh because he was a man.  Mary Richards stood up to her boss. She got her raise. She also dated had a sex life and never married. She inspired a generation that was not used to seeing career women on TV.  But before Mary Tyler Moore played that character she had already chipped away at how housewives were seen on TV and she did it by wearing pants.   Pants - you know jeans and capri pants.  In the early '60s she played Laura Rob Petrie's wife on The Dick Van Dyke Show.    Oh Rob how could you do this? I would never think of inviting someone into this house without consulting you.   Oh now wait a minute. How about your Aunt Mildred?    You are not going to compare my Aunt Mildred to a German shepherd.   No but I could. I am in enough of it as it is.   True to TV formula Laura was the perfect housewife. But her wardrobe was true to real life thanks to Mary Tyler Moore.   I said I have seen all the other actresses and they are always running the vacuum in these little flowered frocks with high heels on. And I do not do that and I do not know any of my friends who do that. So why do not we try to make this real?  That is Mary Tyler Moore speaking in 1995 with Terry Gross on WHYY's Fresh Air. It was not easy to show a young housewife in pants. The TV sponsors thought she would look too brazen.   They used the term cupping under and I can only assume that that meant my seat - that there was a little too much definition. And so they allowed me to continue to wear them in one episode - one scene per episode and only after we checked to make sure that there was as little cupping under as possible .  Cupping under referring to the fit of your pants...  The fit of the pants yes...  ...On your behind.  ...On my behind right. But within a few weeks we were sneaking them into a few other scenes in every episode. And they were definitely cupping under and everyone thought it was great.   And the funny thing is you know women liked me. They were not envious of the fact that their husbands had a crush on me. They would say my husband loves you so much and he thinks you are so sexy. And this was an odd thing because they were also able to identify with me as a friend as a girlfriend. There was no resentment and no fear.   Mary Tyler Moore who wore the pants on TV years before she inspired women to make it on their own.  She died in January after contracting pneumonia. Mary Tyler Moore was 80.  