 Bluefin tuna is one of the most valuable fish in the sea. A single bluefin tuna can fetch 100000 at market before its cut into sushi. But its been severely overfished. So its also one of the most endangered fish in the sea. Over the weekend the international commission that regulates fishing voted to reduce the quota for bluefin tuna. As NPRs Richard Harris reports the new quota still allows too much fishing to assure the tunas survival.  Every year since its inception decades ago the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas gets together to set fishing limits for the bluefin tuna. And every year the commission has ignored the advice of its own scientists. Its under heavy pressure from the fishing industry particularly boats working the waters off Europe who want to catch far more fish than the scientists say is safe. But this year for a change the commission suggested a quota that falls within the range of their scientists advice. And Jane Lubchenco who heads the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration says this new quota is a significant improvement. Dr.  But it does not go far enough. Its insufficient to guarantee the long-term viability of either the fish or the fishery.  Lubchenco as a biologist is passionate about bluefin tuna. And Lubchenco also has a responsibility as the nations chief fishing regulator to protect the species from being fished to commercial extinction. Dr.  Bluefin tuna are spectacular creatures and we have a responsibility to ensure their survival. We also understand that the survival of the fishery depends on having healthy populations of fish.  The latest deal establishes a new lower fishing quota and also puts in place new rules designed to reduce overfishing. Even so the commission itself figures even if these rules are followed theres only a 60 percent chance that the species will recover by the year 2023. Dr.  Thats not a high probability but its much better than the current probability.  The chances of a recovery are based on the assumption that fishermen will actually keep to the quotas that have been negotiated. Joseph Powers at Louisiana State University is a science adviser to the tuna commission. And he says the new quota looks okay  at least on paper. Dr.  If in fact that were perfectly implemented then yes you would start to begin the long recovery process.  But the fisheries particularly around Europe have a dreadful track record in implementing tuna quotas. Susan Lieberman at the Pew Environment Group says some European nations do a very poor job of enforcing the quotas. Ms.  And theres a lot of illegal fishing going on again particularly in the Mediterranean.  She says fishermen sometimes catch twice as many fish as they are allowed to under the formal quotas. So even though the tuna commission has finally paid attention to its scientists on Eastern bluefin tuna Lieberman is still very discouraged. Ms.  I would say its not really so much a turning point as a baby step in the right direction. I dont know if the bluefin tuna has enough time for all the little tiny steps but its better than nothing.  Lieberman says the commission probably went as far as it did because conservation groups including hers are trying to get bluefin tuna protected as an endangered species under a treaty called CITES. The government of Monaco has made that a formal proposal. Commissioners hoped they could forestall that action if they took serious enough steps at this meeting. The U.S. government strongly supports Monacos efforts to ban bluefin tuna trade. But today NOAA Administrator Jane Lubchenco was a bit noncommittal about what exactly that means. Dr.  Because the meetings have just concluded. We havent had time to consult within the U.S. government and to decide exactly what our next steps are. Were going to be doing that very soon.  That next crucial meeting for the bluefin tuna is slated for March. Richard Harris NPR News. 