 The number of children going through puberty as early as age seven or eight has been on the rise for several years. As a consequence by the time these children take sex education in fifth or sixth grade they are already well into puberty well into the period when they are wondering what is going on with their bodies. Now if you are a kid growing up in the San Francisco Bay Area this might be your first introduction to puberty at school.    Hello I am Natalie. My body is growing fast so they all call me names and they treat me like trash...  Natalie is a character from the play Nightmare on Puberty Street. Going to see it is a middle school tradition in the Bay Area.    I did not pick how my body would grow and I do not feel normal 'ecause I am not in control...  Youth Radio's Donisha Dansby wanted to visit some real Bay Area school children to find out what it is like for kids who start puberty early. To protect their privacy she is just using the first names of kids she is interviewed.  One morning when she was eight Rachel woke up and noticed something different about herself.  I actually honestly do not really remember this. But what my mom told me is that I woke up and I was like Hey Mom what are these like things on my chest? I do not know what they are doing there . And she had to explain it to me.  Rachael's 15 now and fully grown. Back then when puberty started she still played like a little girl.  Fairy princess clothes tend to be not well-made and revealing and stuff like that so I was playing dress up even though I would already started developing. So there are some pictures of me in dress up clothes that are kind of revealing or too tight in some areas.  At school Rachael stood out.  Some of my friends had parents who they were not as comfortable talking to about this kind of stuff. I actually was a person who answered a lot of other people's questions.  That is a weird position for kids. But some girls show signs of puberty even younger than Rachael did. Jaidyn was just six.  Six when I got armpit hair and I started wearing deodorant and about nine when I started wearing a bra.  By fourth grade Jaidyn still had not received any puberty education at school which left the conversation to her mom.  Honestly it made me feel a little uncomfortable but I did my best.  That is Jaidyn's mom Marella.  I just brought her home some bras and said here.   And she put them on. You know I just made as easy for her as possible.  But really it is not easy for parents or kids. That is partly why schools offer puberty education to help us not freak out.  It is not a big deal but what I like to call it is a picture of Mr. and Ms. Naked OK. So take a deep breath.  And then comes the question from Oakland 5th grader Isabel.  Let us say you get your period during class what would you do then?  Run.   She could run...  Ann Peacock is a puberty education teacher in this classroom at Redwood Heights Elementary.  Ask the teacher to go to the bathroom. OK?   She recommends that every fifth grade girl carry a personal pouch containing pads and a fresh pair of underwear since periods can start at anytime for girls this age.  My personal view is that we should do some form of sexuality education from kindergarten onwards and that they are made to feel comfortable.  Yeah I feel like it is important to learn but it is sort of like an awkward lesson.  That is another girl named Isabel also in fifth grade last spring at Flynn Elementary School in San Francisco talking on the playground the week she and her friend Mila were about to start puberty class.  I heard that while having your period you can get very moody. You can get really grouchy...  Yeah.  ...like a rollercoaster.  Yeah I heard that you have like a lot of different like feelings at the same time. Like you are sad and suddenly you are happy and suddenly you are angry.  I am worried some of my friendships are going to be on the line.  Yeah.  Why not talk to your parents about this stuff?  It is just one of those things that it is like you do not want to talk to your mom about. It is like boyfriends you do not want to talk to your mom about your boyfriend.  Like you do not want to tell them about it because then they might be like Oh my God - you are growing up...  But we are growing up. Oftentimes way before we hear the word puberty in class. DR.  I really feel like I am on a mission now to make sure that people understand that teaching kids about puberty in fifth grade is way too late.  Dr. Louise Greenspan is a pediatric endocrinologist at Kaiser in San Francisco who is studying the causes and effects of early puberty. To be clear Greenspan is not saying little kids should be learning about sex in school. Instead she says they should get the message that being physically mature does not mean they are ready for adult relationships. To Greenspan kids who start puberty early do not necessarily have a medical problem.  But is it a disorder as in there is something wrong with our environment or there is something wrong with what is happening in the world maybe. Something's changed. So the girls do not have a disorder but maybe our world does.  While scientists try to find what is causing early puberty schools are left to deal with what looks like a new normal. In the meantime kids are left wondering.    Normal am I normal?   Am I normal?   Am I normal?  For NPR News I am Donisha Dansby  UNIDENTIFIED children  I really hope I am normal.  That story was produced by Youth Radio.  This is NPR News. 