 Twenty years ago movies were movies. Great good bad iconic worth remembering.    Run Forrest run.    Once the bus goes 50 miles an hour the bomb is armed. If it drops below 50 it blows up.    Do know what they call a quarter pounder with cheese in Paris? SAMUEL L.   What do they call it?   They call it a Royale with cheese.   Royale with cheese.  The Lion King Forrest Gump Speed Pulp Fiction - all of them came out in 1994. The website Grantland has been remembering the movies of 1994 in the order they came out the week they came out. So far they have published essays about the blockbusters and the duds - anyone remember Maverick? Now let us be clear here movie critics do not think 1994 was like way better than other years. And Grantland is not really saying it was way better than other years. They are just saying let us spend some time thinking about the movies of 1994. Wesley Morris has written some of these essays. He says the best is yet to come.  The year did not really get very interesting until around summer movie season. So Hoop Dreams is a good example.  Yes.  Of you know it is a basketball documentary.   From city streets to the brink of fame - Isaiah Thomas - the amazing story of two boys and two families struggling against the odds.  That movie means something to the culture. It is worth talking about and it is worth going back and looking at how that movie changed a certain kind of documentary filmmaking.  What was your favorite movie that year?  At the time my favorite movie from that year was probably Quiz Show.   Geritol presents the exciting quiz program - Twenty One.  Quiz show is basically the story of the Twenty One answer fixing scandal and how that scandal managed to go all away up to Congress.    What if we would ask you questions that you know?  Well I think I would really rather try to beat them honestly.   Just an idea.  Was that part of the test?  So you guys have spent all of this time thinking about 1994 you have been looking at this year looking at the movies of this year. Other than the 20 years ago thing - Why 1994?  Yes it was a convenient number to choose. I think it was an excuse to at some point have these really big discussions about Hoop Dreams and Shawshank Redemption because they will both set the world on fire when they happen.  Right.  And being surprised by a lot of what else happened in that year. That was also really great news year too and a lot of what - it was interesting to sort of look at the release of those movies with what was also happening in the news.  Like?  Like the week that Wolf came out. I have wrote about Wolf.    The wolf bit me.  I do not think so Will.   You were not there Ralph.  Not all were bitten change. There must be something wild within.  I remember seeing Wolf - that Jack Nicholson turns into a werewolf movie - with Michelle Pfeiffer. I saw that movie while O.J. was in that bronco.  Right.  And so it is interesting looking at going from this from this Bronco situation into a movie about a guy who maybe winds up killing his wife. It is - we know that he actually did not do it the other werewolf did it.  So now that you guys are spent all the time looking at the year - has your opinion changed of it all? Are you like it was not the good year we thought it would be - or better than we thought it was going to be?  You know that is a really interesting question. I think we are committed to being honest - it is not like we are just going to give you the greatest hits. I mean we really are going through. So far we have done the Segal - we have done Segal movies we have done Bad Girls we have looked at Wolf - which we all agree is a very very bad movie. And we are not holding these movies up as all great. I think the other distinction to be made is that I think these movies are more culturally important than they are categorically or absolutely great and I think what we are enjoying doing is looking at what the movies themselves are whether they hold up and then what their cultural value was 20 years ago versus what it is now.  Wesley Morris is a staff writer for Grantland. 