 NPR's Eleanor Beardsley reports.  DSK as he is known here had been accused of sexually assaulting a hotel housekeeper and was fighting the charges in New York.   The Socialist Party which has been in disarray since Strauss-Kahn's arrest welcomed the news. Party spokesman Benoit Hamon gave a press conference following Strauss-Kahn's appearance in court.   We Socialists and many French people are very relieved to have seen just a few minutes ago Strauss-Kahn come out of the court room with his wife. He gained some important freedoms and the turn this case is taking is a huge relief to us.  Strauss-Kahn's ambitions for France's top job were dashed by the New York hotel episode. And in his absence three other Socialist candidates are running for the party's nomination. But with today's turn of events some are now wondering if DSK could make a comeback.  It is the big question. It is a big test of how France has changed these days. In the old days you could probably get away with anything behind the bedroom door and you could still be elected president.  That is Charles Bremner who has covered French politics for 30 years for The Times of London. Bremner says it is far too early to speculate about Strauss-Kahn's future but he suspects things could be different this time because France has been humiliated by Strauss-Kahn.  Dominique Strauss-Kahn is very much damaged goods at least at the moment. He is also been subject to great ridicule in France. And one of the worst things that can happen to you in the history of France is to be the subject of ridicule. It used to get you banished from the royal court for example.  Bremner says there will also be those who feel the American media and justice systems have unfairly crucified DSK so they will rally around him.   In a small seaside park in the Mediterranean town of Nice the Sol family is lounging on the grass. Patrick Sol says it is all just a little too weird.   I think they came to some sort of arrangement between the two sides. Money must have changed hands. When Strauss- Kahn appeared in court accused he looked bad. He did not have the face of someone who was innocent. I think there is something fishy going on.  But when asked if Strauss-Kahn could make a comeback in politics both Patrick and his wife Anne Marie give a resounding oui.    For NPR News I am Eleanor Beardsley in Nice. 