 So given these known serious violations why did not MSHA use its authority to shut down operations at this mine? That is a question Charleston Gazette reporter Ken Ward Jr. has put to top MSHA officials. Ward has been covering the coal industry for almost 20 years.  MSHA made a determination late last year that this mine despite having been repeatedly cited for the most serious sorts of violations that MSHA can cite had not committed a pattern of violations. And I have asked for an explanation of why that is and MSHA so far has not provided any sort of explanation.  I want to talk you too about the company involved here Massey Energy and its CEO Don Blankenship. He is a hugely powerful figure both in the coal industry and in West Virginia itself. How powerful would you say he is?  He is the CEO of the largest coal producer in the region. He does not mind spending his own money to influence politics or public policy. And I think he is generally considered by most observers to be a pretty powerful fellow.  How would you say that Massey Energy has changed and grown since Don Blankenship became CEO back in 2000?  And of course in the context of a mine disaster like this it is important to note that union mines have what are called safety committees where workers who are experts in safety have the ability to look out for other miners. And it gives the workers more of a voice in the safety of the conditions that they are working under.  What do Massey workers tell you about working conditions?  I think certainly there are an awful lot of people who work for Massey who are very happy with their jobs. They are making very good money 100000 a year or more if they are working a lot of overtime. If you talk to people who formerly worked at some of these mines and some people who still work at some of these mines they are very concerned about the safety practices. And I think that as the investigation of this disaster goes on you are going to be hearing more about that.  Do you think that is a prevailing view?  Do we accept that of other industries or are we as a country so interested in having cheap electricity that we are not really concerned about whether or not 25 people get blown up in a coal mine in southern West Virginia?  Ken Massey Energy and its CEO Don Blankenship have plenty of critics. They also have lots of defenders. What do those defenders say?  They do have lots of defenders and they say that Don is a patriot and is an entrepreneur and a self-made man. He grew up very poor and by all accounts put himself through Marshall University very very quickly and did very very well and is considered a pretty sharp guy. And a lot of people think very fondly of him.  Massey Energy has paid a lot of money in fines for these violations over the years. How much of an impact have those fines had on Massey's profits?  Well I do not know. But I do know that today they issued some documents to the Securities and Exchange Commission in which they told their stockholders that they did not expect the financial effects of this disaster to be significant in the long term on the company.  Of this disaster this accident that killed 25 maybe more miners.  Correct.  Ken thanks very much.  Thank you. 