 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Robert Siegel. President Barack Obama arrived in Mexico today for a one-day trip. And he pledged to work towards strengthening the relationship between the United States and its southern neighbor. He arrives at a time when Mexico is battling narco-traffickers in a deadly war fueled in part by Americans' appetite for drugs. In comments on arrival Mr. Obama vowed to work with Mexico.  At a time when the Mexican government has so courageously taken on the drug cartels that have plagued both sides of the borders it is absolutely critical that the United States joins as a full partner in dealing with this issue both through initiatives like the Merida Initiative but also on our side of the border in dealing with the flow of guns and cash south.  The first thing on Mr. Obama's agenda today was talks with President Felipe Calderon. And NPR's Scott Horsley is traveling with the president. And he joins us now. Scott what are the headlines from today's talks?  Well Robert the two presidents talked about a range of issues cross-border trade the environment the economy. But that battle with the narco-traffickers was the most urgent challenge they were discussing. And President Obama talked about a number of steps that the United States can take to assist in Mexico in that battle from combating the demand for drugs that fuels the narco-traffickers' business and he said he would urge the U.S. Congress to ratify an old treaty that is designed to crack down on gun smuggling. This is a treaty that was approved by the Organization of American States a dozen years ago but never ratified. And it would be an important symbolic gesture for the U.S. because the vast majority of arms that the drug cartels used come from our side of the border.  Yeah that flow of guns is obviously a huge concern for the Mexican government. Do you think that the president's push for ratification of the treaty will be enough for them?  Well it is - this has really been a sore point. I mean Mexico has been urging the United States to do more. The Obama administration has taken some concrete steps. They have talked about sending 100 or so ATF agents to the border. President Obama was asked today about whether he would push for a renewal of the ban on assault weapons. This is something he said he supported during the campaign but as a sort of a political realist he has declined to push very aggressively for it. He said today that it would be very difficult to get that assault weapons ban renewed. And so he talked more about enforcing stronger enforcement of existing gun laws. There is a real cultural divide though because Mexico's own gun laws are very tough. And it is been all too easy for straw buyers on the U.S. side of the border to acquire guns and provide them to the traffickers.  Scott this is President Obama's third meeting with President Calderon have relations between Washington and Mexico improved much since the time of the Bush administration?  Well President Calderon described this as the beginning of a new era. I think it is safe to say that the Bush era was not characterized by hostility so much as maybe neglect. And the Obama administration is trying to show that they are actively engaged with Mexico. Not only has Mr. Obama met with the president but three cabinet secretaries have traveled to the country to have meetings. Of course President Bush also said early in his administration that he wanted to improve relations with Mexico. And it is going to take more than one summit meeting to really show the United States is serious about that.  That is NPR's Scott Horsley speaking to us from Mexico City. Thank you very much Scott.  My pleasure Robert. 