 As Allison mentioned Tai Shan will become part of a breeding plan in China. In effort to boost the endangered panda population he is heading to the panda base at Bifengxia in Sichuan province. Back in 2008 I got a firsthand look at another panda center in Sichuan the Chengdu Research Base of Giant Panda Breeding.   Which panda is that that is making all the...  Professor  This is Yashin. Right now she is in .  She is in . Director Zhang Zhihe walked me around the panda base and talked about their intensive breeding program a program that produced 18 cubs in 2008. But last year that number fell shapely to just four cubs. And that drop has led the scientists at the base to rethink their breeding program. Joining us to talk about that is Sarah Bexell. She is director of conservation education for the Chengdu Panda Base. Sarah thanks for being with us. Ms.  Thank you Melissa. It is nice to be with you again.  So four panda cubs in 2009 and that included a set of twins. Was it a surprise that there were so few? Ms.  Yes we were all surprised. And of course as would be expected we were disappointed.  And what is the thinking about why the numbers were so low? Is it that the moms were essentially tired out? Ms.  That is one of the thinking yes. You know with the captive breeding program over the last you know five to ten years there is been a heavy emphasis on number of cubs. That means asking the mothers to reproduce every single year versus what would be a two to three-year interval in the wild. And so when a mammal's body or any animal's body is reproducing that is very taxing. So that is one of the hypotheses that we have is that they just kind of needed a break.  Yeah you remember Sarah that we talked back in 2008 about whether the breeding cycle was too intense. And one of your former colleagues another Westerner used the term panda factory referring to the base. She told us that the female pandas might be anesthetized three to six times in one day for artificial insemination. Has that been scaled back some now? Ms.  It was not last year. And we will see going into the breeding season. As you may know breeding season usually peaks between February and March. And I am right now not in China. I am on my way back this month. And so I am not sure what they will decide to do. What I do know that they are wanting to focus on now is quality cubs over quantity of cubs - cubs that stay with their mom a more natural amount of time so they have that behavioral repertoire that is more natural making them better candidates for potential reintroduction into the wild. So hopefully that shift will happen right away this year. But you know old habits die slowly. And so we will see if people are able to really put these new actions into order.  And there is a lot of pressure too Sarah of getting that captive population up to a maybe more sustainable number. We talked back in 2008 with the director Zhang Zhihe about this goal of 300 pandas in captivity. Are you close to that goal now? Ms.  Oh we are so close. We are so excited. We celebrated the fact that we have 294 individuals in the captive breeding program globally and that is within 50 institutions. So essentially we have hit our goal. And what we did in our annual meeting that we have every single year is reassess that goal of 300 and whether that is still sustainable both for genetic purposes but as well as education and outreach when animals are in different institutions - people have opportunities to learn about them. And then also preparing some individuals for reintroduction in the wild if we deem through scientific research that that is actually a necessary thing to do.  Sarah Bexell is director of conservation education for the Chengdu Research Base of Giant Panda Breeding. Sarah thanks so much. Ms.  Thank you Melissa. 