 India is often called the world's back office. Its call centers handle tech support for companies around the world - everything from credit cards and airlines to U.S. police departments. So what happens when India goes into lockdown over the coronavirus? NPR's Lauren Frayer reports.  On Day 1 of India's coronavirus lockdown Amar Sankrit realized he and his colleagues could not get to work. He handles customer service calls for U.S. and U.K. telecom companies at a call center outside New Delhi.  On that day the shift was cancelled. And we were just worried. We contacted our manager. We asked them what to do.  He did not own a laptop so he could not work from home. And he was worried about losing pay. He earns about 3000 a year. India has about 4.5 million IT workers like him. The same day Sankrit was told to stay home Nisha Biswal was in her office in Washington. She is the president of the U.S.-India Business Council.  When India announced its lockdown my immediate thought was you know what will be the impact on the service economy in the United States and around the world?  India handles more than half of the world's IT outsourcing. And it is not just telecoms credit cards or airlines Biswal says.  X-Rays radiology diagnostic information is often being analyzed in India. And so our hospitals are very much linked to services in India.  Biswal says Americans' ability to literally survive COVID-19 relies in part on IT workers in India. Mukesh Aghi leads the U.S.-India Strategic Partnership Forum. He sent an emergency request to the Indian government on behalf of U.S. companies to exempt call centers from lockdown and issue curfew passes for employees.  Obviously our priority was first with essential services. The challenges - what we saw was - it was more from a ground-level local policemen.  Local policemen who stopped some IT workers on their commute he says - Virgin Media the telecom company says its call centers in India were so disrupted it is now urgently hiring in the U.K. Aghi says after a bumpy first week of lockdown most Indian IT staff are now working and mostly from home. But even that has raised concerns says cybersecurity expert Sagnik Chakraborty because your credit card information or medical history is now being routed through millions of IT workers' home computers rather than through secure call centers.  Moving to a public network from a secure private network - there are four essential things. VPN - that is the virtual private network - encrypted disks virtual remote desktops and disabling USB ports how many employees actually have these tools at home?  Not many he says - for Amar Sankrit the call-center employee near Delhi - his company rented him a laptop and paid to install Wi-Fi in the cramped home he shares with his mother and sister.  I have a small room. Keyboard and mouse I am using on my bed. I am working like that.  He says he misses having a proper desk and chair but he is saving the four hours a day he used to spend commuting by bus. Instead he is putting in overtime helping companies around the world stay up and running. Lauren Frayer NPR News.  