 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  And I am Melissa Block. We are only hours away from a partial government shutdown and lawmakers are still at an impasse. Party leaders and their staff worked late into the night at the White House - at one point reportedly nearing a deal only to have it fall apart this morning. And today a frenzy of press conferences rocked Capitol Hill as Republicans and Democrats blamed each other for the failure. NPR congressional correspondent Andrea Seabrook joins us now. Andrea what is going on? We have been hearing for a week or so some lawmakers and the president saying we are almost there. We almost have a deal. Not so. What happened?  I do not know Melissa what is going on? I mean it depends on who you ask here. That is why we had the dueling press conferences today. In fact Melissa there was something like five press conferences on the Hill today. House Speaker John Boehner the top Republican in these negotiations and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid the top Democrat counting out the president they both came out several times. And the truth is if I played all of their press conferences and explanations I would leave you completely confused. I mean listen to this. Listen to - this is how Speaker Boehner from earlier today this is how he described it.  There is only one reason that we do not have an agreement as yet and that issue is spending.  Now listen to how Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid described what is going on.  The House leadership with the speaker have a very clear choice to make and they do not have much time to make that choice. They can keep their word or they can shut down America's government over women's access to health care.  So Andrea they are characterizing this impasse completely differently. The Republicans saying this is all about money about spending the Democrats saying no it is about ideology. It is about these writers that the Republicans want attached.  And in a way they are both sort of telling the truth. I mean I talked to lawmakers all day today all day yesterday especially freshmen Republicans and here's what they told me what is going on within the Republican conference. They want those cuts. They want deep cuts especially in social programs 61 billion. But they are willing to take a lower number if they get some of those policy changes the writers that you are talking about. If they do not get the writers they want deeper cuts. So in essence they are both sort of telling the truth about what is going on here.  And tick through some of those policy changes the Republicans are holding out for.  Funding for women's health especially clinics that get federal funds and also perform abortions. And there is one in particular that is sort of the boogeyman for conservative's Planned Parenthood. Now remember no federal funding goes to abortions. It is illegal but there are clinics like Planned Parenthood that use federal funds for women's health care and then they take private funds for abortion services. And conservatives do not like that 'ecause they say money is fungible and giving federal money to a clinic that provides abortions is in essence funding abortions. So cutting those clinics is actually the most important writer to these conservatives.  Andrea it is four of the clock just after four of the clock Eastern Time they have till midnight eight hours to go - what technically can get done between now and then? If they want to pass something if they have an agreement what can they do?  Well they certainly could not pass an actual agreement. What they would do if they did actually come out ride their horses out and say we have done it is they would - each chamber would pass a continuing resolution a thing to keep the government funded for a few days or a week or whatever it takes. But you know both sides are so terrified right now of what the public will think of them if the government does shut down that really it is all about trying to make the other guy look bad if that happened and they are more interested in that than they are - they seem to be - in coming out with a compromise at this point.  OK. Andrea Seabrook NPR's congressional correspondent. Thanks very much. 