 How likely is a defendant convicted of a crime to commit another crime in the future? Pennsylvania is expected to start using what is called risk assessment to help determine prison time. It would be a data-driven sentencing process based on the statistical probability that a criminal will reoffend. Ben Casselman has been investigating this for the website FiveThirtyEight and Ben why do not you explain how this work? What risk factors in particular would be used to help determine a sentence?  Yeah. So these are statistical tools. They try to take a lot of information about a person and then try to understand how likely they are to reoffend. In Pennsylvania specifically they would be looking at sex and age and prior criminal history and in some cases whether the person lives in an urban or rural setting. But there are other tools like this that are used around the country that sometimes use things like education employment lots of other factors that can end up in there.  Now you mentioned criminal history. And that is a real question here because it seems like it would risk baking in current racial disparities in the justice system. If you are using arrests and convictions are not you compounding a problem of bias?  Yeah that is exactly right. There is a real concern there that even though it sounds on the surface like it would be fair to consider somebody's past actions and their sentencing that if there are racial biases in the justice system - and of course we know that there are - that this becomes a feedback loop - that you get pulled over and arrested more likely because you are black and then that ends up being a higher risk factor. And so you spend more time in jail as a result.  Ben would this be used exclusively? Would the risk assessment be the only driver of what sentence is given by a judge?  No. Judges would still retain discretion. They would have the ability to set aside the risk assessment recommendation if there were other factors that they thought overrode it.  What is the ultimate goal? Is it to make sentencing fairer to lower the prison population? What is the idea behind it?  It is really interesting 'ecause this has been embraced by sort of a diverse group of people kind of across the ideological spectrum. You have sort of liberal groups that think this is a way of reducing incarceration. You have conservative groups that see it as a way of saving money and potentially reducing recidivism. And of course as long as it is in the purely theoretical then it can accomplish all of these things. The moment that you have to actually put it into practice of course then you have to start making trade-offs.  It does seem that if you are using statistics in this way basically coming up with a formula to determine the likelihood that someone will commit another crime that ignores individual life circumstances any changes that that person might have had in his or her life.  Yeah. So this is something that comes up all the time with these is first of all is it fair to make decisions based on factors that are outside of people's control? Is there a way to measure the way that somebody has changed over time? But then also even sort of deeper than that is a question of whether it is legitimate to sentence somebody based on probabilities. We do not know for sure whether somebody will commit another crime. A 75 percent chance sounds like a pretty high risk but it still means that 1 in 4 people in that circumstance will not go on to reoffend. It is worth noting this is something that is being done in a number of other states though mostly in a more limited way. But Missouri and Virginia and Utah all use this to some degree in the sentencing process.  Since this all seems so heavily driven by metrics I do wonder how ultimately it will be judged whether it is a success or not. What - how would they try to figure out whether it is working?  One of the real challenges with this is that the data can be difficult to measure especially if - as in the case of Pennsylvania they have adopted a number of reforms at once. It can be difficult to know what it is that is having the effect. If incarceration rates go down is that because of risk assessment? Is that because of changing other sentencing guidelines? Is it because of a drop in the overall crime rate? These can be very difficult things to measure. Although we have these problems now and so there is an argument to be made that injecting data into this at least gives us some ability to measure something that right now really might be immeasurable.  I have been talking with Ben Casselman chief economics writer at FiveThirtyEight. Their story on risk assessment for sentencing is done in collaboration with The Marshall Project. Ben thanks very much.  Thanks so much for having me. 