 No one appreciates an unannounced visitor especially late at night. Phoenix resident Andy Gregg is no exception.  I walked into my house to take the dog outside and I started hearing somebody talk in my house.  In a panic Gregg looked to see who was talking but he saw no one. Then he remembered his Nest security camera. It is a smart security camera one that is designed to alert him when a visitor is at the front door. And it allows a two-way conversation. But this was different. There was a voice and yet no one was at the door.  It is this guy talking to me on the audio portion of my camera basically stating that he is a white hat hacker from Canada.  Gregg started recording.   We are white hat. I am just here to kind of let you know so no one else like any black hat hackers...  OK.  That is a little hard to understand but basically this was a benevolent hacker alerting Gregg to the vulnerability of his Nest security camera. The hacker claimed to be a member of the Calgary branch of the group Anonymous. And he would not give his name.  I was totally freaked out. It really felt like someone broke into your house.  So as any of us might Gregg a lot of questions for the hacker.   Like are you able to see where I live and everything?  Yeah I mean I do not know where you live right now. But if someone was really that dedicated yeah they could geolocate an IP. they could see when you are not home.  How did you know I was home?  I just kind of - like I have been logging into accounts. And I could just like kind of hear some moving around. So I just figured I would ask if anybody was there.  Andy Gregg was not reassured by that.  The question comes up of how long has this guy actually been listening to me in my house.  Nest the company that makes Andy Gregg's security camera is a division of Alphabet. That is Google's parent company. Spokesperson Matt Flegel told NPR that Gregg did not do everything the company recommends to evade his nocturnal hackers friendly or not. Nest advises using two-factor authentication and passwords that are not the same as the ones you use elsewhere.  And still there is one more burden that falls on Andy Gregg who is a real estate agent. He has to warn some of his customers.  I give these cameras out as gifts when people purchase homes. And you know I have some clients that purchased a whole set of them to watch their kids in their living room and things like that. So now it brings up the whole fact of like you know is it actually safe for anybody these days?  As for Gregg himself no more Nest. He is counting on his dog to serve as his alarm from now on. 