 Once a month NPR and Kaiser Health News take a close look at medical bills that you send us. Today we are going to hear about a young grad student who worked out a way to afford life-changing surgery but not without a fight. Elisabeth Rosenthal the editor-in-chief of Kaiser Health News is here to tell us more. Welcome.  Great to be here.  So this procedure that we are going to talk about is gender confirmation surgery. This is where a person surgically changes his or her external sex organs. And this story here is about someone going from male to female right?  Right.  But it sounds like her medical bills tell a much larger story that a lot of us can relate to.  Sure. I mean gender confirmation surgery is obviously very rare but the kinds of billing problems Wren Vetens ran into are almost universal when you seek elective surgery in this country these days.  OK. Let us hear more about her experience. This is reporter Bram Sable-Smith.  Wren Vetens realized she wanted confirmation surgery the way a lot of 22-year-olds realize a lot of things.  I had been having an argument with my mom.  OK. So her mom says it was not an argument but they were talking about pronouns. Ren was raised male. In college she began identifying as nonbinary using the gender-neutral they pronoun. Her mom was accepting but from time to time she would slip up. Ren would correct her. And this time it led to a discussion. Did Ren identify as female? Did Ren want to have surgery or take feminizing hormones?  And I said no no no no no. And then I immediately went upstairs and pulled up Google and started actually researching. And I realized oh yeah I want this .  Right around the same time Ren was applying to Ph.D. programs in theoretical physics. She had a few offers but her mom Kim Moreland says one school stood out - The University of Wisconsin.  It is a great program but they also are friendly to transgender students.  Graduate students at the university are covered by the state employee insurance. And in the summer of 2016 the board that oversees that insurance decided it needed to cover transgender health to comply with the Affordable Care Act. Wren matriculated that fall. But soon after Wisconsin's governor Scott Walker asked the insurance board to reconsider. And that December they voted not to cover transgender care. The decision stung but Wren realized there was another option. The school's undergraduate insurance explicitly covers confirmation surgery again. Again Kim Moreland.  It is a big print. It is right out there in the front. It says up to 25000 for transgender surgery.  So Wren paid to switch to the undergraduate insurance. And she was one of the very first to get a surgery date at the University of Wisconsin Hospital - December 27 2017. After two years of planning and many more years of gender dysphoria Wren says it felt like a light at the end of a tunnel. And then...  And then in November I got a call from the hospital saying that the bill they would submit to insurance was on the order of 100000.  That would mean even with insurance Wren would be on the hook for 75000 for a surgery that typically only costs about 20000. Wren's mother Kim is an OBGYN. She is got experience working with hospital billing departments and insurance companies. And she coached Wren to push back. Eventually the hospital gave a new price - 20000. But they would have to pay it all out of pocket. That seemed reasonable. Wren's surgery was just weeks away and they had to pay to keep the date. She figured she could deal with the money after. She called the hospital credit card in hand.  She said OK give me the number. And I said well do you have like a written down bill of sale what you are giving me when I give you this 20000? He had no idea.  Eventually she did get an itemized bill. She paid it flew to Wisconsin and Wren got the surgery. It was a success and for Wren a huge relief.  So in a way it was like being born again.  But then they got a bill. Kim Moreland.  The hospital wanted another 13000.  The hospital had billed Wren's insurance 92000 for the surgery. The insurance paid 26000 and the hospital was billing Wren for some of the remainder even though they had an itemized receipt saying they would already paid.  They acknowledged that they would already paid money but they thought that was a down payment.  It was a mistake. Wren never had to pay it. But that mistaken bill gave Kim an idea.  I saw that and I thought OK now the insurance knows that we had surgery there.  Meaning the surgery was in the insurance system. So Kim helped Wren fill out an appeal submitting a receipt for reimbursement. And a couple weeks later a check arrived for 18000. For NPR News I am Bram Sable-Smith in Wisconsin.  OK. An 18000 check I mean that sounds like good news right?  Well sure. But that check arrived only after a very long fight and after a journalist called the insurer asking about the reimbursement issue. So not so fast.  Oh. I guess we do not all have journalists fighting for us on our behalf.  Right. We need a system that works for everyone the first time around without all these hassles and interventions.  So what can we learn from Vetens' story?  Well the big lesson is that there is no real price for anything in our system. I mean everything is the product of negotiation. I mean remember she got estimates that ranged from 19000 to 100000.  That is a crazy disparity.  Well it is crazy. And if you are trying to figure out what you should pay how can you even take the first steps with that kind of range right? So what happened was the price estimates she would got online were at the 19000. And those are cash prices so they did not tell her much about what she in fact would owe. And in her case the hospital charged her the insurance price which was closer to the 100000.  Why did not the hospital charge her the out-of-pocket cash price?  Well because the hospitals want to charge as much as they can. And they knew she had insurance so they thought well we will go with the 100000 I assume.  So what did Vetens do? I mean besides have a journalist ask a lot of questions on her behalf what does it teach us about what other people can do about really high medical bills?  She did some really smart things. I mean first of all her mom was a physician right?  Oh that helps .  So she had someone in the corner arguing on her behalf.  Right. Yeah.  But also she enlisted the help of her surgeon. And your doctors are really on your side in this. And the hospitals need to listen to their staff surgeons. They are the ones who bring in the business. So her surgeon went to bat on her behalf as well.  And what other resources are out there?  There are a number of websites that will help you with estimating prices. There is Pratter. There is Clear Health. There is Healthcare Bluebook. There are numerous ones. Those will not tell you the price you have to pay but they will give you kind of data points that you can use to argue your case.  This seems like so much work so much research.  It is a really big burden to put on patients who are having surgery especially something as emotional as gender-confirmation surgery.  Right.  You know you think about all the things that Wren Vetens' family did to help her. They went back and negotiated directly with the hospital got an out-of-pocket cash price. Then they had to go back and negotiate with both the insurer and the hospital over yet another bill. And yet in the end it worked right? So that is the good news.  The very very end.  Yeah. Persistence is key and be a fighter.  That is Elisabeth Rosenthal the editor-in-chief of Kaiser Health News. Thank you for joining us.  Thanks for having me.  That story you heard from Bram Sable-Smith is part of NPR's reporting partnership with Side Effects Public Media station KBIA and Kaiser Health News. And hey if you have an interesting medical bill we would love to see it. Go to NPR's Shots blog to share your bill with us and with Kaiser Health News. 