 What motivates scientists and inventors? NPR's Joe Palca has been exploring the power of the creative brain. And today as part of his series Joe's Big Idea he has the story of a college student and entrepreneur. His online program uses hip-hop to teach vocabulary to teens.  The program is called Rhymes with Reason and it is the invention of Austin Martin. Martin is a junior at Brown University. He is invited me to go with him to a class at Community Preparatory School in Providence where he is testing the software.  So guys how are you guys doing?  Good.  Cool. So today we are going to get into another lesson with Rhymes with Reason.  Martin has attached his laptop to a projector so the class can see what he is doing.  I think we might jump around a little bit just to get some like - some fun words in there.  Martin decides to start out with the word distorting. He calls up a webpage with a music clip. He clicks the link.   Glue it to my heart I do it huge. And your attitude just blew it. So rude it is your mentality it is distorting your reality. Actually the more you speak make me think where I would rather be.  OK so in this example when they say so rudely your mentality's distorting this reality what do you think it means?  Most of the kids seem to get it means altering or changing. Then he asks the class to use the word in context. But not in a simple sentence like we used to do but in a rap lyric and this is where things get interesting. In a few minutes hands start to shoot up.  You are always distorting my brain making me insane the way you cross your arms and give me attitude. Why do not you go somewhere and do not be rude?  March 31 I went to court but my opponent started to distort what I was saying. In fact they started fraying...  People think that I am no good but their views are distorted. I am the best they are wrong is what I retorted. Their minds are warped. They are not in their right minds because smart people know I am the best that people can find.  That was Tiffanie Pichardo Micah Walker and Grace Jordan.  Great job.  Eddie Moye is the regular teacher in this eighth grade class. He says the kids took to Rhymes with Reason right away.  And they were saying oh this is so much fun this is so much fun. And they were saying well not to diss you Mr. Moye but we like what Austin's doing with us. And I said I do not have a problem with that.  Although Rhymes with Reason inventor Austin Martin is now in an Ivy League college there was a time when he struggled in school. He did excel in two subjects - hip-hop and basketball. He says he could tell you every last fact about every rapper every NBA player.  My favorite NBA player was Allen Iverson. I could tell you what points-per-game average he had in 2004.  It was 30.7 in case you are interested. Anyway Martin figured he would take that kind of passion and use it to good advantage.  I wanted to find a way to finally make it so the intellectual engagement in hip-hop was rewarded in academic setting.  He is hoping Rhymes with Reason will do the trick.  Oh I am so excited.  The class has moved on from distorting to other words. The students try making lyrics with meticulous...  When I spit my bars people think I am meticulous. It comes naturally - OK I lied. It is ridiculous.  ...Or complex...  Rapping is complex. For example all I can think to rhyme with complex is the word Rex.  ...Or domain.  I am sick of people coming at my domain. I am from Pawtucket - yeah I am repping the name. Best city in Rhode Island. It puts the rest to shame. Better keep up 'ecause I am in the fast lane.  Ooh....  The kids seem reluctant to stop when the period is over.  OK ladies and gentlemen please collect home books. Put them back in the home book locker please.  After we leave the school I asked Martin whether he thought the session went well. He said yes particularly the way kids responded to each other's lyrics.  Seeing them - like everyone say ooh and ah when they come up with a good rhyme - it is really good to have validation in the classroom for something that you generated from your mind.  Martin says Rhymes with Reason is still very much in the testing phase. It is only being used in a handful of classes and he is not got reliable data yet showing it actually improves test scores. But if the kids in Eddie Moye's eighth grade class are anything to go by it looks like Austin Martin is onto something. Joe Palca NPR News. 