 British film director Ken Russell has died. His florid adaptations of classic literature and over-the-top biopics range from provocative to downright perverse. He is best known for such films as Tommy Women in Love and Altered States. Russell died yesterday after a series of strokes. He was 84. NPR's Neda Ulaby has this remembrance of a director whose operatic imagination earned him both dismissals and devotion.  They called him Kinky Ken Russell for a reason.   Vanessa Redgrave plays a definitely unholy nun being tortured in Ken Russell's movie The Devils from 1971. Of course the church objected as did a legion of critics disgusted by the film's excesses of masked revelers and sadomasochistic priests. Here's Russell a Catholic convert on NPR in 1991.   It took Ken Russell decades to become the provocateur who gleefully stirred up scandal after cinematic scandal from the late 1960s through the late '80s. First he wanted to be a sailor. He joined the British Merchant Marine but was constantly seasick. He came home had a nervous breakdown then heard something on the radio that unleashed his inner artist.   Classical music was a revelation. Ken Russell started cranking Tchaikovsky while leaping around his parents' house naked. His ambition to dance professionally failed when he got kicked out of ballet school for being too clumsy. Then came attempts at the Air Force and acting. Finally photography led to TV directing. That newfound passion for classical music led to a documentary that became one of the BBC's most popular.   Elgar is a restrained portrait of composer Edward Elgar. Nothing like the director's later overdramatized biopics of Tchaikovsky Liszt or Strauss. That last one nearly got him sued by the BBC and the composer's son. But the director relished controversy says producer Daniel Ireland.  He loved it. The more you could write about him and the nastier you could write about him Ken sort of celebrated being bad.  Ireland produced four of Russell's movies in the 1980s. As a young fan he fell in love with Women in Love the movie that made Russell's reputation. In 1969 it won an Oscar for star Glenda Jackson.   I mean he was very very smart in picking actors. If you look through his career I mean Glenda Jackson Vanessa Redgrave all at the beginning of their careers.  Ken Russell had an eye not just for strong actors who could handle his strong subjects but material that shared his flamboyant sensibility.   He enjoyed one of his rare critical successes in 1975 with his adaptation of The Who is Tommy.   Ken Russell would egg his actors on with screams of way more abandon. Producer Daniel Ireland says he directed like a conductor.  He directed with music playing in his head full volume. His films would come to life like that.  Ireland says Ken Russell was just as full of life as his films. But the director told NPR 10 years ago his reputation as an extravagant decadent figure could not be further from the truth.   Towards the end of his life Ken Russell retreated from feature films but continued to stay in the public eye - and raised the public's eyebrows by appearing on the reality show Celebrity Big Brother in Britain. Neda Ulaby NPR News.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 