 In World War II Filipino soldiers fought alongside American troops in the Pacific. Decades later many were allowed to move to the U.S. and become citizens but they had to leave their grown children in the Philippines. As NPR's Hansi Lo Wang reports those families could finally be reunited. HANSI LO WANG  More than a quarter million Filipino fighters served under the American flag during World War II.   They shed their blood just as willingly and heroically as their American comrades did.  That was a former president of the Commonwealth of the Philippines Manuel Quezon speaking in 1942 about how his fellow Filipinos fought with the U.S. against invading Japanese forces. In return those fighters were promised benefits pensions and U.S. citizenship. Rudolpho Panaglima was one of them. He was 13 when he joined his father in a Filipino guerrilla unit that was coordinating with U.S. forces from the mountains. He says being so young allowed him to sneak past the Japanese military as a courier and scout.  I went ahead to make sure that the enemy is not there. I got information from the town then I would bring back foods medicine all of that.  But as the war ended in 1946 President Harry Truman signed laws that stripped away those promises of benefits and citizenship for Rudolpho Panaglima and many other Filipino veterans. They won some back after decades of protests lobbying and lawsuits. It was not until the early 1990s when veterans like Panaglima could move to the U.S. with full citizenship along with their spouses parents and children under 21. Now Panaglima lives in a small apartment outside of Washington D.C. with his wife.  I am 86 at this moment and my wife is 83. And sometimes she is talking I cannot hear.  He and his wife have four grown children none of whom moved with them to the U.S. Still their eldest Rolando wants to leave the Philippines and join them. Rudolpho says his son could be the caregiver that he and his wife need.  That is what I am dreaming because of our age now.  It is a dream that many Filipino veterans thought would come true earlier. Their adult children are eligible for green cards but some have had to wait for more than two decades like Rudolpho's son Rolando who has his own children now.  It is really - it is sad. And my children are always talking to me and telling me when will they see their grandparents?  Quota restrictions and backlogs and processing are part of the reason why relatives of Filipino veterans have been kept apart from their loved ones. But starting today vets who are recognized by the Defense Department can apply to bring over their relatives sooner.  This program is intended to honor their service and their sacrifice.  Daniel Cosgrove is a spokesman for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services which is managing the new program. Family members who are approved to come to the U.S. will be on parole while they wait to receive their visas. They are allowed to work but their parole ends when the veteran sponsoring them dies.  It would allow the veteran to spend his or her remaining years with the loved one and it would allow the loved one to provide care and support for the aging veteran.  Widows of Filipino veterans are also eligible to apply to bring over family. That is a special condition that immigration officials put in place because many veterans have already passed away. For the advocates like Lourdes Tancinco this is a bittersweet victory. Tancinco is an immigration attorney who helped start the Veterans Equity Center in San Francisco. She is been talking about the program with vets and widows in their 80s and 90s.  Most of them were not coherent anymore. They just thought that they were still there to wait for their family members. I guess they waited too long.  Immigration officials say the program will last for at least five years. They expect the first group of family members to arrive by the end of this year. Hansi Lo Wang NPR News.  The audio of this story incorrectly says that parole ends for family members in the Filipino World War II Veterans Parole Program when the veteran sponsoring them dies. In fact parole lasts for three years after which eligible family members can reapply. 