 I am not going to lie. One of my very favorite duties at ALL THINGS CONSIDERED is our annual holiday cocktail chat. Today we are ringing out 2019 and ringing in the New Year with a new cocktail expressly invented to set the tone for 2020. The inventor is self-described bartender-at-large Eddie Kim a contender by the way for best title ever. He is also co-host of the Shift Drink podcast and he came by our studio to mix me his drink for the New Year which he has christened Truth and Clarity.  When I thought about the vibe of 2020 that I wanted the first two things that come to mind were truth and clarity a clean slate to start the new year. This particular drink it is going to be crystal clear. I brought some special ice along with me to help facilitate that.  You have actually brought huge blocks of ice.   Yes.  You have got a wooden tub set out right here in the studio. I wish you would come every day - blocks of ice a lemon and...  Some beautiful ingredients.  Yeah.  A base of this drink is Capitoline blanc vermouth a white vermouth. It is a low ABV vermouth. You probably know it from Manhattens...  ABV...  ...And martinis...  ...Alcohol by volume.  Yes.  So not super high-proof.  A little bit lower in alcohol.  OK.  So we can start off the year maybe not so foggy-headed...   Right.  ...Right off the bat. I also have some Suntory Japanese whisky. So this Japanese whisky.  Does it have to be Japanese?  No it does not. This is a blended whisky. So you can use blended Scotch or even your favorite American whiskey.  OK.  And then I have a little bit of bitter lemon vinegar. A couple dashes of that will help lift up a drink and make it more refreshing.  OK. So to recap - whisky bitter lemon vinegar and vermouth...  Yes.  ...White vermouth.  Yes and the all-important club soda.  OK. So walk me through it. Let us just start making it.  OK.  First Eddie Kim prepped ice to chill the glass. He chipped away at this huge block.  There is shards of ice flying around the studio as you are whacking. But at home just feel free to pop your glass in the freezer. However you get it done he says a cold glass is key. Now he is turning now to the bottles lined up before us.  I will start with the Capitoline blanc vermouth.  How much are we putting in here?  This is an ounce and a half.  An ounce and a half.  And then we have the Suntory Japanese whisky. We are only using a half ounce of this. So that is why it is a lower-alcohol drink. We are not trying to...  Yeah and a very light golden color of whisky not a dark one.  I will do a couple dashes of this vinegar. And if you do not have that kind of vinegar you can use apple cider vinegar...  Oh really?  ...Or any other fruit vinegar - whatever you might have around the house.  OK.  And then I will mix it up just a little bit more.  Ice flying across the studio.  And then we are ready for the soda water.  Here we go.    Tiny bubbles...  Let us get that all the way to the top. This is probably one of the messier drinks in your studio that you have had.  Probably one of the only drinks  actually in our studio that we have had.  We have the drink here and then...  It is almost clear now.  Yes.  Is that like half alcohol to half club soda? Or what is the ratio we are aiming for here?  It is going to be about 3 ounces of club soda and then total in alcohol we are thinking about like 2 2 12 ounces. You want to mix it up a little bit. You do not have to stir vigorously. Just do a little bit of lift up and down. That creates a vacuum a little flow to mix the two ingredients. And then I am going to garnish it with...  Hold on. You have got a lemon and...  Fresh slough of lemon peel. Make sure you express those oils. Just give a little squeeze on the sides over the top of it.  Express the oils.  Yeah.  Explain. You have got the skin facing your drink.  You have the yellow-side skin facing your drink. You squeeze a little bit. You will see those oils shoot off.  OK.  And then here we are just right into the drink.  Truth and Clarity. Cheers. Oh very light.  Yes.  Crisp. I can taste the lemon.  This is actually one of my favorite drinks that kind of the whisky-soda like highball drink. It is my Shift Drink kind of the name of my podcast. So like at the end of a long day you just want something that is kind of easy pretty simple but something you can just kind of clear your mind over.  Does this feel like something you could drink throughout 2020? I mean it is not a seasonal drink. You could drink this anytime.  I think so. Yeah anything with soda water - bubbles go with any occasion.    Tiny bubbles...  And serve it to a crowd. Make one for yourself.  You can do both. You can make like a large batch of it and serve it in like a punch format. But I think in an individual Collins glass it is pretty stately.  It is lovely.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Appreciate it.  What will be on your mind as you are drinking the Truth and Clarity into a new year?   Well we will see as the days come along and weeks of - and hopefully we will have many pleasant drinks ahead of us to help us through the rest of the year.  The rest of the year. Well here's to a fabulous 2020.  You too.  Thank you for the very first drink of the year and the last of 2019 Eddie Kim. It has been a pleasure.  Happy New Year.  Happy New Year to you. Eddie Kim hosts the Shift Drink podcast. Cheers out there everybody.  