 And I am Mary Louise Kelly in Atlanta where it is Election Day - finally the day that Georgians and the country have been waiting for. As these two Senate runoffs come to a vote millions of people in Georgia have already voted. They are expecting hundreds of thousands maybe up to a million people voting in person today on election day. We have just pulled up to a church which is a polling site. This is Cobb County Ga. So we are actually just a tiny bit outside the city limits - watching people come and go - about to walk up and try to talk to a few of them.  Good morning.  How are you?  And you just vote in here?  Doing well.  There was a line early this morning at the Life Church Smyrna Assembly of God we heard. But when we were there - just a steady stream of people heading in coming out earning stickers with I voted scrawled across a Georgia peach. One of them - Angie Carmichael lifelong resident of Smyrna regular voter voted in November. But she was not sure she was going to vote in this runoff.  Because I did not want to vote at all. But my husband's taking me to lunch and I told him I would vote .  Like a number of people we have met here in Georgia Carmichael has taken on board the president's claims of fraud and a stolen election claims that have no facts to support them but that have raised doubts in voters' minds about the integrity of the election system.  I just do not like everything that is going on right now. And I feel like the first election was rigged. So I do not see my point in voting but we will see what happens. At least I did my part.  Also here today - Ken Jones holding the hand of his daughter Addison. She is only 5 but this is not the first time he is brought her along to watch him vote.  Like even me - I did not vote early on in my younger days. I started to feel more empowered in the process probably over the last maybe 20 years and so - you know just taking an active role. And I want that - to instill that in my kids. So yeah.  Ken Jones also has his concerns about election security. Jones who is Black says part of that stems from the history of Georgia elections not being free and fair for all voters - also the possibility of human error.  I just hope that there are enough people that want to see a fair election - are standing by and fighting the fight to make sure that that you know does not happen. But I do feel like in this situation we will - you know hopefully we will have enough of a turnout that it leaves you know no doubt. 