 History echoed before the Lincoln Memorial today in the nation's capital as protesters gathered to demand an end to police brutality and racial injustice. They stand in the same spot where 57 years ago protesters stood to demand full voting rights an end to segregation and a living wage for Black Americans. NPR sat down with some of the people who marched on Washington in 1963 to talk about that day and how this moment of reckoning with racism looks from their vantage. We start with Courtland Cox who was an organizer with the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee.  One of the things you have to remember is that the African American community had already been through the sit-ins. They had already been through the Freedom Rides. So when the call was made by A. Philip Randolph to have a march on Washington people were ready to come.   They want no reservations. They want complete equality - social economic and political.  We are requesting all citizens to move into Washington to go by plane by car bus any way that you can get there. Walk if necessary.  Bayard Rustin and I got up early in the morning and we went out to the Mall. There was not a soul on the Mall - no one. And Bayard turns to me and said Courtland do you think anyone is coming to this march? And soon as he said that I mean people were just pouring out of bus stations of train stations.  My name is Edith Lee-Payne. It was my 12th birthday. We started off at the monument. So as people were filling up it was just kind of amazing to see. You know at some point that is all I could see - was just walls of people.   By your great numbers you have forced a slow dignified and stated march. We will see you at the Lincoln Memorial.  My name is Professor A. Peter Bailey. I went from first grade through 12th grade and had learned practically nothing about Black history - I mean nothing. I always liked history. And so I knew the March on Washington was going to be a historical event so I went.   I have the pleasure to present to you Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.  People need to understand the big issue that Black people had to face at that point is what do you Negroes want? Martin King in his speech said what people want here is the full participation in the American dream. All the things that you hold sacred we hold sacred.   This note was a promise that all men - yes Black men as well as white men - would be guaranteed the unalienable rights of life liberty and the pursuit of happiness.  That was a powerful speech. It is almost criminal the way they have reduced that man to I have a dream. The way he talks about the Founding Fathers of this country gave our ancestors a promissory note...   But we refuse to believe that the bank of justice is bankrupt.  And we have come here today to cash that check. Now to me that should be the quote you know that is memorized from that speech. You do not hear nothing - any programs any events around the day of Dr. King's assassination. All you hear is I have a dream. I have a dream. And I think that it is almost criminal because that man was way more than that.   I think history was written today which will have its effect on coming generations with respect to our democracy with respect to our ideals with respect to the great struggle of man toward freedom and human dignity.  My name is Daniel Serwer. The image that we have today of the March on Washington is that the movement peaked and succeeded with the March on Washington. That was definitely not the case especially the succeeded part. I frankly think it is an ideological effort to convince people that this is over it is finished. And that is what - that is the myth that Black Lives Matter exploded.    Hands up. Do not shoot. Hands up. Do not shoot.  For my generation the thing that got most of us alert and aware and made us begin to really understand what we were dealing with in this country was the lynching of Emmett Till. Well I think George Floyd's lynching hopefully will do the same thing for the current generation.    No justice no peace.  I do not know. It - I cried for a couple of days just seeing that. As a Black woman as a Black person that is not new to me. The deaths are not new to me.  You think you are going to do something today and see the results next week or next month. You got to understand that this is - you are at a long-range thing. And your job - look upon it as like a big chain. And every generation must do its share to weaken the links in that chain 'ecause the chain is definitely going to break. But it may not - it may be your great-grandchildren who see it break.  