 It is the day after primary day in California and Democrats seem to have avoided a disaster. Party members had been worried they might get shut out of key House races. This is because California operates under a top-two system. Only the top two finishers no matter what party they represent end up on the general election ballot. Well some races are still too close to call but so far it looks so good for California Democrats. Marisa Lagos is California politics reporter for KQED. She is also co-host of the Political Breakdown podcast and she is here to bring us up to speed. Marisa welcome.  Thanks for having me.  We are glad to have you with us. Let me zoom right in on these congressional races we have been talking so much about. This is Democrats trying to win in seven House districts. Hillary Clinton won them. They are currently held by Republicans. They are seen as key to Democratic efforts to regain control in the House of Representatives. What is the latest? What do we know about how Democrats fared?  Well there - it is looking very good for them. You know there was this sort of panic among both the state and national parties in recent weeks that it could end up with two Republicans in some of these races. And what we are seeing is that is really not the case. I mean two districts in particular are interesting in the Orange County area. Darrell Issa is retiring so is Ed Royce. Those are districts that are even if Democrats do not win this year looking more and more likely to turn blue. And I think that we are - you know all of these races have become sort of flashpoints in this entire tussle over control of Congress. And as you said even though some of them are still up in the air for example Dana Rohrabacher's seat in Orange County - it looks like there is two Democrats actually competing for that No. 2 spot. The Republican who thought - we thought might squeak through is not even - it does not look like at this point anywhere near them.  Well this brings me to my next question. Democrats safely on the ballots in these races it is looking like. Do they really have a chance of winning come November?  That absolutely depends on the district. You know there is a couple like Jeff Denham's district in the Central Valley where time and time again Democrats have tried to turn them and they have lost. But as I said I think some of these Orange County seats are looking a little bit more up for grabs. I think we are going to have a better sense you know in the coming weeks. But for example Darrell Issa's seat - the Republican candidate does look strong but they - it looks like Democrats also got the Democrat they would like to see - Mike Levin an environmental attorney young fresh-faced all the things I think that they are looking for. So you know it is going to be a battle. They are definitely not guaranteeing anything.  Let me turn you to the race for governor. There was also a gubernatorial primary last night. This is interesting. Lieutenant Governor Gavin Newsom - he took the top spot easily. John Cox a Republican businessman came in second. And Republicans are looking at this as a victory that he came in second and saying victory even if he loses to Newsom. How come?  Yeah this is one of those weird election nights where both parties are claiming victory in California. The issue is this top-two primary. And because Republicans have slipped behind no-party-preference voters in California - they are about a quarter of the electorate now - there was a real big fear among Democrats that they could just miss out on this top-of-the-ticket race. And that would impact those congressional races we are talking about.  That Republican voters just would not come out at all.  Exactly.  Right. OK before I let you go I have to ask you about the Fonz Henry Winkler...   Of course.  ...Who played Fonzie back on Happy Days. He tried to vote yesterday. He could not. He was not the only one. Briefly what happened?  One-hundred-eighteen-thousand voters had been left off of the rolls that - at precincts. They said it was a printing error and urged everyone to cast provisional ballots. But it was a big problem for the biggest county in California.  Wow all right. I am tempted to give you my Fonzie imitation but I will spare you that today.   Next time.   Next time we may have a chance to revisit it. Thanks very much Marisa.  My pleasure. Thanks for having me.  That is Marisa Lagos California politics reporter for KQED. 