 The Muslim holy month of Ramadan is drawing to a close. For many of the pious the end cannot come soon enough. This year Ramadan has fallen on the longest and hottest days of the year and that means up to 15 hours of fasting in soaring temperatures. But some Muslims indulge in secret as NPR's Lourdes Garcia-Navarro discovered on a visit to the Palestinian city of Ramallah.  I am thirsty from 7 of the clock in the morning 'til the evening. I am in anguish.  That is my Palestinian colleague Nuha Musleh. Like most of the 1.3 billion Muslims in the world she is fasting during the day. That means no food no liquid no smoking no daytime sex - complete abstinence. And that she says makes people understandably cranky. She says complaining is a Ramadan habit but she reserves her harshest criticism for those who do not observe the fast.  There is such a thing as Ramadan rage and it seems to be justified. People are hungry people are thirsty but be angry be thirsty have that Ramadan rage. I do not appreciate Muslims not fasting.  It is that peer pressure and fear of censure that drives many non-fasting Muslims underground. Ramadan is the most important period of the Muslim religious calendar. People are asked to fast to feel closer to the poor to purify their spirit and purge their sins. In some Middle Eastern countries you can be arrested if you are caught not observing the fast. While the West Bank is more tolerant no one wants their friends or family to know that they are not abstaining.   It is lunchtime at Cafe Zaman in Ramallah and it is crowded. But you would not know it if you were standing outside because the blinds are drawn to protect the identity of those inside from the eyes of the curious. There is a speakeasy atmosphere here. People's heads are down as if they are doing something truly illicit. The wife of Palestinian government minister is ordering a salad for her lunch. But when we asked to interview her she is horrified - and begs us not to mention her name because she will be engulfed in scandal. Others are more forthcoming.  Now  it is so hot and the day is so long - too long. This is why I am not fasting.  That is Diab. No last name and no pictures are the conditions of our interview. He suspects that there are many others like him but he does not really know.  Secretly - yes I think so. Many people are not fasting I think.  Sitting next to him is Tarek. He is smoking and drinking coffee. He agrees with Diab.  Yeah yeah. I mean the majority of the people who do not fast we try to you know - pretend that they are fasting.  He says people sneak a meal  in cafes - like this one - or at home away from the eyes of others. Tarek says he does not volunteer the information that he is not fasting but he tries to be honest. Others though are not so upfront. One man who refused to have his voice recorded for fear of exposure tells me his wife thinks he is not eating or drinking when he is at work. He tells me this as he is chewing happily on a sandwich in the middle of the afternoon.   At the main mosque in Ramallah religious scholar Dr. Hussien Darwish says Islam allows exemptions from the fast for the elderly the very young the sick and others. DR.  .  The imam says lately some of the faithful have come to him and complained saying they cannot observe the fast in the terrible summer heat and they ask for a reprieve. Smiling Darwish says he reminds them that the Prophet Muhammad fasted in one of the hottest places on Earth Saudi Arabia. Lourdes Garcia-Navarro NPR News. 