 Not all of this week's notable athletic achievements are taking place in Vancouver. At a small bar in Brooklyn a national skee-ball champion was crowned. You may remember skee-ball from childhood arcades - the little wooden balls rolled up a lane to numbered holes. Well now we know who the best roller in the U.S. is at least we will know that when NPR's Robert Smith tells us.   Shh. We are in the middle of the quarter final match. Unidentified Man Ehrlich's been on fire tonight hitting many full circles a few cherries here and there. But Ocean has been right with him matching him.  You think you know skee-ball maybe won a few tickets at a Chuck E. Cheese? Well this is a whole different level. Unidentified Man And he starts off with a hundo right off the bat and he is going to the hybrid roll.  Hundos cherries hybrids? The self-proclaimed National Skee-Ball Championships has a language all its own - and a home. The Full Circle Bar in Brooklyn is the only dedicated Skee-Ball watering hole and stadium in the United States. Eric Pavony takes it all very seriously. Mr.  I am the Skee-E-O of brewskee-ball.  A skee-ball league that is been around for five years or as Eric says... Mr.  Skeesons.  It is played in New York San Francisco Texas North Carolina. Mr.  Skee to shining skee.  That is just terrible. Mr.  I know I know. Actually that is one of the big things is puns in the league.  Okay. Let us just get them all out of the way. Among the teams Flock of Skeegulls Skee Patrols Skeeven Colbert - needless to say there is a lot of drinking in this sport. Before the tournament the top seeds are all at the skee-ball machines rolling the wooden balls up the ramps and into the pockets.   Forty points 50 points the hundo - the 100-point pocket. And I notice something strange. You know how most athletes are big or tall or athletic? These guys are about my height  five-foot-eight. Andrew Litz plays under the pseudonym William Ocean. Mr.  I mean this is basically was meant as originally as a child's game. You know like that is why the lanes are so low. So I think like really being able to like get down and crouch and get low to the lane I think you have more success.  They may be of average height but I would not call them normal. Joey Mucha aka Joey the Cat wears a women's leopard print jumpsuit. He is from the San Francisco league. And there is a reason why he is so good. Mr.  Well get this I purchased my own skee-ball machine off of eBay and it is in my one-bedroom apartment which I do not know how many other skee-ballers actually own their own skee-ball machine.  Ah but you know what they say On any given skee day any roller can triumph - or something like that. And during the skee-ball tournament even Joey the Cat is playing more uneven than a carny's grin. Mr.  Just coughing up hairballs left and right.  What he did not count on was a New York City player who had the stature of a chimp. Mr.  I am five-five-and-a-half on a good day. This is a short man's game sir.  Ray Carannante better known as Skee-diddy can throw 40-point balls like a robot sent from a skee-ball-playing future - or like a kid who grew up going to the Jersey Shore which he did. His metronome-like arm propelled him to the finals. Unidentified Man  He is going all 40s right now. Very smooth very consistent. He is got an 18 through six 22 through six...  Unidentified Man  There it is. We have the first ever skee-ball national champion Skee-diddy.  Skee-diddy wins enough tickets to trade in for 170 pencil top erasers and a Chinese finger trap - nah that is just a joke. He gets a trophy topped by a little gold man throwing a little gold ball. It is really a bocce player but what are you going to do? It is the first national skee-ball trophy ever made but not the last. Robert Smith NPR News New York. 