 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Audie Cornish. Barbecue is always a hot topic in Texas and a new book has made it even hotter. It is called The Prophets of Smoked Meat by Daniel Vaughn. He is the barbecue editor of Texas Monthly magazine. The book has upset some by leaving out a handful of longtime favorite spots. But it is also put several small up-and-comers on the barbecue map as NPR's Wade Goodwyn reports.  If you are trying to find the Pecan Lodge Barbecue Restaurant in Dallas for the first time good luck. You will drive up and down South Pearl Street your GPS laughing at you. It is right here you moron. But where? You roll down your window to ask a guy on the corner and wham the sweet smell of barbecue brisket fills your nostrils like smoke signals from heaven. The GPS was right - it is here somewhere.  KP?  I am going to get a three-meat brisket pork ribs and original sausage.  All right.  Order for KP.  Tucked inside Dallas Farmer's Market Shed Number 2 is a sight that stops you in your tracks. A line of people winds around the front of the Pecan Lodge down the side around the back and then out of sight. I mean it is air-conditioned in here but are you kidding me?  How are you doing?  Hi.  What can I do for you?  Can I get the two-meat and a side with the brisket pulled pork and mac and cheese?  Yes.  It is not even noon yet but every table out front is filled with Pecan Lodge veterans barbecue heaped on their plates smirking at the gobsmacked newbies. First-timers are easily discernable by the stunned looks on their faces when they walk in and see the line. And get this half the people standing in line are not even going to get barbecue - it is going to run out before they can order. A little after noon owner and pit master Justin Fourton comes out gauges the line and then tapes a sign on the back of Sony Kalluvilayil who cannot see the cash register from where he is standing.  It says Hello My Name is Slim Pickings. If you are standing in line behind me consider the Southern Fried Chicken barbecue provisions are low. Kindly pass the word.  When Justin Fourton and his wife Diane first opened Pecan Lodge three years ago it was nothing like this.  In the beginning you know it was just the two of us and a couple of employees. And on Sundays we would roll the TV out and watched the Cowboy game back here in the kitchen. And we had a sign that we would set up on the counter that said Ring the Bell for Service. So in case a customer came up we would not miss them.  But that was before the sage of Texas barbecue Daniel Vaughn rated the Fourtons' restaurant as the fourth-best barbecue joint in Texas in his book. Vaughn's ratings also appeared in the popular magazine Texas Monthly. Diane Fourton remembers the exact moment they heard they were number 4 on the list.  It was like winning the lottery. We just leapt in the air. We were screaming. There was champagne popping. We were throwing money at our staff and giving them champagne...   ...it was like it was crazy crazy awesome joy.  Author Daniel Vaughn is not even from Texas. He is a transplant from Ohio. But after traveling more than 10000 miles and eating at over 600 barbecue joints few on the planet put such a wide variety of Texas barbecue to the test. Vaughn often traveled with a photographer which would invariably attract the attention of the owner who upon finding out Vaughn's mission would ask so what do you think?  Well if the barbecue is not any good and they ask what I think I will just find something that I like about it and I will say you know the potato salad was really good and leave it at that.  But of course some owners really did want to know. He recalls one joint in East Texas where the owner pressed him about the quality of the brisket.  No really really what do you think? I was like well it was incredibly tough actually. I had to...   I could barely pull it apart. It just really was not that good at all. Oh oh I will be right back. And of course he comes back out. He is got these little nuggets of brisket they are nice and tender really good. It is just like well why are not you serving this to everybody? Why does it take like a special request to get your best stuff?  Vaughn's motto is I eat the lousy barbecue so you will not have to. It is brisket that is the pinot noir of Texas barbecue. Yes chicken and ribs and sausage and pork all have their important places. But if you want to be considered one of the great pit masters your brisket is what gets you admitted or not into the Barbecue Hall of Fame. It is because it is so labor-intensive and so difficult to make tender juicy brisket with just the right sublime smoky flavor.  The bottom line is in barbecue it is all about the brisket.  This little nugget of wisdom is Texas gospel. Pecan Lodge attracts some of the most knowledgeable customers in North Texas like Dixon Wiles.  Look anybody can do good pulled pork. And good ribs anybody can learn to do. But the real trick - and I have been working on this for 20 years myself - is cooking brisket and doing it right so that it does not dry out and that it turns out tender and that it is great.  This is why the restaurant owners are almost always the pit masters too. It takes Justin Fourton 15 hours on average to cook a brisket. This means he is up at two in the morning to make sure the pit fire is just right.  We are in the smokehouse right now out behind the restaurant. And this is the second pit that we have had. This is Virgil.  A huge barrel-like barbecue pit holds dozens of briskets. It is stunning to think that all this meat will be gone in just a couple of hours. There is only lunch at Pecan Lodge.  There is nothing mechanical about it no electricity. It is all manual. It is just you know basically the wood and the meat and the seasoning that we put on it. And that is pretty much it.  Before he became a pit master Justin Fourton was a consultant at Accenture who regularly worked 60 hours a week. He says this is much harder. It is 130 degrees in the smokehouse in the summer and he says he never gets enough sleep. And while he is ready for a bigger restaurant he says there never will be more than one. Why not have another one or three or five or 10?  I do not think I can keep the quality the same.  But do not you want to be rich?  Nah no. We decided long ago. We did not get in - this is the hardest work I have done for the least amount of money that I have ever made.   From Lockhart to Driftwood to Austin to Taylor and now in Dallas too a new generation of pit masters are making their mark. You can tell just how good they are by the length of the lines outside their barbecue joints. Wade Goodwyn NPR News Dallas. 