 There is a question I get asked a lot these days when I give a talk or get to meet with students - will we ever share a common set of facts again? And then somebody will follow up - what happens when the mainstream media is not trusted by millions of Americans? And then maybe some guy in the back will chime in - yeah it is all well and good for serious journalists to try to be fair try to be reliable. But does not it only go so far if half of America is tuning you guys out? Well I will be honest and say I do not always feel like I have got great answers. I am wrestling with these questions myself. So as part of our NPR series We Hold These Truths which explores American democracy and how we as citizens can and should participate I have brought in a brain trust - three broadcast journalists at the top of their game to see how they answer. Lesley Stahl of CBS News is here. Welcome.  Thank you.  Also CNN's Jake Tapper - hi there.  Hi. Good to see you.  And NPR's own Ayesha Rascoe - hey Ayesha.  Hey.  So I want to start by asking have we done our jobs as the media since the November election? Have we as journalists accurately conveyed what is happening in this country? Ayesha.  I think in many ways journalists have. But we are in this moment where people can really just go and seek out what they want to hear. And there are people who are more than willing to tell them what they want to hear. You can have a bias towards medicine so then you are concerned about vaccines. And so you have someone who will tell you you do not have to worry about the vaccine. You do not have to worry about COVID. You know you have more access to information but not necessarily to the truth. And that is what seems to be happening in this moment.  Well let us get specific about how we are trying to do our jobs. I will share in conversations with my colleagues in the NPR newsroom in the days after the November election we tried to make a shift from describing what the president was saying to what he was doing. Instead of saying the president is alleging fraud the president claims he won we tried to lead the show with he is seeking to overturn a democratic election. What conversations were playing out in your newsrooms are playing out in your newsrooms now? Lesley.  You know people whatever we do are seeing things so much through of their own prism. If the president says I never said that and we put up the video of him saying that the public who is on his side will still tell you he did not say that. So it is a really tough question - what should we be doing? My personal thought is you just put your head down and tell the story as faithfully as you can.  You are saying it is almost like the tried-and-true rules are more important than ever?  Well I guess. You know you either give in to the fact that media today is going to have an opinion state your opinion and report from that aspect period. My daughter is telling me people her age so 40 and younger want that. They want to know what you think. They do not want to just hear you tell us that you are in the middle. They do not buy that. So say he lied did not lie you know whatever just do it because I do not - I honestly am having trouble threading us out of where we are.  Jake what is the conversation at CNN?  Well I mean I think first of all you know it is not like Donald Trump started lying on election night. And I think that the news media struggled with how to figure out how to describe what he was doing for quite some time. You know for me fact-checking things he said that were not true became insufficient when in May 2016 he falsely started suggesting that Ted Cruz's father had a hand in the Kennedy assassination.   I cannot believe I need to say the following but here goes. There is no corroborated evidence that Ted Cruz's father ever met Lee Harvey Oswald or for that matter any other presidential assassin. And that was a moment for me where I just you know went on air and said...   Now that is not an anti-Trump position or a pro-Cruz position. It is a pro-truth position. I have been trying to report from that perspective that clearly since which also entails by the way meaning that you do not take anybody's word for anything.  And can I ask you a question? When you say those things you are talking to your audience which you know is not buying Trump's line. So you are talking to people who are inclined to listen to you. You are not talking to the Fox audience.  First of all that is true. But you know our audience has independents and Republicans in it. It is not just an audience of Biden voters. What I report does not only go on CNN for people who have the TV on between 00 and 00 p.m. It goes out on the internet. It is seen on Facebook. It is seen on Twitter. And I am not trying to appease CNN viewers or appeal to them. All you can do is tell the news and share the news and give the facts and hope that people will just respect that.  Am I right in thinking that your show started a policy? You have a policy now. You do not put lawmakers on the air who voted to overturn the election.  It is not a policy.  Have you put any lawmakers on the air since January who voted to overturn the election?  No I have not. It is more a question which is if I know that you will lie about the election and vote that way if I know you have such disdain for facts and truth that you are willing to buy all of these crazy accusations then what else will not you lie about?  Ayesha jump in because you are covering this as part of the White House press corps.   Are you saying...  No. The DNC server...  ...It is OK for the U.S. government to hold up aid and require a foreign government to investigate political opponents of the president?  No. You are talking about looking forward to the next election. We are talking...  The DNC is still involved in this next election...  Ignoring what the president or his spokespeople - the former president or his spokespeople say is not an option.  No it is not. During the Trump administration there was this tension of trying to make sure that yes what he said mattered. But that does not mean that you had to parrot what he said unchallenged. I do think - and one thing that I do want to say is even when the idea that the media was being unbiased they were coming from a certain perspective. So neutral statements like well the police said this therefore it is true - that is not really a neutral statement right? And in this moment when you have communities that even back in the you know good old days did not trust the media because they felt like they were not represented they were not spoken to so this is something that goes beyond the Trump issue. And I think if we come out of this moment and it is only focused on Trump voters versus non-Trump voters and not looking at the fact that there were seeds of this in communities that felt like they could not trust the government that they could not trust the media I think you miss a whole big part of this country and where some of this distrust is coming from.  You are getting at something really interesting which is it is possible to produce a news report that is absolutely accurate but not true. Lesley I want you to pick up on the point that Jake was making about who you put on air.  Yeah.  And do you put somebody on air who is going to lie? You had that famously contentious interview with former President Trump right before the election.   Do you know what you told me a long time ago when I asked why you keep saying fake media?  Yeah.  You said to me I say that because I need to discredit you so that when you say negative things about me no one will believe you.  I do not have to discredit you.  But that is what you told me.  You discredited yourself.  And he stood up. He cut it off. He walked out.   I think we have enough of an interview here Hope. OK. That is enough. Let us go.  What do you see as the value of an interview like that?  Wow. You know my mind is racing around thinking no value is that possible? If our job is to persuade people then we are never going to be believed or trusted. These questions are so difficult and so at the heart of where we are right now in this country. As we all despair for the future of a democratic press the freedom of the press - if nobody's believing us what is our value? And we all know that even the Founding Fathers understood that at least in our system having the press as a cleansing agent is vital. And so when you ask these questions they are nearly impossible to answer. If people are not coming from the same place they believe you are coming from they may never believe you. You initially asked us can we unthread this? And my answer is I am not sure.  You all are all pretty bleak and depressed I have to say.   Are any of you optimistic about the role that we the press can play going forward?  I would say I think journalists are not necessarily super-optimistic people. We can be a little bit cynical and I try not to fall into cynicism too much.  Fair.  I think there is a hope because these conversations are happening. People are grappling with it. And I think that is a good thing. And I think that even during the Trump years a lot of people learned about political journalism learned about journalism in general and saw the power of it. And so I think there was a younger generation that was inspired by it and that there will be people that will come up who will say they saw journalists you know during those times that inspired them to go into it. So that is my optimistic thing to end this on.  Being on a panel with Ayesha and Lesley Stahl and you Mary Louise - as somebody who is been on plenty of panels in my life and my career in which it is just five white men yeah I am optimistic. I am looking at the screen right now and I am seeing you three.  Thank you.  Thank you. We have been talking with NPR's Ayesha Rascoe Lesley Stahl of CBS and Jake Tapper of CNN. Thank you very much.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.   And tomorrow we hear from three top editors on how they have led their newsrooms through one of the most challenging news cycles ever. 