 How is Iran's regional rival Saudi Arabia responding to the nuclear deal? Officially they say they are studying it. Riyadh is commonly described as skeptical of a diplomatic agreement with Tehran. The two powers are locked in a sectarian Cold War within Islam Sunni Saudi Arabia versus Shiite Iran. If Iran gets a nuclear weapon the Saudis have said they will get one too. Well Nawaf Obaid is a Saudi political analyst who has worked in the past with the Saudi government. Today he is in London. Welcome to the program once again.  Thank you for having me.  The other day Senator Lindsey Graham said here that has no doubt that this agreement will lead to Saudi Arabia getting a bomb deciding to make one. Do you think that is how the Saudis will react to this nuclear deal?  It all really depends on the next several months and how things proceed. If the Iranians are allowed to become a threshold state then Saudi Arabia will have no choice but to pursue a militarized nuclear program.  How do you define threshold state?  So this is what I really define by threshold is you do not actually have to have a weapon in store to be considered a nuclear power today. You can have all the mechanisms and all the infrastructure in place and just in a very short time be able to arm a warhead and make it nuclear. What happens after 10 years? What happens after 15 years? Will the Iranians still be obliged to follow the rules or will they be able to start enriching as much as they want and start developing as much uranium as possible in order to start putting them on their warheads or delivery systems?  So do you think that in the Saudi view that if several years out Iran could legally do that - although it has declared that it will not - that just the ability to do so would be enough for the Saudis to proceed and develop a weapon or would they have to actually indicate that they are in fact enriching toward weapons-grade uranium to get the Saudis to move in that direction?  No they do not even have to because if the Iranians are perceived to be a threshold nuclear state this comes with a lot of power. And so if we are going this towards this deadline let us say in 10 years from now where no one really knows the intents of the Iranians - which I am sure that will be the case - then a country like Saudi Arabia it cannot find itself in a position where it does not have this very legitimizing forceful option where the Iranians would have by then.  How far along is Saudi Arabia today in the way of preparations for becoming itself a threshold nuclear power?  We have not really - I mean we do not really have a program on that. What we do is that we have all the blueprints and we have the white paper which you can find on the website of the civil nuclear agency that will be regulating and overseeing the massive investments into the Saudi nuclear civil reactors. Now between the civil reactor program and a military program there are very small differences. And hence if you go down that road it will be very easy to be able to develop a technology that we could use indigenously in order to start going down a military nuclear program.  Apart from relations between Saudi Arabia and Iran which are pretty bad does this agreement fundamentally change Saudi relations with the United States?  Well it fundamentally changes it - and it was changing to be fair it was not just this agreement about the whole security guarantee issue. And this is where I think it is still not understood within the current administration when they say that they will give a nuclear umbrella to Saudi Arabia - which is fine which is great but ultimately it is a domestic issue in Saudi Arabia. One of the major pillars of the legitimacy of the current monarch in Saudi Arabia is the fact to be seen as being able not only to defend the realm but as well to defend his allies in the region such as what he did in Bahrain what he is doing today in Yemen - which we did not talk about - and what you know will happen in the future with Syria and so forth. So this is where the fundamental change is happening and this agreement has only accentuated that change.  Nawaf Obaid thank you very much for talking with us today.  Thanks for having me.  Nawaf Obaid who is a Saudi Arabian political analyst also a visiting fellow at Harvard's Belfer Center. He spoke to us from London. 