 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Michele Norris. Earlier this week we asked for your questions about the economic stimulus plan and by the looks of our inbox there is a lot of confusion out there. We cannot really get to all of your questions sorry about that. But we are going to try to make a dent in that mountain of mail. And to help me out are three of our NPR correspondents Adam Davidson and John Ydstie who both cover the economy and Richard Harris from the Science Desk. Thanks to all three of you for being here.  You are welcome.  Sure.  Thank you.  I want to start with questions about the 400 tax credit the one that is going to put an extra 8 to 13 a week into some people's paychecks. Here's Lisa Randall of Saunderstown Rhode Island. Ms.  My husband and I both work freelance. I am a writer and he is a decorative painter. As such we pay for our own family health insurance coverage do not have taxes taken out of weekly earnings and do not benefit from any employer-based retirement savings plans. I am curious how the recently signed stimulus bill will benefit us.  John Ydstie I am going to begin with you. For people like Lisa Randall who are self-employed are they going to benefit from that tax credit?  Well unless these folks make lots of money they would benefit from the Making Work Pay tax benefit. But because they are self-employed they would not get the benefit in a biweekly paycheck as most employees will. But presuming they make enough money to be required to file a quarterly estimate of their taxes with the IRS and send in the estimated amount owed they would be able to deduct a tax credit from the quarterly payment. As a couple they would qualify for 800 total each year depending on their income. Now this benefit phases out between 150000 and 190000 for couples.  John we also had a similar question from a retiree someone who is no longer getting a paycheck. What happens in that case?  Well it is a little bit different. If he is not working he is not going to be eligible for the Making Work Pay tax credit. But he is not left out completely. The stimulus plan provides 250 in a one-time payment to all Social Security recipients. And also people who received veterans benefits railroad retirement benefits and certain federal workers who are not eligible for Social Security. Now let us say you work a little and get Social Security then your tax benefit under the Making Work Pay tax cut would be reduced by this 250 amount you get for being on Social Security.  Okay. I want to take the next question which is about energy efficiency something that President Obama highlighted when he signed that stimulus bill in Denver this week. And in fact our question comes from someone in Denver from listener Ellie Webber. Ms.  My husband and I would like to add some energy saving improvements to our house mainly increasing our attic insulation and replacing our 30-year-old aluminum windows. What kinds of provisions if any are included to help homeowners make these kinds of green improvements to their homes?  Richard Harris you are from the Science Desk so I am going to turn to you in this case.  Okay.  Is there money out there for making your home more energy efficient? And how are people supposed to get that money if it is there?  Yes the money is indeed there. And there are a couple of ways to get it. If this couple chooses to buy insulation in windows to improve the energy efficiency of their home not just for soundproofing or whatever they can get a tax credit of 30 percent of the cost of the materials only - not installation just materials. And they will not get cash in hand though for that. But what happens is when they file their taxes in April of 2010 they will be able to reduce their taxes by up to 1500. And that would be 1500 for these kinds of improvements this year and next year so there is a cap for that. Now there are different rules for high-efficiency heaters and air conditioners and for solar installations. This gets very very complicated very quickly. And suffice it to say really what you should do to find out more of the details is go to energystar.gov Web site and click on the link that says tax credits. And a lot of this is laid out in quite a bit of detail there. And it is important to look because there is a lot of fine print with this so you have to be careful you are doing it right to make sure you get the tax credits. There is one other possibility also for this couple which is that this stimulus package sends billions of dollars to state and local governments as well for energy efficiency programs. And it is up to those localities to decide whether they want to actually distribute it to people who are doing home improvements or if they want to use it for other programs for energy efficiency. So it also would pay to go to your city county and state Web sites and see -probably too early to know the answer right now 'ecause they are probably just figuring out how to use that money but that is another possible avenue for them too.  So the savings are potentially there but you got to do your homework.  Exactly.  Now here's a broader question about the stimulus plan. It comes from Chris Campbell of Philadelphia. Mr.  I would just like to know where exactly the money is coming from which is going to be used to fund the stimulus package?  Simple question Adam. This is a 787-billion package. Where is the money coming from? Or is it really that simple?  Well that is that simple. It comes from us the taxpayers. The government has basically - I mean there is a few smaller other options - but basically two options to fund spending. One is taxes now and the other is taxes in the future by taking on debt now and then getting us to pay for it later. They are doing the latter. The stimulus would not be a stimulus if they simply were moving money around now. The theory or the hope for those who support the stimulus is that this stimulus will generate a lot more economic activity that could lead to a lot more tax revenue. it will make all of us wealthier and therefore it will be a bit easier for us to pay this off. It is not a free ride. We are not going to pay for the whole stimulus through the extra taxes encouraged by the stimulus. The people who are skeptics of the stimulus say that that is not going to happen. All this is is a drain on our debt load for the foreseeable future. This is a pretty sizeable increase in our debt load a little less than 10 percent which we will have to pay off eventually. And depending on how long it takes us to pay it off we will know how difficult a burden that is.  Now in terms of legislation the stimulus package was massive over a thousand pages long. And a lot of people are wondering how various parts of this bill are going to affect them. One listener Jill Henry of Indianapolis is thinking about buying a car and she had this question. Ms.  I am wondering whether tax deduction for sales tax on cars applies only to brand-new cars or to used cars purchase as well? Also is it limited to the 2009 calendar year?  Okay John two questions there.  All right. Well it is only for new cars. You cannot buy a used car with it. And it is limited to purchases in a specific period. And that period is one year after the bill's enactment which would have been February 17th I guess when President Obama signed it. Also interesting you can spend up to 49500 on a car or actually cars it turns out. You could buy as many cars or light trucks or motorcycles as would total up to that amount and still get this deduction. The problem is it is not a big deduction. Let us take a 20000 car on which you might have paid five percent sales tax which would equal about 1000. You could deduct that 1000 from your income. But if you are in the 15 percent bracket which most people are you would only be saving 150. So it is probably not enough to get you to go out and buy a car.  All right. I want to move I want to move now to Albuquerque New Mexico. Listener Thomas Ormsby has this question. Mr.  I understand that a certain amount of money in the stimulus package is to be set aside for high-speed rail projects. Can you provide some detail as to where these rail projects might be built?  John any idea where we might see these high-speed rail projects?  Well the Federal Railroad Administration does have a map designating high-speed rail corridors. It includes a big chunk of the Eastern Seaboard an area of the Midwest that radiates out of Chicago southern California some areas in Texas and along the Gulf Coast also in the Northwest. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood is supposed to come up with a plan for these funds. I mean it is a huge amount of money 8 billion far surpassing anything contemplated in the U.S. for high-speed rail. But there are a lot of hurdles including getting rights of way from freight railroad companies building the tracks so I would not expect to be riding the rails at 200-plus miles an hour in the U.S. anytime soon.  Adam I want to shoot the last question your way. It comes from Bridget Madden of West Roxbury Massachusetts. Let us listen. Ms.  My question about the stimulus package is fairly large in scope. I would like to know what its failure or what its success looks like. How can we tell if it is working or if it is not?  Adam how will we know that?  Well I guess there is two key numbers One would be unemployment and the other would be GDP. So unemployment is shooting up really really fast. And at the end of the day that is what an economy is supposed to do. It is supposed to employ as many people as possible. President Obama's economic advisers have warned us that even with the stimulus we are going to continue to see job loss but the idea is - they are arguing that the stimulus will make that job loss not as bad as it would be without it. GDP the gross domestic product basically the measure of the overall economy we want to see that number go up. Last quarter it fell at an annual rate of 3.8 percent. We do not want to see that. We want to see that number go into positive territory. I would say that there is enough uncertainty about this that people who hate the stimulus will be able to explain away any success and people who love the stimulus will be able to explain away any failure by saying the stimulus was not big enough or it was not implemented fast enough. So I think that we will be hearing debates and arguments about the success or failure no matter what happens.  I think we are going to have to leave it there. Adam Davidson John Ydstie Richard Harris thank you so much for delving into the stimulus bill for us.  Thank you.  You are welcome.  Sure.  And we should say thanks also to our listeners for a collection of very good questions. We have a lot more information on the stimulus package the bank bailout and other aspects of the economic crisis. You will find that on our Planet Money podcast and also on our blog. You can find all of this at npr.orgmoney. 