 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And as NPR's Julie McCarthy reports from Islamabad the speech indirectly criticized the U.S. for bin Laden's presence in the country.  Pakistan's prime minister Yousuf Raza Gilani said Osama bin Laden's death in the covert U.S. raid last week was indeed justice. But in his first statement since the American operation Gilani was stern with the U.S. saying Pakistan reserved the right to retaliate against any future unilateral strike.  Our people are rightly incensed on the issue of violation of sovereignty as typified by the covert U.S. air and ground assault. No one should underestimate the resolve and capability of our nation to defend our sacred homeland.  The allegation gaining currency last week in a vacuum of official silence was that Pakistan's security establishment knew where bin Laden was hiding. But Gilani brushed aside the charge of complicity by Pakistan's intelligence agency the ISI or incompetence by the military that failed to interdict the U.S. May 2nd mission.  It is disingenuous for anyone to blame Pakistan or state institution of Pakistan including the ISI and the armed forces for being in cahoots with al-Qaida.  Instead in his account of the history of al-Qaida he blamed the U.S. for having helped Islamist militants take root in Pakistan by helping support the jihad that ousted the Soviets from Afghanistan.  Pakistan alone cannot be held to account for flawed policies and blunders of others. Pakistan is not the birthplace of al-Qaida. We did not invite Osama bin Laden to Pakistan or even to Afghanistan.  Unidentified Man   At the Raja market in Rawalpindi 62-year-old Shaikh Mohammad Aslam said he was furious over what he called government incompetence.    But analyst Hasan Askari Rizvi says it appears the government has chosen to stoke anti-American passions to distract from its own shortcomings. He says it is an effective tool in a country where the United States is increasingly seen as arrogant and unyielding.  You do not talk of terrorism. You do not talk of militancy. You do not talk of what Osama was saying about Pakistan. You just talk against America.  Julie McCarthy NPR News Islamabad. 