 Arivaca Ariz. population about 700 is a small town with an outsized problem. It is about 11 miles from Mexico and it is become a magnet for self-styled militia groups. They say they have come to patrol the border and stop migrants. Arivacans have long prided themselves on their live-and-let-live cooperative spirit. As part of our series on civility NPR's Melissa Block reports the militias are putting that spirit to the test.  I got two pair.  Damn I had a set of sevens.  It is poker night at Joe Farrington's double-wide. Some of these guys have been playing together for nearly 40 years.  You made me come off a set of sevens.   Between hands I ask how would you describe Arivaca?  A nice oasis for people that do not like conventional life.  So many different types of people - cowboys hippies you know miners.  That is Brad Knaub and Joe Farrington who says with the camo-clad militias coming to town things have changed.  Everybody used to be pretty open out here. But now you have got to kind of wonder if you meet a stranger is he just a nice hunter? Or is he some crazed guy that thinks everybody that lives in town is a criminal?  He is talking about what happened last year when militias came and spread wild conspiracy theories that the townspeople were in cahoots with Mexican drug cartels and sex traffickers. One group the Utah Gun Exchange rolled into Arivaca in a black armored vehicle emblazoned with the slogan take your country back - and with a replica machine gun mounted on top.  Most everybody recognizes that yeah we do not want them here. We are not friendly to them.  This is Ken Buchanan a retired cement mason who sports an impressive white beard.  We are not blatantly unfriendly to them. Did I mention they are heavily armed and crazy?  Arivaca is a one-street blink-and-you-miss-it town set among the rolling hills of the Sonoran Desert. There is a mercantile some adobe buildings that date to the late 1800s also a humanitarian group's office with tables full of posters and bumper stickers that say no human being is illegal. Arivaca has no local government no police force. Look for civility in Arivaca and you will find it in the town's shared institutions the community garden artist co-op and community center. Even the Internet is run as a co-op. There is one bar and restaurant in town La Gitana Cantina. These days the owners have grown so fed up with the militias they have posted a sign on the front door. It says unwanted - members of any vigilante border militia group do not enter our establishment.  We have had confrontations with them about bringing their guns in here or harassing the people that work here. And so we just put the sign up. You cannot come in.  Maggie Milinovitch is one of the owners.  It is the only way I have of putting my two cents in saying that I do not think traveling across the country with your little guns and your Rambo attitude and going out and hunting human beings is acceptable behavior. It is not.  Among those specifically not welcome at La Gitana...  My name is Tim Foley. I am the founder and field operations director for Arizona Border Recon.  Foley is lean and weathered with piercing pale blue eyes. He is new to Arivaca moved here two years ago and says Arizona Border Recon is not a militia. He organizes armed patrols to the borderlands.  When we do ops I will bring my guys in because a lot of places Border Patrol will not go to. And then we will plug up that section of the border.  How?  Basically you occupy it. We sit out in the mountains for seven to 10 days at a time.  As for how he is viewed in town...  I have been called a racist. I have been called a Nazi and everything else. I just ignore them and let them flap their gums and - you know. I do not bother them and they do not bother me. Well I mean they do. But I have gotten accustomed to it.  Many in town worry that more militias will come. They remember all too well the brutal crime that happened here 10 years ago when members of a militia group murdered a local man and his 9-year-old daughter. Arivacans' worst fear is that something like that could happen again. We take a drive from Arivaca to the U.S.-Mexico border a slow bumpy ride through the Coronado National Forest.  See these roads over there all coming down this way? Those are in Mexico.  We are riding with ranchers Jim and Sue Chilton through rugged grassland and up mountains dotted with mesquite trees and saguaro cactus. The Chiltons raise cattle on this forest land right up to the Mexico border.  That is the international boundary.  We walk up to that border line. It is marked by four strands of barbed wire waist-high easy to crawl under or through. The Chiltons say the Mexican cartels run drugs through this land constantly. They are gung-ho about President Trump think the Border Patrol is ineffective and really want to see a wall built here. These are contentious views in town. And civil discourse - well that can seem elusive.  Civility is the ability to speak one's mind without being threatened or without having to worry about being politically correct.  Does it still feel to you that Arivaca is a civil town?  You keep going back to the word civil. And the answer is yes. It is entirely civil because we all know the situation. You just do not broach certain subjects with certain people.  Subjects like immigration or the militias. And as if on cue as we are driving back we come upon a pickup truck carrying four guys in camo and shades.  They are militia-types. Hi there guys.  The Chiltons do not recognize them but say if militias want to come and try to secure the border. They are all for it. Back in town we meet Kristen Randall who publishes the local monthly newspaper. She is among the Arivacans is deeply troubled by the militias.  You get further and further away from somebody who feels ownership of this community. They are from out of town. They do not care. And so as you get this more and more unstable element coming into town that is what I am concerned about.  And Randall has seen just how ugly it can get. For several years now she and others in Arivaca have been targeted by a local man who is harassed and threatened them with venomous letters Facebook posts and emails. Mostly he is incensed about immigration and what he calls liberal trash. It got so bad the targets of his abuse went to court and got restraining orders against him. And Randall has taken other steps things she never thought she would do.  I started installing cameras in the house and I bought a few guns too. We were scared. My life was turned upside down.  Still Randall takes pride in her small monthly newspaper as a forum for civil discussion a way to stitch this town together.  Even in a time where it feels that it can be so polarized there is still this place where we can come together and talk about these things and listen. That is what civility looks like to me. And it is important. And I hope it does not go away.  The newspaper's name Connection. Melissa Block NPR News Arivaca Ariz. 