 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  And I am Melissa Block. For 23 years a man in Belgium named Rom Houben was believed to be in a vegetative state after a near-fatal car crash. Now Rom Houben is writing a book. He has regained the use of one finger and can communicate on a special touch screen. This after neurologists in Belgium did more sophisticated tests and found he had been misdiagnosed that he had in fact been conscious for years. The lead neurologist on his case is Steven Laureys who leads the Coma Science Group at the University of Liege in Belgium. Welcome to the program. Dr.  Hello.  And Dr. Laureys what made you decide to retest Rom Houben? Dr.  Well he was sent to us three years ago. He was one of those patients now coming actually from all over Europe for a short stay in our university hospital where we employ a number of different scanning techniques so basically using all possible machines to objectively measure what is happening in the brain of these patients. And there to our surprise we saw an intact brain function. His brain activity was comparable to yours and mine.  Rom Houben has been communicating and has said this I would scream but no sound would come out. I became the witness to my own suffering. And you are saying that may be more common than we think. Dr.  Well what I am saying is that the diagnosis of the vegetative state is difficult. What we showed in the study looking at over 100 patients who recovered from their coma was that 40 percent showed minimal signs of consciousness. That does not mean they were fully conscious and having the thoughts Rom Houben had. He was definitely a very special case. First of all because he was fully conscious and next because it took such a long time - over two decades - for apparently the medical community to be convinced. And I think also in this particular case there is the point that the insurance companies actually refused to recognize the new diagnosis for financial reasons which of course is unacceptable.  What was it like the first time that this patient Rom Houben was able to communicate with you? Dr.  Actually it was his family who has the credit there. They had their own ways of communication. And well the first questions were very down to earth. It was just making sure that this was a true way of communication coming from the patient himself. So basically showing him different object and asking him afterwards what I have been showing him. So the first word he communicated to me was the word key - my car keys that I just showed him.  So the first time that you saw Rom Houben he was already communicating with his family. Dr.  Well he with his family had come up with a means of communication which was not taken serious by the medical doctors but what turned out to be a real mode of communication and that has only been improved and now is happening through a computer system.  Dr. Laureys you said that Rom Houben is a special case. Would there be a danger do you think that families might hear this and get false hopes really about someone in their family? Dr.  Well it is definitely not black and white and this is just one case. I think he gives the human face a story to the difficulties we face in those chronic disorders of consciousness. It is in that sense a message of hope. We should not consider all patients in a vegetative state as uniformly hopeless. We should however remain realistic. And unfortunately the majority of cases will not show such recoveries. And there is something as a vegetative state truly unconscious and truly irreversible. I think it is very important to take the time use standardized and repeated clinical assessments to be more precise in terms of the diagnosis and in terms of the prognosis.  Dr. Laureys thanks very much for talking with us. Dr.  Thank you.  That is Steven Laureys. He leads the Coma Science Group at the University of Liege in Belgium. 