 The Trump administration is pumping 3 billion into the federal network of shelters for migrant children. Officials want to move them out of Border Patrol facilities where children say they are crammed into cells without enough food or other necessities. Critics though say kids should not be confined at all. NPR's John Burnett has more.  The Department of Health and Human Services is dramatically expanding its network of child shelters across the country in order to avoid the scandal in Clint Texas where scores of immigrant children were warehoused together. Mark Weber is a spokesman for HHS.  There are too many kids in Border Patrol stations right now. And we are working to get them out of those Border Patrol stations and into HHS care.  HHS has announced a new 1300-bed emergency shelter for unaccompanied migrant children to open in Carrizo Springs Texas later this summer. The children are in government custody until they can be released to sponsors in the U.S. The 300 million contract went to BCFS a San Antonio nonprofit with deep experience in the field of emergency response. The company's chairman is Kevin Dinnin.  During hurricanes wildfires tornadoes we are the good guys have come to town. The mayor wants to take me lunch. And people pat you on the back. But in these immigration influx facilities I cannot win. Somebody's always going to be mad at you and you are going to be under the microscope and be criticized.  No sooner was the announcement out than angry workers streamed into a park in Boston. They were protesting their company the online retailer Wayfair for selling BCFS 200000 dollars' worth of bunk beds.    Shut it down.  A growing number of activists oppose every type of federal immigrant confinement - Border Patrol holding cells ICE detention centers and HHS child shelters. There are 168 of these shelters across the country. The most controversial are temporary emergency influx facilities. They are huge and unlicensed. Children's movement is regimented and they are not free to leave. Yet even attorney Neha Desai says they are a major improvement over Border Patrol cells. She is one of the lawyers appointed by a federal court to oversee the conditions of migrant children in government custody.  I mean it is certainly good from the perspective of getting kids out of CBP facilities. But of course influx facility is cannot be a long-term solution.  Nonetheless there is a swelling backlash against the whole notion of the government housing migrant children. Last week Bank of America under pressure from activists and shareholders agreed to stop lending to for-profit companies that run ICE jails or HHS shelters. Democratic presidential candidates are also piling on. Representative Tulsi Gabbard visited the emergency shelter in Homestead Fla. to stand with demonstrators looking over the fence.  Right now it looks like there is about seven or eight kids walking in a single-file line. This is the kind of thing that you see in a prison. This is the kind of thing...  Kevin Dinnin of BCFS has been through the fire before. He faced the wrath of protesters last year when his company ran the sprawling tent camp for children in Tornillo in the West Texas desert. It closed in January. Yes he concedes the children are heavily supervised. His shelter only houses adolescents. And he says teenagers will be teenagers.  There is going to be bullies. There is going to be inappropriate language. There is going to be acting out. So in most of these facilities the No. 1 priority is the safety of those kids - and not allow anything to happen to them.  The government has been through this before too. HHS had to find places for nearly 60000 unaccompanied children in 2016. Now the agency is on course to surpass that. They are opening the new facility in south Texas and a second emergency shelter at Fort Sill Okla. Eventually HHS wants to phase out these massive expensive emergency shelters altogether. The agency wants to add smaller licensed facilities that are more suitable for children. To that end HHS recently put out a request for bids for five new child shelters - 2500 beds in all - in Dallas-Fort Worth Houston San Antonio Atlanta and Phoenix. But Mark Weber of HHS says contractors have been slow to come forward.  The environment that we are working in is political. It is polarizing. It is controversial. And it is incredibly emotional.  Ultimately Weber says the government wants to move the children out of Border Patrol cells through the shelter network and into permanent homes as soon as possible. The time kids spend in HHS custody has been cut in half since last year to 44 days. But for some critics that is still too long. John Burnett NPR News 