 In Thailand it looks as if the ruling military will keep calling the shots for a lot longer. Voters in Thailand today overwhelmingly approved a new constitution drafted by the military-led government. One critics say enshrines the military's role in politics for years to come. Michael Sullivan joins us now from Bangkok to discuss today's vote. Michael a big victory for the military. Why so big?  Well it seems to me that the majority of those who voted feel the military has made good on its pledge to maintain order and political stability since the coup and trust the military to keep that process on track with this new constitution a constitution that ensures the next government will be largely controlled by appointed not elected officials. And it is the military that will do much of the appointing.  Why do you think so many people would vote to essentially dilute democratic rule?  A couple of reasons Ray I mean one we just mentioned - stability - right? In the past decade there is been a seemingly endless cycle of political instability street protests political violence that people grew tired of but maybe there is another reason. And that is that opponents of the proposed constitution never really got a chance to make their case. And many Thais I spoke to said they really did not know what was in the constitution. The military allowed no public rallies against it no real public discussion or criticism of it and those who dared faced 10 years in jail. So the military clearly stacked the deck and the house always wins.  At the same time the military government as so many of them do around the world promised that it would transition back to people's rule. What happens next? What is in the mechanics here?  Well the prime minister former army chief Prayut Chan-o-cha says they will be a new election next year and that now means that an elected lower house and an appointed upper house will be chosen. And the military will do the appointing of the latter and there will also be at least six seats set aside for the military in that upper house. And all of this is designed to prevent any one political party from becoming too powerful which has happened in the past. And it seems aimed specifically at the political machine of the Shinawatra clan the populist prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra was deposed by the military in 2006 and it was his sister's government that was the one removed by the military two years ago.  So how will the Shinawatra supporters which is after all millions of Thais react?  Yeah that is unclear. I mean they have been pretty quiet since the coup. But again speaking out against it you know is not really a good idea. Those who do so are often invited for attitude adjustment - the military's term not mine - and I do not see the military suddenly allowing them any more political space. But other critics who are not Shinawatra supporters just you know democracy activists are obviously disappointed with today's vote because they say this is clearly a big step backward for Thai democracy.  Does this latest version of military-backed rule enjoy the support of the king? He is a popular figure. Would we even know he is the world's longest reigning monarch 88 and said to be in declining health?  He is in failing health and I have seen no statement from the king. But that is not a surprise. He spends most of his time in the hospital and does not really speak in public anymore though he is still deeply revered by most Thais. Having said that the military has long presented itself as the defender of the monarchy and it is clearly worried about the transition after the king leaves the scene. His son the crown prince is not nearly as popular and some here say one of the reasons for the coup two years ago was to help ensure that the transition goes smoothly.  Michael Sullivan joined us from Bangkok. Good to talk to you.  And you Ray. 