 The first group of individuals quarantined after evacuation from Wuhan the center of the coronavirus outbreak are beginning to settle back into normal routines. NPR's Patti Neighmond spoke with one young man who lives in a suburb of Pittsburgh.  Twenty-four-year-old Daniel Wethli is a Fulbright scholar a history buff who majored in philosophy and was in Wuhan studying the 1911 Chinese revolution.  I have been all over China but I really like Wuhan a lot. The historical museums in Wuhan are beautiful. Like the 1911 Revolution Museum is gorgeous and massive.  He was only there about a month when the high-energy friendly city was locked down.  It was just eerily silent. You could hear the wind. There is no horns beeping. No stores were open. It was just very strange to see a city built for that many people completely silent.  After five days Wethli was evacuated with nearly 200 other Americans. He spent two weeks in quarantine at March Air Reserve Base in Southern California. It was comfortable a bonding experience with others that he appreciated. But still he was eager to get home. And once there he was happily embraced by family and good friends. But it is been something of a reality check because some other people are clearly nervous to be around him.  I went to the gym. And walking into the gym there was an old friend of mine from high school. His dad saw me. And I went to shake his hand to say hello. And then he said you know with the coronavirus going around I do not want to shake hands with anybody.  The virus is thought to spread mostly through respiratory droplets produced when an infected person coughs or sneezes. Wethli is not infected and over 14 days in quarantine he was checked two times a day for symptoms of disease.  It kind of surprised me that people are still fearful that this might start catching over here.  When he first got home he was interviewed by local TV news. Later when he checked comments on the station's Facebook page he was shocked.  One of the comments was get that clown out of here. You know they wanted me to leave the area. There was a GIF of a movie character like shaking his head. And then there was one other person that had said something about - that I should not be around that I should leave.  A reaction he did not anticipate.  People especially behind screens can be mean. I mean I guess I kind of expected that. But it is eye-opening to say the least.  So too was dinner out with friends when one asked repeatedly if Wethli could make him sick.  You know there is no way that you can get me sick right? Are you sure that you - that you are OK and there is no way I am going to end up sick? He asked me a lot of times - many many times. It did not matter how many times I repeated the kind of facts about how many people have it here and that I have been watched extensively you know checked twice a day for two weeks in quarantine. He was still pretty worried.  One especially important person who is not worried who is aware of the abundance of caution exercised by the CDC's is 14-day quarantine is Hannah Winters  Wethli's girlfriend.   We wanted to order one of each so two - so one pumpkin and one...  OK.  Yeah. Thank you.  This week they celebrated their three-year anniversary with dinner at a Thai restaurant and dessert at a gourmet cookie cafe.   A red velvet and a snickerdoodle.  Can I also have a snickerdoodle?  For now Wethli plans to travel around the U.S. and possibly apply for a job with the foreign service. And he does plan someday to return to Wuhan. Patti Neighmond NPR News.  