 This year marks the 250th birthday of one of the most revered composers who ever lived...   ...Ludwig van Beethoven. He was born in 1770 in Bonn Germany. To mark the anniversary all nine of his symphonies are being performed in New York and Chicago by an orchestra led by Sir John Eliot Gardiner. We reached Gardiner in between performances at Carnegie Hall to hear about the personal and surprisingly political side of Beethoven's music.  He was the first composer of symphonies who was addressing a public audience as opposed to a court audience or an aristocratic audience. And he decided that not the piano sonata not the string quartet not any of the other forms was to be his arena. The symphony was to be his arena for dealing with highly charged important philosophical and political issues.  Was he seen as a radical in his day a revolutionary someone subverting the form?  Well you have to remember that he was composing in Vienna which was about the most conservative society that is existed you know until Donald Trump's America.  .  And...  Go on.  He was writing subversive radical music which was not totally appreciated by the audiences at the time nor even by the orchestras who were sight-reading them on very little rehearsal.  Oh really? He was not popular among the musicians being asked to perform him.  Well he was popular as an improviser and as a pianist. It took him a while to establish his credentials as a symphony composer. The orchestras that were playing under his baton were made up of a mixture of jobbing musicians freelancers and amateurs. Parts of the symphony written out were not accurate crossings-out. Revision that he is written over the top are very difficult to decipher and it is a miracle that they - that they are legible at all really.   And you have to remember that he was not profoundly deaf but he was going deaf...  Yes.  ...From his late 20s early 30s so that he himself could not actually experience or hear his own symphonies with any degree of accuracy.  That is astonishing when you think about that. How did it impact the music as best as you can surmise?  Well some of the reviews were quite favorable which is amazing when you think that they probably were not very well-performed at all until really after his death. He died in 1827. And it was the Paris Conservatoire Orchestra in 1828 that were the first orchestra that really did justice to Beethoven's symphonies. And those performances had a huge impact on the musical world because composers as different as Wagner Berlioz and Chopin attended. And the word got around that here was an amazing symphonist an amazing composer who was addressing these deep issues of philosophical concerns humanitarian concerns political concerns in a very volatile atmosphere with such incredible emotional power and content.   I suppose this is like asking a parent which is their favorite child. I will not ask which is your favorite of these symphonies but of the nine is there one that you secretly look forward to conducting the most that is more fun?  I am going to answer the same way as you put the question which...  You cannot possibly pick.  That I cannot possibly pick and I love them all deeply. I mean he writes symphonies in pairs so that for example the Fifth Symphony which is the most I were to note political symphony is also twin brother to the Sixth Symphony the Pastoral Symphony.   And in a way they reflect the two sides of Beethoven's character one being radical and polemical and the other being much more introspective and ruminative. One is urban and the other is very much rural.   The Fifth - I suppose if people know any of Beethoven's work at all - it is the famous swell during the Fifth Symphony. Is it challenging as a conductor to find a new way into that one of the most famous pieces of music that has ever been or ever will be performed?  Yeah I think it is but it is eased by the fact that if you just jettison all the kind of accretion all the stuff that is surrounded the Fifth Symphony and see it as a bold polemical statement espousing the values of equality fraternity and liberty that came from the French Revolution and that actually the opening famous knocking-on-the-door theme - the ba ba ba bum  - is actually a quotation from a hymn - a French revolutionary hymn by Cherubini called Hymne Du Pantheon.  I did not know that.  And the derivation of that rhythm and the words which of course are not spoken contain a message which had it been made explicit by Beethoven would have landed him in the deepest possible water. It is based on the text which goes . Will ye swear sword in hand to defend and fight for the republic and for the rights of man? I mean that is pretty outspoken.   You mentioned Trump and it suggests to me you are aware that these works that were composed as political works 200-plus years ago - there is still political significance to performing them today in the United States.  Sure. I feel that very strongly - and also Brexit because my orchestra's got a French name but we are based in London and it is composed of 14 different nationalities. And the ramifications the consequences are - in a post-Brexit world in terms of work permits visas and so on for my orchestra - are daunting to say the least. And the isolationism and patriotism which is flirting with nationalism of a not particularly pleasant sort troubles me greatly.  And what about here in Donald Trump's America?  Well that is not for me to comment because I am not a citizen of the United States. But as an observer and as somebody following political events it is deeply troubling that he is somebody who is leading the free world. I would probably be evicted straight away by now.  .   Sir John Eliot Gardiner - his orchestra is performing all nine of Beethoven's symphonies in New York and Chicago in celebration of the 250th birthday of the composer. We were speaking to him there from Carnegie Hall in New York. Sir John Eliot Gardiner thank you.  Thank you.  