 Today is the biggest primary day of the year. Voters in eight states from New Jersey to California are going to the polls and their choices could determine which party controls Congress. NPR's lead political editor Domenico Montanaro is following the races and joins us now in the studio. Hey Domenico.  Hey Ari.  So California's the biggest of these eight states where people are voting today safe to say it has the most on the line.  It does and not just because of its size but because there are seven seats - seven House seats - currently held by Republicans that went for Hillary Clinton in the 2016 presidential election. And if you think about that Democrats need 23 seats on net to take back control of Congress. So you are looking at you know a third almost a quarter - I am sorry - a quarter almost a third of the seats that Democrats need to take back the House. But the problem that they have here is that in three of these seats Democrats are worried they will not even get a candidate through to the general election. Now really they are most worried about one of those seats. That is because they have a top-two system in California where the top two vote-getters move on to the general election regardless of party. This is California - means lots of Democrats. Lots of Democrats are running in those seats which means they could all split the vote and make a path for two Republicans to get through.  The jungle primary they call it.  That is what some people call it.  Beyond California what races are you watching closely tonight?  Well you know I do think that the House and that question of whether or not Democrats will take back the House is the big question. So when I look at another tranche of seats that are available for Democrats to sort of try to make some inroads I look back across the country at New Jersey because New Jersey's got a handful of seats four in particular that Democrats are trying to flip. And just like in California these are well-educated affluent suburban districts for the most part places that Democrats are going to need to win. That is where the road leads to the majority in 2016 is through these suburbs.  There is been a debate through this primary season of whether President Trump is doing more to help Republicans or to turn out Democrats who are voting against President Trump's party. Where do you see him having an impact tonight?  Yeah and I should say 2018 not 2016.   Right of course.  But I think one place where the president's having an impact you know just because this particular congresswoman had come out against this president and after the Access Hollywood tape came out Martha Roby in Alabama drew a stiff primary challenge.  She is a Republican.  She is a Republican and because she said that President Trump - she was not going to vote for him because he - you know because of the Access Hollywood tape. Her district though went by 30 points for Trump. So we are going to see if being able to speak out against President Trump is allowed or if it is punished tonight.  A measure of how much the Republican Party has become the Trump party. So stepping back we are well through the 2018 primary season. After tonight it will have been I think 21 states that will have voted. What have we learned so far?  Yeah. We are about a quarter of the way through the primary season. And you know look the two main storylines that have developed in this Trump presidency have been Trump's takeover of the Republican Party as you noted and that backlash that is been stirred among women in particular. And all of that has carried over into these primaries. We have seen Democratic women in particular send a real message at the polls not just in voting but in winning. You have had a lot of women running and a lot of Democratic women winning at the polls which is pretty fascinating. And you have also seen a lot of Republicans really hew very closely to President Trump. And you know that has been a huge change for the kind of ideology that they have talked about - lots on guns lots on immigration - big changes from past elections.  NPR's Domenico Montanaro and we will continue to check in with you later on tonight. Thanks a lot.  It is going to be fun. Thanks. 