 The Israeli writer and peace advocate Amos Oz spoke at the funeral of his friend Shimon Peres a few weeks ago. Oz spoke of the late Israeli statesman's two conflicting sides.  .  He said it seemed like there were two different qualities in Peres that could not co-exist side by side - on the one hand a deep respect for reality and its constraints and the other an impulse to change that reality. I was reminded of that observation of Amos Oz's about Peres when I was reading Oz's latest novel Judas. It is set in Jerusalem in 1959. And two of its characters are men with political outlooks that seemingly cannot coexist. Both are Jews. One sees war as an inevitable fact of Israel's being an independent Jewish state something necessary. The other opposed Israel's very claim to statehood believing that that claim caused the first Arab-Israeli war and for expressing that position he was branded a traitor. Amos Oz joins us from New York. Welcome to the program once again.  Thank you.  There are many divisions and arguments in Israeli politics today. Why for this book did you return to the setting of 1959?  Well I wanted to go back to the roads not taken. And I say roads in the plural. This is a book and novel of ideas where different people argue vehemently and where I actually do not take anyone's side. It is not a manifesto not even a bunch of contrasting manifestos. It is a novel about people arguing and about people changing each other in the course of a very short period of time.  The idea of the traitor is central to this novel Judas. The character who opposed independence was branded a traitor. And in the book a young man is obsessed with the biblical character Judas Iscariot. Are you writing as an Israeli whose advocacy of a two-state solution with the Palestinians has prompted the occasional accusation of treason?  Well I have been called a traitor a few times in my life by my - some of my countrymen. But this is no exception. Almost every person who steps out of the consensus is accused of treason by his contemporaries or by her contemporaries. In fact my protagonist in this novel Shmuel Ash says that a traitor is very often simply a person who changes in the eyes of those who despise change who mistrust change who are antagonized to every change.  In the novel Judas your characters do a lot of arguing as you have said. And I want you to describe this. The young man Shmuel Ash is hired essentially to sit and argue with an elderly very argumentative man.  Who is very skeptical about world reforming and about any ideology and about all religions. He think all of them without exception ultimately lead to violence and bloodshed. There is on the other hand a young idealistic world reformers - reformer who changes in the course of the novel and who is obsessed by the story of Judas and Jesus. And there is a middle-aged woman - angry injured cynical untrusting of the entire male sex whom she thinks consists of people who will never grow up - eternal adolescents who are fascinated by bloodshed and by violence. So those two - three different people who really represent three different planets - they talk to each other and they reshape each other. And they end up after a three month almost loving one another.  But as for arguing I was reminded of your memoir in which you describe the milieu that you grew up in in the early 1950s. Russian-Jewish immigrants including your parents who could argue in half a dozen languages about everything from Nietzsche to feminism designism. But you wrote when it came to their emotional lives and loves and feelings - not a word. You wrote  about that as a Jewish trait. Do you think that?  Well some Jews are very good at talking about emotions as well but not in my family and not in the milieu in which I grew up which was very puritanic about the senses and about the emotions - very puritanistic . In this novel in Judas people argue all the time about everything under the sun or rather under the very cloudy skies of Jerusalem in that winter. But they also fulfill some sexual expectations. And they also change each other's sensual-sexual and emotional conventions.  Do you feel hopeful these days about Israeli life?  You know I feel much more comfortable talking about the past than about the future. I am old enough to know that life is full of surprises. And this is true of this country as much as it is true of Israel. I have seen people surprising not only others but even themselves. I have seen people doing leaders - political leaders intellectuals writers poets artists - I have seen them doing things which surprised themselves not just the listeners or the viewers or the milieu. People are open-ended. By the way that is how a make a living. The microphone which I am using now will not change. It will remain the same microphone until it is outdated. But you and I do change. You and I - I do not know you personally but you and I - we both did things which surprised ourselves from time to time. So we do not really know. We do not really know what people might do.  Israeli novelist Amos Oz - the title of his latest novel is Judas. Thank you very much for talking with us today.  Thank you for having me. 