 It is been 108 years since the Chicago Cubs won the World Series. And Virginia Wood has been alive for almost all of them. She is 101 years old and she is a longtime faithful fan. Well now that the Cubs are a game up on the Los Angeles Dodgers and one win away from the World Series she is hoping that this just might be their year. NPR's Cheryl Corley reports.  Wearing a Cubs T-shirt and surrounded by family Virginia Wood was ready for baseball last night when the Cubs and Dodgers took to the field. Her wheelchair not far from the television - the former physical education teacher knew what she wanted to see from her team.  I just want to be sure they get the first run I really do. I think it makes a difference.  It does.  And the Chicago Cubs did not disappoint scoring in the first inning.  How about that? Are you happy?   Oh yeah. First run. First run. That is good.  Virginia Wood attended her first Cubs game at Chicago's Wrigley Field in 1924. She was 10. Later as an adult she would go as often as she could especially with friends after work on Ladies Day when they could attend for free.  When people did not stay for the whole game we would all move ourselves down a little closer to the front as far as we could go yeah.  Lots of games no championships. It was 1908 when the Cubs last won a World Series. But Wood dismisses the idea of a curse holding the Cubs back. She says she knew a championship would come eventually. And she is convinced this is the year.  Oh I am counting on them going all the way absolutely.  Wood says in the past the Cubs did not have all the parts they needed - good pitching and hitting at the same time. This year there is Joe Maddon an excellent manager says Wood directing a very talented team.  They have got all young kids now. It is wonderful. They are enthusiastic and they hustle a lot. You know they really do. They go after everything. And I think that is what the difference is.  If the Cubs do beat the Dodgers they will play the Cleveland Indians. Wood's son Gary says his mother hopes the Cubs grant her a favored wish.  She will be 102 next month. That is what she wants for her birthday.  Oh yeah sure. I would like to have that. Good birthday present. Oh yeah that is the best.  But first there is a game or two left before that can happen. And Wood says she will be watching and cheering on her team. Cheryl Corley NPR News Chicago. 