 As we mentioned President Obama's commencement address comes the day after he delivered an hour-long speech on national security. The president talked about redefining the effort away from what he called a boundless global war on terror. Here to talk about what they heard in the president's speech yesterday are our Friday political commentators E.J. Dionne of The Washington Post and David Brooks of the New York Times. Welcome back. E.J.  Good to be with you.  Thank you.  We heard the president say yesterday America is at a crossroads. He said we are making decisions that will define the type of nation and world we leave to our children. And in much of the speech he talked specifically about drone strikes. David you first what shift if any did you hear in what the president had to say?  Crossroads is a bit hyperbolic. There are a couple of phases to the war on terror. I would say there was the militant super aggressive phase what you might call the Dick Cheney phase first three years. I think the big shift happened early in the second Bush term when Condoleezza Rice and National Security Advisor Steve Hadley got involved. And that was the big shift beginning to scale it back to something more normalized. And we have made progress since then in getting it to be normal. And in general President Obama has rhetorically shifted a lot but substantively shifted very little. And so I think he is continued the second Bush term but making sensible adjustments. And I think this speech is a series of sensible adjustments - trying to get the drones out of the CIA toward the Defense Department which seems appropriate trying to scale back the level of general alarm of threat. So I would say the big shift happened in the Bush years but this is a sensible continuation of getting things back to a normal footing.  Interesting though that point that you raised about shifting it from the CIA to the military was not actually embedded in the speech itself. He did not actually talk about that.  Right. And it is merely a preference so we are not for sure. But I think most people accept the idea that the CIA going around killing people with these weapons is not the natural home for this program.  E.J. what about you? What evolution did you hear if any in the president's remarks?  Well I think it was an adult speech that treated Americans as serious conversation partners and indeed there was a protester Medea Benjamin of Code Pink who had interrupted the speech and it was fascinating. The president really treated her as a serious interlocutor and came back to her at the end of the speech. And I thought it was actually very significant that he really as you suggested said the global war on terror which was never a very good formulation in my view because you do not wage war on methods of violence. He said that is behind us. And he had a very complicated phrase but it is actually quite precise. He said it is a series of persistent targeted efforts to dismantle specific networks of violent extremists. It is a very Obama pragmatic practical thing to say. I think that he moved in certain directions without fundamentally changing. He went back to the effort to close Guantanamo but he did not announce its closure. He put restrictions in the use of drones but said we still needed to use them. So I think there'll be critics from the left and the right but I think it was a classic balanced Obama kind of speech.  You mentioned the protester Medea Benjamin and we have some tape of this exchange. Medea Benjamin of Code Pink and she was shouting about Guantanamo and civilians killed in drone strikes and at first in one of her several interruptions we heard the president respond this way.  Why do not you ?  You said you would release those 86 prisoners   Why do not you sit down and I will tell you exactly what I am going to do.  And then a bit later I believe it is as she is being removed from the room he said the voice of that woman is worth paying attention to.  These are tough issues. And the suggestion that we can gloss over them is wrong.  David let me ask you about this. I mean does this illustrate the fine line you are talking about sort of the shift away from Bush administration policies many of which have been embedded also in the Obama administration's term?  Yeah. First let me say I think Code Pink are reprehensible narcissists by the way. They interrupt these events continually. This is not the proper to have protest.  It is free speech David. It is a free country.  Well and there is also such a thing as civility and respect.  She is a known quantity. She was still allowed into the room or someone did not even know she was there.  The situation in Guantanamo I remember speaking to someone in the Bush administration where they said you know it never occurred to us we could announce the closer of Guantanamo before we found a place for the people. We did things in the wrong order. So they have announced the closure without finding a place. But I think this is a problem that both administrations and certainly this administration has been aware of. The evidence is tainted. You cannot let these people out because they are dangerous. So there is just a series of horrible problems that the Bush administration had that the Obama administration has on this and on drones. Drones are a very problematic use of force and yet they are effective. And you are thrown in these circumstances in these horrible circumstances where you have got no bad options and I think they are dealing with it quite rationally...  No good options.  No good options.  No good - if there were no bad options it would all be  would not it?  That is column writing. And so I do think they are doing quite a mature job of this.  Could I just say one of the reasons it is been so hard to close Guantanamo is because Congress - and this is really a problem in both parties - Congress keeps saying well you cannot move them here. Well if we cannot move them to a secure facility inside the United States and you cannot find countries to send it to it becomes more difficult to close Guantanamo. And so I think that Obama with what he said is trying to bring some pressure back. It is an issue he kind of dropped for a while and he is picking it up again.  David very briefly last word to you. I just want to have your reaction to the reaction from Republican Saxby Chambliss of Georgia after the speech who said that terrorists will see the president's speech as a victory. We are changing course he said with no clear operational benefit. Does he have a point?  That is just politics. Ridiculousness. There is no change of course here. Show me the substantive change of course. It is just another chance to do that same old line that Democrats are weak. President Obama has not been weak on terror. There is just no substance to that and so I would regard that as a cheap shot.  And E.J. you get the last word. We have a few seconds left.  You know I actually agree with David so I will just let it stand there.  There are no bad choices right now. David Brooks of the New York Times and E.J. Dionne of The Washington Post and Brookings Institution thanks so much.  Thank you.  Thank you. 