 The cover of Kent Russell's new book is a full-length photo of the 29-year-old author. He is wearing a gray T-shirt rumpled black jeans. He is a glancing sideways through his black-rimmed glasses with a hangdog look on his face. And around his neck is a sandwich board that reads I am sorry to think I have raised a timid son. That is the title of Kent Russell's book. It is a collection of essays exploring the fringes of masculinity as well as his own relationship with his father. His title comes from American pioneer Daniel Boone. It is something Boone supposedly said to his own son.  I came across a story of Daniel Boone speaking to his one son Israel saying I heard the military company beating up for volunteers but I did not hear your name called among them. I am sorry to think that I have raised a timid son. Of course you know Israel signs up to go fight in this battle and immediately dies. And you know Daniel Boone has to bury him in a mass grave. But yeah it is - there is something I think about that kind of imploration that really really resonated with me when I was piecing this collection together.  Is that how you see yourself in some way - as a timid son of a bold and brave father?  I think well just me personally I come from a long line of - like the Russells are very much a military family. We like to say that you know we have had somebody in all major and most minor conflicts except for me I kind of break that long tradition.  And you write at one point that you have found yourself fetishizing people you call opaque brutes adventurers gunfighters dudes for whom torment and doubt are inconceivable.  Right.  There is a former hockey fighter...  Right.  ...And an enforcer on the ice. There is the godfather of gore in horror films.  Yes.  And the one who really riveted me the most is a guy in Wisconsin who lets himself be bitten by the world's most venomous snakes.  Yes.  He is building up his own immunity over time.  Yeah Tim Friede - that story kind of sprung out of the idea of why is the aphorism that which does not kill me only makes me stronger - why is that so appealing to me? So I kind of wanted to see who takes you know living this aphorism to its most logical extreme. And I came across Tim who you know worked in a factory had been separated from his wife and his children because of his work but just spent most of his time illegally keeping snakes in a disused crematorium on the crumbling industrial rind of Lake Winnebago. He let me watch as he endured the bites of rattlesnakes mambas cobras you know he was the real deal.  You actually set a goal. You want to goad him into enduring five venomous snake bites in 48 hours.  Yes.  And I want to have you read the description of what is his third bite. This is when he takes a black mamba...  Sure thing.  ...Out of its tank. And why do not you read what happens.  You got it. OK  Tim held his palm away from his hip as though reaching for another's hand. The mamba's eyes shine with an intense bigotry of purpose. Her exhalations seem to jelly the air. Tim pursed his lips tensed and lowered the open mouth to his forearm. Then the snake nipped him. She nipped him twice actually in quick succession fangs through skin making the same small popping noises as air holes forked in TV dinners. Tim's arm immediately petrified. That might have been the worst one ever he said carefully unwinding the mamba and dropping her into her tank.  And what happened to Tim physically after this bite?  What would normally happen to a person who gets bit by a snake like this is their kind of neurological wiring would slowly be turned off little by little. It would be like someone going through a house and shutting the lights off one room after another until finally your respiratory system just stops working and you kind of suffocate. But Tim you know he had the kind of immune system that suppressed this. But at the same time the nature of it was such that his body would just swell like the Michelin Man's. So he withstood the bites but he was there kind of trapped in his own expanding self.  Was it terrifying to watch?  You know it is amazing how you know that kind of phrase - fake it till you make it - where you just have total confidence in somebody when they themselves have confidence. Also we were drinking 13000 beers at the time so...  Participatory journalism.  Yeah oh yeah. I mean well if you are going to sit in a closed room with somebody who is himself going to drink and hold a black mamba at the same time you know the only way to kind of allay your own fears is to then have 13000 beers.  Well snaking around all of these character studies - sorry sorry for the metaphor.  Yeah no it was fantastic.  Snaking around these character studies is your essays dealing with your relationship with your own father. And you describe him as a very short man but somebody who is tough as nails.  Right.  At one point you call him a white-hot boiler with the relief valve broken off. Describe your dynamic with your father and what you were working through with these pieces?  Well I mean I know he is listening right now so I apologize in advance Dad. He is you know very thickly built very rarely wears a shirt and that comes from you know his days in the Navy. His skin is kind of cured poreless. It looks like over-milked coffee in a way. He was the captain of the ship of our family basically - the Russell Ahab if you want to you know go in that direction. And it is something both really inspiring and really tragic just about the way he commandeered our family. And he was basically there with us every day so this was the voice I heard most you know outside of the one inside my head basically.  Your dad knew you were writing about him right? How did he feel about that?  Well that is you know - that is the thing. He is warned me in emails to not call him perspicacious ever again. But the dude...   He took that as an insult?  Oh yeah yeah. Oh yeah. But the dude is supremely perspicacious. But at the same time I think you know the man is so dutiful and is you know such a ultimately a good father that I think he is both proud of the end product and you know I think he agrees that I captured something true here.  I do not want to tie - to tie to your bow on all of this because it is not that kind of book. But did you come out at the end after exploring these characters these versions of masculinity and your own relationship with your father - did you come out with any new understanding of yourself?  Definitely. To actually kind of sit down put on the cave-diver helmet and go spelunking into my own psyche and you know these other kind of masculine psyches and things like that you know there is like some kind of original sin of like you know white American dudes where we just keep getting sucked back to these kind of ideas and ideals and myths and stuff. Despite how much I may want to you know blow them up I still - I still find myself kind of you know being drawn back. So I do not think that this is necessarily like the memoir of you know how I - how I learned to love by Kent Russell.  .  You know it is - I like to think it is a little more than that.  That is Kent Russell. His book is I Am Sorry To Think I Have Raised A Timid Son. Kent thanks so much.  Thank you for having me. 