 This week marked a new step in the evolution of Michelle Obama as first lady. As we reported on Wednesday she delivered an emotional speech in her hometown of Chicago about kids dying from gun violence.   I am not talking about something that is happening in a war zone halfway around the world. I am talking about what is happening in the city that we call home.  Mrs. Obama almost never ventures into the top political controversies of the day. Instead she spent her time in the White House focusing mostly on child nutrition and military families. NPR's Ari Shapiro has this story about how the first lady's role may change in President Obama's second term.  Two months ago Michelle Obama went to Chicago for the funeral of Hadiya Pendleton. Pendleton was an innocent 15-year-old girl killed by a stray bullet a week after she performed at the inauguration. At the funeral the first lady turned to her friend and adviser Valerie Jarrett.  She leaned over and she said I have to come back to Chicago and we have to do more. I do not want to just attend a funeral. I want to make a difference.  That shows a level of confidence and assertiveness that Mrs. Obama has not always had as first lady. People who know her best say she is more comfortable in the role than ever before. Mrs. Obama now understands the levers of power.  Appreciating what a first lady can do to make a big impact is something that evolves over time.  There is no job description for first lady no statutory authority. And Jarrett says during the first term Mrs. Obama's top concern was her daughters' transition to a new life.  The girls are four years older. They are much more independent now they have schedules of their own they are thriving and so she has a little bit more flexibility with her time.  Aides to the first lady say Mrs. Obama does not plan on launching big new initiatives in the second term. Instead she will expand her two signature projects Joining Forces is about veterans and military families Let us Move focuses on childhood obesity. Sam Kass is Let us Move's executive director.  Mississippi saw a 13 percent decrease in childhood obesity over the last few years which is extraordinary. Places in New York and Philadelphia and in L.A. we are starting to see real declines which is really substantial.  In the past four years Let us Move cut deals with major supermarkets restaurant chains and school lunch programs. In the next term Kass says the program will work on information for parents and advertising for kids. For example Birds Eye Vegetables recently teamed up with the Nickelodeon character iCarly.  And during that time that they did that partnership they saw a 37 percent increase in sales of vegetables.  At the same time some big candy and soda companies have agreed to stop targeting certain products to young kids. Myra Gutin at Rider University studies the history of first ladies. She says Michelle Obama's activities look a lot like what she calls activist first ladies in the mold of Mrs. Johnson Ford Clinton and others.  The activist first ladies certainly are at more risk for making a mistake and that could end up taking up some of their husband's political capital. But at least in my research I have never found that that worry has really stopped them very much.  Mrs. Obama's stumbles have been few says Anita McBride of American University. There was a lavish trip to Spain and party crashers at the first White House state dinner. But McBride who was first lady Laura Bush's chief of staff says the White House recovered quickly.  I think she learned from it and you have not seen that happen again. But overall on the development of issues - you know I think they have done a very good job.  As often as not Mrs. Obama lands in the spotlight for reasons of style rather than substance. A new haircut becomes a major national news story. Ebs Burnough was deputy social secretary during the Obamas' first term.  It is not a normal life that a person leads. But when it comes I think particularly to style etc. she is great about just saying it comes with the territory but - you know - I am not focusing on that.  While any first lady gets constant scrutiny Michelle Obama is special. At 49 she is younger than most people who have held the job the first woman of color in that office and the only first lady in an age of Twitter Tumblr Facebook and YouTube. Lately she seems to be having more fun with it all whether showing up on the Oscars or doing a mom dance with Jimmy Fallon.  In that appearance Fallon asked if she would consider running for office in 2016. Mrs. Obama said she would rather host The Tonight Show. Ari Shapiro NPR News Washington.   You are listening to ALL PR News. 