 As we just heard yesterday's events could have implications for U.S. policy in the region and it could strain the U.S. relationship with Israel. For more we are joined by NPR diplomatic correspondent Michele Kelemen who is at the State Department. And Michele I understand Secretary of State Hillary Clinton weighed in on the subject this afternoon. What did she have to say?  Well Michele she took a pretty cautious line. She said the situation is very difficult. It requires - and this is a quote - careful thoughtful responses from all concerned. The U.S. did support a Security Council statement on the issue that calls for a prompt and transparent and credible investigation. And Clinton said that the U.S. would support an Israeli investigation that meets those standards. But she also said the U.S. is open to international involvement in the investigation and an official told us privately that the U.S. will push hard on that point to have the Israelis open this up for some international involvement.  When she talks about U.N. condemnation what exactly does that mean? Will there be any further action?  You know it was a presidential statement and not a Security Council resolution so you are not going to see anything being triggered right away. And Turkey's foreign minister who is in town to meet Secretary Clinton today he complained that it took 11 hours just to negotiate that statement at the U.N. The foreign minister Ahmed Davutoglu was clearly angry about that. He was also disappointed that the Obama administration did not come out and condemn the Israeli action. An Israeli spokesman on the other hand thanked the U.S. today for as he put it watering down the statement at the U.N. Security Council.  As we know relations between the White House and Prime Minister Netanyahu have been strained for months. In light of yesterday's events how does the White House try to handle an already tense relationship going forward?  Well you are right. Relations are really tense. Netanyahu canceled his trip here. He was supposed to be here today. He canceled this trip here to deal with that crisis. But the fact that relations are tense also means that the U.S. may not have as much maneuvering room to really get tough with Netanyahu. I mean the Israelis say that for them enforcing this embargo on Gaza is a matter of life and death. They do not want to see Hamas which controls Gaza be able to rearm and the Obama administration has sided with Israel on that point. It is you know raised concerns about humanitarian needs in Gaza but also says Israel has a right to defend itself. I mean one official here at the State Department on background even suggested that organizers of the flotilla were seeking a confrontation and unfortunately they got one.  An obvious question What does this mean for the peace process?  Well you know so far the State Department is moving ahead. George Mitchell the U.S. Middle East envoy is heading back to the region for these proximity talks. That means that he shuttles back and forth between Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas and Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu. On the hand one it might be not so bad because since they are not talking directly Abbas will not feel the need to pull out so obviously going to make it very difficult for them to focus on that.  Michele thank you very much.  Thank you.  That was NPR's Michele Kelemen at the State Department. 