 We are going to end this hour with a drink made by a national champion.  Just a touch of creme de banane. A quarter-ounce is needed here. And now we just add ice and stir.  The United States Bartenders' Guild has sent Ran Duan to represent the U.S. this week in an international cocktail competition in Sydney Australia the Bacardi Legacy Competition. Then he will compete for world's most imaginative bartender later on in Europe. Ran Duan is from Woburn Mass. where people line up outside of his family's Chinese restaurant to get a taste of his spirited concoctions. We caught up with him at Sichuan Garden restaurant at The Baldwin before he left for Sydney. Welcome to the program.  How is it going everybody? Thanks for having me Robert.  OK. And the drink that you are presenting to the judges in Sydney is called Father's Advice. Why is it called that?  It is called Father's Advice because I had a boy recently named Maxwell and my father give me some advice. He said the greatness of a man is not measured by his wealth but by his integrity to love and his abilities to put someone else's needs before his. He then continued to say this is why I have worked so hard for 28 years to love someone unconditionally to want to provide to want the best for them. That is what fatherhood is about. That is what the American dream is about. So I kind of pretty much took that philosophy into the cocktail.   That advice inspired the cocktail. What is in it?  So we start off with one-and-a-half ounce of Bacardi Gold. Then we have Cardamaro which is a cardoon-based amaro which is a half-ounce. There is also a little Punt e Mes which is a bittersweet vermouth - a half-ounce of that as well followed by Amontillado sherry. Now Amontillado sherry is a briny sherry so this adds depth umami and savoriness to this cocktail. And then we finally just finish off with a touch of banana cordial and all we do is just stir. Voila there you go .  My colleagues here have actually prepared a Father's Advice for me. They have served it with a toothpick with a - I guess it is a maraschino cherry and a little bit of...  Orange.  ...Orange peel yeah. Well I am going to try so cheers. Well it is very good and there is a lot of banana flavor in there.  So I am not sure how you guys mixed this. Just that touch of banana is really supposed to accentuate the rum and that is the whole style of this cocktail. It is Italian amaro. It is a Puerto Rican rum. It has Italian fortified wines. So the whole point is it is a melting pot of spirits and modifiers from all around the world kind of just like America symbolizing unity.  Well as for how it was mixed it here I can assure you that the intern who prepared this cocktail has been mixing drinks since two of the clock this afternoon. I mean she is...  .  ...She is very experienced at it. She is done a good job. You know Ran your drink is stirred not shaken and...  It is stirred yes.  I am wondering whether in a drink mixing competition whether that is the harder thing to do because it is so much more dramatic and musical to be shaking a drink. You would think that the visuals would work on the side of those.  If you come to my bar and you want Father's Advice shaken I will shake it for you.   But I personally prefer it stirred.  OK.  But you know we could get in a whole conversation about technique and why we shake and stir. I do not want to bore  the audience with that but I could ramble about it for hours .  Everyone actually wants to know. When you said - everyone now here wants to know why - what the merits of stirring are as opposed to shaking.  So typically in a bar you only shake anything with citrus in it. The reason why is because it is to incorporates the acid and you aerate it whereas the reason why you stir a Manhattan or a martini is because you want it kind of velvet and you do not want to aerate it too much because you want it kind of silky. So if you shake versus if you stir you really change the mouthfeel of the spirit. You can also bruise spirit. As well it is easier to control dilution if you stir versus shake it.  And you have to actually make this for the judges? Is that what happens during the competition?  Yes. I will have nine minutes to present my cocktail tell the story behind it as well as execute and perform. Every day I have rehearsed it is timed out to be about a four-minute speech and then I end it with a little spiel about the American dream.  Yeah the American dream - your father as I understand it brought the family over. Was it from China or from Taiwan?  From China sir from Sichuan province.  From Sichuan province. And his ambitions were not to open a Chinese restaurant initially.  Yes. His ambition was actually to sing opera. He actually had a scholarship to Louisiana State University for opera singing. And obviously it did not really pan out so we ended up moving to Boston. And we kind of did the stereotypical thing by opening a Chinese restaurant.  Is your dad proud to be the inspiration for this drink?  I think he is proud. I mean I am certainly proud of my dad. And you know most importantly this cocktail really represents our family and our struggle. And I think that me being my age right now kind of - 28. I used to be a little more rebellious - turning the leaf and realizing that everything he is done for my family I think - well I hope I am making him proud. That is all I care about right now so - making our family proud.  Well listen Ran thanks first of all for the excuse for my having a cocktail in the middle of the afternoon.  .  It is really great.  Thanks for having me. This is amazing and I appreciate you guys having me on the show and letting me tell my story. It means a lot to me.  Good luck in Sydney at the competition.  Thank you so much.  That is Ran Duan of the Baldwin Bar at Sichuan Garden in Woburn Mass. And tomorrow he will represent the United States in the International Bacardi Legacy Competition in Sydney. His entry is called Father's Advice and you can find the recipe at npr.org.  So Robert did you pick up any mixing skills on this assignment?  I had that answer about the theoretical basis for stirring or shaking.  .  I have been at this for decades waiting to find out why one does that.  Well when I go to your house I am going to want my drink shaken not stirred. 