 A spin through the catalog of Jackson Browne begins in the late 1960s with a song he wrote when he was just 16.    Well I have been out walking. I do not do that much talking these days these days.  For many of us - and count me in that number - Jackson Browne's songs are musical touchstones - road songs political songs and of course songs of fugitive love.   Fountain of sorrow fountain of light. You have known that hollow sound of your own steps in flight.  When Jackson Browne came by our studios recently I asked him about an old interview I would found in Rolling Stone magazine from 1974. He would have been 25. He was already a star. And in that interview he would been thinking back to when he first started out making music as a teenager in Southern California.   You said I loved the whole beneath the trellis with the guitar number.  .  Sound about right?  There was something about playing a song for a girl. Yeah. I did - I did like that. I mean yeah the trellis - I think there was a bit of self-satire in my calling it the trellis.  You would like to think so.  Yeah it was not - it was not seriously ever standing beneath anybody's window strumming a guitar and singing in the moonlight. No. And I think I was kind of like making fun of myself for enjoying singing for girls.  Yeah. And Jackson Browne opens his new album with the song to a girl. He is gone back to something he wrote in 1967 when he was 18 and living briefly in New York. It is called The Birds Of St. Mark's.    Oh how sad they sound - the songs. The queen must sing of dying. The prisoner...  Jackson Browne told me he wrote this song about Nico the beautiful singer actress and iconic Andy Warhol muse. Back then he was accompanying Nico on guitar on a club in St. Mark's Place in the East Village.  I would come there with my friends. We drove across the country. And I lucked into this job playing for Nico. And she had been in the Velvet Underground and was going off to - you know to play on her own. And it was great 'ecause I had no money. I would come to New York with 50. That job was fascinating because it was a bar that Andy's retinue would come hang out in.  Andy Warhol?  Yeah. But as I left New York I wrote this song and it was kind of a portrait of Nico - just a little song for her.    If she could see her mirror now she would be free of those who bow and scrape the ground beneath her feet.   She was a big fan of The Byrds. She would say can you play something like Jim McGuinn? And I would go well no.  So what inspired you to go back to this song that you wrote so many years ago?  I guess I thought the song was not really finished but when I dusted it off it seemed fine. It seemed - matter of fact there was something about it being something from a long time ago that gave it a quality that I liked. It was you know like a picture from an earlier time in my life. But I would never done it the way I intended it to be when I wrote it so I realized I could do it like The Byrds.  The sound of The Byrds meaning the jangly guitar lots of...  The twelve-string the high harmony...    And all my frozen words agree and say it is time to call back all the birds I sent to fly behind her castle walls.  The imagery in this song - the dying midnight roses and the queen behind castle walls...  .  You are laughing.  That was a part that I thought for quite a few years I needed to revise. Come on. Dying midnight roses - it is so extreme but that is what I began to like about it. It is just like - it is a young song. It really is for my 18-year-old eyes looking wide-eyed at this Andy Warhol scene in New York.  I have been wondering about that. I mean what it is like for you to summon that 18-year-old up as much as you can when you sing this song now.  Well that is the thing about songs. You do not have to. I mean it is written into the song. There is something about playing a song 20 40 years after you wrote it that is kind of exhilarating because it is really just like opening a book in the middle - looking back at a time that was captured then and actually may mean something different each time you revisit it.    Maybe we found what we had lost when we have unwound so many crossed entangling misunderstandings.  Jackson Browne thanks so much for coming in.  Thanks for having me.  Jackson Browne's new album is title Standing In The Breach. You can watch him performing a Tiny Desk Concert here at NPR. That is at nprmusic.org.    All the birds I sent to fly behind her castle walls. And I am weary of the nighttime scene inside these empty halls. 