 DiSalvo teaches political science at the City College of New York and he begins with the point about that same union money Peter Overby was talking about.  So for Republicans that is a strong incentive to reduce that power in hopes of increasing their future electoral fortunes.  When you say the taxpayers pay those union dues what do you mean? That is money that would be deducted from an employee's paycheck.  That is correct. So in so far as tax revenue pays state employee's salaries then part of those salaries are deducted by the state and those monies are then transferred to unions who use them both for paying the administrative cost of collective bargaining and for political activity closely aligned with the priorities of the Democratic Party.  Do you see a problem with that? I mean what is the philosophical notion that they might dispute when you say there is a trouble with public sector unions?  When government workers are unionized the issue is that voters elect politicians who then begin to negotiate with unelected union officials over what public priorities will be carried out and to what degree.  One of the things that you say in your article The Trouble with Public Sector Unions is this that public sector unions have manifestly negative consequences. What do you think those negative consequences are?  The other aspect is that in terms of government responsiveness and efficiency in so far as collective bargaining processes negotiate work rules they can induce rigidities into the way that government employees carry out their jobs on a day-to-day basis. And this can stifle innovation and in the long run make government less efficient and give taxpayers less for their dollar than they might otherwise get.  Would not those - some of those things that you call rigidities in some cases be things that would be very beneficial for the public? I mean it might be class size for teachers or a patient caseload for a worker at a hospital not just something that benefits the worker but that has a broader social impact that benefits a lot of people.  Some of those things are certainly true. And one can imagine scenarios where yes teachers' unions protect teachers and they protect good and bad teachers. The problem is that they tend to protect bad teachers. But of course we all want to protect good teachers from say capricious principals.  When you look at what is going on in Wisconsin with these two sides being so diametrically opposed it seems at this point do you see a middle ground in which public sector unions could still retain a wide range of collective bargaining rights and satisfy the wishes of the governor or do you think that is completely off the table?  Well one could imagine a scenario where the unions retained strong collective bargaining rights on paper but their ability to raise funds through the dues deductions went down and therefore they had much weaker power in terms of lobbying and political activity. One could imagine that as a scenario that might achieve a kind of equilibrium in public sector labor relations.  Daniel DiSalvo thanks very much.  Thank you Melissa.  Daniel DiSalvo teaches political science at the City College of New York. 