 The Food and Drug Administration said today that drinks which combine alcohol and caffeine are unsafe. And that decision amounts to an effective ban on drinks such as Four Loko which have caused controversy recently. Several states cities and colleges have already banned the drinks. NPR's Tovia Smith has our story.  They call it witches brew and blackout in a can mostly because the drink packs much more of a punch than you would expect. David Vladeck is director of the FTC's Bureau of Consumer Protection. Mr.  These are not your ordinary beers. They are fruit-flavored carbonated drinks sold in supersized containers and they have supersized alcohol content.  The equivalent of 5 beers. The company that makes Four Loko says it will stop putting caffeine in its drink but declined to comment today. United Brands that makes a product called Joose says it will also stop. But company president and CEO Michael Michail says the FDA is overreacting. Mr. MICHAEL  Brands I think that there is rush to judgment and we have been lumped in with one maker - has inresponsible marketing. And the fact is we are not causing any problems. It is not even fair.  But on campuses many college students say they agree with the FDA that alcoholic energy drinks do result in more risky behavior like drunk driving or sexual assaults. Ms.  It seems like every time someone wakes up in the morning and regrets the night before it is usually because they had Four Loko.  Boston College junior Ali Burak says drinks like Four Loko should be banned. Tomas Nary director of BC's Health Services says the beverages have already landed at least one BC student in the emergency room. Mr.  Some people actually did note it was a quote cheap drunk but actually the people that have the most problem with this were the ones that were not quite as savvy. Because it looks pretty harmless.  Nary welcomes the FDA action but worries that getting rid of the canned drinks will not stop kids from mixing up their own concoctions from scratch. Mr.  My business might increase a little bit. Could be good news. So...  That is David McLaughlin unloading a truck of Red Bull Energy Drinks at a convenience store at the edge of the BC campus. Mr.  They are going to do what they do anyway. And they can mix it themselves.  But McLaughlin adds that would probably be safer. Mr.  At least they know what they are putting into it. And whatever they mix probably would not be as strong as the Four Loko is.  BC senior Willie Flad agrees. People will not stop drinking caffeine with their alcohol. Mr.  It is the most cheap and easy way to go about like getting drunk. And I see a lot of people drinking 5-Hour Energies while they are out drinking. And I think people want to have their cake and eat it too.  Indeed some students have been stocking up on drinks like Four Loko. And some are not happy with the crackdown. Mr.  I do not understand why every time kids get into something parents feel the need to screw it up.  That is BC junior Mathew Lock. He says invitations are already going out for various last hurrah kind of parties before prohibition takes effect. Mr.  I mean I definitely think there will be some kind of funeral. Unidentified Man Yeah. Mr.  A funeral party.  Boston College officials say they are just hoping it does not end with an actual funeral. Tovia Smith NPR News Boston. 