 Mass protests may become a fixture of Donald Trump's presidency. Yesterday activists marched in cities across America to pressure the president to release his tax returns and highlight potential Trump family conflicts of interest. But others believe a boycott is the better approach. The San Francisco woman behind the GrabYourWallet boycott of Trump family products is now looking to expand the movement. NPR's Eric Westervelt reports.  Shannon Coulter did not spend her college years occupying various administration buildings. She is a career digital marketing consultant.  I do not consider myself an activist. Even now it is a strange label to me. I think of myself first and foremost as a businessperson and the newer role of activist is still taking shape for me.  But last fall the 45-year-old was outraged by Donald Trump's comments about women - you know the one where he said you can do anything when you are a star grab them by the genitals. It was picked up by a hot mic on Access Hollywood. Back then Coulter tweeted a screenshot of a handful of companies that sell Trump family products. The boycott was born. Today GrabYourWallet us simple spreadsheet on a website of the same name gets more than 2 million unique views a month - not bad for an organization with no budget no employees and no permanent office. Coulter met me in a rent-by-the-day office in downtown San Francisco. There are now more than 50 companies she encourages people to boycott because they sell Trump products or because a member of the company's board has backed Trump's campaign.  If you are going to give money to the campaign of a guy who makes fun of disabled people who questions the nationality of our country's first black president who likes to grab women by the genitals you are going to raise the ire of consumers. That is a part of your brand and any company that thinks it is not a part of their brand is being naive.  Coulter's weathered hate mail and nasty phone calls and tweets from Trump supporters as well as numerous denial of service attacks on her website. It is not clear what if any economic impact the boycott is having. Studies show these consumer protests often have a limited effect on a company's bottom line and long-term corporate policies. But a brand's reputation can take a hit. Coulter's success metric for this is not a company's stock price or quarterly sales. It is how many companies have been taken off the boycott list. So far it is about two dozen including Nordstrom Kmart and Neiman Marcus.  Some have made public statements and some have not. For our purposes it does not really matter why a company has dropped Trump products only that they have.  More than 50 companies remain boycott targets including Amazon MillerCoors Wal-Mart and L.L. Bean. We reached out to more than a dozen companies. All declined to comment except for MillerCoors. Pete Coors a board member of the parent company has actively supported Trump. In a statement the company said boycotting our brands only harms our hardworking employees and their families. Coulter says one sure sign of the boycott's broader impact is the speed with which dozens of companies quickly stopped advertising on Bill O'Reilly's Fox News show in the wake of sexual harassment allegations against the host.  There is just a lot of appetite right now to understand how we as consumers can use our spending power to promote inclusivity and respect in our society.  Coulter is now talking with a wide range of people about how to morph this movement into a wider nonprofit vehicle for taking on Trump and advocating for broader corporate social responsibility.  It feels like this movement wants to be something more than it is today. There is a lot of momentum behind this. There is a lot of activity around it still and I want to leverage that into something larger.  For now Coulter will continue to encourage Trump opponents to see daily shopping as a deeply political act. Eric Westervelt NPR News San Francisco.  