 Look at a list of U.S. metro areas hardest hit by the coronavirus and you find some of the biggest cities in America - New York New Orleans Seattle. It makes intuitive sense that we would find the virus in crowded port cities that are closely tied to the wider world. But that list of hard-hit cities also makes clear that nowhere in America is safe because that list includes Albany Ga. a small city inland where the biggest hospital is overwhelmed by hundreds of cases. Albany Mayor Bo Dorough is on the line. Mayor welcome to the program.  Good morning.  How has life changed as the scale of the outbreak has emerged in your city of 73000 or so?  Well Steve it is gradually reduced all the economic activity. Of course the first thing we did was close bars restaurants city parks the library. The medical professionals told us that that was not sufficient following which we adopted a shelter-in-place order. And at this point in time fortunately most of our citizens are being compliant. But it is difficult. We have kids who are out of school - college kids who - they are not returned to campus. And unfortunately they do not have anything to do. They cannot go to the theater. They cannot go to the mall. They cannot go to gyms. And so we are having some problems of people congregating. And also many business owners are understandably frustrated that their businesses have been closed.  As of a few days ago I believe that your metro area had something north of 500 cases. How are your hospitals doing?  Well that is an issue. The first thing we did when we closed the bars and restaurants - and I was - mentioned earlier that the health care professionals told us this is not sufficient.  Yeah.  Prior to implementing the shelter-in-place order we were notified that the hospital was within a few days of approaching capacity. And of course that meant that there would be no beds for new patients.  And have you hit that capacity yet so far as you know?  Well fortunately other regional hospitals started accepting COVID-19 patients. And so by virtue of being able to transfer patients to hospitals in Macon Columbus Tifton the overcrowding has been somewhat abated. But as I understand it all three ICU units have been repurposed and are providing beds for COVID-19 patients and have been for the last week or so.  Mayor Dorough have you been able to trace this outbreak to a specific moment in Albany?  Well there are actually two articles. One appeared in The Atlanta Journal-Constitution last Friday. And Mr. Schrade wrote an article tracing it back to a funeral on February 28. We also - there was also an article in The New York Times on Sunday which was  excellent piece of journalism. But you know Mr. Inskeep that really is not a concern for us right now. Our concern is what we can do to curb the spread of the virus. And of course the infection is an issue for epidemiologists and to be addressed at a later date.  OK. But you are in a situation now where it is obviously throughout the community. If I am not mistaken the National Guard is helping out in some way. What are they doing?  Yes. We have a medic team at the hospital because prior to the onslaught of the virus our hospital like many throughout the country was understaffed with nurses. Numerous nurses - I think it was 24 to 30 - had to be taken out of rotation because they were exposed to the first patient who was admitted to the hospital on February 28 or March 1. And they had unprotected contact with this gentleman for five or six days because nobody frankly had any idea that they were dealing with a patient who had the coronavirus.  What does this experience of your city suggest for other parts of the United States where people may think that because they are in a little smaller place or a more rural place that they might escape the effects of the pandemic?  Well Steve that is a question I was hoping you would ask me. You know I just would encourage communities throughout the country to take advantage of what we did not have and that is the time and opportunity to prepare for the virus. I mean we were in a situation - when it initially came upon us on March 11 I was notified that a few people had tested positive for coronavirus at our hospital. I thought it was an anomaly. And then on the 17 our coroner announced that three people had died. And from that point on it has just cascaded downward. I mean what communities need to do is adopt and implement a contingency plan. They need to have access. We have a shortage of ventilators. About 5 of the patients who have the virus apparently need mechanical breathing. There is a shortage of PPE. And what these experts talk about -  I mean flattening the curve they need - we - communities need to do that to prepare to reduce the pressure on the ICUs. People all over the country should be sheltering in place because all the experts tell you maintain social distancing. And that is probably the best advice. But unfortunately people are not going to be receptive to those recommendations until somebody in their community is diagnosed with the virus. And quite frankly that might be too late.  Because by then it will have spread unseen. Mayor the president has now acknowledged that the national peak in deaths is coming in the next two to three weeks according to government projections. In a few seconds what have they told you the peak is going to be like locally? And when does that come locally?  Well Steve we do not have an idea what - the people at FEMA  are telling us is we will see the light at the end of the tunnel the first day that there are more discharges than admissions. And that has not happened yet. And...   And...  Hello?  Yeah. I think we have kind of - maybe you have said the last word there. Mayor thanks so much really appreciate it.  Oh OK. Thanks Steve. Thank you.  Bo Dorough is mayor of Albany Ga. 