 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Liane Hansen. While there is been high drama over the federal budget this past week states have also been struggling to balance their books and tighten their belts. New Jersey is going through a financial crisis. But one line item may be difficult to cut. For more than a decade the state has been under court order to provide extra funding for low-income school districts. Now some state legislators say New Jersey can no longer afford to fully fund the school districts. Others say it is a matter of fairness. Nancy Solomon has the story.   In Newark the Ironbound Community Center runs a neighborhood preschool in a gleaming new building that provides 150 children who are mostly from low-income minority families with a full day of learning through play. Unidentified Child  No I broked it.  Some kids are working on writing their names in a small group with a teacher while others play with blocks and another cluster is hobbling inside a cardboard castle. Programs like these are offered free to all children in New Jersey school districts that have a high percentage of low-income kids. Ms.  The children play with each other and conversation is always encouraged.  School director Grace Blanco says to qualify for the state funding her preschool must have certified teachers small class sizes and a curriculum based on research that has found young children learn best through play and conversation. Ms.  Teachers talk to children ask questions - open-ended questions. The children really choose what they want to do and how they are going to play. Hi guys. How are you today? Unidentified Child  Just woke up from a nap. Ms.  You just woke up from your nap. I know that.  Without this free preschool Blanco says many of these kids would be in a low-cost day care watching TV and that is one of the reasons most poor children arrive at kindergarten behind middle and upper income classmates. The National Institute for Early Education Research at Rutgers University has followed the impact of these high-quality preschools. It is director Steven Barnett says New Jersey has made considerable progress in closing the gap in skills between high and low-income kids when they arrive on the first day of kindergarten. Professor  There is no question you can make a big dent. And I think it is reasonable to think about eliminating half the achievement gap at the kindergarten door.  Nobody is disputing Barnett's findings. But the state's resolve to close that gap may be crumbling under the weight of highest in the nation property taxes - which is the primary way the schools are funded - and massive cuts to state education funding that have hit suburban districts hardest. State Senator  The fact is that you know it would be nice to fund a lot of programs. But New Jersey is broke and the constitution does not require it.  Michael Doherty a Republican Senator from Warren represents a large swath of suburban New Jersey where resentment toward the extra funding of low-income schools runs deep. He is proposing the preschools for poor kids be cut to half day and the 300000 saved be spent on K-through-12 education in the suburbs. Doherty says he prefers the way most states collect an income tax that then funds school districts equally. St. Sen.  But we do not do that in New Jersey. We collect it progressively and then we hand it out progressively on steroids. So for every penny that my towns get other towns in urban areas are getting 40 bucks. So you tell me what planet on Earth where that would be fair.  Schiarra says these districts do not have the property tax revenue to adequately support their schools. And half-day preschool is ineffective because working parents do not use it even when it is free because they would have to leave work to pick up their children. So Schiarra says it is fair for the state to pay more for high-poverty schools and it is money well spent to help children when they are very young. Mr.  This is probably one of the most effective education reforms we have done in New Jersey for disadvantaged kids in our poorest communities. It would be a tragedy if we now scaled this back.  Schiarra is trying to patch a hole in a system that everyone agrees is broken. But changing the way New Jersey taxes its residents and funds its schools would require both political parties to agree on a fix and be willing to cooperate enough to move forward - and that has not happened here for a very long time. For NPR News I am Nancy Solomon. 