 Here's some Earth Day news for you. More than 80 percent of parents in this country strongly support the idea of their kids learning about climate change in school. That is according to a new NPRIpsos poll that was released today. Teachers as a group are even more concerned about climate change and more supportive of teaching it. But there is a disconnect between what most Americans say they want and what is actually happening. Anya Kamenetz from NPR's education team joins us now. Hi Anya.  Hi Rachel.  First off why'd you do this poll and what were you looking to find?  So science of course tells us that it is children as well as future generations that are going to experience the most severe effects of climate disruption. And we are also seeing an international student-led movement the Global Climate Strike. So we wanted to know are Americans supportive of teaching and talking to children about global warming or do they think it is too complicated or too scary for kids?  And what was the answer?  Well so on the central question the vast majority of people do support teaching children about climate change including both Republicans and Democrats. Two-thirds do not think that you should need parental support - or parental permission to teach it. But you know on the other hand even though 86 percent of teachers say yes we should teach about climate change and even though most states have science standards that at least mention the topic a little over half of teachers say they do not personally cover it in their classes.  So make sense of that. They like the idea of doing it but they do not do it. Why?  Yeah. So you know 23 of teachers told us of course it is not my subject area. And of course teachers by and large tend to be overworked and under-resourced. However Mallory Newell from Ipsos which conducted the poll for us said that there were also differences in attitude found in the poll between the teachers who cover or talk about climate change and those who do not.  For some teachers that might just be a way to rationalize why they are not talking about it.  For example she said that teachers who do not talk about climate change were less likely to believe that it is a serious threat and were less comfortable answering students' questions about it. On the other hand we also did a call-out. Then we heard from teachers from Florida to Hawaii that are covering the topic in their classes and that includes not just science teachers. It is all levels all subjects - preschool English home ec public speaking even Spanish language. Like Rebecca Meyer. She is an eighth-grade English teacher in the Bronx and she assigned her students what is called a cli-fi or climate fiction novel called Not A Drop To Drink.  They were very engaged. I mean they loved it. They learned so much that they did not know.  Another factor here might be that almost 13 of teachers told us that they are worried about parent pushback when talking about climate change.  But your poll would indicate that most parents are supportive. Right?  Yes. That is true. Although we did talk to teachers who work in areas around the country where you know a big chunk of families might be climate deniers or maybe they work in the fossil fuel industry so it is a sensitive subject.  So I mean if teachers are not teaching climate change are parents taking it upon themselves to talk to their kids about it?  Here's this other really interesting disconnect. So 84 percent of parents of kids under 18 say yes kids should learn about climate change. But just 45 percent said yes I speak to my own kids about it. So like I talked to a mom of three in Colorado who says she is personally very concerned about climate change. They even put solar panels on the house. But she has not talked to her kids about it. And now that we are asking she is wondering why she has not.  All right. Anya Kamenetz with NPR's education team. Anya thanks. We appreciate it.  Thanks Rachel. 