 This is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am Renee Montagne.  And I am Ari Shapiro sitting in for Steve Inskeep. This economic downturn has put globalization into reverse. Countries are not trading with each other like they used to and economists say if governments are not careful trade could slow even more and make the global recession worse. NPR's Tom Gjelten reports.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development says global trade is in free fall. The World Trade Organization predicts trade will be down 9 percent this year.  I see something of a disaster.  Uri Dadush is the former head of international trade at the World Bank. He says the latest trade numbers are in his words terrifying.  In the first quarter of this year and in the first quarter of last year it looks like world trade may be falling at an annual rate of 20 percent and that is unprecedented. Even during the Great Depression trade did not fall so rapidly.  The drop in trade is due to a variety of factors. The global economic downturn means consumers and businesses can no longer afford as much of what people in other countries are producing plus there are the banking problems. Desmond Lachman an international economist with the American Enterprise Institute says the credit crisis made a deteriorating trade situation all the worse.  If companies cannot get letters of credit from their banks it makes them very difficult to finance the exports that they have got.  And then there is globalization. Countries trade more of what they produce and depend on those transactions. When Americans stop buying Japanese or German cars the Japanese and German economies suffer. Developing countries that export cheap manufactured goods are hurt by the downturn. Soon they cut back on imports of industrial equipment from the United States. The whole world economy shrinks simultaneously. Desmond Lachman.  This just makes a very much nastier recession than when the recession is not synchronized where you have got one country weak but the other country strong. This is not a recession that only affects the United States or only affects Europe. This is a global crisis that would seem to need a global solution.  A big part of the solution would be to revive global trade. Governments at the G-20 Summit made an effort to do that by approving a 250 billion credit line for trade. They also promised to resist protectionist policies that would hurt trade even more. Governments including the United States have sought to protect their own economies - helping their national auto companies for example. But Arvind Subramanian of the Peterson Institute for International Economics points out that the downturn has not yet produced the kind of protectionist policies associated with the Great Depression.  The fact that we have not gone down the route of the 1930s is partly because - I think governments know that if you go down that route it is really calamitous. And that is why in some ways the trade barriers that countries are erecting now they are barriers that do not actually violate any rules because they know once they start doing that you know it is open season and then you can very easily go down into a kind of 1930s protectionist mode.  Tom Gjelten NPR News Washington. 