 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. Almost every day there is some kind of travel disaster in this world.  Unidentified Man Hundreds of people are feared dead after a ferry capsized during a typhoon in the Philippines. Unidentified Woman  At least seven people are dead and hundreds more injured after a train crashed in Cameroon. Unidentified Woman  The Go Express was traveling near Mathura City en route to New Delhi when it crashed into a stationary train in the early hours of the morning.  Usually they are one-day stories - now these days just a few hours then the world goes back to its business and Americans complain that the bags of peanuts they receive on passenger planes are growing smaller. Carl Hoffman who is a contributing editor at National Geographic Traveler and other magazines decided he wanted to travel the world recklessly the way millions do not for pleasure or exploration but survival. So he spent five months traveling on the world's most dangerous airlines overstuffed ferry boats and precarious buses. He is recorded his travels in the new book The Lunatic Express. He joins us in our studios. Thanks so much for being with us. Mr.  My pleasure. Thanks so much.  First are you comfortable? Can we get you anything? Mr.  No I am fine perfect.  You are not used to people saying that the way you have been traveling. Is there something all these perilous modes of transit share? Mr.  Well they share many things. They are all uncomfortable they are all loud they are all dirty they are all crowded they are often hot though if it is in the winter in Mongolia or China they can be freezing cold. Nobody has money so the buses do not have new tires and they do not have brakes. And the way operators make money is to put a lot of people in them.  You tell us in the book that 3000 people a day die in road accidents in Latin America. And so of course you rode a bus in just about the most dangerous stretches of Latin America. Mr.  Well every I just got on a bus and went. There is nothing else to do. The bus goes on mountain roads and roads that are really not roads at all. They are just washed out dirt strips with huge sharp plunges off of cliffs. And traveling...  No guardrails typically? Mr.  No guardrails and those journeys are incredibly long. I mean it took me from Ayacucho to Cusco 24 hours to travel just a couple hundred miles. But there is always an incredible quantity of fresh food coming into the bus. I mean that is the flip side of really bad dangerous travel is that it is incredibly ubiquitous and full of delicious food.  There was a five-day stretch - I hope you do not mind me asking but you write about it in the book - but when your I guess she was then-17-year-old daughter Lily joined you. There is a part of me as a parent too that wonders knowing how dangerous it is why a parent brings his daughter along. Mr.  Well I mean for me I thought that the reward outweighed the risks. And that for Lily who already traveled to Nicaragua and Mexico and parts of Canada and Italy it would be a wonderful experience for Lily. I overestimated a little bit. You know Lily was walking out of her high school one day and then on a bus in Peru for 30-something hours the next day and that was on mountain roads and that was hard for her. I mean hard...  Well let us make it plain it was not just a matter of lack of comfort or you know lack of Western style and toilets. You know we are talking about - as you so vividly describe in the book - roads where a lot of accidents occur. Mr.  I think she was just there was a huge amount of culture shock. And she was squished into a seat there were roaches falling out of the curtains when the sun went down and the food was suspect. And she looked could see those cliffs and think oh my God what are we doing? To me I mean if you do not embrace the adventure of it all and take certain risks then life is boring and not worth living.  You rode a ferry boat called the - I hope it pronounce it correctly -Bookit Singatan and when you described how everybody traveled it is literally sickening. Mr.  That was a tough one of my physically most difficult legs. Five days from Jakarta to Ambon and the Maluku Islands. Out of regular space for 2000 people 1800 of those were in economy and in what is steerage. And then sort of by another thousand people must have climbed on and it was incredibly crowded where you slept on a platform hard platform all just lined up like hot dogs on a grill. And there was no in steerage there was no ventilation there were no windows or portholes that opened. So you had cigarette smoke which probably a hundred degrees and florescent lights on and a lot of cockroaches just all the time.  You also - I got the impression - developed some of your warmest friendships on the ferry boat. Mr.  I was surrounded by incredible people most of whom were women. All these people were watching my stuff and taking me out. When we docked we would go off and they would take me for meals. They would never let me pay. I mean people are incredibly generous the world over and incredibly warm. And I cannot say that it is not something I was not aware of but it overwhelmed me always over and over again.  How is it changed you as a traveler? Like are you less inclined to complain about the fact that they do not have macadamia nuts on the flights anymore? Mr.  It is funny there is two ways of traveling. When I traveled for Lunatic I gave up I surrendered to it. You could not be impatient if a flight did not show up or the ferry was two days late or five days late. I still find I get frustrated on an American flight for instance. You know you expect it to be on time and you expect there to be some food and you want to have the seat next to you unoccupied. And when the plane's late and the scene is crowded and you are in coach and there is no legroom and all they give you is peanuts you know I get incredibly frustrated just like everybody else.  But are you less inclined to call it you know to get home and call it a hellish experience? Mr.  I mean I can do anything. I know that I am capable of suffering through anything.  Would you do this again? Mr.  I would absolutely.  Carl Hoffman. His new book The Lunatic Express Discovering the World Via Its Most Dangerous Buses Boats Trains and Planes. Mr. Hoffman thanks so much. Mr.  Thank you. 