 President Trump's proposed new budget emphasizes national security and public safety. In the blueprint of that budget most departments see reductions. Nineteen programs are slated to be eliminated. Several of those serve older Americans. NPR's Ina Jaffe covers aging. She joins us now from NPR West for a segment we call 1 in 5 for the 1 in 5 Americans who will be 65 or older by the year 2030. Ina thanks very much for being back with us.  Good to be with you Scott.  Are there programs for seniors that could be eliminated entirely if you take a look at this draft budget?  There definitely are. I mean one of them is a job training program. People have probably never heard of it. It is called Senior Community Service Employment Program. And the participants have incomes around the poverty line or just above. So these are people who need to work into their 60s or 70s. And annually there is around 70000 participants. Their training consists of part-time work at local nonprofits or government agencies and they are paid minimum wage. So if the program goes away the trainees lose their wages and the local nonprofits lose their subsidized workers.  Why would the administration want to eliminate a program like this?  I tried to get an answer to that from the Office of Management and Budget but they did not respond. The budget blueprint says that the program's got to go because it is ineffective that only half the trainees eventually find unsubsidized jobs and cutting it would save the government 434 million.  A couple of weeks ago the budget director Mick Mulvaney said that the administration just does not want to fund programs it sees as being ineffective. Let us listen to how he phrased it.   We are going to spend money. We are going to spend a lot of money but we are not going to spend it on programs that cannot show that they actually deliver the promises that we have made to people.  Are there other programs for seniors Ina that the administration finds ineffective and wants to eliminate?  Well you know this is just the administration's first pass of this budget and it does not give reasons for every cut and reduction. So for example we do not know why a program called Senior Corps is on the chopping block. And as I said before the Office of Management and Budget did not answer my questions about that. And Scott Senior Corps is not a small program. Nearly a quarter of a million older Americans participate in it.  I have not heard of it.  Yeah. Well most people have not in that form but you probably have heard for example of foster grandparents right? These are older people who mentor and tutor at-risk kids in elementary schools. Well that is part of Senior Corps so is another program where older volunteers help out frail isolated elderly in their homes. And there is a third Senior Corps program that places volunteers with various community organizations. Again the participants are mostly low income and some receive a small stipend.  Senior citizens are  famously well-organized and are often cited as just about the most effective political lobby in the country. So these are proposed cuts. There still would be a fight ahead in Congress would not there?  There would be a big fight ahead in Congress and I am sure all of the interest groups that are well-known to everybody are organizing to fight this. And the other thing to remember is that older people vote. They are the highest propensity voters by age in the country and they went heavily for Donald Trump. And I think that is something that the Trump administration may want to keep in mind.  NPR's Ina Jaffe thanks so much.  My pleasure. 