 And New Hampshire America it is time for sports.   The Western Conference is narrowing down. Warriors and Clippers last night Celtics and Bucks tomorrow. I have to say fear the deer. And more trouble in the NFL. Howard Bryant of ESPN joins us. Good morning Howard.  Good morning Scott. We are not going to talk Endgame?  Endgame you say yes?  All right. We will talk Endgame next time.  Oh OK. The Warriors beat the Clippers last night but they are limping into the next round. And Houston and a scoring machine named James Harden await them.  Yeah. This is great actually. One of the questions that we have been asking for however many years now is can anybody beat the Warriors four times? And there is one team that came pretty close last year and it was the Houston Rockets. And the Houston Rockets are - they want revenge. I think they know that if Chris Paul had not gotten hurt last year maybe they would win that game. Of course they also missed 27 consecutive 3-pointers at home in Game 7. So this is going to be a great series. On the other hand you have got Kevin Durant. And the Warriors got challenged in this postseason.  Yeah.  They got challenged by a team that they probably should have steamrolled. They lost two games at home so they look vulnerable. On the other hand you have got the Celtics in the East and the Bucks.  Yep.  And the Bucks are the best team in basketball this year but the Celtics beat them in seven games last year. So we have got a revenge series this year and Milwaukee's got home court. You have got a Game 7 going on tomorrow as well with the Spurs and the Nuggets. And I think that is going to be a phenomenal game because once again we talked about the Nuggets being great all season. And in fact at one point they were the top seed in the West. But now they kind of look like a young team trying to find their way going up against a legendary veteran Spurs team or at least with the coach Gregg Popovich.  A sickening sickening story in the NFL. Tyreek Hill of the Chiefs - and audio has been reported by a local station there speaking with his fiancee about - oh my God - abusing his young 3-year-old breaking his arm. It is painful to listen to this conversation. The NFL - football's a violent game. Do they have a violence problem in the game?  Well they have had one and this is one of the issues. It is more - it is not as much - not only a violence problem. Let us not forget you had the Adrian Peterson child abuse issue.  Yup.  You have had a bunch of domestic violence issues in the game. Let us not forget that the Chiefs themselves - they had not just Tyreek Hill. They also had Kareem Hunt earlier - a few months ago and on top of that seven years ago Jovan Belcher. And let us not forget in a murder-suicide he killed his girlfriend and then drove to the Chiefs facility and killed himself on the grounds of the facility. And so this is the problem. You have got a talent trap issue in the NFL where I think the organizations sort of know that these players - some of these players are troubled and they come with baggage but they are really really talented. And I think that the teams take the position sometimes that we will take a risk. We will position ourselves as the team that is given these guys a second chance or taking an - giving them an opportunity and then we will cut them loose.  Yeah.  They do not hold a whole lot of accountability unless something goes sideways. And then when things go sideways they seem to act like they are the responsible ones when everybody's really responsible for this.  We just got half a minute left. John Havlicek left us - one of the greats of the Boston Celtics.  Yeah.   Greer's putting the ball in play. He gets it out deep and Havlicek steals it. Over to Sam Jones. Havlicek stole the ball.  That is his historic play.  Absolutely. And as a lifelong native Bostonian this one hurts really really hard. Part of the Celtic dynasty part of the bridge between Larry Bird and Bill Russell. And if you remember those teams - and let us not forget what a great player John Havlicek was. We forget what happens last Tuesday. When John Havlicek retired there were only two players who had scored more points than him and that was Wilt Chamberlain and Oscar Robertson. And he never led the league in scoring. Total player great person and a huge loss.  Howard Bryant of ESPN thanks so much.  Thank you. 