 Of all the big Internet companies some use more bandwidth than others. You use more bandwidth when you jam more data down the lines into homes or phones. Netflix uses the most of any company at peak hours streaming all those movies. Google is number two followed by Apple and number four on the list of bandwidth users is Twitch.tv. In case you have never heard of Twitch a company devoted to live interactive broadcasting of people playing video games NPR's Laura Sydell explains what it is.  Meet Jayson Love.  I make a living attempting to beat video games on my show and people watch.  Love's stage name for that endeavor is Man and his show is Man vs. Game.   Love is also a bit pale he sleeps all day and broadcasts himself playing games alone from midnight to 8 AM Mountain time. He does this from the basement of his Montana home.   Nearly 170000 people follow his channel and this year Love says he could make six figures. Not surprisingly playing video games was not Love's college major - that was Japanese language and culture. But he got married and moved to Montana and his days of travel to Asia were over. He worked at a series of low-paying retail jobs that he describes as soulless.  I just felt directionless and lost. I just OK well what do I like? I like you know performing.  I like the Internet and I like video games.  Initially he imagined doing some kind of YouTube video blog of himself playing but then he discovered something called Justin.tv which let people stream live broadcasts of all kinds. But Emmett Shear co-founder of Justin.tv says the video game content started to get really popular.  It was the content that I would find myself at home turning the website on and just watching and to using the website as a user because I really enjoyed watching people play video games and there was a whole community of people doing it on the site.  In 2011 Justin.tv gave birth to Twitch exclusively dedicated to live gaming. Shear is now Twitch's CEO. Twitch.tv developed ways to help gaming broadcasters make a living. You can run ads against your show. You can add a subscribe button so fans can pay to watch without commercials and have special live online chats. The content ranges from comedic shows like Man vs. Game to competitions with top players. Twitch says it is got 5100 people making money by selling ads and subscriptions for their game channel.  There is now people who spend their whole life broadcasting these video games - big tournaments you have people who run special events with their most dedicated fans. And that is really cool that like a - it is whole new thing that did not exist before so that new profession which is video game entertainer.   Tonight at a bar in San Francisco video game players can get a sense of what it feels like to be a pro. A startup called Showdown eSports takes over the space and broadcasts live gaming from here over Twitch.tv. Ross Lewis is a co-founder.  We are trying to combine the online community in a real live party.  A couple of hundred people show up tonight and everyone can sign up to play a game live over Twitch while Lewis does a kind of interview show around it. Fernando Padilla sits down to play League of Legends.  This is my match history. I have won like the past six games in a row.  Wow. That is a good showing.  All right. My most played championship...  Brag a little bit.  Yeah I am going to brag man.  A lot of Twitch.tv fans are here. Megu Kobayashi says she watches Twitch the way tennis players like to watch Wimbledon to see how the pros do it.  If it is a game that I am really into I think twitch provides a lot of strategy. If they are really good then you know you can watch and learn.  And some of the people here like Arnie Salazer have tried to broadcast themselves. Becoming a pro video game player is like a new kind of dream - the way being an actor or a pro athlete is.  In kindergarten they asked me what I wanted to do when I was older. I wrote I either want to be a doctor or play video games. So I am definitely not going to be a doctor - play video games.  Recently Twitch.tv made headlines when 100000 people played a game of Pokemon together. Twitch now has 45 million active users and its growing. Though as it is for aspiring actors musicians or athletes most of these gamers will only dream of doing it for a living. Laura Sydell NPR News San Francisco. 