 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. A big debate rages in Britain. Should they stay in the European Union or leave? Yesterday in London President Obama took a side.   Speaking honestly the outcome of that decision is a matter of deep interest to the United States because it affects our prospects as well. The United States wants a strong United Kingdom as a partner. And the United Kingdom is at its best when it is helping to lead a strong Europe.  Two brothers both private business owners join us now. Ian Baxter believes Britain ought to stay in the EU. Nigel Baxter wants out. They are speaking to us from BBC Studios in Nottingham. Gentlemen thanks for being with us.  Pleasure.  Good afternoon.  As I probably do not have to tell you Baxter brothers elite opinion as they call it in the United Kingdom Labour Liberal Democrat and Tory is all we ought to stay in the European Union. This is a bad time for elite opinion in many sectors of the world is not it? N.  I think it is. I think we are seeing - the British public I think will regale against that but also in the rest of the European Union we are seeing a huge amount of discontent in terms of the workings of the EU. And I think one of the things that we might see as a result of a Brexit is some contagion in Europe the call for referendum in their own countries...  Is this Ian or Nigel speaking? N.  This is Nigel here. One of the problems with the EU is that when you look at it whilst it is 500 million people it is hugely important from a trade perspective. It is not functioning very well. It has got no growth. It is completely stagnant. It is a huge unemployment issue. Youth unemployment in places like Spain is approaching 50 percent. We have a huge problem with migration which is very difficult to deal with under the current rules of this Schengen Agreement. And I would not be surprised if we are not talking about the disintegration of the European Union within the next few years. I.  Exactly and that is what concerns me. Do not forget that whilst the EU is imperfect and has lots of problems that it needs to solve what it is also done is helped facilitate changes in Europe. For example when the Eastern Bloc countries came out of the Soviet Union the European Union provided them with a home that promoted democracy human rights and market economies. And that has worked.  Let me ask this of both of you. I have British friends who say that no matter how close they are to Europe geographically they - there are just more cultural ties between Britain and the U.S. and Canada and they do not feel an emotional connection to Europe. Does that enter into this? N.  Well I think that there is a lot of truth in that to be honest with you. Obviously we have you know...  This is Nigel? N.  ...This is Nigel sorry yes. You know we are sharing language of course so that is a big thing for us. You know we have got great friends in Europe. We enjoy visiting and enjoying their culture but I do not see a common - particularly common thread between us in the sense that you are talking.  Ian Baxter. I.  I understand your point and we absolutely - we love you guys. But the truth is...  We love you too but  but go ahead. I.  The truth is though that we you know geographically we live in Europe. And these people are our neighbors. And you know I want to just pick back up on this question of you know keeping the peace and what happens if we leave. You know on matters of trade for example we could see beggar-thy-neighbor kind of policies going on in Europe. And that is not what I want to see. I think cooperation even though it is a difficult thing is always going to be better. N.  Scott just to come back on that if I may.  Yes Nigel. N.  This is the hysteria that we are starting to get then on trade. So what we are saying is is a Bloc of countries of which we would have left which has virtually double the amount of trade to the U.K. that we have to them is going to enter into a destructive trade war in order to beggar-thy-neighbor to use Ian's words. I mean that is complete nonsense in my view. We will have of course to work out the detail but the realities of life are that we will I suspect in the short period of time have come to terms with the exit and our markets and trade will continue much as if we had never noticed it before.  How are you guys getting along? I.  Actually we have spent a lot of time with each other recently because of doing things like this radio interview. And believe it or not you know we are getting along good. N.  It is fine Scott. You know how it is younger brothers. You may have one. You know they are not easy. But you know you have to - you can suffer them you know? They are not often right either but you know we can listen to them.  Nigel Baxter is CEO of RH Commercial Vehicles his brother Ian is CEO of Baxter Freight - both joining us from BBC Studios in Nottingham. Thanks so much for being with us. I.  Pleasure. N.  Yeah thanks very much. Thank you. 