 Activists across this country are trying to seize a moment. They believe they have the nation's attention after a series of police shootings. They say they want to stop a pattern of unarmed black men being killed by police. That is why people gathered in the streets of multiple cities yesterday. The size of the demonstrations varied though the message was the same. NPR's Cheryl Corley reports.    This is what democracy looks like.  In Chicago hundreds of protesters march through the city's downtown. Sometimes it got tense when police made a few arrests and stopped demonstrators from blocking city streets.   Wait wait. Get back. Get back.  Jill McLaughlin was one of the protesters.  I am tired of seeing black and Latino youth targeted by this system and killed like dogs in the street. That is wrong.   We say to the police if you cannot respect us you cannot protect us.  In New York protesters swarmed the Brooklyn Bridge during the event organized by academic and activist Cornel West.  We are here for a call to shut down New York City and other cities out of a deep love for those who have been killed by the police across the nation.  For some like Steff Reed music was the best way to protest.   Bang bang. They shoot you down before they say freeze. No Tarantino film - this here's reality. I think for a while the issue seemed like a marginalized issue that was only with black people. And it was just something that we are exaggerating. And we are being emotional and we are just making things up. Thank God to social media and thank God to these camera phone images and videos. They were able to see that this is an epidemic.  Sage Mead who cut school to attend the Black Lives Matter protest used art to make a statement. She drew the figure of an African-American male on the floor.  Because lately we have been seeing a lot of those on the floor. We have been seeing a lot of those on the floor bleeding. We have been seeing them - their families crying on the floor - so might as well show it to everyone. That is why we are here today.   You are ordered to get off the freeway. If you do not exit the freeway you will be arrested.  On the other side of the country protesters in Oakland briefly blocked a freeway ramp when they occupied the City Hall chambers. Sophia Smith was one of several who spoke.   We need to disarm these police officers that has a racist psychological mentality and disposition against blacks Latinos and anybody non-white.   Rise up. Rise up. Rise up.  Across the bay in San Francisco a group of young activists disrupted the Board of Supervisors meeting. And Amos Brown the head of the NAACP in San Francisco addressed the protesters.   So you may be proud today. And I thank God that you are able to in an eloquent dignified and determined way spoke to the powers that be. And you spoke truth to power. And do not you let nobody turn you around.  In many of the cities demonstrators said the protests that have come since this past summer's shooting death of an unarmed 18-year-old in Ferguson Mo. are making a difference. They point to recent cases where charges have been filed against police when unarmed minorities have died during encounters with police.    Which side are you on friends? Which side are you on?  Back in Chicago marcher Jasmine Hall says she is also encouraged by an agreement that calls for Chicago to provide reparations to people who survived being tortured by a former police commander. But Hall says that is just a first step in the effort to change police tactics.  It matters but it is not enough. So we cannot get comfortable with the victories that we have. But at the same time we should use them to fuel us to keep standing up and doing what we are doing right now.  Protests which many demonstrators say will not end as long as the deaths of unarmed individuals during police encounters continue. Cheryl Corley NPR News Chicago. 