 Philip Kerr is a British novelist born a decade after the end of the Second World War who is written a series of compelling thrillers about crime in wartime Nazi Germany. His hero mostly a hero is a tough and cynical Berliner a cop named Bernie Gunther. The newest book is the eighth in the series it is called Prague Fatale. Mr. Kerr joins from the BBC in London. Welcome to our program.  Thank you for having me.  I wonder if you could just set the scene for us and tell us who the characters are in this newest Bernie Gunther novel.  Prague Fatale is set in the years 1941 to 1942. It is about a detective called Bernie Gunther who works for the criminal police in Berlin which is called Kripo. He is summoned by his sinister boss Reinhard Heydrich to his country house in Prague. Heydrich is the new governor of Czechoslovakia. And basically asks Bernie if he will act as his bodyguard.  Heydrich tells him he is there to protect him but he also says I want someone around me who understands murder and murderers. And that becomes like a theme in the book.  Well yes. When Heydrich became the governor or protector of Bohemia as they persisted in calling Czechoslovakia he had a little weekend party to celebrate at his country house. When I went to Prague I visited this country house which is rather difficult to see. It was a secret weapons facility under the communists. And it is now more or less semi-derelict. When I saw it I suppose it was then that I got the idea for turning this particular novel into a kind of traditional country house mystery in the true Agatha Christie style. So it becomes a kind of Downton Abbey with SS if you like. So when Bernie is summoned to the country house almost immediately a murder occurs which he is then tasked with investigating. The irony being of course that most of the suspects are indeed the most appalling criminals already having some of them murdered thousands of people in Eastern Europe.  Now Heydrich he becomes a major character in the book. He was absolutely one of the worst of the worst of the high-ranking Nazis.  Well he was given the task of the so-called final solution by Goering no less. Goering had previously been chief of the Gestapo. I am not entirely sure why it was Goering who gave him this job however Heydrich went at it with his usual customary efficiency. And to read about it is still one of the most horrific reads you can have.  Do you feel that you are taking any kind of a chance here with these hideous historical characters in a book like this? I mean you lend them a kind of humanity that we see that they did have leadership qualities and charming qualities. Do you hear from your readers about that - how can you?  Well yes. And I think to be honest it has to be this that there were 70-odd million people in Germany who were convinced this was the right thing to do. Hitler was by all accounts a man of enormous charm. We sort of forget all these things at our peril. It is easy to make them just sort of comic book villains and make them just out-and-out horrible people. I think if we are going to understand them we have to recognize quite often who and what they were. I remember when I was an undergraduate lawyer I discovered to my shock and horror how many of the people who were in the SS for instance had been lawyers - not just lawyers at the sort of bureaucratic end but lawyers who were actually in charge of murder squads. The reality is if we are honest it is true that almost every country has committed terrible crimes on enormous industrial level. Russia massacred millions of people so did China during the cultural revolution so did several European countries including Great Britain. And dare I say the Americans with the massacre of the American Indians? That was a population decimated beyond recovery it seems to me.  Do you think in these books that you set up Bernie Gunther to be the kind of everyman the real German?  Yes. That was always my intention. Quite often I would paint him into a corner whereby we realize the sort of moral quandaries that would have faced most people. It is easy to imagine that we all behave in a heroic fashion. But I like to sort of - I mean it certainly makes it more interesting from a writer's point of view when you are writing a novel to have a character who is not entirely good who is ashamed of some of the things he is done. And he is always kind of haunted by memories of what he is seen and to some extent the memories of what he is done. He is aware of his own shortcomings.  This is a kind of a dark sense of humor that you - where Bernie jokes about some of the things that he is done. This sort of darkness is this a German thing do you think?  In England we often sort of imagine that the Germans do not really have a sense of humor at all which is not true. Berliners have a fantastically sharp brittle sense of humor. It is very jagged. Sometimes it is a bit cruel. The English actually have quite a deep understanding of cruel humor. So I sort of feel - I have always felt as Berlin was a kind of sort of state of mind that it was a state of mind that I could get in touch with myself fairly easily. I guess people would imagine that if you were an ordinary German it would be terribly difficult to make jokes and get away with it. But the humor's really the only way he has of resisting the Nazis.  Philip Kerr's newest Bernie Gunther novel - the one we have been talking about - is called Prague Fatale. Mr. Kerr thank you very much.  Thank you very much. 