 Google Australia plus spider and you might see references to regular spider rains. That is when millions of spiders literally fall from the sky. Yeah there are a lot of spiders in Australia and that makes it fertile ground for arachnologists. A team of spiders scientists have just discovered over 50 new species of spider in Cape York Australia this season. And joining us now from Brisbane Australia is Dr. Robert Raven an arachnologist with the Queensland Museum who was part of the team. Welcome to the program.  Thank you Lulu.  So I would like to hear about some of these spiders. I hear that you discovered a spider that can dive into water.  That is a big tarantula about the size of your face. And I was actually standing about chest deep in a creek that did not have any crocs - crocodiles in it. And I was trying to get the spider out thinking that they would normally do what they do - run up the bank. But instead this one jumped straight out at me between my chest and the water and dived into the water. And it was a bit murky but I - it went under - obviously went under the bank. And I took sticks and brushes and tried to get - froth it up and try to get the spider back out again. But it would not come out. So eventually I went back and got another spider and this time had an insect net underneath it. So when it jumped it jumped into the net. And then we took her back to the lab and thought wonder what is it is going to do in the lab. And we put a big log in the - in a tank and the log was partly out of the water partly in. And the spider ran straight into the water totally immersed and remained there for at least four hours until we were too bored waiting for it to come up.  Four hours?  At least four hours yes.  Oh my goodness. And so there is also a spider - which is actually incredibly beautiful if you could describe it - called the peacock spider that does a dance.  Yes we got this amazing peacock spider. The males have this thing where they can - they have got a fold around their body which extends out and forms like a peacock - beautiful little thing. They are about the size of two sugar grains stuck together. But you can actually see them flashing away in the sun with these beautiful colors as they go into the courtship behavior with the female. And of course if they get the wrong female then they are dinner.   So their dance better be pretty good or if not they are not going to survive.  Exactly.  So 50 new species of spider. It seems incredible to think - you can literally I think just you know poke a stick and find a new species of spider.  Well the thing about this area is that in the most active period it is inaccessible. So you just cannot get in there. So - and the place where we were Laura it is like a weigh station. And people do not stop there very much. So one of the things that we find with these things - it is a big piece of territory and each area has its own unique fauna. And you know we did a survey a couple of years ago just 60 kilometers north of this point. And there is a whole different set of species but many many more in this one.  How many times have you been bitten by a spider?  Oh I do not know - lost count now. I usually get bitten about twice a year - so probably in the order of about a 100 so far.  Well I have to ask you how you came to devote your life to studying spiders.  Yes it was exactly because of the bite aspect. I had - and still have - a fear.  Wait wait wait you are afraid of spiders?  Yes. Well I have a fear that my father gave me because he was a mining engineer. And he would go into disused mine shafts lighting flaming newspapers to bring down the webs. And the spiders would fall down the back of his neck and so on. And I was told this at too young an age and I developed a fear. And I...  I am scared now hearing that story.  Yeah well it is - remembering it brings it back too.  Dr. Robert Raven an arachnologist from Queensland Museum in Australia thank you so much.  You are welcome.    Redback funnel web blue-ringed octopus Taipan Tiger snake Adder Box Jellyfish big shark just waiting for you to go swimming at Bondi Beach. Come on. Come to Australia. You might accidently get killed. Your blood is bound to be spilled. With fear your pants will be filled. 