 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. I look forward all week to saying it is time for sports. The tigers without master - the Masters without Tiger? You know it is so hard to imagine I can barely say it. And the Indiana Pacers are swooning like Justin Bieber fans this week. We are joined now by NPR's Tom Goldman. Good morning Tom.  Hi Scott.  So there was a slight glimmer of hope that the Pacers could be coming out of a tailspin but alas...  Alas. Alas poor Indie we knew you.  Oh oh...  A team...  ...Oh.  A team of infinite confidence of most excellent half-court offense where be your execution now?  Your picks and rolls your rebounds your flashes of dominance that were wont to set the fans at Bankers Life Fieldhouse on a roar. End scene.  Ray Fiennes can hang up his cleats my friend.  OK. OK OK.  You are my go-to man for Shakespeare. But yes...  Shakespeare and basketball.  Yeah.  All right Scott the Pacers are not dead.  Yeah.  But they have been in a real funk in the second half of the season. After tearing up the NBA in the first half they have now lost 13 of their last 21 games. The rap on the Pacers is that they are fragile psychologically. There have been players-only meetings to try to right the ship this week. Head coach Frank Vogel sat his entire starting lineup in a game. And it seemed to energize them going into last night's big showdown against Miami. But alas again the Heat were heat-like. They broke open a close game in the third quarter won 98-86 and took control of the race for the best record in the conference which really is important because if you think down the line if these two teams meet in the conference finals a deciding game seven would then be played on Miami's home court which is what happened last season when Miami beat Indie on the way to the title.  To twist a few more metaphors the Pacers just cannot keep pace with those rampaging Chicago Bulls.  Oh yeah how about Chicago? I mean...  I noticed.  Yeah exactly. Mr. Everything point guard Derrick Rose goes down with a second knee injury.  The season is lost we all think. Then they trade Luol Deng in January. And the word is the Bulls are saying goodbye to the season maybe even tanking to get a higher draft pick. Well look out now. But after last night's win over Detroit Chicago has the third-best record in the Eastern Conference.  It has won seven straight - which as opposed to Indiana is what you want to be doing heading into the playoffs.  So no Derrick Rose no Luol Deng but plenty of Joakim Noah Taj Gibson Mike Dunleavy D. J. Augustin and one of the most respected coaches in the league Tom Thibodeau. Scott watch out for doubles.  Oh I always do. Listen a sign of spring 'ecause the Masters have begun. Bubba Watson's ahead. But for the first time in two decades - you know no matter how well Bubba Watson or anybody else plays early in the tournament when something like this happens you have to note for the first time in two decades no Tiger.  Yeah recovering from back surgery microdiscectomy for a pinched nerve. No Tiger and no Phil at least on the weekend. Mickelson you know was one of a ton of big-name players to miss the cut yesterday. But without Tiger you definitely in the words of Nick Faldo who is doing TV commentary you lose some buzz. That said the Masters is the one major that can minimize the hit of no Tiger because it is got such a great history and tradition unlike any other. And you know whatever happens in tomorrow's final round on the back nine will be remembered forever even if it is a journeyman coming from nowhere to win his first. Every Masters win resonates.  You are a golfer and I wonder if you noted Bob Greene's good column in the Wall Street Journal this week on Jack Nicklaus who at one point we thought Tiger would overwhelm all of his records. And Bob Greene said he learned by looking at Jack Nicklaus that calm and concentration and character count over the long haul.  Very true and a good back. So I think once Tiger comes back from this injury and he says he will I think all that that you talk about he will get that and he will resume his hunt for the big records that he is shooting for. I think he is going to be OK. He is still only 38.  OK NPR's Tom Goldman. Thanks so much for being with us.  Scott it is always a pleasure. And Scott who wrote the theme song?  Oh let me - oh B. J. Leiderman wrote our theme music.  