 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Rachel Martin. Superstorm Sandy pummeled the East Coast six months ago Monday. And as with other natural disasters the Federal Emergency Management Agency or FEMA was there from day one finding people temporary shelter and later supporting rebuilding efforts. But FEMA has a lesser-known role. It oversees the creation of maps which model the risk of flooding in different areas during storms. These maps are also used to set building codes and flood insurance rates and they are contentious. Our coverage starts in New Jersey with reporter Tracey Samuelson from member station WHYY.  George Kasimos is sitting in a make-shift office in his garage FEMA-ing. Not fuming though maybe he is doing some of that too. FEMA-ing is what he calls the research and organizing he is does with a group he started called Stop FEMA Now.  FEMA is flying by the seat of their pants. And we have to rebuild our homes with their seat of their pants rules and regulations.  The first floor of his house in Toms River flooded during the storm and he had to gut it. He is doing some painting.  Everything probably wet so just - yeah.  He says the construction could have been done in January but he stopped work for a few months when FEMA released a new version of its flood maps which are used to set insurance rates.  I thought I was on that show Punk'd to be honest. I just did not believe it.  Kasimos figured if he does not raise his home four feet his flood insurance would go from a thousand dollars per year to 15000 per year because on these new maps Kasimos is now in what is called a Velocity Zone a V-zone meaning in a 100-year storm FEMA modeling shows waves three feet or higher would hit his home. He is supposed to elevate and put his house on pilings which means lifting it off its foundation moving it out of the way and plunging big telephone poles into the ground that his house would then sit on top of. But Kasimos lives on a lagoon not the open ocean. So he thinks he should be an A-zone at risk for flooding but not wave damage. In an A-zone he would still elevate but he could skip the costly pilings.  In an A-zone it cost about 50000 for an average home. And for a V-zone it is about 150000. That is a 100000 price difference in raising our home.  Kasimos took his plight to Facebook and now has over 3500 Likes for his group. They have started meeting near weekly usually opening with something like this.  The decision to adopt these maps was premature and requires additional consideration. We want to simply stop FEMA now.  We do anticipate the V-zone in certain areas becoming smaller. It is an advisory product. It is just out there for informational purposes. And then the state of New Jersey adopted it as a land use policy so that if people were going to rebuild they did have to rebuild to that standard.  So the advisory maps basically became building code for repairing properties that have substantial storm damage. The state did not want people to rebuild based on old data and have lift their houses higher later. FEMA says the maps will change but the number of people affected and the requirements for rebuilding will only decrease when the maps are finalized. That leaves Jersey Shore homeowners like Kasimos to decide whether to do work on their homes now that they may find out later was not actually needed. Kasimos has decided rebuild without elevating for now. He is trying to fix up only what he has to get back to normal. But even then he is still doing work he will have to tear up when he eventually elevates.  It is going to have to take apart the deck my stairs and siding and things like that - absolutely.  FEMA says it understands the urgency and is moving as fast as it can. It expects to start releasing a new version of the maps county by county perhaps as early as June. For NPR News I am Tracey Samuelson. 