 It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. Good morning I am Steve Inskeep.  Speaking to us from his ship in the Indian Ocean and operating on very little sleep Commander Castellano recounted his dealings with the pirates which at one point were calm enough that they accepted a change of clothes for their American hostage.  We actually had sent over batteries for their radios so that we were able to communicate with them. And then the package of food water and change of clothes for Captain Phillips actually occurred on Easter Sunday morning. In the evening he was rescued but that morning was when we were able to get the material over to him and that was a big a big step.  And was that the moment in which there was a fourth pirate who left the hostage situation who left the life boat and came back to your ship? Did he give himself up?  We sent the boat over there to bring the food and water and clothes for Captain Phillips and he wanted to come back to the ship and talk about how we could get Captain Phillips back. So you know it was all part of the hostage negotiations that occurred over the course of the event.  When you were actually negotiating with the pirates what were they like to deal with?  It depended on the situation. Sometimes they were calm and there was progress being made and other times they were angry and seemed to be vengeful. They had their ups and downs. But when all is said and done they are criminals.  In those last moments what was the vision that you all had of this boat with Captain Phillips on it and these pirates?  You know the vision in those last moments was that the weather had been getting - worsening conditions and tensions were rising and there was a tracer round that was fired from the life boat. You know that caused a lot of concern you know it is basically - ultimately believed that the pirates were about to kill the captain and that is what was the decision point.  It is been reported that what was happening on the boat then was that the captain was there standing next to a pirate who was pointing an AK-47 at him.  Yes I would say that was an accurate statement.  So pretty serious situation. But it must have also - how can I say this? Giving the order to shoot when Captain Phillips was standing right there - these people were very close together - did you hold your breath?  I would really not like to go into that. But I can just tell you that our special operations forces are very highly trained and that training certainly proved to be invaluable that night.  When you literally rescued him he was bound right?  His hands had been bound and it was just you know it was joyous. I can tell you there was almost a shout that went throughout the ship when we found out that you know we had success and that we had rescued Captain Richard Phillips. And we brought him on board the ship and he got to step onto sovereign U.S. soil. And it was a joyous moment for everyone who was involved.  During all those days did you ever consider who the Bainbridge was named after?  Yes I did. And actually that been a discussion point throughout the event that you know my ship's namesake Commodore William Bainbridge who had fought against the Barbary pirates over 200 years ago his ship was fighting pirates over in the Indian Ocean. And I could not imagine a U.S. naval vessel more fitting than Bainbridge to have participated in this mission.  Commander Castellano thank you for talking with us.  It is been my pleasure to talk with you and cannot say enough about my crew and those of all the ships involved in the mission. It was great. They stood their watches around the clock with a new sense of purpose ensuring Captain Phillips's safety.  Frank Castellano is commanding officer of the USS Bainbridge and spoke to us from the ship. 