 NPR's Tom Gjelten has more.  Pascal Lamy the director of the World Trade Organization told reporters in Geneva last week that the current trade picture reminds him of a stubborn mule.  The difficulty with a mule is that they sometimes get stuck. They do not go backwards but they refuse to move forward either.  Governments agree that more global trade would be good for the world economy and that barriers to trade therefore need to come down. But they do not agree on whose barriers come down first and these talks have gone on now for nearly 10 years.  As the developing countries become more powerful they are more determined to assert their own trade interests - vis-a-vis the U.S. the European Union and other advanced countries.  Twenty years ago a deal was about the EU U.S. Japan Canada agreeing on something and you know most of the rest of the membership would go along with that. We are now in a world where China India Brazil South Africa Indonesia are playing their own game. And you know this complexity is not just simply add and multiply.  But Jagdish Bhagwati a Columbia University professor who has advised the World Trade Organization argues that at a certain point trade negotiators should give up trying to see who has made the most concessions and just make a deal.  There are so many issues at stake intellectual property protection anti-dumping rules concessions on tariffs concessions on non-tariff barriers. To say that we are doing a certain number of things and they do not balance what you are doing I mean that is becoming rather stupid in my opinion.  In a speech here last week World Bank President Robert Zoellick argued that whether countries grow depends not just on what economic policies they adopt but on how they treat their populations.  Our message to our clients whatever their political system is that you cannot have successful development without good governance and without the participation of your citizens.  In Tunisia and Egypt in Morocco and in other Arab countries people have shown how angry they are about government corruption and blocked opportunity. Zoellick said governments everywhere need to heed developments in the Arab world. Countries stagnate when their populations are alienated. They prosper when their societies are energized.  I am trying to say that what happens with Middle East and North Africa this needs to be factored into where we go from here.  That lesson is underscored in a World Bank development report released today. This main conclusion political conflict in a country is a huge barrier to economic development. To attack poverty governments need to reform politically.  Tom Gjelten NPR News Washington. 