 And we are also reporting on the aftermath of another tragedy. Four months after the shootings at Sandy Hook Elementary School residents in Newtown Connecticut are still trying to move forward. And the same goes for business owners especially in Sandy Hook Village just a mile from the school. Neena Satija of member station WNPR has more.  Sandy Hook Village is a quintessential New England downtown. Businesses are clustered in picturesque century-old buildings. A brook runs through the center of the district. Before December 14th customers would have packed PJ's Laundromat during this Monday lunch hour. Now it is nearly empty like the rest of the businesses in Sandy Hook Village. Owner Sharon Doherty knows why.  All the teachers the delivery people the staff at the school you know used to come through here every single day the parents bringing their kids to and from.  But now Sandy Hook elementary is closed. Students are attending a different school in a different city. Doherty says it is not just the lost traffic from the school that is affected this area. People living nearby do not visit anymore.  I have had several people say that they just did not feel comfortable coming down here.  Even a half-million dollar grant from the State of Connecticut has not helped. The Demitasse Caf with its free Wi-Fi and cozy atmosphere was full of reporters in December. Now it is boarded up. So is the Stone River Grille next door. Elizabeth Stocker is director of Newtown's Economic Development Commission. Like everyone here she says businesses are trying to adjust.  How do they move forward? How do they continue to work and enjoy their livelihood? I think that there is just - it is something that you really cannot prepare for.  Stocker says it is as though a big economic generator like a hospital or a factory suddenly left town. It might be coming back but no one knows for sure. The town is still debating the school's future. If it leaves Stocker says these businesses will be in a difficult position.  They might need to do some new promotions. They might need to do some other events that will help their business grow as they move forward and deal with the new normal.  Whatever happens Stocker believes things will turn around. Spring should breathe some life into Sandy Hook Village. And even now there is hope...   ...construction.  Up here we are going to do what is called charcuterie and cheeses and chocolates. It is going to look similar to a sushi bar but it is something that is doing quite well in the city.  That is Chris Bruno. In a few weeks he will open the Foundry Kitchen and Tavern in place of the Stone River Grille. A hundred and fifty years ago this building started off as a general store.  It has its original luster that old-world feel. It just emanates coziness and comfort and approachability.  Bruno snapped up the property in January. What has had happened just weeks before did not faze him it inspired him.  People did try to discourage me from taking this space and I just really felt like this is where I wanted to be. I see life here. I see life is going on  And for many people in Newtown like Bruno what they want is to turn this neighborhood from a scene of tragedy to one of renewal. For NPR News I am Neena Satija. 