 President Obama heads to Colombia today for the Summit of the Americas. He will be joined by more than 30 leaders from North South and Central America to discuss the economic issues as well as regional security. There will also be a push to address the problem of narcotics and what some heads of state are now calling the failed war on drugs. To find out more about that argument we spoke with Ethan Nadelmann the executive director of the Drug Policy Alliance. He is one of the leading critics of the current U.S. drug policies and he has some hopes for this summit. DR.  This is truly an historic moment. I mean for decades and in some respects a century there has been no discussion of finding ways to deal with drugs that do not rely so heavily on prohibitionist policies on military and security forces. So you now have very respected leaders and allies of the United States and Latin America who are saying we need to devote the same level of focus and resources and attention to examining alternatives to prohibitionist policies as we have devoted over the last 40 years to the failed drug war policies.  Right these are countries that are pretty friendly to the United States - Guatemala Colombia Mexico - that have been the most vocal.  Well it is quite remarkable actually because the president of Colombia was the former defense minister. And he is saying from somebody who has waged a sort of internal war against crime and insurgency that we can no longer sustain this war on drugs. In Guatemala you have a former general - somebody who was the former head of intelligence - and he is saying enough. In Mexico President Calderon who - I mean if anybody has the moral authority to call for alternatives it is him. He is waged a war against criminal organizations for virtually all of his six-year term. It has not worked out so well. And he is now coming to the United States and saying if you cannot reduce your demand guys you better start looking at market alternatives.  The flip side of that is what happens if they stop? Is not it more damaging for some of these countries to not fight back?  Well you know it is not a matter of no longer going after the gangsters. One cannot defeat what is essentially a global commodities market through law enforcement measures. Every law enforcement success in the region for the last 40 or 50 years has resulted simply in displacing drug production in the drug trade to another area. We need to find a different way so that this is no longer a business where the gangsters run the entire thing.  Give us a couple of examples of the alternatives that are being talked about. It is not necessarily full legalization non-regulated-let-the-drug-trade-go-free is it?  Well it is really a spectrum of options. We need to look for example at the decriminalization of possession for small amounts of drugs by users. It is a policy that both the Colombian and Guatemalan presidents have spoken well off as well as in Argentina a proposal was just introduced to do that. Costa Rica is sympathetic. So that is one of the options. The second option that will be on the table I believe is the legalization the legal regulation and taxation of marijuana. And this paradoxically is an issue where the United States not at the level of the federal government but certainly at the level of civil society public opinion state government is emerging remarkably as a global leader. You have you know 16 states that have legalized medical marijuana. You have a million Americans who are now legal medical marijuana patients. So that option is bubbling up in a way globally that we have never seen before.  How likely are these proposals by Latin America leaders  how likely are they to persuade President Obama? What is he walking into there?  Well you know it really is a new moment right now. Vice-President Biden went down to the region to Mexico and Honduras last month. And when he was asked about this he said Look the United States is firmly opposed to legalizing anything but we now acknowledge that this is a legitimate subject for discussion. That mere acknowledgement played throughout the Latin American media. And Latin American governments who wanted to open up this dialogue basically pointed to Biden's statement as evidence that the U.S. is now open to a discussion. For Obama the challenge will be - he does not want a headline coming out of here saying that you know President Obama Endorses Call to Study Legalization. That is his fear especially in an election year season. But he is going to need to acknowledge that this is a legitimate subject for debate and that the United States needs to play a role.  Thank you very much for joining us.  Thank you very much Renee.  Ethan Nadelmann is head of Drug Policy Alliance which advocates alternatives to the war on drugs. 