 The president wanted packed pews Easter Sunday but...   We have not reached the peak. And so every day we need to continue to do what we did yesterday and the week before and the week before that.  I am Scott Simon.  And I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   The White House is still eager to lighten up on social distancing so the economy can get going again. Public health experts advise caution but are also making plans for how that can happen without reenergizing the coronavirus.  Concerns about the virus have stopped clinical trials for experimental therapies for other diseases like cancer. And in Africa infections accelerate.   We are now seeing clusters of cases and communities spread in more than 16 countries.  Stay with us. We will get you the news you need to start your weekend.   More than 100000 people have died because of the coronavirus. That number in the U.S. is approaching 19000.  This week has been especially brutal. And yesterday brought a terrible new total - more than 2000 people dead from the disease in just one day. President Trump had some encouragement as social distancing shows some signs of success.   As American families look forward to Easter we are reminded that our story ends not in despair but in triumph and renewal.  And now the administration is considering how and when parts of the country will be able to open back up. NPR White House reporter Ayesha Rascoe is with us now for more. Good morning Ayesha.  Good morning.  So let us talk first about the current response. There was a striking moment at the White House briefing yesterday. Surgeon General Jerome Adams held up his inhaler to make the point that nobody is safe from the coronavirus. And he was particularly speaking to African Americans and Latinos who so far are disproportionately affected by COVID-19. What was the message?  He said that African Americans and Latinos are more likely to have certain conditions like diabetes asthma. And he tried to deliver a message directly to these communities. Here's more of what he had to say.   We do not think people of color are biologically or genetically predisposed to get COVID-19. There is nothing inherently wrong with you but they are socially predisposed to coronavirus exposure and to have a higher incidence of the very diseases that put you at risk for severe complications of coronavirus. This history - and I want you to hear me say this - it does not have to be our nation's future.  But he did not stop there. He said that these groups should avoid alcohol and drugs. And that drew criticism from the NAACP and others. They are concerned about this warning about alcohol use and things like that could be viewed as blaming black and brown Americans instead of the historic discrimination against these groups that we know has an impact.  Let us talk about President Trump and what he is focused on because he said the decision to reopen the country is going to be the hardest one he has to make. What do we know about what will go into that decision?  He says he is going to listen to his health experts and he was really adamant about that. Here's more from the briefing...   I would love to open it. I am not determined to anything. The facts are going to determine what I do. But we do want to get the country open. So important.  The White House is also launching this new economic task force focused on this issue. The group is supposed to be made up of business leaders and government officials but ultimately it was not the federal government that issued stay-at-home to shut down schools. That was done at the local level. So it is not clear how much Trump will actually drive the decision about opening businesses back up.  I mean the numbers of unemployed are just staggering. And stimulus payments from the latest relief bill are on their way to Americans right now. And this week there were some attempts - right? - to add money for small businesses but that faltered. Where does that stand? And can Americans expect any further relief anytime soon?  Well right now the Senate is at an impasse on adding more money to this program for small business loans. Republicans and Democrats - they agree on adding 250 billion more in funding. But Democrats want about half of that to be directed to community-based financial institutions to help those businesses that do not have banking relationships or are underbanked. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said the White House did not support that. So lawmakers are going to have to reach some kind of agreement on what to do next. The first round of cash payments that are being sent to individuals should be made next week according to Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin. But millions of people who do not already have information on file with the IRS will have to wait much longer for paper checks in the mail.  White House reporter Ayesha Rascoe thank you very much.  Thank you.  Be sure to check out the NPR Politics Podcast for more from the Capitol and campaign trail.   As has been the case for weeks hospitals across the country are scrambling to respond to COVID-19. They are postponing routine care and many elective procedures.  And putting on hold hundreds of clinical trials of experimental treatments for a range of diseases. NPR pharmaceuticals correspondent Sydney Lupkin is here to talk about that. Sydney thanks for being with us.  Good morning.  What is going on with clinical trials for conditions that are not COVID-19 or related to the coronavirus?  Well we have identified more than 400 clinical trials that have been stopped since the beginning of March because of the outbreak. About a quarter of these studies were for cancer treatments. Others are for diabetes heart disease and dementia - all kinds of conditions. All told these studies involved as many as 200000 patients though it is hard to know precisely how many were active in the studies at the time they were halted. Also there are even more trials that are still going but are not taking new patients. And it is likely that there are many other studies whose status has changed but that have not been updated in the federal database that we analyzed.  Why stop studies?  There are two big reasons clinical trials are being suspended right now. One is that the extra visits to health care facilities for study participants are not considered worth the risk of catching coronavirus. Another is that the hospitals and clinics do not have staff available to continue running the trials because of the added burden of COVID-19.  Now Sydney this has got to be heartbreaking news for people who are ill and and pin hopes on a clinical trial.  These stoppages they are devastating for them. For people with cancer and other serious conditions a clinical trial may be their only access to treatment. Or an experimental drug could be their best shot at knocking cancer out after other available therapies have failed. I talked with Rene Roach who was hoping to get started in a clinical trial for her Stage 4 colorectal cancer this spring. Her doctors thought it looked really promising but a few weeks ago she learned it was put on hold because of COVID-19.  We are out here dying you know from cancer. And just to have things stop is not really fair.  Rene knows everyone is doing the best they can but this is a particularly tough time to be a cancer patient. By the time trials start back up Rene and others may no longer be eligible to participate. Their illnesses may have progressed too far.  Sydney is there a way to keep these studies going?  So people who run clinical trials are doing what they can. The Food and Drug Administration has published guidance on how to make these studies more flexible. Some researchers are able to send pharmaceuticals in the mail or rely on telemedicine for instance. But that is not always an option. Some studies require infusions blood draws and biopsies.  What can these patients do? What is ahead for them?  Even for those who can continue their studies it might mean going for treatment or follow-up by themselves to minimize coronavirus risk. I talked with a lung cancer patient who for the first time went for a drug infusion session by herself. Her husband was not allowed to come with her and comfort her she said. For others it might mean going back to a treatment that did not work that well and just waiting. Unfortunately we do not know when suspended trials will start back up again. The best thing these patients in this situation can do is just stay in touch with the trial organizers.  NPR's pharmaceuticals correspondent Sydney Lupkin thanks so much.  You bet.   I want to take a moment to highlight Africa where we are seeing the spread of the virus to rural areas.  That is the head of the World Health Organization Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus who says there is been an alarming acceleration of COVID-19 in Africa.  NPR's East Africa correspondent Eyder Peralta has been reporting on the situation across the continent. And he joins us now. Hey Eyder.  Hey Lulu.  So tell us more about the WHO assessment. The organization says the number of cases is still small.  It is. There are almost 13000 cases and almost 700 deaths but both of those numbers are rising faster and faster. And a lot of the challenges here are familiar to Americans. We are talking about a lack of testing and PPE but here on the continent they are just magnified. The WHO for example says that it simply cannot buy personal protective equipment on the open market because rich countries are snapping it up. And that means that health workers here are doing their jobs without proper protections. And they are getting sick. Big hospital in South Africa had to stop taking patients because dozens of their health workers tested positive for the coronavirus. And just a few weeks ago we were talking about hope that this virus could be contained on the continent. But that hope is fading very quickly. And now there are cases popping up in Somalia and South Sudan - two countries that are the least equipped to handle this. South Sudan is just emerging from a civil war that killed 400000 people. And to give you a bit of insight into the dysfunction of South Sudan it just formed a unity government with five vice presidents but the whole country has four ventilators.  And was not Africa just coming out of another outbreak Ebola?  Yeah that is a heartbreaking story. I was in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo at the height of the epidemic and it just really ravaged the area. It killed more than 2000 people. And this is a part of the world that just does not need any more problems. There are hundreds of thousands of people displaced because of violence by rebel groups. But a few weeks ago the last Ebola patient left the clinic dancing. It was beautiful and joyous and we were all looking forward to tomorrow because the country was supposed to announce an end to what was the second-worst Ebola outbreak in history. Instead a new case was identified yesterday. And it means that DRC Democratic Republic of Congo is now combating three epidemics - coronavirus Ebola and the measles outbreak that has killed more than 6000 people.  Looking at coronavirus to what degree are African countries locked down to stop the spread of the virus and keep people from coming down with COVID-19?  Many of them are doing a really good job. Many of them have locked down entirely. Lagos the largest city on the continent which is Nigeria shut down. South Africa just extended its lockdown. But some analysts including from the International Monetary Fund say that lockdowns are just not sustainable here in African countries because people will starve if they are forced to stay home. Here in Kenya we are under a dusk-to-dawn curfew but people are hurting. Yesterday there was a food distribution that one of the big slums and let me let you listen to what happened.   So police fired tear gas. They beat people. Two women were killed in the stampede. And that man we hear there is begging to be allowed to work. He says he does not want to stand in front of a chief's office to get free food. He just wants to work.  That is NPR's Eyder Peralta in Nairobi. Eyder thank you very much.  Thank you Lulu.  And that is UP FIRST for Saturday April 11 2020. I am Scott Simon.  And I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your day. In the meantime follow us at UpFirst on Twitter.  Keep checking this podcast feed for special episodes. And tune into Weekend Edition on your radio.  That is on Saturday and Sunday.  That is us. Find your NPR station at stations.npr.org.  