 One of the most harrowing aspects of the coronavirus are people who are gravely ill in hospitals and alone - save for medical staff - and who are isolated from their loved ones at their loneliest moments. Louis Reese a police officer in New Orleans tested positive for COVID-19 after a week of fever. He and his wife Tara who is a schoolteacher were forced to say goodbye in the emergency room as her husband was already undergoing chemotherapy for colon cancer. Tara Reese thought that she and their children might never see her husband again. Well we are happy that Tara and Louis Reese can join us now speaking from their home in Metairie La. Louis Reese how are you?  I am fine sir - doing good.  What was your time in the hospital like?  Well at the very beginning I could not breathe at all. I was in a lot of distress - had a real high fever - all the symptoms of a flu times 10. It was real bad.  You knew of course that your family loved you and cared about you. But could you have any contact with them?  At the very beginning I did not - no sir. But then later on - once I got off the ventilator and again to a regular room I was able to FaceTime and call them.  What do you remember of those 17 18 days in the hospital sir?  It was kind of surreal because there was nobody around. That first weekend - that Sunday - was the worst day. I think I had a real high fever. So I could hear and see but I could not speak to anybody and I could not move my body.  That must have been frightening.  Yes sir it was. It is the first time I would had that sensation.  How are you breathing now?  Better. Now I am not 100 capacity - now every day is a little bit better.  Tara Reese thank you for joining us.  No problem.  What was that goodbye like there in the hospital?  You know they told me to bring him to the ER so I did. And you know the lady started in processing him and then another lady was about to start his temperature. And she is like there are no visitors allowed. So you will have to tell him goodbye. And so I just broke down and I was crying. It was like oh my God I do not know if I am ever going to see him again. And that was my last encounter with him. That is all I kept thinking of. And then when I got into the car I just broke down crying. And I was just hysterical.  And how often could you have any contact? I mean a phone call FaceTime - whatever.  Well he would text me but it was real sporadic because he would sleep a lot.  You have two children who are 12 and 17.  Yes.  What was it like for them and your family those 18 days?  It is been hard on them. My 17-year-old - he had already researched you know about the longer someone stays on a ventilator the worse it can be for their lungs. My 12-year-old was supposed to be doing online school. And she was having a really hard time focusing because you know for the most part she was with me. And a lot of times I would just break down crying. And she would come sit by me and just let me cry. And you know she would pat me. So she was almost taking on an adult role.  Yeah.  But she was comforting me.  I do not know if there is anyone better at the moment of whom I would rather ask this question. What have you learned about what is really important in life?  My life was very very very hectic. I did not spend a lot of time at home like cooking meals and - it was always go go go go go. If things do get back to normal I am definitely going to scale back a lot of my extracurricular activities and you know spend more time with my husband and my family because that is what is important.  Louis and Tara Reese thank you so much for speaking with us.  Thank you sir.  Thank you. 