 Let us go now to another form of transportation the airlines which we are examining this week. Today we will hear about the agency that is responsible for every take-off and landing in the United States. The Federal Aviation Administration has some 49000 employees and more than a few are disgruntled air traffic controllers who work on outmoded equipment. President Obama has nominated a new person to run the FAA. He is Randy Babbitt a former pilot for now-defunct Eastern Airlines a former head of the pilot's union and more recently an aviation consultant. For our series Troubled Skies NPR's Brian Naylor looks at the most pressing issues he faces.  For five years Marion Blakey led the FAA. A veteran of several high profile jobs in Republican administrations dating back to Reagan Blakey says the FAA was different. Ms.  It is an operational agency unlike a lot of the federal government which may be regulatory or policy but you are running something.  At the FAA what you are running is the nation's airspace. Fifty thousand or so flights a day go through the airspace controlled by the FAA. Unidentified Man 1   2100 Washington Tower on my 1-5 position and hold traffic departing Runway 1-9  This is the control tower at Washington's Reagan National Airport. At any given time about half a dozen air traffic controllers work in the tower guiding planes down the tricky approach to National's relatively short runways and dealing with dozens of helicopters flying dignitaries around the capital. Unidentified Man 2  Cactus 1259 Washington ground Spot 5 everybody a go  Here in this tower as in dozens of similar facilities around the country are the two biggest challenges the new FAA administrator faces - the controllers themselves and the technology they use. Representative  Morale is probably at its lowest point since the PATCO strike when Ronald Reagan fired all of the controllers.  That is Democratic Congressman Jerry Costello of Illinois. Costello chairs the House Subcommittee on Aviation. After President Reagan fired striking air traffic controllers in 1981 the newly hired replacements formed their own union tional Air Traffic Controllers Association. Since 2006 they have been working under rules imposed on them by the FAA and are none too happy about it. NATCA's president Patrick Forrey says the rules made it harder to schedule time off and froze controllers' pay. Forrey says this has led to an exodus of senior controllers. Mr.  All those quality-of-life issues have really added more stress to an already stressful job and it is something - one of the reasons why many of these experienced controllers are leaving. They do not want to deal with it anymore and they do not want to be responsible for killing somebody.  The most senior controllers can earn nearly 200000 according to the FAA. The union maintains the average controller salary is less around 99000. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood says getting the controllers a new contract with better work rules and a raise will be the top priority of the new FAA administrator. He points to Patrick Harten the air traffic controller who helped guide the US Airways flight that landed in New York's Hudson last January. Secretary  He carried out his responsibilities in a very professional way and did not panic did not get nervous. He did what he was trained to do. And those are the kind of people we want. These people should be well compensated.  After getting a labor agreement with the controllers LaHood says the number two priority at FAA is updating the equipment the controllers work with. Sec.  It is outdated. It is like maybe having a computer you know going back to the beginning of when Bill Gates developed software and computers.  The nation's aircraft are guided by ground-based radar. David Castelveter of the Air Transport Association the airlines lobbying group says the system dates back to the pioneer days of aviation. Castelveter says pilots would navigate with help from landmarks like rivers and at night bonfires. Mr.  They would fly at night from one bonfire to the next. Over the course of time they built radar beacon  radar towers  on the sites of those bonfires and to this very day airplanes fly from beacon to beacon.  What the airline industry Secretary LaHood and much of Congress want to see is a long-planned and long-delayed switch from ground-based radar to satellite-based GPS navigation. It is known as NextGeneration or NextGen. NextGen would enable airlines to fly more aircraft fly them closer together and  theoretically at least  reduce flight delays. Congressman Costello has been pushing the FAA to get moving on NextGen. Rep.  It is one thing to say that NextGen is a priority and we need to get it done. And it is another thing to put someone in charge that has direction from the White House and the authority from the White House to move the project forward. And it was not a priority for the past administration and I think that is very clear.  But Transportation Secretary LaHood says NextGen is a priority of this administration. The stumbling block has been coming up with a plan to phase in the complex technology and paying for it. It is expected cost the government 20 billion and 20 billion more for the industry. LaHood says if the new administrator can get NextGen up and running and reach a labor agreement with controllers he will have accomplished a great deal. That may be an understatement. Brian Naylor NPR News.  Our series on Troubled Skies continues tomorrow when we look at business aviation. 