 StoryCorps this week is marking a somber anniversary. It is been 20 years since the Oklahoma City bombing the deadliest act of domestic terrorism in U.S. history. On the morning of April 19 1995 a truck bomb exploded at the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City. The blast had the power of 4000 pounds of TNT. It killed 168 people and injured hundreds more. As many will remember the federal office building housed a day care center. The truck packed with explosives was parked directly beneath it. Of the 21 children there that morning only six survived. This morning we hear from two survivors and their families. Both survivors were children in the day care center that day.  My name is Christopher Nguyen. I am 25 years old.  My name is Phuong Nguyen. I am Christopher Nguyen mother.  Christopher was 4 at the time of the bombing. His mother worked nearby. P.  I remember that day clearly even 20 years later. I was sitting at office and there goes boom. My boss come over and say it is the Federal Building. Did you have your baby at the day care there? I say oh my god. You was the third child brought out. You have bleeding from the head down through your face. And you were screaming and crying like crazy. C.  A lot of times people ask me what do you remember? But I do not remember anything. P.  On the anniversary we used to hide the newspaper. We turned off the TV. We do not want you to see to hear. C.  And then I found out in kindergarten. Some girl brought in a clip for show-and-tell. It was the bombing and I started crying. That is the first time I heard about it but I knew it was the bombing. No one had to say it to me. I already knew. P.  That day it left a scar in our life. And you know a scar it going to stay with you. It not going to go away. C.  There are stories. There are interviews. There are news reports every year that tell me exactly what happened and apparently I am a part of it. But do you remember the Harry Potter movies? In the story his parents die. And he survives somehow. And he does not know why. And he does not remember because he was also a baby. That is what it is like for me. I guess I have never really talked to you and Dad about this. There is a lot of pressure to make both of you proud but also for all of the parents who lost their own children. They will not ever get to have that sense of pride when they see their own children succeeding. And when I am thinking about what I am doing with my life I have to think about all of the children that were in that day care that day and how I am lucky to have survived. I would not want to waste this opportunity that they do not have.  My name is PJ Allen. I am 21 years old. We are in Oklahoma City and I am speaking to my father.  PJ Allen is the other survivor we are hearing from this morning. He suffered broken bones severe burns and permanent damage to his lungs from inhaling debris. He was just a year old at the time. He spoke with his father Willie Watson.  We were in that hospital for three months. I think it was about two or three weeks before you even woke up.  I never really fully understood like what happened or you know what I was part of. As far as I knew I was a normal kid.  After all these years 20 years this is the first time we have sat down and actually talked about the bombing. I wanted to protect you. And I never wanted to relive it with you. Because I personally hold myself responsible for you getting hurt. I was supposed to take you to the day care that day. But that morning when your mom was getting ready to go to work she asked me did I want her to take you? And I told her I said well hey you know I am pretty tired. I am going to sleep another 30 minutes or so so go ahead and take him. But if I would have kept you there with me you would not have got to the Federal Building until the bombing would have been over. You would not even have been there.  I never knew that you had blamed yourself for what had happened to me that day.  Sometimes I will be sleeping I will just be in a cold sweat and I will wake up because of the nightmares I have.  I do not want you to walk around with this burden. I want you to be alive inside. I am never angry about my situation. I am all right. I am good. I like so many things about you Dad. You are always the coolest guy in the room. I am like all right when I get to that age I am going to be just like him. Walk in be the man.  .  And I do not hold you responsible for that day in any way.  I still wrestle with it. But you were the one that was in there. And to see you come back was a miracle. And I am proud of you. And I love you.  I would not trade that for anything else in the world. I love you very much and I am glad that you are my Dad.  That is PJ Allen who survived the Oklahoma City bombing. He spoke with his father Willie Watson at StoryCorps. We also heard from Christopher Nguyen with his mother Phuong. These conversations will be archived at the Library of Congress and you can hear more stories from families affected by the bombing at npr.org. 