 And now let us turn to NPR's Scott Detrow who is covering this and many other stories. Hi Scott.  Morning Steve.  So Democrats trying to put a little more pressure on the president there and questioning his staff. Have Democrats at all influenced the direction of the president's foreign policy so far?  You know it is interesting. Democrats have called for a lot of different things over the last couple months. And it is surprising how much of it they have gotten. They called for Michael Flynn to be fired. That is something that happened. They called for recusals of Jeff Sessions from the Russian investigation of the Justice Department Devin Nunes from the House investigation. Both of those happened. That is not to say that Democrats have an enormous amount of influence with the Trump administration. In fact I think every time they make demands like this they are less likely to happen. But that is the way the political waves have moved.  OK. And so now there is the pressure on Sebastian Gorka. At the beginning of a week with a lot of other news what is happening in Congress this week?  Well the biggest thing to pay attention to is the fact that the federal government runs out of money at midnight Friday. So...  Awkward.  ...That needs to be renewed. The White House is pushing to include funding for a border wall as part of that. Democrats have made it clear that is not something they would vote for at all. And House and Senate Republican leaders do not really want to have that fight right now as well.  And just so we are clear is this a measure that has to be bipartisan you have to get some extra Democratic votes in the Senate for it to pass?  That is right. At least eight Democrats will need to sign on board to whatever funding plan comes together this week.  Does that reduce the odds of picking up other big-agenda items like health care which the president would like to tackle this week?  The president is pushing for that. House Speaker Ryan has made it clear that he is only going to bring that bill back when he has the votes to pass it. Those votes are not there right now.  So maybe not now. All right NPR's Scott Detrow setting up the week for us. Scott thanks very much for coming by.  Thank you. 