 This past week marked the unofficial start of the general election for President Barack Obama and former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney. Former Republican Senator Rick Santorum's departure from the presidential race cleared the way for Romney and signaled a shift to a new phase of the campaign. For more we are joined by NPR national political correspondent Mara Liasson. Hi Mara.  Hi Rachel.  OK. So with Santorum out of the race Mitt Romney finally gets that Etch A Sketch moment that his aide indiscreetly mentioned in an interview last month.  Well yeah. That was probably a terrible way to put it and it is much harder to do this kind of pivot in the era of YouTube. But he will get a bit of a do-over and Romney now needs to find ways to repair the damage from the primary campaigns with a couple of key groups of voters - Hispanics where he is trailing the president by in some polls up to 40 points conservatives who he never could quite inspire during the primaries - you saw him giving a speech to the NRA the other day - and most importantly women.  Women - let us talk about women voters and the war of words essentially that erupted last week which started when Democratic strategist Hilary Rosen said this on CNN. Let us take a listen  What you have is is Mitt Romney running around the country saying well you know my wife tells me what women really care about are economic issues. And when I listen to my wife that is what I am hearing. Guess what? His wife has actually never worked a day in her life.  OK. And that brought this reply from Ann Romney speaking on Fox News.  My career choice was to be a mother and I think all of us need to know that we need to respect choices that women make.  OK Mara. What do you make of this exchange and really the quick reaction from both campaigns?  Well the reaction from the Obama campaign of course was to distance themselves as fast as possible from Hilary Rosen's remarks. They do not want to be seen as dissing stay-at-home mothers. And I do think that Rosen violated rule no. 1 in politics which is never ever ever criticize the candidate's spouse. But I think the larger question is whether this misstep by an Obama supporter will help Romney close the gender gap. President Obama is beating him overall with women by 20 points but with college-educated women he is ahead by almost 30 points. So I think the gender gap is going to stay Romney still has a lot of work to do on that. But this clearly was not a good exchange for the Obama campaign.  OK. So I want to get to the economy Mara which has been the focus of both campaigns. Are you hearing anything new or different from the candidates or should we expect to hear some kind of turn they make as they move towards the general election?  Well I think both of the candidates are getting their general election themes set. You are going to have a very very negative very personal very ideological campaign. This is a campaign between a vulnerable incumbent and a weak challenger. So on the president's side you hear him talking about Romney in personal terms - he is an out-of-touch plutocrat. But he also talks about it in terms of ideological terms - social Darwinism Romney supports policies that will help the wealthy over the middle class. The goal for the president is to make this as stark a choice as possible. He said the other day this is going to be the biggest choice since Goldwater-Johnson in 1964. The Obama camp knows that to win the referendum - and reelection campaign is a referendum on the incumbent - they have to make this into a choice. For Romney's part he is moved away from talking almost exclusively about his biography and his resume. He is getting more ideological too. He accused the president of supporting a government-centered society. And of course he also wants to keep the focus on the economy on unemployment and on the growing debt.  So Mara you mentioned that Mitt Romney has come out a bit damaged from the protracted primary but how damaged? I mean is this something he could overcome?  Well it is something he is working hard to overcome. As the primary went on as it more and more like a circular firing squad in the Republican Party his negatives went up especially among independents. We mentioned that he has a lot of work to do with Hispanics with women also with conservatives in his own party who he never won decisively. But the big difference for Romney and challengers in past is that he is not broke. He is battered but not broke. Along with the Republican-supporting superPACs I think he will be able to raise as much if not more money than the president and those superPACs are going to start battering President Obama very soon. So I think the playing field is very even this time.  NPR national political correspondent Mara Liasson. Thanks Mara.  Thank you. 