 We are going to follow up now on what U.S. and Iraqi officials described as a breakthrough. They killed the two top leaders of the terrorist group al-Qaida in Iraq. But that group may not be finished yet. NPR's Tom Bowman reports.  Here's Vice President Joe Biden announcing the deaths of the two men Abu Omar al-Baghdadi and Abu Ayyub al-Masri.  Their deaths are potentially devastating blows to al- Qaida Iraq.  Now here's President Bush four years ago talking about the operation that killed the previous leader of the group Abu Musab al-Zarqawi.  Zarqawi's death is a severe blow to al-Qaida. It is a victory on the global war on terror.  There tends to be often an overreaction to specific leaders being scarfed up.  That is Paul Pillar a former top official at the CIA's Counterterrorist Center.  The groups we are talking about have demonstrated a strong ability to replace their losses even at fairly certain senior ranks.  Pillar and others say al-Qaida in Iraq has continued to grow in strength. The group was blamed for a recent string of car bombs in the Iraqi capital. It is still not known whether the loss of their leaders will amount to a devastating blow. But U.S. officials are making another claim - that the Iraqi military was in the lead on this mission. Here's the top American officer in Iraq General Ray Odierno on MSNBC.  What made it more important was the cooperation between U.S. forces between the Iraqis their intelligence collection their ability to conduct this operation with our support. So this is an indicator of their increased capability.  So what specifically did the Iraqis do? While many details are unclear officials say the Iraqis provided some key intelligence. Andrew Exum a former Army Ranger now a defense analyst says that is significant.  When I was in Iraq in 2003 2004 trying to do capture-kill missions aimed at senior Baathist leadership we did not have much success in large part due to the fact that our intelligence was often so spotty.  So intelligence was one thing. There is a second key area Iraqi forces especially commando units that were part of the mission are said to be more competent. All of this is very different from just a few years ago.  So the question of who actually led the operation is open to debate. But American officials prefer to let the Iraqis take the credit. Paul Pillar the former CIA official says who took the lead is beside the point. The key issue is the future of al-Qaida in Iraq.  It does appear that the Sunni insurgent threat especially of the sort that has been identified with al-Qaida in Iraq is waxing more than waning.  Tom Bowman NPR News.   It is PR News. 