 It is going to be a huge weekend for fans of Orphan Black. This is BBC America's drama about a bunch of clones fighting the organization that created them. Well season three starts tomorrow and NPR TV critic Eric Deggans says one of the show is most distinctive elements - its twisted plot - might also be its fundamental problem.  For fans of Orphan Black it might be the toughest task they face all year - explaining to newbies with the heck is going on just before a new season starts. It all begins with Sarah Manning a con artist and one-time street urchin who stumbles on a well-dressed woman who looks exactly like her crying on a train platform just before that woman jumps in front of an oncoming train.    .  Turns out the woman was a clone of Sarah who eventually discovers she is one of at least 10 clones created covertly. Sarah and almost all her clones are played by Canadian actress Tatiana Maslany who somehow has not won an Emmy or a Golden Globe despite playing so many people so seamlessly. Maslany's skill is evident in the first scene from Saturday's episode where she plays a pregnant clone from Ukraine named Helena enjoying a baby shower and cookout organized by her clone sisters. Maslany is four of the six people in this scene including suburban soccer-mom Alison who speaks first.    This is your special day Helena - you and your precious cargo.  Dude you look awesome.  You look awesome also. You are well?  Oh yeah. I am like way better thanks to science.  Sarah and her clones discover there were also several male clones made including a crazed soldier named Rudy.    You are a legend Sarah Manning.   You have got a name or a serial number or some  I can call you?   You are made of the good stuff are not you?  Rudy and the other males want something from Sarah and her sisters. They are dangerous tattooed soldiers from a military venture known as Project Castor. Here Sarah learns more during a phone call with another clone a scientist named Cosima.    According to the myth Castor was a warrior horsemen a bit of a badass by the looks of it.  That fits with what Cal found. He says the horse tattoo is some kind of black ops insignia.  That makes sense. They are purpose-raised  untraceable the perfect ghost soldiers.  That is the kind of scene Orphan Black often uses - allowing Maslany to play two different clones talking by phone in two different places. But it can also be hard to follow. I even had trouble picking sound clips that made sense because so many scenes required so much background knowledge to understand. That is part of the fun of Orphan Black which pulls fans down a rabbit-hole of clones clone creators friends and villains. But it is also the show is biggest weakness. The parade of clones and situations makes it difficult for new or casual fans to stay connected. Today there is a marathon of old episodes on IFC and Amazon is offering access to the  first season free if you want to bone up. It takes work to get the most out of watching Orphan Black especially this season as the show is producers push the envelope of how many characters and how many storylines they can pack into a single series. I am Eric Deggans. 