 Rick Santorum's decision to bow out of the race for the Republican presidential nomination was a clear turning point yesterday for Mitt Romney. The presumptive Republican nominee can now devote all his efforts to beating President Obama. But yesterday it was the president who struck first. In Florida Mr. Obama highlighted what Democrats consider a major vulnerability for Romney the relatively low taxes he is paid on a multimillion-dollar income. As NPR's David Welna reports it is all part of a campaign season revival of the Buffett Rule.  When President Obama addressed an adoring crowd of students yesterday at Florida Atlantic University in Boca Raton he asked them to imagine that somehow they had the incomes of millionaires. They would then be subject to the so-called Buffett Rule if Congress were ever to pass it. As the president explained it would make sure that millionaires like himself and his friend Warren Buffett who suggested the rule paid at least 30 percent of their annual income in taxes.   You are bringing in a million bucks or more a year then what the rule says is you should pay the same percentage of your income in taxes as middle-class families do.    You should not get special tax breaks. You should not be able to get special loopholes.  Prosperity in the United States the president pointedly added has come from the bottom up from a strong and growing middle-class rather than trickling down from the wealthy few. He did not quite mention Mitt Romney but he left no doubt this was a major point of disagreement between the two men.   A lot of the folks who are peddling these same trickle-down theories including members of Congress and some people who are running for a certain office right now who shall not be named...    ...they are doubling down on these old-broken down theories.  If the president seemed a tad reluctant to actually pronounce Romney's name that was hardly the case with his hard-hitting reelection campaign manager Jim Messina.  By protecting special tax rates for Wall Street investors and opposing the Buffett Rule Romney's plan looks out for people just like him.  To underscore that point Senate Democrats next week will force their GOP colleagues to vote on bringing up a bill to implement the Buffett Rule. Majority Whip Dick Durbin says that bill raises a larger question.  And basically it is going to be a question for the Senate answer for the American people. And the question is this Should our tax code be fair?  The Romney campaign put out a statement yesterday accusing Democrats of promoting what it called the Obama Rule raising taxes so that government can grow. Romney advocates lower tax rates for everyone including the very wealthy. Douglas Holtz-Eakin was a top economic advisor for the last GOP presidential nominee John McCain. He calls the Buffett Rule a non-serious answer to what is not the biggest problem.  I think at a time when so many Americans are out of work and when the growth records are dismal growth ought to be the top priority in every policy discussion not necessarily these narrow measures of fairness.  Others says real deficit reduction would require a much higher minimum tax rate for the wealthy as has been the case in the past. Lawrence Zelenak teaches tax law at Duke University.  We could clearly go a lot higher than 30 percent - I mean at least 40 percent. But as a political matter it may be pushing it to even talk about 30 percent.  As a political matter the Buffett Rule seems likely to remain a major campaign talking point this year for Democrats. Again Obama campaign manager Jim Messina.  That is what this Buffett Rule fight is about. In part the campaign will be a debate you know on this tax fairness issue and we are willing to have that debate.  David Welna NPR News the Capitol. 