 Just when you think you have heard about as much as you could possibly want to about the royal wedding our friend A.J. Jacobs comes along. A.J. is Esquire magazine's editor-at-large famous know-it-all journalist. He is with us to share some little known doubt aspects of Royal wedding history. A.J. thanks for coming back. Mr. A.J.  Thank you for having me.  This wedding has been described as modest for royal standards just about 18 million. Mr.  Yeah.  So what is a real blowout of a royal wedding? Mr.  The most expensive royal wedding was 100 million and this was the sheikh of Dubai back in 1981. And he had a stadium built for 20000 guests and he had gifts brought in by bejeweled camels. So yeah Prince William and Kate Middleton very very restrained.  Bejeweled camels? Mr.  Bejeweled camels that is right.  Tackiest wedding. Mr.  I would go with the wedding arranged by Peter the Great of Russia for his niece. And in the middle of the wedding two dwarves popped out of the centerpiece and started dancing the minuet on the table. And Peter the Great had an odd obsession with dwarves. And he actually threw another wedding simultaneously...  When you save dwarves we mean little people these days. Right? Mr.  That is true. Right little people.  Yeah okay. Mr.  He held a simultaneous wedding for the court little person and 70 little people brought in on Shetland ponies. So this was an odd thing that he had going.  We do not have royal weddings in the United States although we obviously have some elaborate and elaborately tacky ones as well. But one president of the United States did get married in the White House. Mr.  That is right. That was Grover Cleveland. And I have to say there was just a tinge of creepiness to the whole affair because Grover Cleveland had been friends with the bride's father and knew her since birth. He was basically her guardian since from when the time when her father died when she was 10. When they got married she was 21 and he was 49.  On the other hand this kind of creates a clear precedent for Woody Allen to be president one day does not it?  Mr.  I was going to mentioned them but I am glad you did.  Note of caution to the newlyweds and they do seem like very nice people Attila the Hun met an untimely demise on his wedding night. Mr.  That is right. And there are several theories about what happened. Some say that it was alcohol poisoning. Others say that it was just exhaustion. So as you say a good cautionary tale you know for Prince William - just take it easy.  Mr.  It is a marathon not a sprint.   Well we can always rely on you to elevate it - add a note of class to our discussion on anything. A.J. Jacobs Esquire magazine's editor-at-large. Thanks for being with us. Mr.  Thank you for having me.  This is NPR News. 