  More outrage and grief over police shootings of Black and Latino Americans.  Derek Chauvin's trial continues. Another officer is charged in the killing of a Minnesota man. And body-cam video shows police shooting a 13-year-old in Chicago.  I am Debbie Elliott.  I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   The White House is promising that a pause in the distribution of one coronavirus vaccine will not affect the availability of other vaccines this as officials prepare to open the door next week so that all adults can get vaccinated.  And President Biden held his first face-to-face White House meeting with a foreign leader to talk global security threats and China.  Stay with us. We got the news you need to start your weekend.   Two recent fatal police shootings and the trial of former police officer Derek Chauvin in the killing of George Floyd have much of the country on edge this weekend.  There were protests last night in Chicago over the shocking killing of a 13-year-old Latino boy and in Brooklyn Center Minn. where a police officer shot and killed 20-year-old Duante Wright on Sunday.  And there is tension in the Twin Cities as the closing arguments are set for Monday in Chauvin's trial. Joining us now from Minneapolis to talk about all this is NPR correspondent David Schaper. Good morning David.  Good morning Debbie.  So tell us about the mood there after the fatal police shooting of Duante Wright.  Yeah. It is still tense. I mean people are frustrated that these incidents keep happening. And many of them want to make sure that their voices are still heard and as they who push for change in the way police departments here and all over the country interact with communities that they are supposed to protect. Last night across the street from the Brooklyn Center Police Department where these protesters have been gathering every night since Duante was killed last Sunday I talked with Kim Griffin. She is with a community organization called A Mother's Love. And she says that the Black community there is traumatized.  The wound is not a new wound. It is a wound that has been existing for quite a while. It is just the scab has been knocked off. And it is oozing again. And it is just a lack of trust in the people that we are supposed to be able to trust and rely on.  You know nothing could reinforce his sense of division between police and the community more than the double rows of concrete barricades and fencing with razor wire that is all around this police station with the people kind of on the other side and the National Guard vehicles and soldiers behind it. It is a really - just a fraught situation.  The officer who shot Wright is now charged with second-degree manslaughter for allegedly pulling out her gun when she meant to grab her Taser. Has her arrest reduced the tensions at all surrounding the shooting?  Yeah maybe a little bit but really not much. I mean there is a sense of relief among some here over the swift action in filing the charge. You know they see the fact that the police officer is facing any charges at all is progress since such charges are still relatively rare. But some here also want to see her face more serious charges than just one count of second-degree manslaughter which could result in prison time if she is convicted but also could just get a sentence of probation. Twenty-eight-year-old Mercedes Thomas  told me that she does not really feel strongly about the charges either way.  I am just hoping that justice is served properly whatever that charge looks like whatever charges is appropriate that will give justice. But at the end of the day let us just be honest. There is no amount of time she can serve that is going to bring that young man back.  So the trial of another former police officer Derek Chauvin could go to the jury as early as Monday after closing arguments. He is charged with second and third-degree murder in the killing of George Floyd. David this is a case that could have huge implications for the country. Can you give us a preview of what to expect?  Well you know the judge told the jury to pack a bag when they return to court on Monday because they will be sequestered for however long it takes while they deliberate. You know the prosecution presented a strong case with dozens of witnesses including the police chief of Minneapolis and other experts from policing who testified about Chauvin's use of force that it was excessive and it violated their protocols. There were medical experts who testified that Floyd was killed by Chauvin's knee being pressed down on his neck. There is also a huge amount of video evidence but you know the defense tried to raise doubt about the cause of death and argued that Chauvin did not break rules regarding the use of force. They argued that it could have been drugs that were in Floyd's system that Floyd's own health issues or even carbon monoxide poisoning could have contributed to his death. It was extraordinary to have police testifying against one of their own and this case does have huge implications for race relations for policing in this country. You know Floyd's death was this catalyst for widespread protests last summer and it is a catalyst for efforts to significantly change policing.  That is NPR's David Schaper reporting from Minneapolis. Thanks David.  My pleasure Debbie.   Now the CDC says a pause in administering the Johnson  Johnson vaccine will remain in place until at least next Friday.  That announcement comes just ahead of a big milestone in the nation's vaccine rollout an update that means millions more people will be eligible to get a shot.  NPR's Pien Huang is here to tell us more on the vaccines and their distribution. Hello.  Hi Lulu.  All right. We have to note that people are still dying of course from  total just over 566000 in the U.S. alone according to the latest figures from Johns Hopkins. So getting these vaccines into arms is crucial. So looking at the big picture how is this rollout going overall?  Well so far almost half of U.S. adults have received at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine which is actually more than 126 million people. That is according to the CDC's numbers. Now some places had already opened up to all adults in the past few weeks and other sites have been giving priority to people who are more likely to get exposed to COVID or to get very sick from it. But across the country starting Monday the government has announced that anyone 16 and older will be eligible to get a vaccine. Here's CDC director Rochelle Walensky.   If you have not been vaccinated I want to encourage you to do so as soon as you can. Widespread vaccination is the only way we will ultimately move past this pandemic.  The White House says that does not mean that everyone can get an appointment right away but their goal is to have enough doses to cover all adults by the end of May.  And yet there was that pause in vaccine distribution this week with the Johnson  Johnson version.  Yeah. On Tuesday health officials from the Food and Drug Administration and the CDC put a pause on using the JJ vaccine while they look into the possibility of rare but serious side effects. And it happened because the CDC found six cases of a rare blood clotting disorder in women who got the vaccine. They developed severe clots that stopped blood from draining from the brain along with low platelet counts. And these two things in combination is apparently very rare. So these women were hospitalized and one has died. The FDA and the CDC said hold up. We need to figure out what is happening and we also need to tell patients and clinicians how to look for it and how to treat it.  I mean the JJ vaccine was important because it was sort of one and done. It was you know good at reaching certain communities and populations that might not want to go back for a second vaccine. So do we know how long this pause will last and what happens next?  Well it has been a scramble this week. You know some clinics canceled appointments or subbed in the Pfizer and Moderna of vaccines the other two that are available when possible as they wait for more guidance from health authorities. And the pause is likely to continue for at least another week. Right now the CDC is looking for more information and for more cases. The symptoms to watch out for include severe headaches or abdominal pain blurry vision shortness of breath. So if you have gotten the JJ vaccine in the past three weeks and you develop any of these symptoms health officials recommend seeking immediate medical attention. And next Friday the agency has scheduled a big all-day meeting and they will be reviewing what is known and deciding whether to restrict it in any way or to end the pause. I should add that none of these side effects have been seen with the other two vaccines made by Pfizer and Moderna.  That is important to note. So this pause to gather information should be reassuring because the oversight is working. But are there any signs that people's confidence in these vaccines is slipping because of this?  Well there is no clear signs yet but health officials are concerned that just hearing about a serious side effect even if it is very rare and associated with just one vaccine might make people hold off. But Surgeon General Vivek Murthy said that making the vaccines available to all adults should counter hesitancy.   The more people see those around them get vaccinated particularly family and friends the more comfortable they become with getting vaccinated themselves.  That is the hope that they have. And even though the data are still coming in millions of people did get vaccinated with one of the other vaccines after the pause was announced.  That is NPR health reporter Pien Huang. Thank you very much.  Thanks for having me.   It was the first welcome of a foreign leader to the Biden White House.  The Japanese prime minister Yoshihide Suga sat down with President Biden to discuss regional security and threats to that security from one of Japan's neighbors.   We committed to working together to take on the challenges from China and on issues like the East China Sea the South China Sea as well as North Korea to ensure a future of a free and open Indo-Pacific.  To understand all of this we are joined now by NPR's Anthony Kuhn from Seoul. Anthony it looks like China loomed large in this meeting.  Very large. And that just underlines how enlisting U.S. allies to meet China's challenge to U.S. dominance in the region is a top foreign policy priority for Biden. Now the strongest thing Biden and Suga said together about China was in a - actually in a written joint statement where they expressed concern about quote Chinese activities that are inconsistent with the international rules-based order. That might sound a bit dry but it is actually the most critical thing the U.S. and Japan's leaders have said together about China in decades. Let us hear Prime Minister Suga detail some of Japan's concerns about China speaking through an interpreter.    We also had serious talks on China's influence over the peace and prosperity of the Indo-Pacific and the world at large. We agreed to oppose any attempts to change the status quo by force or coercion in the East and South China seas and intimidation of others in the region.  But Prime Minister Suga also said that it is necessary to engage in frank dialogue with China. And that tells us that Japan is clearly not willing to side with the U.S. against China so completely that it wrecks ties between Tokyo and Beijing. They do not want to become China's enemy. They do not want to decouple their economies.  What else was on the agenda between the two leaders?  They talked about areas of competition with China such as cooperating on emerging technologies which China wants to master such as artificial intelligence and quantum computing. But they also talked about things where they could actually potentially cooperate with China such as climate change and clean energy COVID and getting vaccines to the region and also the Tokyo Olympics this summer which is touch-and-go right now due to the pandemic.  You know there was talk ahead of this meeting that there would be a stronger statement that Japan would help the U.S. in case China tries to reunite Taiwan by force. Did they do so?  No they did not really move the needle. And if they had done so much as to imply that if China attacks Taiwan the U.S. and Japan would defend it together that would have been hugely provocative towards Beijing perhaps inviting some retaliation. But Biden and Suga just stressed the quote importance of peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait. That is an old formulation. It suggests that the U.S. and Japan are going to stick to a policy of strategic ambiguity which means basically to keep China guessing about what they will do on Taiwan.  Anthony what does this first meeting tell us in general?  It tells us that the Biden administration has made a start in enlisting Japan's help with China and reassuring another ally which has been unnerved by how President Trump treated allies. It also shows that there is still a very big gap in the two countries' perceptions of threats and interests in Asia. Now the U.S.'s next step is going to be to try to get South Korea on board and South Korea's President Moon Jae-in will visit Washington next month. South Korea is a major middle power in the region and it is going to be a longshot to get them fully on board with U.S. China policy. But the failure to do that would leave a gaping hole in the U.S.'s strategy in Asia.  NPR's Anthony Kuhn in Seoul South Korea. Thanks so much.  Thank you.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday April 17. 2021. I am Debbie Elliott.  And I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your week. Follow us on social media. We are at UpFirst on Twitter.  And for more news and interviews books and music you can find us on the radio.  You can indeed. That is Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings. Find your NPR station at stations.npr.org.  