 Here they talk about how she got her start in the ring when she was eight years old.  I was watching a boxing fight one day with you and my brother. I mean I do not know too many eight-year-old girls that would look at a boxing fight and think it is fun. But for some reason I did.  She said hey dad do girls box? And I am like yes. A few minutes later she says can I box? And I am like sure baby you can box. All right will you take me to the gym? I say yeah. A month went by...  Maybe even like two months went by.   ...and she just brings it up again. Hey dad can you take me to the gym? You told me you were going to take me to the gym. I remember you keep telling me over and over huh?   I did not know how hard it was either. I just thought I was going to go to a gym and get in the ring and fight because that is what I wanted to do.  She went into the ring with this little boy and got hit in the stomach really hard. She looked at the little kid like I am going to get you. And she just went right at him and just...  I was just swinging.  No technique in her punches.  No technique. I was just swinging.  She just whaled away. And it was like wow I just saw that. And it was like the coach said stop stop. They stopped the fight. The little boy was crying and that is the moment where I said my little girl's a fighter. She was meant to do this.  How does it feel when you see me in the ring?  Well it has not changed from the first time I saw you in the ring. It is kind of hard. The first time I watched you get hit I really wanted to jump into that ring.   You will see me moving and trying to slip every punch that is being thrown at you. I am actually moving around so it is like if they are hitting me. How is it for you? What do you feel like when you are in the ring?  It is a feeling that is like hard to describe. Before I am fighting I feel so many different emotions. It is crazy. But once I am in the ring I really do not feel anything. I mean because I am so comfortable in there. It is what I am meant to do and I want to keep fighting.  Oh cool. That is good.  What I admire about you is how you changed over the years and just the person you have become. He is...  I am not who I used to be you know?  Yeah. You came a long way from being into gangs and stuff. All of a sudden me wanting to box it just all changed.  I completely stopped doing all the drugs and everything that I used to do before because at that split second when you made that decision it is over. I mean I am going to stand right behind her and be a good father to her. And I love you with all my heart baby. And I am proud of you now and I will always be. I love you.  I love you.   Seventeen-year-old amateur boxing champion Seniesa Estrada with her dad and coach Joe Estrada in Montebello California. Their interview is part of StoryCorps Historias recording the voices of Latinos. It will be archived in the American Folklife Center at the Library of Congress. You can get StoryCorps podcasts at NPR.org. 