  There is no way in which we would be able to leave Afghanistan without there being some of what you are seeing there.  And we are continuing to see a rushed chaotic exit. I am Susan Davis.  I am Scott Simon. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   President Biden says he is confident the U.S. will get Americans out of Afghanistan by his August 31 deadline. Coming up the operation to try to airlift thousands in the next 10 days.  That is after we hear from the Afghan capital Kabul now just about a week into Taliban control.  And later masks in schools - policies vary place to place and seem to be changing. We have got a nationwide rundown.  So stay with us. We have got the news you need to start your weekend.   Thousands of people are waiting inside the Hamid Karzai International Airport for flights out of Afghanistan. Thousands more wait inside. Secretary of State Antony Blinken says 13 countries have agreed to host Afghans who leave because they are at risk of reprisals from the Taliban.  The airport's just a few miles from the center of Kabul a city of more than 4 million people. And Charlotte Bellis is there. She reports for Al Jazeera and joins us. Charlotte thank you so much for being with us.  Thanks for having me.  Help us appreciate what the scene is like in the capital its first full weekend under the Taliban.  Well it is quite bizarre. It is a tale of two halves. At the airport it remains a crisis point. The Taliban are still in control of all the security around the exterior. They have sort of been very forceful in their - if you want to call it crowd control - shooting into the air whipping people beating people. Then the U.S. are in control of the security inside the airport. And I just spoke with a senior Taliban member who said we are in constant communication with the Americans and we are working closely on security which is quite bizarre to think that they are working together after all these years as enemies to ensure that Americans can evacuate safely. But it is a moveable feast. They - even this morning there was an incident where people were bloodied. We are unclear if it is a shooting or a stampede but they had to close the main gate where Americans are meant to be moving through to get inside the airport. So it is very fluid the security situation. But in the city it is very quiet and people have gone back to work. Government employees have gone back to work today. Today is the start of the work week in Afghanistan and life is very normal.  Afghanistan's Independence Day was this week. It commemorates the end of British rule in 1919. The Taliban celebrated it. We have a quote from their statement - our jihadi resistance forced another arrogant power of the world the United States to fail and retreat from our holy territory. We have also heard reports that there have been demonstrations against Taliban rule - for example in Jalalabad. Do you know of anything in Kabul?  There were some protests in Kabul. There was - I was witness to a loud - I guess you could call it a shooting but they were shooting towards a crowd to disperse them protesters. The problem was that Independence Day traditionally is celebrated by people waving the old red green and black republic flag. But the Taliban's taken down that flag and replaced it with their own flag. So whilst it was a moment of celebration you could say for the Taliban to claim this is yet another superpower they have defeated they also had an internal problem because they have taken down the flag that everyone wanted to celebrate with. But that really only lasted that day. They cracked down and there really has not been much resistance since.  Well what do Afghans tell you? You know it is been 20 years since the Taliban has been in power. Some people have very vivid memories of repression and coercion and cruelty. And other people younger people have not been - seen the Taliban before.  Yeah. There is - especially in Kabul there is a lot of distrust. In the provinces it is a different story and I cannot really speak to that because we have not been able to leave Kabul. But I think the last time I talked to my colleagues and other people who were born here the experiences of the Taliban were very harsh in the '90s. They say I remember as a child my mom being beaten up because she showed her ankles and getting whipped because I took a photo into my classroom when I was in primary school. And so that is what they think of the Taliban as. The Taliban are trying to reassure people by saying we have changed. We are more progressive now. You can trust us. Please do not run away and get on these evacuation flights. You have amnesty. But it is - for a lot of people in Kabul it is a big gamble. Do we trust them and stay and resume our lives and cross our fingers that they do not start to repeal some of the things they are promising or do we take our chance and run for it? And that is why you are seeing so many thousands of people flee to the airport because that trust just simply is not there.  Charlotte Bellis of Al Jazeera in Kabul thanks so much for being with us.  Thanks for having me.   White House officials say the U.S. has evacuated about 13000 people over the last week. But the airlift out of Hamid Karzai International Airport remains a chaotic operation.  President Biden says he is confident the U.S. can end the airlift by the end of the month and the president vows the military will bring home any American who wants to leave.  There is still plenty of uncertainty and joining us to talk about it is NPR national security correspondent Greg Myre. Hey Greg.  Hi Susan.  So let us start with something the president said Friday about the airlift about what the U.S. military has been doing to get U.S. citizens out of Afghanistan. Let us listen.   Just yesterday among the many Americans we evacuated there were 169 Americans who over - who got over the wall into the airport using military assets.  What more do we know about this?  Well President Biden mentioned this a couple times in his remarks and he really grabbed everyone's attention. But he did not give any details. It was hours later before the Pentagon finally revealed the story. So these Americans were at a hotel near the airport just a couple hundred yards away. But a large crowd had gathered outside and it did not appear safe for them to go on foot to the airport. So a U.S. military commander in Kabul decided to send three helicopters to pick them up at the hotel which fortunately had a landing zone. And they were taken back to the airport and then flown out of Afghanistan. Meanwhile large numbers of other Americans and Afghans are still trying to get out and they have to make their way through the huge street crowds and the Taliban checkpoints that are just outside the airport.  We have been talking about the Taliban for many years just never quite in this way. We have an American president saying American citizens are relying on the goodwill of the Taliban to reach the Kabul airport.  It is really remarkable. And as he was saying this I am thinking we are about to mark 20 years since 911...  Yeah.  ...Which was carried out by al-Qaida a partner of the Taliban and the Taliban are now providing airport security checks of U.S. citizens in Kabul literally checking U.S. passports. Now Biden's been facing calls for the U.S. troops to pick up Americans outside the airport rather than wait for them to reach the airport. Referring to the U.S. citizens here's how he responded.   We have no indication that they have not been able to get in Kabul through the airport. We have made an agreement with the Taliban thus far. They have allowed them to go through. It is in their interest for them to go through. So we know of no circumstance where American citizens are - carrying an American passport are trying to get through to the airport. But we will do whatever needs to be done to see to it they get to the airport.  Several thousand Americans are still believed to be in Afghanistan. Many of them are dual nationals. But U.S. officials have not provided any precise numbers or locations or even say how they will know that all those who want to leave have indeed left.  The U.S. airlift had to pause for a while on Friday. Could you tell us more about what was behind that delay?  Many of the evacuees are going to an air base in Qatar and it became full. There just was not any room left. So the U.S. has searched for additional sites and has announced a number of European and Middle Eastern countries that will at least serve as a transit point. There is some others that will take in some refugees temporarily. This could all speed up the tempo if it goes as planned. Biden says he remains committed to completing the airlift by the end of August but he seems to be leaving a little wiggle room to extend it if necessary.  NPR's Greg Myre. Thanks Greg.  My pleasure.   Millions of schoolchildren are heading back to classrooms this time amid the highly contagious delta variant and widespread confusion over how best to keep them and educators safe. Some school districts are mandating mask-wearing for everyone. Elsewhere in the country elected officials say absolutely not.  And in many communities the situation changes almost day to day. Sequoia Carrillo from the NPR Ed team is here to help us try to sort out all this sometimes-conflicting information. Sequoia thanks for being with us.  Thanks for having me.  There is advice and guidance on this from the Biden administration from states from local school districts. What does it look like nationwide right now?  Right now a lot of the controversy is focused on mask mandates and mask bans. Arizona Texas and Florida are really the battleground states for this issue. On Wednesday Hillsborough County and Miami-Dade County both in the top 10 biggest school districts in the country decided to go against Florida Governor Ron DeSantis' executive order and institute mask mandates. The situation in Florida this week mirrors the one that is been playing out in Texas over the past few weeks with huge districts in Austin Dallas and San Antonio also requiring masks in schools despite the statewide ban.  And the Biden administration has stepped into this debate. What do we know from there?  Yes Education Secretary Miguel Cardona sent letters to superintendents in Texas and Florida this week to reinforce his support of their mask mandates. President Joe Biden also issued direct support during a press conference on Wednesday.   I am directing the secretary of education an educator himself to take additional steps to protect our children. This includes using all of his oversight authorities and legal action if appropriate against governors who are trying to block and intimidate local school officials and educators.  So that is the word from the executive branch. But this is - the matter of masks is in a number of courts is not it? How is that look?  Right now in Texas and in a lot of these other states things are really a back-and-forth mess and the parents and the kids are caught in the middle. There have been decisions going both ways in Texas courts. And even after the Texas Supreme Court ruled against the mask mandates they were not the final ruling. The court allowed a district court hearing on Monday to go on and that judge ruled that schools in Bexar County and the city of San Antonio can require masks for the time being.  What I gather from all this is that mask mandates are really just all over the place. And what about vaccines either for students andor teachers?  Well right now most school-age children are not yet vaccinated. Students under 12 are not currently eligible for the vaccine. And according to the CDC vaccination rates for older kids are still far behind rates for adults. There is lots of debates about whether schools can or should mandate vaccinations for teachers. States like Oregon and Washington have already announced vaccine mandates for school workers. Governor Phil Murphy is expected to announce one for New Jersey in the coming days. And the response has been mixed. Many teachers unions like the National Education Association do not support a blanket vaccine mandate but something more like New Mexico's approach which allows for regular testing as an alternative to vaccination. But school is starting soon. In many places it is already in session. So we will know more in the next few weeks and see if districts change course.  Sequoia Carrillo of the NPR Ed team thanks so much for being with us.  Thanks.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday August 21. I am Susan Davis.  And I am Scott Simon. UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your week. You can follow us on social media. We are UpFirst on Twitter.  And follow us on the airwaves. We have got more on the situation in Afghanistan the latest on the coronavirus and also lots of fun stuff like the music of James McMurtry and of course the Sunday Puzzle.  It is all on Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings. You can find your NPR station at stations.npr.org.  