 Sarah Elaine Smith's first novel finds poetry in dispiriting surroundings. Cindy the central character in her first novel Marilou Is Everywhere describes her life in rural Pennsylvania at the age of 14.   My life was an empty place. From where I stood it is seared on with a blank and merciless light. All dust and no song. Rainbows in oil puddles. Bug bites hatched with a curved X from my fingernails. Donald Duck orange juice in the can. Red mottles on my brother Clinton's puffy hands otherwise so white they were actually yellow like hard cheese. The mole on my belly button. You get to know things this way by looking at yourself. You know the world by the shape of what comes back when you yell. I had only ever been myself and found it lacking.  That is the author Sarah Elaine Smith who joins us from member station WESA in Pittsburgh. Thank you so much for being with us.  Thank you so much Scott.  Cindy's life though begins to brighten with the disappearance of another young woman in their town Jude. What happens?  So Jude goes missing after a camping trip. And she happens to be the girlfriend of Cindy's older brother Virgil. And Virgil takes it upon himself to look in on Jude's mother after the disappearance because he realizes that she might be at loose ends. And while he is in the house Cindy sees an opportunity to leave her own home life and spend time someplace a little bit more possibly nurturing because her mother has been gone for a number of months and she is in the care of her teenage brothers.  And so Cindy envies Jude even as she is missing - almost because of it does not she?  She does. And Cindy in some ways I think wants to disappear herself.  Jude's mother Bernadette becomes confused - or is she?  That is a really interesting question. And Bernadette is a cogent character at times. And at other times she is very palpably suffering from a kind of dementia. And Cindy takes advantage of that in order to gain information about Jude's life and how to fit into that world learning what kind of daughter Bernadette expects. And Bernadette for her part - to me it seems possible that she is aware at times that Cindy is not her daughter. But they are both lonely in a way that makes them willing to overlook pretty obvious truths.  You were I gather born and raised in Green County Pa.  Yes.  What does that contribute to this book?  Oh gosh just everything really. Growing up there has been the great riddle of my life. And I think in a lot of ways I wanted to write this book to tease out some of the contradictions and expose some of the things that are both beautiful and really troubling about the place.  What do you want us to know? What do you want to stand out for people?  Well I feel very aware of how easy it is to objectify Appalachia in places even for me as someone who grew up in one. In Marilou Is Everywhere Cindy's family experience poverty in a way that might be a more familiar view of Appalachia. But Jude and Bernadette - their family also represents a presence in those places of people who move back to the land out of this sort of pursuit of the idea that they might live in nature. And all of those people are in Appalachia and their interactions with each other are much more complicated than they are often given to be.  A theme in your book seems to be that although there are great moments of suffering and stress you are left with the impression that sometimes unfathomable events can still restore happiness.  Absolutely. I think one of the crucial turns in the book occurs when Cindy begins to realize that even though she has been in tremendous pain and also caused tremendous pain she still has the choice of deciding how she is going to react from then on what she is going to do with that knowledge. And it turns out for her that realizing that decision matters is actually in a way the beginning of sort of unexpected happiness for her. And that is something that I actually really resisted when I was writing earlier drafts of this book. I thought oh no a happy ending you know how gauche. But I have experienced that pain can be the source of tremendous changes and the things that we learn that way can really make our lives beautiful.  Sarah Elaine Smith - her novel Marilou Is Everywhere. Thank you so much for being with us.  Thank you so much Scott. 