 The PGA Championship golf's fourth and final major championship of the year begins this morning at the Hazeltine National Golf Club outside of Minneapolis. Commentator John Feinstein joins us now. Hi John.  Good morning Steve.  We mentioned it is the final major championship of the year. Tiger Woods does not have one yet.  No he does not. He is had a very strange year in that in some ways he is been as dominant as he is ever been. He is won five tournaments. He is won the last two weeks at the Buick Open and then coming from behind to win the World Golf Championship on the weekend at Akron. But he has not won a major has not really been close in fact and missed the cut completely after two rounds at the British Open. So the weird thing is he could be the player of the year and consider the year a complete failure. Because if he does not add to his total of 14 majors he considers the year a failure.  That is how he measures success.  Absolutely. His goal is to get to Jack Nicklaus's 18. That is the all-time record for professional majors won. He said that before he turned pro that that was his goal. And he is stuck to that. And as I said he is played extremely well in the so-called regular tournaments but has come out of the shoot very slowly at all three major championships this year. And today's round might be the one to watch. If he gets off to a good start he will be very tough to beat. If not we could see the same thing again.  Well now let us keep this in perspective. Of course there are years because it is so hard to win a major when even if you are the dominant player in golf you are not going to win a major. But does something feel different about Tiger's game this year?  You know not really. You are right though it is been five years since he failed to win a major. Even last year when he only played in two of them because of the knee surgery he still won the U.S. Open. But when he has gotten to the major championships he is not gotten off to a good start. Now what is interesting here is he is played two weeks in a row coming in. Normally he does not do that. Normally he plays two weeks prior and then skips the week before a major. He is changed his pattern this time because clearly he is not happy with what is gone on thus far.  Oh it is clear that he is doing that deliberately to try to change his rhythm of his luck?  I do not think there is any doubt about it that he has felt like the slow start was the result of not playing the week before and he wants to be playing and playing well which he certainly is. He shot 65 65 on the weekend at Akron to win. So presumably that should give him momentum coming in here.  Wonder if those two 65s are on the mind of the defending PGA champion this week Padraig Harrington.  Well he certainly got to witness the one on Sunday. He was paired with Woods and actually had a one shot lead until the 16th hole when he made a triple bogey eight and there was a four shot swing that decided the tournament. I do not think Harrington backs down from Tiger. He is one of the few guys who has beaten him head-to-head in a last round. He did it overseas several years ago. And with three majors I do not think he is intimidated by Tiger Woods. Most golfers in the world are intimidated by Tiger. Padraig Harrington I do not believe is.  What about Phil Mickelson who is had many showdowns with Tiger Woods over the years?  Well Phil of course is in a unique position going into this event. He came back to the tour last week in Akron after being out for six weeks while his wife Amy underwent surgery for breast cancer. His mother Mary's also been fighting cancer. They are both doing well. That is why he came back. He will be along with Tiger the crowd favorite to win for sentimental reasons. You know he almost won the U.S. Open just before Amy's surgery. And obviously people would like to see him break that three and a half year drought since he last won a major.  John thanks very much.  Thanks Steve.  He is talking about the PGA Championship which begins today in Minnesota. 