 Boy do we take you places. This next interview begins in the NPR parking garage. We have come down here to meet Caroline Rose the singer and songwriter. She is driven here to meet us in the van where she lives most of the time. Caroline Rose nice to meet you.  Nice to meet you as well.  So can we come calling?  Sure. There is lots of stuff in here. So I have got my little deck chairs...  Yeah.  ...And then I take the bike out and this mat comes out and folds down into a bed. Got all my books first aid kit.  Is that a picture of Paul Newman when he was young?  Yep. Cool Hand Luke is my favorite movie.  Personal question - where did you sleep last night?  Last night I slept in Surf City New Jersey. Yeah it was on a beautiful spot. People are friendly there. It is free. It is wonderful. It is a wonderful way to live.  Well thanks for showing us around.  You are welcome.  Can we bring you upstairs into a nice snug studio?  So long as it is air-conditioned.  It is.   This is your song Blood On Your Bootheels.   We will jump round the ring and we are losing yours reins. I heard the man was flowing free now he is living in chains. Everywhere I got the world until no matter where I turn I got to carry the load. The shoe shine brother thinks I am so naive looking at me thinking I got something hidden up my sleeve. No siree. I am cool as could be. I got no money but I am always feeling free free free.  Very strong song. What inspired it?  A lot of it was inspired by - the Trayvon Martin case had just happened. And I guess it was just a subconscious thought of how much balance plays into our day-to-day life. And I do not know it just sort of came out and that is just what happens.  You studied architecture right?  Yeah. It is funny a lot of people ask me about that and I feel like it is one of the least interesting parts of my life. But I did for a time. But I also - I mean I tried a million other things before I started playing music. And I think it is just mostly in my mind I thought if I made music a jobs then it would make me hate it and so I just sort of put it off and put it off and I always did it on my own. And in the meantime I tried to do boat building. I tried working on a farm. I worked in a grocery store. And then it just all ended up coming back to this. It always comes back to the things you really love.  Some of that stuff might wind up in your music someday. Maybe it already has?  Yeah it is strange because the way that I write - I never really think about a certain topic and I am like OK I am going to write something about this thing - it usually - it just happens. It falls out of the sky. It is one of those magical things where if I live my life and I am free and I am doing things that are fulfilling and creatively stimulating then the songs just show up - they just appear. It is like magic. I do not know what it is.  Seems to be a lot of spiritual dimension on this album. One song's called America Religious. You might also hear that in a song I Will Not Be Afraid.    No matter what all comes my way I will not be afraid. No matter what word slander my name I will not be afraid. So long as I got my heart a-beating so long as I got my soul a-feeling so long as I got that spirit in my I will not be afraid. No I will not be afraid. Well I grew up religious. You know I actually took it really seriously and my parents were very religious. I think after a while I just - I lost my faith for a handful of different reasons. I think the biggest reason was there were so many questions that I had that just never got answered. And I had a problem that you have to give up independent thought in order to follow a religion devoutly.    Do what all you want to me I will not be afraid.  You grew up in a small seaside town?  Yeah I grew up in a working-class town. It is basically right before you get to a really really rich part of Long Island.  I have heard your hometown has had some problems?  Yeah I mean it is like so many American towns - it just drugs everywhere. You know my friends got into that and so - I do not know some of that stuff's really personal and I do not want to get into it. But the truth of it is that it is a serious problem for a lot of American towns. Hard drugs come in and they just destroy families and it becomes so cheap that you can get it anywhere. And then when that became the reality I could not wait to get out. Like that was just - it was the last straw.  What is the - let me ask you about another song. What is the story behind Time Spent Money Grow?  So I really - I am going to nerd out on you real hard. I really like Native American history and I have gone on road trips where I literally will just go follow all the historical sites battlefields. Crazy Horse is a huge hero of mine. Cool Hand Luke Crazy Horse Meriwether Lewis - those are my three heroes. Wow that was a tangent. So this song...  Time Spent Money Grow.  It was just inspired by something I read. And it seemed to speak to me because I am of the belief that everyone around you in some way or another even if they mean it innocently is trying to change you. And that song in particular comes from a perspective of someone who has to assimilate to something. And I really - it speaks to me having to assimilate to anything because that is sort of a tenet I live by is not ever doing that. And I think the way I live is quite an alternative way to live and quite a lonely way to live because I do not want anyone to change me. And I constantly keep that in mind.    He was born to run born to be a dead man. Born with a pistol in his hand and a  above his head. His name was wisdom but they called him Joe. As not it a shame that Uncle Sam always points his finger in your face do it my way you sad disgrace of a man. Pack your bags hit the road having got one place left to go. I walk alone down the highway.  It is a very powerful song.  Thank you. I think I am just going to create stuff that I think is real to my life. And I am pretty convinced that once my life stops being interesting that my songs will not be interesting. And at that point I will probably be ready to do something else.  There is some artists who say that they have pretty mundane lives but they put the interest into their music.  Yeah and that is cool. That is what some people do. I just figure I can die at any moment I am going to live my life that way that I want to do it. You know there is lots of hard times but I would not want to have an easy-going life completely. I mean to have an easy life is not something I want.  Caroline Rose her debut album on Little Hi! Record is called I Will Not Be Afraid. Very nice to meet you. Thanks very much for taking the trip to see us.  Oh it was a wonderful trip. 