 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Linda Wertheimer. Neil Armstrong the first human being to stand on the Moon has died. Armstrong suffered complications from heart bypass surgery earlier this month. He was 82. With one small step Armstrong fulfilled a national goal to put a man on the Moon set forth by President John F. Kennedy and ended the space race with the former Soviet Union. In a written statement President Obama said Neil Armstrong quote delivered a moment of human achievement that will never be forgotten. NPR's Allison Keyes has this remembrance of a man described by his family as a reluctant hero.  It was the kind of history that ignites the imagination of humanity. On July 20th 1969 hundreds of millions of people around the world watched or listened as the lunar module Eagle carried astronauts Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin to the surface of the Moon. Armstrong got on the radio.  Houston Tranquility Base here. The Eagle has landed.  Roger Tranquility. We copy you on the ground...  Almost seven hours later Armstrong stepped off the ladder in his bulky white space suit.  That is one small step for man one giant leap for mankind.  Astronaut Alan Bean became the fourth person to walk on the Moon in November of 1969 and says Armstrong had not thought a lot about his historic words because he was not sure the landing would be successful.  Neil thought you know he had about a 90 percent a chance of getting back alive - that was a guess. And but he thought he only had about a 50 percent chance of actually making a landing and that is why he says and I believe him that he did not spend a lot of time thinking about what his first words would be.  Bean says a number of astronauts could have done the mission as well as Armstrong but he is not sure how many could have dealt with the aftermath with such humility. Astronaut Rusty Schweickart piloted the lunar module in March of 1969 and says Armstrong...  Had a great sense of humor actually which not too many people were aware of. But he was just a very very modest and gracious person.  Neil Alden Armstrong was born August 5th 1930 and had been fascinated by flying since his first airplane ride as a 6-year-old boy in Ohio. He earned his pilot's license before his driver's license. And by the age of 16 was not only flying airplanes but was experimenting with a wind tunnel in his basement. He earned a Navy scholarship to Purdue University but was called to active duty and flew 78 combat missions in Korea. Armstrong became a test pilot for the forerunner of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and was accepted into the second group of astronauts. He made his first spaceflight in 1966. And three years later. took humanity's first steps on the Moon. Again. Astronaut Schweickart.  Landing on the Moon was a dream that you know millions of kids have had over you know hundreds of years in some sense. And Neil was lucky enough to have been in the right place at the right time.  But Armstrong a quiet man who valued his privacy left NASA in 1971 and moved his family back to Ohio where for a time he was a professor of aerospace engineering at the University of Cincinnati. Roger Launius the senior curator in space history at the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum says Armstrong wanted to be remembered as a good engineer and a good research pilot.  He could have done anything and gone anywhere made tons of money done very high profile sorts of activities. And what he chose to do was go to work as a university professor and teach engineering. Can you imagine taking your Engineering 101 class from Neil Armstrong?  I am and ever will be a White Sox pocket protector nerdy engineer.   In a 2009 appearance at the National Press Club Neil Armstrong displayed his senses of humor as he was asked whether he had dreams about being on the Moon.  I can honestly say and it is a great surprise to me that I have never had a dream about being on the Moon.   It is a great disappointment to me even more than to you.   A crater on the Moon is named after the former astronaut. and he is a hero to many around the world. But perhaps astronaut Rusty Schweickart says it best.  He was a symbol of what humanity can do when it sets its mind to it.  Neil Armstrong was 82 years old. Allison Keyes NPR News Washington.  