 How do you get to Sesame Street? Not a direct route as it turns out. After 45 years on PBS Sesame Workshop has struck a deal with HBO. New episodes will air first on the premium-cable channel then nine months later on PBS. HBO's generous budgets will allow Sesame Workshop to produce almost twice as many episodes but they will be half an hour down from an hour. Is this bad news for public broadcasting? We are joined now by NPR media correspondent David Folkenflik in New York. David thanks very much for being with us.  Of course.  What does it say that a show that was meant to reach children in underserved communities now has its future tied to a premium-cable channel?  I think there are two implications one of which is that it is telling that there is not a kind of national commitment to invest significant funds in continuing Sesame Street out of you know federal taxpayer or other public dollars. And the second thing has to do with the way in which we consume video these days. Part of the way that Sesame Workshop had defrayed the costs of production of Sesame Street over the years was through the sales of DVDs. Well you know my 3-year-old watches it on an app online in short increments. The DVD sales have just fallen off a cliff. And the second thing is because of that very same dynamic of how people consume - think television viewing in traditional linear sense has gone down too - and that is affected the way in which people have had to think about television.  Can PBS stations now look at their viewers and say pledge now to keep Big Bird and Sesame Street on the air when HBO is footing most of the bill?  Well as you know one might have said once on the dating scene it is complicated. The one thing PBS has always offered is it is universal. It is free. And so what PBS stations can say is we are the only ones that afford universal coverage of this. We will make sure that nobody comes to us and has to pay a dime. So they are still going to make that case but it is a lot harder against critics who want to zero-out funding for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for PBS and for that matter for NPR and public radio. It is a lot harder to defend against their attacks if you say well the exact same content is available although you do have to pay for it privately through the premium-cable channel HBO.  Which anticipates the question does PBS which uses much more of the public dollar than for example NPR does for its production costs - television being a more expensive medium - did they lose some of their political support in Congress with this move of Sesame Street to HBO?  I think it is a little harder rhetorically. Big Bird was sort of one of the more powerful weapons against conservative critics. But yeah it makes it tougher. And I have talked to folks about that in the public broadcasting realm but I would say that they are intending to say we offer this to the entire nation to the 115 or so million households that have television one way or another. And you know HBO might have that for maybe 30-some million subscribers. It is a little different.  What about the significance of Sesame Street being cut to half an hour? I mean does this mean that our kids cannot watch an hour-long show?  Well I talked about this at some length with Sesame Workshop's CEO Jeffrey Dunn. And he said that Sesame Street was trying to follow the practices and habits of its actual viewers children. It had experimented with PBS over the last year with a 30-minute version and a 60-minute version. It found actually a heavier usage - according to what I was told both from PBS and from Sesame Workshop - found heavier usage with a shorter show. And because so many young viewers are coming to it first through apps - you know presumably on their parent's smartphones or iPads or what have you - they are watching it in shorter increments. They may not be watching it in even 30-minute lengths.  Yeah.  They may be watching it in 11 or 8-minute lengths at a time. So there is a - there is a sense that simply to keep it to a 60-minute format because that is how it was created four and a half decades ago is losing the thread a little bit with how people actually consume TV even at such a young age.  NPR's media correspondent David Folkenflik thanks so much.  You bet. 