 The only man ever convicted in the Lockerbie bombing the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Scotland in 1988 is being released. The Scottish government says the terminally ill man Abdel Basset Ali al-Megrahi will be allowed to return to his home country of Libya on what are described as compassionate grounds. Scottish Justice Minister Kenny MacAskill made the announcement. Mr. KENNY Mac It is my decision that Mr. Abdel Basset Ali Mohmed al-Megrahi convicted in 2001 for the Lockerbie bombing now terminally ill with prostate cancer be released on compassionate grounds and allowed to return to Libya to die.  In all 270 people were killed in the crash. NPR's Rob Gifford is in Lockerbie Scotland and joins us now. And Rob I understand you are at a spot that has quite some significance to people in Lockerbie.  That is right Steve. I am standing in the cemetery just outside Lockerbie beside the memorial where all 270 names are inscribed. And there has been a steady flow of people coming into the graveyard here all day. And it is a very moving place and of course a very emotional day for many people here as it is for families in the United States.  Well who was this man? Who is this man Abdel Basset al-Megrahi? And what was his role in putting those names on that memorial?  He was a Libyan intelligence agent and he was convicted in 2001 under rather unusual circumstances. A Scottish court was convened in The Hague in the Netherlands and it convicted him but that of course was 13 years after the actual crime was committed. There was some doubt it should be said about his conviction about whether he was the man for responsible. He then was serving his life sentence in a Scottish jail. He has terminal prostate cancer now and it is on those compassionate grounds that he has cancer and only a few months left to live that the announcement has just come that he is being allowed to return to Libya.  Although this must have been a difficult decision for Scottish authorities. The bitter irony cannot be overlooked here that the people on board that plane were not allowed to fly home.  Absolutely. And Kenny MacAskill the Scottish justice secretary who is just made this announcement was clearly rather uncomfortable as he made the announcement actually. And it is very difficult. He said I simply cannot square that circle. But he did say we followed due process and the mercy and compassion that Scottish people show is not in balance with the crime that was committed and it is not reliant on the emotion and the lack of compassion that Megrahi himself showed.  Are you getting a sense of compassion as you talk with people who come and go from the memorial there in Lockerbie Scotland today?  Well many people very much the opposite. They say he should rot in jail. Actually I have spoken to several people who say that - until he dies. Some people though have said they just want an end to it. Some people have said that they do not think he was the man and he was made a scapegoat. So you have got the whole range of emotions here in Lockerbie. And the thing about this decision is I think it was always going to upset someone. It was never going to please everyone. And in some ways there is still something of an unsatisfactory feeling about it to everyone here that it has not been able to completely give closure to the incident.  Rob thanks very much.  Thank you Steve.  That is NPR's Rob Gifford. He is Lockerbie Scotland today. A Scottish official has said that the only man ever convicted in the Pan Am Flight 103 bombing will be allowed to return home to die in peace. This is NPR News. 