 Abercrombie  Fitch is ditching its traditional logo - that insignia the clothes it appeared on made the brand one of the most popular for young people in the past few decades. As teen choice's change the company wants to move away from using logos as selling points and compete instead in what is called the world of fast fashion. NPR's Sonari Glinton reports.  It is all about branding and you do not need to be a fashion expert to know that but we have one for you anyway. Her name is Ilse Metchek and she is the head of the California Fashion Association and she is a fashion designer by trade.  In modern fashion in the world of the Internet the global world of fashion brand is number one. I would put design all the way down to number five.  Abercrombie  Fitch the brand that for decades has courted controversy and teen dollars is moving away from putting its AF logo on its own clothes.  What it is saying is they themselves do not like their own image. I mean it is kind of - I am a brunette - well very gray of course but brunette nevertheless - and if I suddenly went blonde I would think that it would mean that I did not like myself as a brunette.  Metchek says Abercrombie which focuses on young men has been squeezed by competitors such as American Eagle Urban Outfitters Hollister and Buckle. Now the company wants to pick up more female buyers and it is entering the fast fashion category competing with retailers like HM and Zara.  Fast fashion means exactly that - there is no such thing as a basic T-shirt. There is no such thing as a black brown gray and navy inventory at all times. There is no commodity stock. Everything changes every ten weeks - everything everything. It is in it is out it is cheap.  Metchek says in the fast fashion race Abercrombie is more than a lap behind. But Abercrombie's brand which goes back to 1800s has caught up before. Sonari Glinton NPR News.    I like girls that wear Abercrombie  Fitch I would take her if I had one wish but she is been gone since that summer since that summer. Hip hop marmalade spic and span met you one summer and it all began. You are the best girl that I ever did see...  And you are listening to NPR News. 