 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Linda Wertheimer. And with the dog days of August upon us you better perk up because it is time for the puzzle. Joining me now is Will Shortz. He is of course the puzzle editor of The New York Times and WEEKEND EDITION's puzzle master. Good morning Will.  Good morning Linda.  And Will could you maybe refresh our memories about last week's puzzle challenge?  Yes it came from listener Ben Bass of Chicago. I said take the name of a modern-day country add an A and rearrange all the letters to name a group of people who used to live in the area of this country. Who are they?  And the answer is?  The answer is the Netherlands and you add an A and rearrange you get Neanderthals.  .  Now the Neanderthals lived in lots of places but they had included the Netherlands area.  We actually had about 350 correct answers and our randomly selected winner is Molly Dobbins from Double Oak Texas. Congratulations Molly.  Thank you.  So how did you figure this out?  I was on my way to work and it is a long drive. So I usually let my mind wander a little bit on my way down and it just popped into my head as I was running through lists of countries.  And what do you do for a living?  I am a nurse.  Is a true as - what I hear that you have also appeared on Jeopardy?  Yes it is. Just a little under a month ago I was on - did not do quite as well as I would hoped but had an amazing time. It was just an incredible experience.  Well this should be good practice for playing the puzzle with Will.   Yeah I cannot wait.  All right Molly. First of all I am very impressed that you solved this in your head.  .  So I am going to give you some four-letter words. For each one insert two letters exactly in the middle to complete a common uncapitalized six-letter word. For example if I said pace - P A C E - you would insert L A right in the middle to make palace.  OK.  OK. Number one is chub - C H U B.  Cherub.  Cherub is right. Number two is poet - P O E T.  Pocket.  Pocket is right. Rain R A I N.  Well...  Something to eat.  Oh raisin.  There you go.  Reason is it.  .  When - W H E N.  No that is not right - might need a little help on this one.  Well it will be a vowel and then a consonant although you probably already figured that out. And it is something that you like to do some of your clothes or bedsheets.  I am sorry. I think I am stumped.  Do you know this one Linda?  No I do not.  Ah it is whiten - W H I T E N.  Oh my gosh .  Oh.  Like to whiten your sheets depending on - assuming they start white.  .  I was going to say I think that is an old-fashioned notion white sheets.  That could be.  .  That could be. All right. Try hose - H O S E. This time you want to insert a vowel and then a consonant.  Horse.  Horse nice. Show - S H O W. It is something that follows you around.  Shadow.  Shadow is it. Door - D O O R.  Well thought I had it but no. Oh no that is not it either .  And it is - I think it is somebody you work with actually.  Oh of course a doctor.  A doctor. How about toil - T O I L?  I need a little hint on that one.  It is part of the human body.  Tonsil.  Tonsil is it.   Again this is right down your street.  I know .  How about joey - J O E Y.  Jockey.  That is it and your last one is fish - F I S H.  Finish.  Finish appropriately nice job.   So Molly for playing our puzzle today you get a WEEKEND EDITION lapel pin as well as puzzle books and games. And you can read all about that at npr.orgpuzzle. Molly what is your public radio station?  KERA in Dallas-Fort Worth.  So Molly Dobbins of Double Oak Texas thank you very much for playing the puzzle.  Thank you.  And what is the challenge for next week Will?  Yes name a well-known movie of the past - two words seven letters in total. These seven letters can be rearranged to spell the name of an animal plus the sound it makes. What animal is it? So again a well-known movie two words seven letters total and these seven letters can be rearranged to spell the name of an animal and the sound this animal makes. What animal is it?  So when you have the answer go to our website npr.orgpuzzle and click on the Submit Your Answer link - just one entry per person please. Our deadline for entries is Thursday August 14 at 3 p.m. Eastern. Please include a telephone number where we can reach you at about that time. And if you are the winner we will give you a call and you will get to play on the air with the puzzle editor of The New York Times and WEEKEND EDITION's puzzle master Will Shortz. Will thank you.  Thank you Linda. 