 Steve Bannon has been mostly out of the picture since being fired by President Trump more than a year ago. But now he is back and he has a new film.   The left wants to undo our country. They want to take away the freedoms we have. PRESIDENT DONALD J.  We have created 2.4 million new jobs.  2018 is a referendum as to whether or not a duly elected president is allowed to do his job.  The president is unstoppable but he is only one man.  You know this is tough stuff. We are fighting a war.  The film is called Trump  War. Jeremy Peters is a reporter for The New York Times who is covered Bannon for a while now. And he joins us while he is on the road. Welcome to the program.  Thank you for having me.  So I have not seen Trump  War. I like the scoring there. It sounds like something out of The Omen. You have and it sounds dramatic.  It is. I know - that music makes it sound like it is a Bruckheimer movie or something. But I think what Steve Bannon always understood well and part of the reason that he and Trump always saw eye to eye is they shared this belief that Trumpism  and the people who subscribe to Trump's beliefs and the direction he wanted to take the country in were always going to be under siege. Now I think a lot of that is exaggerated but in the case of this midterm election - in this context it certainly is not because if the Democrats take the House one thing that Steve Bannon is right about is Trumpism as we know it is under threat.  Is this not just a propaganda film? I mean even in the clip we just heard there is an untruth about job creation under Trump.  Steve Bannon is one of the more astute followers of propaganda that I think we have seen in modern American politics. And even he would not dispute the notion that this is a pure propaganda film.  And Bannon has had a lot of success with these kinds of things. He had a film that he produced before the 2016 election called Clinton Cash and it propelled a narrative that made it into the mainstream media and is credited with helping Trump into the White House. And he is made you know other conservative documentaries for lack of a better word. Is this one any different than those?  I think the stakes are higher with this one. And certainly this one will get if not more attention as much attention as the ones did during the campaign. I mean these were always films that were meant for a relatively small audience. As Bannon likes to say the purpose of this project is to quote jack up the deplorables meaning that these people who love President Trump but who feel like they are looked down on by the liberals by the media elites as they like to say. This is really aimed at igniting their passions and driving them to the polls. Now whether or not that ends up happening I think is a totally open question.  How does this fit into the broader Republican strategy? Is the Republican establishment happy to see him and have his help?   No not at all. I think there was a sense of relief when Bannon was forced out of the White House and then left Breitbart under pressure that he was not going to be meddling in American politics anymore. His emergence back on the scene is not something that is at all a welcome sight to people like Mitch McConnell and the House Republican leadership because they think that he is going to alienate the very types of independent-minded suburban voters especially women that this election may very well hinge on.  Jeremy Peters is a reporter for The New York Times and he covers Steve Bannon among other things. Thank you so much.  Thank you.  