 International experts continue to investigate the site where Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 was shot out of the sky over a disputed area of Ukraine. Laurence Gonzales has written a new book about an airplane disaster that happened 25 years ago - United Airlines Flight 232 bound Denver to Chicago. It was both a tragedy and a miracle whatever you think a miracle might be. One hundred and twelve people died when the rear engine blew up and the pilots had to put down in Sioux City Iowa where the plane smashed onto the runway burst into flames and thudded into a cornfield.   According to United Airlines 184 of the 293 people aboard Flight 232 are alive. Wreckage is strewn over an area three-quarters of a mile wide.  Investigators are going through that debris for clues to the crash...  Laurence Gonzales author of the bestseller Deep Survival Who Lives Who Dies And Why and is also a licensed pilot has talked to hundreds of survivors of Flight 232. And he is reconstructed the crash the loss and the heroism - not a word lightly used - of that day. And the test that followed survivors as they tried to return to life. His new book - Flight  A Story Of Disaster And Survival. Laurence Gonzales joins us from the studios of Iowa Public Radio in Iowa City. Think so much for being with us.  It is my pleasure.  I want you to take us into that cockpit immediately. Captain Alfred Haynes Williams Records - the copilot - are literally wrestling with the steering mechanism.  They are cruising along at 37000 feet on autopilot drinking coffee after lunch. Then there is a loud explosion and they notice that the No. 2 engine is offline. They know what to do. They make a little announcement and say we will go to Chicago on two engines instead of three. And they start to shut it down. And all of a sudden the first officer realizes that he is turning left and the plane is turning right. And he says Al I cannot control the plane. When Al Haynes puts all the thrust on that right side and that wing slowly comes back up and that saved everyone on board - that moment.  So many stories in this book of human heroism and heroic stories do not always have happy endings. Let us try to encapsulate this if we could through the experience of a man whose name might be familiar to a lot of our listeners. Jerry Schemmel - he is nowadays 25 years later - is the voice of the Colorado Rockies baseball team.  Right he was seated in the Coach cabin and noticed that a lady just ahead of him had a lapped child. This was a boy named Evan and his mother's name Sylvia. And this little child was squirming around. And Jerry was watching and thinking I am going to help these people out as soon as the plane comes to a stop.  Do you have a copy of your book Mr. Gonzales?  I do I do.  I wanted you to read that section. I found it so gripping - if that is possible.   Then began the breaking of the great aluminum ship - ripping and screaming across the ground bursting into flames as it went. People were crying out. He watched in amazement as quote a woman still strapped in her seat flew past me on the other side. A ball of fire roared down the aisle above him. Then the vessel arched into the air breaking up further as it angled over - pirouetted and slammed down onto its back. He released his seatbelt and it dropped to the ceiling. He looked for Sylvia Tao who had been seated ahead of him with her grinning toddler Evan. They were nowhere to be seen in the smoke.  And he found her. What happened then?  He found Sylvia walking toward the back of the plane. This is all on fire and filled with smoke. And he stopped her because he knew she was going to go back there and die. And she said I have to find my son. I have to find my son. And he said I will find your son. You go out and save yourself.  He went back into a burning airplane to help a stranger - someone he did not know?  Well two things happened. One is - first he looked for this boy but he could not find him. It was too chaotic. So he wound up outside the plane with everyone else who was coming out. And as he stood there just barely outside the plane he heard crying. So he turned and he went back into this smoke and fire. And he followed the voice of this baby until finally he got there. And then when he got outside he looked at the child and realized it was not Evan. It was another baby. It was a little girl the name Sabrina Lee Michaelson.  What did they finally determine caused the crash of Flight 232?  Well that is still being debated today. But the way I explained it in the book starts with a piece of faulty titanium that was cast by a company called Titanium Metals of America. And this turned into the disc that you can go out to the airport and see on the front of any jet engine. It has all these blades attached to it. Well that disc holding the blades cracked where that little defect was. And it cracked a tiny bit the first on the engine was started. And it cracked every time the engine was started thereafter. Until after about 15000 flights it let go.  Captain Haynes so many of the other crew members were flying within a few months again were not they?  Yes everybody went back to flying with a couple of exceptions. One of the passengers on the plane a 19-year-old Japanese exchange student Aki Muto - she is a flight attendant now. She flies every other day and loves it.  People survive but can we ever say where a tragedy like this will stop being felt in their lives?  It will not. People do get on with their lives but there is always a remnant of the event left. And I will tell you - a surprising thing happened to me while writing Flight 232. I would interview people and I would say so how did this affect you emotionally in the long-term? And these people said oh it did not really. I just kind of went on with my life. I figured I am not going to get in another air crash certainly so why think about it? And yet as our interview went on I found that these people would choke up and sometimes break down and say you know I did not realize these emotions were still inside me. So it never goes away. Susan White - she is a flight attendant herself - went through some therapy returned to work and was doing fine. When the World Trade Center was attacked she went back into PTSD all over again. So it was triggered by another kind of event - of catastrophe.  Laurence Gonzales - his new book Flight  A Story Of Disaster And Survival. Thanks very much for being with us.  Thank you for having me.  You are listening to WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. 