 Universities are reporting hundreds of new coronavirus cases on their campuses. And with no national guidance on how to handle outbreaks each school has had to devise its own strategy to keep these outbreaks in check. The University of Alabama has opted to stay open for now even after hundreds of new cases were reported this week while the University of North Carolina sent most students home just days after the semester started following new outbreaks there. To find out more about how universities elsewhere are handling the coronavirus pandemic I am joined by health reporters Christine Herman who is been covering the University of Illinois in Urbana-Champagne and Sebastian Martinez Valdivia at the University of Missouri in Columbia. Welcome to you both.  Good morning.  Hi Rachel.  So I want to start with you Christine. Classes started this week at the University of Illinois. What is that school's strategy?  So the strategy here is mandatory testing for the coronavirus. So the campus moved quickly to produce its own saliva-based test. It was actually created by faculty scientists here and it just received FDA emergency authorization. And they are now doing more than 10000 tests a day and the results come back within a day. So the Urbana campus has about 40000 students and so far they have found about 300 positive cases. But that is what they predicted. They say it is mostly students who arrived already infected but just did not know. So that is the strategy and administrators think it will clamp down on any spread - that and the fact that about 75 of classes are online.  Wow. That is an amazing testing regimen. How do people feel about it? I mean when you talk to students and staff are they OK with all this?  Yeah. You know the students I talk with say they are excited to just be back on campus and they are really glad the university is requiring this twice-a-week testing. So if they go to a class they are not left wondering is the person sitting next to me maybe infected and does not know it? So Olisa Ausara-Lasaru's a sophomore from Chicago and she thinks this might all work out.  I think we were all pretty scared that it was going to be like another semester of staying at home. So I mean I think like even though there are like online classes like and it is definitely like a different vibe I still think it is nice to be on campus.  And it is not just the testing the university is really trying to enforce this. They have got people standing at the doors checking to make sure students entering for class have a recent negative test result. You can either show it on a printout or in an app on your phone. So you will see students lined up on campus outside of buildings 6 feet apart with their masks on and the people checking are wearing these T-shirts with the letters WSA on the back - that stands for wellness support associate.  OK. So Sebastian let us turn to you. What about at the University of Missouri? What are they doing?  It is pretty different. Administrators here are not doing mandated testing of all students faculty and staff. They say it is just too expensive and they say it would be really complicated. So you can get a test if you have symptoms but that is it. The university's moved some classes online but half of the classes are still happening in person. And they have tried to focus in-person classes on freshmen so they can still have kind of that classic college experience. I met freshman Isaiah Spellman soon after his first two in-person classes and he was pretty excited.  It is just the atmosphere of seeing like other students too. And you can look around and give each other looks of uncertainty like I do not know what I am doing 'ecause when I am in my apartment it is just kind of me staring at the screen like ahh . But now at least I have someone to make eye contact with when I am going through stuff.  But a lot of people do not like it. A lot of professors are worried about the health risks. Some professors got to decide whether to move to online teaching but it really depends on your supervisor or your department.  So you wear two hats in this conversation Sebastian because not only are you a reporter covering all of this you are also an adjunct professor at the University of Missouri. So what has that been like? What has teaching class been like?  Yeah it is been a little strange. As a health reporter I have been covering COVID for half a year now so I am very aware of the risks. I would have preferred to teach it online like I did in the spring when we shut down. But I did not really have that choice. So like all professors I was given a clear plastic face shield and that is for accessibility so students who need to read lips can still see my face. And my classroom is not that big for 20 students but we have spread out the desks as much as possible. And I am just kind of realizing that I will have to adjust how I teach. I am used to really hands-on teaching going over to students' desks helping them with their computers. And I am really having to do a lot of thinking on my feet now.  That was Sebastian Martinez Valdivia from the University of Missouri and Christine Herman at the University of Illinois. Thanks to you both.  Thank you Rachel.  Thank you. 