 All right let us report now on a different kind of threat - sexual assault on campus. Dozens of colleges are being investigated over their handling of sexual assault cases. It turns out incoming freshmen are especially vulnerable. The first 6 weeks of the semester are known as the red zone when a student is most likely to experience rape or an attempted rape. NPR has been reporting on ways to prevent sexual assaults on campus. And this morning some new technology. Several new smartphone apps offer quick ways for students who are facing dangerous or uncomfortable situations to reach out to friends connect with resources on campus or call the police. We spoke with Juana Summers from NPR's Ed team.  One of the most popular ones is something called the Circle of 6. And what it does - a person can pick six friends to reach out to at a moment's notice if they need help or support.  Now you say a moment's notice - I am imagining someone being in a difficult situation where they feel like they are being threatened by a person they are with. I mean you cannot imagine they would have that much time to actually do something on their mobile device. What actually happens? What plays out here?  You are exactly right. And that is one of the questions I  asked Nancy Schwartzman who is one of the creators of Circle of 6. And she said that it is really a two-click process - because a man or woman has already selected six friends as part of their circle they can just click an icon click again and it sends a text message to those friends. For example call me and pretend you need me I need an interruption. Another one is come and get me I need help getting home safely. Call when you are close. And that'ill actually add a GPS alert so the person can see where you are because sometimes if you are at an unfamiliar place you might not have an address at your disposal. But you really need someone to be there in that moment.  I see. And these are messages that have already been scripted out and that would automatically send to your six friends in  your network.  Absolutely. I tried it on my own iPhone. It is literally you click the icon that corresponds to what you want the friend to do you click it again to fire off the text message. So it is really a matter of seconds. And that is what they are hoping will really make the difference.  Now I mean college campuses have been dealing with this threat for a long time. It is the famous blue light phone boxes on campuses. Is this definitely some sort of improvement over those things?  First of all statistics show they are not really all that often used. And what is also really interesting is that research shows that most rapes and sexual assault that happen happen from someone you know. It is not someone jumping out of the bushes when you are walking out of the library. But what people do have in their hands is a smartphone at all times whether you are in the library or in a bar off-campus. You are more likely to have that piece of technology with you. And that is why so many developers are focusing on that.  So let us imagine a scenario here - if someone has their smartphone they do a click. It sends a message out to your six friends. You know you have done your part to get the message out. You are relying though on these six people or at least one of them to actually do something and be available too.  You absolutely are. And that is part of the cultural aspect of this that many of these developers talk about. It is creating a broader network of bystanders on campus. So while you might be alone in the room with someone who is perhaps making you uncomfortable you are calling on your friends and you are letting them  know hey I am counting on you to be here for me to help me stay safe to be part of my network and part of my support system.  So have they actually tested this app yet? Is it effective?  That is actually starting this fall. Circle of 6 will be going to Williams College in Massachusetts for a two-year pilot program. They will be rolling this out to freshman at orientation. So it will be really interesting to see what that research says and how those men and women are able to build out their networks and use this as they will be entering a new space in testing this out firsthand.  So Circle of 6 is one of these. There some other apps that you have been looking at too?  There are a number of other apps. Some are coming from colleges - Loyola University in Chicago for example recently released a campus-specific app. And some of these solutions - one of the more interesting ones I found actually does not have anything to do with your smartphone at all. It is a tool called Calysto it is still in beta. And what Calysto aims to do is gives a person a safe space to say these are the very concrete details of what happened and when and how and then you can just store it there. You do not have to do anything with it. At the end you have three options - you can either trigger a report to law enforcement right then and there you can choose to save the information do nothing with it come back to it later just kind of leave it in the vault or the third option is if you perhaps name your assailant or other person who is assaulted you you then have the opportunity to trigger a report if more than one person says that they have been a victim of that person.  That is Juana Summers from NPR's Ed team. Juana thanks for coming by.  Thank you David.  It is an important issue that NPR Ed team plans to keep covering. You hear their reporting here on MORNING EDITION and also on our sister program All Things Considered. We have much more here on MORNING EDITION and All Things Considered picks up where we left off later today. 