 License plates are strictly utilitarian in most states - a number to identify a car. Some states a little artwork - oranges in Florida a peach in Georgia - slogans like land of Lincoln in Illinois live free or die in New Hampshire. But in Delaware license plates can be investments.   Let me get 200 225 200000...  On Monday a license plate hit the block at Emmert Auction Associates in Rehoboth Beach. William Butch Emmert is owner of that auction house. Thanks for being with us Mr. Emmert.  My pleasure.  How much did it go for?   Sold - 410000...  Four hundred ten thousand dollars for license plate No. 20.  Did it belong to Marilyn Monroe or Abraham Lincoln? What makes...   Nope it was from an estate up in northern Delaware - from Greenville Del. - and a lovely lady that passed away you know of some means and was not a celebrity. But anybody that has tag like that inherently is a celebrity in the state of Delaware.  And I still do not quite understand. I mean I am a baseball fan but still do not understand why the Honus Wagner card is worth millions of dollars. What makes a license plate worth almost half a million dollars?  Well in the state of Delaware the governor has No. 1. The lieutenant governor has No. 2. The secretary of state has No. 3. Everything above No. 3 from 3 to infinity are all there available and can be traded. Originally they were traded for political favors in the '40s and '50s. And then later as it became much more prominent to trade them - you know to sell them for money - what you are actually doing is you are exchanging tags with someone who has a worthless tag and the cost is the boot.  Well it is not a worthless tag it lets you drive right?  It is not a worthless tag at all. I am talking about someone trades a worthless tag for the expensive tag and puts it on their car. It is not the plate it is the number. You know in the state of Delaware it is strictly the number. It is a way of transferring wealth from one generation to another. It is like owning a great piece of art. We have seen these tags like No. 20 - in 1958 '59 this tag was worth 5000. It just sold for 410000.  If you would bought gold bullion at those prices I am not sure they would be - they would have multiplied that much.  No I am sure not. Very recently one of my customers had a low tag on his car and a gentleman pulled him off the road and asked him if he had come over on the Mayflower. You know that...  .   You know that is - it is old-line Delaware families that are wealthy.  But let me understand it. In theory someone who is a descendant of the founder of Delaware who had - let us all make it up - who had let us say license plate 15...  Right.  ...Could sell that to some Eastern European billionaire who just came over right?  Oh absolutely. We had people bidding on the tag No. 20 and other tags that we had in the sale that were in Norway but on vacation. But you know as long as you are a Delaware resident and you have a license in Delaware you can certainly do it. Several years back we sold the world record for a single-digit plate we sold No. 6 for around 700000.  May I ask - what is your license plate?  One hundred seven.  That is a good one right?  Yeah yeah yeah it is a good one. Actually I have several. I have several low license plates. I do not have any as low as 20 or anything like that but I have some pretty good low ones.  Butch Emmert owns Emmert Auction Associates in Delaware. Thanks very much for being with us Mr. Emmert.   Scott my great pleasure.  And may all your license plates be low numbers.   There you go.  