 Ladies and gentlemen your attention please.  We should begin every segment of the program that way. But it is from the Heart of America Shakespeare Festival at Southmoreland Park in Kansas City. And it is part of our midsummer series called World's A Stage. So let us spend a little time with the players on that stage.  And now it is time for Twelfth Night. Enjoy.    If music be the food of love play on.  My name is Bree Elrod. And I am playing Viola. And there is something beautiful and magical about being outside and doing Shakespeare. And at night sometimes the sun is setting. And then the moon starts to rise. And you are just - you are hearing Shakespeare's words. And you are thinking yeah this is a pretty great night.  I will on with my speech in your praise and show you the heart of my message.   Come to what is important and I forgive you the praise.   Alas I took great pains to study it. It is poetical.   'Tis the more liked to be feigned. I pray you keep it in.  Brandon Pennington . We decided to bring a picnic of fruits and vegetables and some cheeses along with some non-alcoholic sparkling cider for the girls - the young ones - and some wine and Summer Shandy for the adults. We actually came out before the girls were ever born and really enjoyed it and wanted to expose them to some of the culture of Kansas City that they have not been exposed to yet.  Greg Mackender performer and composer. I have been with it since the very beginning starting in 1993. It is really quite humbling to - and gives me a better appreciation of everything that actors do and the discipline they have in their craft. I have had actors tell me you know it just really energizes them.  I am Phil Fiorini. And I am playing Feste the fool.  When that I was and a little tiny boy with a hey a ho the wind and the rain. I like that about this epilogue. That life happens - it is basically you know the raineth  - raineth every day. And we take the good and the bad with life. And yet we are here to take you away for a little bit as actors as performers.  And that is all one. Our play is done. And we strive to please you every day.  That visit to the Heart of America Shakespeare Festival was produced by Laura Spencer of member station KCUR. 