 Our colleague Sam Sanders has been covering Trump this week. He spoke to supporters at a rally in Florida last night.  You might think Trump supporters are pretty down right now. Well you are wrong. The Trump fans I talked to this week have few problems or concerns with his campaign. I heard things like this. So what do you make of the polls that show Trump down?  Do not worry about that. That is a fake.  The polls are fake?  That is a fake.  That is Lucy Orlando. She was at Trump's Fort Lauderdale rally last night. Another Trump supporter there Cindy Lancione she defended Trump's Second Amendment comments from earlier this week even as many said his words appeared to call for violence against Hillary Clinton.  I do not believe that crap. I do not believe that. I saw it. They put a spin on it. He does not mean half the things people think he means.  This is what lots of Trump supporters were saying last night. The polls are wrong. The media are wrong. Trump is right and Trump will win. But beneath this confidence there is a big question facing Trump and his supporters. Given the current state of the race should Trump change his style at all?  I think he is inflammatory.  You do think he is inflammatory?  I think he is inflammatory but I think it is a purpose.  That is Christine Mancini and she says Trump got this far by saying things that make your ears perk up.  So if he was going to come and try to draw 20000 people to an event and he recited the Constitution he would have 300 people come.  But several Trump supporters also said it would not hurt for him to tone it down a bit to focus. Again Cindy Lancione. You are in a room with Trump. You have got his ear. What do you say to him?  Just settle down. You are going to make it. Settle down.  You think he will settle down?  Yeah I do.  Maybe he will. Maybe he will not. Last night Trump was on fire. At one point he called Barack Obama the founder of ISIS.   And I would say the co-founder would be crooked Hillary Clinton.  Trump also took time to address criticism of his tone.   Hillary Clinton said I do not like his tone. See I do not like her temperament because her temperament is the temperament of a loser.  Trump went on to say quote we need a tough temperament. It would be safe to assume he is talking about his own. Sam Sanders NPR News Fort Lauderdale. 