 A Room Called Earth is a novel that opens with a young woman as she gets ready for a holiday party in Melbourne. Getting ready takes 17 chapters. Every detail has a reason for being as the narrator tells us my inner processes can be visceral to the point of being completely illusory and absurd. Let us ask Madeleine Ryan the author of A Room Called Earth to bring us inside the mind of her character.   One time I went to a doctor about some paperwork that I needed for something completely unrelated to anything medical and she asked me if I was taking prescription medication. Like was I on anti-anxiety meds or antidepressants perhaps? I tried to explain to her that I did not feel comfortable having my feelings meddled with. She looked at me over her teeny-tiny glasses and insisted that taking medication might help me deal with difficult feelings. And I said no thank you before sharing with her that feelings were not supposed to be dealt with they were supposed to be felt with. She remained silent and I took that silence as an opportunity to go on to say that no matter how hard it might be to feel feelings and to think thoughts they are all that I have and they mean a lot to me.  Madeleine Ryan the novelist writer and director joins us from Victoria Australia. Thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you so much for having me Scott.  There is really not a label or an ism in this book but would it help us to understand your character and this novel for you to use one in this interview?  Sure. We can use one you know one important one sparingly but we can use it definitely. And that would be autism yeah.  And you know this world.  I do. I do. I am autistic and I was diagnosed as autistic when I was writing the book. Yeah so it was a very intimate adventure writing this book in lots of ways.  An intimate adventure but at the same time did it help you in writing this book to stand outside of yourself and look in in a sense?  Definitely. She helped me to embrace so much about how I process thoughts feelings and experiences. It sort of dawned on me that she was autistic too. It kind of took some time. Like I kept writing once I got the diagnosis. I did not really think about it too much. And then one day I was sitting outside sort of having a cup of tea. And you know I was like you know if you know this is in the first person so I am inside her mind and if I am kind of harnessing the way that I process feelings and thoughts and experiences and if I am applying that here to help bring her to life does that mean that she is autistic? I just felt this big warm yes and it was like - it was such a relief too and it felt like she would chosen me. And in a sense from that point on she really helped me to embrace autism.  Can you help us understand that getting dressed over 17 chapters...  .  ...Which by the way is at once exhausting and stunning?  Oh thank you. Yeah. I mean sort of savoring every moment with herself and in her world is her special place. And I think that there is also something to be said for the power of getting ready for an event and kind of the stories or imaginings you can weave of what is to come. It is like this beautiful sweet spot before the event where you can kind of imagine how amazing it is going to be. And you are in this place where you do not - you know the reality of it has not kind of confronted you yet and you can dream it into being and be with yourself and care for yourself. And so hence the 17 chapters of it .  Yeah. Forgive me but did an editor ever say to you you know after five or six chapters OK I get the point?   No actually. Not when it came to her rituals and routines no. I mean no they never touched her inner world.  Without giving away too much of the storyline a romance ensues in the course of this novel. And when someone tells your character I wish I could see what you see I have found this just about the tenderest expression of love I have ever heard.  Wow yeah. Well I think it could be. It feels like that is also at the core of what this story's about too. Like what is it like to be inside someone else and to see what they see? And to encounter someone that you find yourself yearning for that kind of experience with them - I mean that - yeah - that has to be the definition of intimacy.  I do not have to tell you a lot of people around the world now are spending more time by themselves than ever perhaps. And for a lot of people after all these weeks and months they are past enjoying it.   You know? I wonder if people who read your novel now can take something from it in these times.  I hope so. I mean this book is a real celebration of having space with yourself in lots of ways or how that can become a very loving experience. And I mean she is not without challenges. She is not without pain. But she is found a space to hold that both in her physical world but also in her inner world. Because I think a lot of time alone you are confronted with yourself. We are confronted with ourselves. There is nowhere to run. There is nowhere to hide. You cannot rush out. And that is certainly been the case for a lot of people obviously this year. And this book is I guess a testament to how that space can be a loving one even if there are challenges.  I think anybody who reads this book will if I may mention the word one more time will cease to think of autism as a disability but maybe see it as an opportunity.  I would love for them to see it as an opportunity and I think the word autism could use a bit of love and be expanded. And if it becomes something that is synonymous with the idea of opportunity that is a beautiful choice of word because I really think it is a different way of seeing the world and experiencing sensations and processing thoughts. And there is a huge value to someone who has a different perspective and an autistic person is always going to have that so yes opportunity absolutely.  Madeleine Ryan - her novel A Room Called Earth - thank you so much for being with us.  Thanks Scott for having me. It is been a pleasure.  