 Yesterday the government released retail sales figures for July. They were not as bad as some had feared but they were not pretty. And retailers are bracing for the worst as the all-important back-to-school shopping season gets underway. From Seattle NPR's Wendy Kaufman reports.  Back-to-school shopping is second only to Christmas for retail sales and right now many retailers are just trying to survive. Consumers are in no mood to buy and when they do many are trading down moving from full-price stores to discounters. Discounters have lured in customers like Stephanie Broadbend and her daughter Ashley who is in college. Yesterday they were making their way through the aisles of a very noisy TJ Maxx store in suburban Seattle. Ms.  I think that unlessI do not buy something unless I know what I am going to do with it or I have tolike an outfit like where to wear it.  And where are you buying it? Are you shopping at different stores that you might have? Your mom's shaking her head yes. Ms.  Yeah we shop at TJ Maxx and stores like Ross and stuff.  The National Retail Federation estimates that per family back-to-school sales will be down eight percent from last year and 2008 was not exactly a banner year. Patricia Edwards an analyst at Storehouse Partners says the weak economy and tight credit are the main factors affecting back-to-school retail. But Edwards says the shopping experience is not helping. As retailers try to cut costs they have eliminated sales staff they are reduced the amount of stuff they are carrying and Edwards says what is left is not all that inspiring. Ms.  The trends especially for the teens which is where the spending happens for back-to-school they are the same. They only thing they have really added is plaid. And you know you go out buy one or two plaid pieces of clothing and you are set.  The Retail Federation recently completed a survey in which four out of five consumers said the economy has changed their back-to-school spending plans. And the group believes this will be one of the worst fall shopping seasons in a generation. Federation Vice President Ellen Davis says spending among college students is expected to be down dramatically. Far more students - 20 percent more in fact - will be living at home compared to the number two years ago. Ms.  When college students live with mom and dad they are obviously not going to be going to the stores to buy home furnishings and home dcor. So you know you do not need silverware a microwave and extra long sheets. So retailers who might be selling some of those items might find that supply outweighs demand at least this year.  For college students and others who are shopping Noreen Perrotta an editor at Consumer Reports says find out if your state is having a sales tax holiday - a period of time when you do not pay the tax. If you are buying a big-ticket item like a computer you can save a bundle. She adds the best deal on a computer may be at an unexpected place. Ms.  You may want to look into buying it on campus. You know when my daughter went to college we checked Apple.com we checked Best Buy and we checked her campus text store and the text store had the best price.  She adds one more shopping tip. This one applies to just about everything go online and look for discount coupons. Two of her favorite sites are Retail Me Not and Coupon Cabin. But Chris Curtis offers a very different kind of advice. She was also bargain hunting at TJ Maxx. As the economy has soured she said her family has been donating more things to charity. Ms.  Whenever you pare down you realize what you do not need. So compared to last year we are more mindful of what we need instead of just buying something. And so the spontaneity we just do not do that anymore. And maybe a year ago two years ago we would have.  The retail environment has changed dramatically and analyst Patricia Edwards says retailers will have to start rethinking what normal looks like. Consumers she says are not going to be spending what they did in the past even after the economy turns around. Wendy Kaufman NPR News Seattle. 