 As Afghans adjust to a new reality under the Taliban Afghanistan's neighbors are doing the same. The country's allies and foes alike are all trying to figure out what the new diplomatic reality will be there. To help us unpack that we are joined now by NPR's Lauren Frayer who is based in Mumbai India. Hey Lauren.  Hi there.  Let us start with the humanitarian situation. Are Afghanistan's neighbors seeing any influx of refugees at their borders?  Well Pakistan and Iran which both border Afghanistan are the countries that have absorbed the most Afghan refugees over the years. And both actually reinforced their borders this week so made it more difficult to cross those borders. Both have also been accused in the past of mistreating Afghan refugees in some cases even sending them back. Uzbekistan Tajikistan other Central Asian countries have all seen Afghans trying to get in. Many of them are former Afghan soldiers. Turkey while not bordering Afghanistan directly has also been a big destination for Afghan refugees. And Turkey's been building a border wall with Iran to block the land route that Afghans use. So - but all of these countries are accepting thousands of Afghans by air. And actually the U.S. is working with them. So today the Pentagon announced it is activating the civil reserve air fleet. So this is - this allows the U.S. Defense Department to have access to commercial aircraft from United Airlines American Airlines Delta a few others. And the U.S. military will operate military flights in and out of Kabul to other countries. And then U.S. commercial flights will then help carry those evacuees onward from regional airports.  What about diplomacy? Are countries just switching in the course of the past week really from dealing with the previous Afghan government to dealing with the Taliban?  Yeah. It is a big change. Pakistan has long been accused of arming training funding the Taliban so those communications are already well-established. And there have actually been some celebrations in Pakistan this week. Russia's ambassador said he is pleased with the Taliban's conduct so far. The Kremlin also has spent years developing contacts with the Taliban. I mean even India very close with the government of the former president Ashraf Ghani is believed to have established back channels of communication to the Taliban many months ago though officials will not confirm that. Interesting report in the Indian media this week was that as the Taliban entered Kabul they reportedly got in touch with India and asked India to keep its embassy in Kabul open promised to keep diplomats safe. And India weighed that request but then at the same time got intelligence that Pakistan-based militants had also entered Kabul with the Taliban. And that is basically India's worst fear. These are militants who have attacked India before. And so India closed its embassy very quickly and evacuated its diplomats. But it is interesting because it shows sort of the Taliban's calculus. Like they want other countries not just Pakistan and China to keep diplomats on the ground that that might lend legitimacy to the incoming Taliban regime however it looks.  What other countries have kept their embassies open so far?  So China Pakistan Iran Russia among others. And that is an early indication of the countries willing to do business with the Taliban and potentially an indication of those who could fill this massive vacuum left by the United States. I spoke with Nirupama Rao. She is a former foreign secretary of India. She was also ambassador to the U.S. and to China. And she says China sees Afghanistan as potentially part of its Belt and Road project this giant global network of Chinese infrastructure.  They want to build that great wall of steel to use Xi Jinping's words exploiting Afghanistan's very rich natural resources and bringing Afghanistan into this whole network of connectivity. And they are not going to be talking about human rights while they are doing this.  So she says China for example could look the other way on women's rights. But China's also worried about security. It does not want Afghanistan to become a base for militants. And that is a fear shared by many countries including India where I am.  In the few seconds we have left India - it is the world's biggest democracy. Afghanistan is in the region. How - what is the view from India on the fall of Afghanistan?  India's worried. I mean a Taliban takeover means there is one less democracy in the region to the extent that the U.S.-backed government in Afghanistan after Ashraf Ghani's government was a democracy - a fledgling one. But it did not hold. And a U.S. failure in Afghanistan is being seen as a failure of democracy in the region. And so that is very worrying for other democracies like India.  That is NPR's Lauren Frayer in Mumbai. Thanks Lauren.  You are welcome.  