 Jerry Falwell Jr.'s role at Liberty University is in doubt. The university says he resigned but then had second thoughts. Falwell tells NPR things remain quote up in the air. He is the son of Jerry Falwell Sr. a pastor who played a leading role in making evangelicals a stronger political force in this country. Falwell Sr. also founded the Christian school that now has many thousands of students. Falwell Jr. is not a pastor but has run the university and is a very public supporter of President Trump. Now a former business partner says he had a years-long sexual relationship involving both Falwell and Falwell's wife. Aram Roston with Reuters has been reporting on this story for quite some time and is on the line. Good morning.  Good morning.  Who is the former business partner and what did he tell you?  So we are talking about a young man named Giancarlo Granda and he is been written about before because he was in business - he would been set up in this business that owns a youth hostel in South Beach by the Falwells. They have put millions of dollars into this youth hostel. He met them when he was 20 years old. He was working at the Fontainebleau Hotel and he said that is where he met them. And he said he began a intimate relationship with Becki Falwell and that Jerry Falwell liked to watch their encounters. The relationship he said went on for years from 2012 really up until 2018.  Why did he decide to talk to you now?  He said that over the years his impression of the Falwells has evolved substantially. Again he was 20 years old when he met them. Now he is 29. He is older. He said that he is trying to disentangle and sever himself from them and that he is still at the same time involved in this business with them. He is one of three owners of this business that owns the youth hostel. He is trying to sever himself from it. He says he finally wants to speak freely.  What is Jerry Falwell Jr. saying about these allegations?  So Jerry Falwell Jr.'s attorney - basically as we report - had denied the allegations but had not given us an interview at all and commented specifically on what we were asking. Right before we were about to publish Falwell issued a statement to a small newspaper in Washington D.C. and in that statement he said that his wife had an affair with somebody he did not name but he was clearly referring to Granda. He said that he was depressed about it. He learned about it later he said. He said he was not involved and that - he said that he had been extorted. He raised the idea that he was being extorted by this - or he and Becki were being extorted by this young man.  Could you give us a sense of the political significance the public significance of these private matters? What has Jerry Falwell's role been in public life?  He had tremendous impact on the 2016 presidential election I think everybody agrees because he was the first and most powerful evangelical to endorse Donald Trump right before the Iowa caucuses. Another story that evolved at Reuters - we did a story last year where we reported that Michael Cohen the president's disgraced lawyer and fixer had been the one who arranged Falwell's endorsement of Trump. And we reported that he did this after helping the Falwells involving an issue of some racy photos. So in many ways Falwell's been a object of curiosity for a couple of years now.  Aram Roston is a reporter with Reuters and spoke with a former business partner of Jerry Falwell Jr. whose future at Liberty University remains in doubt this morning. Mr. Roston Thanks.  Thank you so much. 