 There is a lot of psychology involved in the Olympics. Athletes choke teams play mind games with one another but the psychology does not end with the competition. It turns out to extend to the medal ceremony. NPR's science correspondent Shankar Vedantam joins us regularly to talk about interesting social science research. He is here. Hi Shankar.  Hi Steve. So here's what I have. I want you to listen to two pieces of tape. You are going to hear from two athletes. They have just finished competing at the London Olympics. One of them won the silver medal and one of them won the bronze medal.  OK.  And I want you to tell from the emotion in their voices which one got the silver and which one got the bronze.  All right.  That is absolutely fantastic and I think that shows that we really did follow our training program building up to the Olympics and yeah so I was very proud today.  I do not know what went wrong what I did differently from the heat to the semi to the final. There is just some point of me that just feels like I disappointed so many people. It is kind of tough and you know I do not want to let people down.  OK. Let me think this through. You are saying that one of these people won a silver one won a bronze. One sounds pretty happy he says fantastic in a very calm way and the other sounds utterly crushed. So could it be that the guy who said fantastic was the silver medalist?  Well that is what you would think but it turns out that the happy guy was Christian Thomas from Team Great Britain and they won the bronze medal in the men's gymnastics and the really unhappy woman was Emily Seebohm from Australia right after she won the silver right behind Missy Franklin of the United States in the 100 meter backstroke. And I have notice a pattern the last few nights watching the Olympics Steve which is that the bronze medal winners invariably seem to be happier than the silver medal winners.  Wait a minute. So you just barely make it onto the medal stand and you are like whoo I am here and if you get silver you are crushed. What is going on there?  Well a bunch of researchers actually looked at this a few years ago. They are Victoria Medvec Scott Madey and Thomas Gilovich and they looked at athletes in the 1992 Barcelona Olympics and they looked at photographs of the athletes on the victory podium and they also listened to tape of the athletes right after they had competed and they found a systematic pattern which that the silver medal winners tended to be unhappy or look more unhappy and the bronze medal winners tended to be happier.  OK. I could guess why that might be but you tell me. Why would that be?  Well so the researchers think that it has to do with something called framing which is as human beings we are not very good at objectively judging how happy we should be or how ell we have performed. So if you had to judge whether you have a nice car or a big house or a smart kid what you do is you end up comparing yourself to other people's cars or other people's houses or other people's kids. So we are not very good at judging our performance in an absolute sense.  Mm-hmm.  And so what is happening with the silver and bronze medal winners is that the silver medal winners are saying if only I had done a little bit better I could have won the gold...  Had the gold.  ...whereas the bronze medal winners are comparing themselves to all the chumps who did not win a medal at all and just saying at least I got on the victory podium.  Could there be other factors here having to do with individual athletes and what they expected coming in? Some people might unexpectedly win the bronze when they thought they were going to get nothing.  I think that is right. So in the case of Team Great Britain this is the first medal in the men's gymnastics they are winning in a hundred years and Emily Seebohm was widely tipped to win the gold. And so clearly her expectations were shattered. Now the researchers controlled for expectations in their study and they found that regardless of whether people met expectations or exceeded expectations the pattern still held. That if you won the silver medal you tended to be unhappier than if you won the bronze. But the question of expectation actually still raises a deeper question. I am not sure you really intended it but let me try and get to it which is that in both cases regardless of whether you are judging how happy you should feel by comparing yourself to others or you are judging how happy you should feel by comparing yourself to your own expectations. In both cases you are not measuring your happiness based on objective reality you are basing your happiness based on stuff that is happening inside your own head.  Hmm which is a good thing to remember and I suppose the lesson here is that whatever you are doing in life you want to try to finish third is that right?   Well I actually think that there is a tension here between what a sports coach will tell you and what a life coach would tell you. Because a sports coach would say you know perennial disappointment and high expectations may lead to disappointment but that is what leads to better performance.  All right.  But the life coach is going to say you know perennially comparing yourselves to other people or even to your own expectations is a recipe for unhappiness.  Hmm. Well Shankar Vedantam this has been a bronze medal segment. Thank you very much.  Thanks Steve.  NPR science correspondent Shankar Vedantam. You can follow him on Twitter hiddenbrain. You can also follow this program morningedition and nprinskeep. 