 Now the images from Ferguson - images of heavily armed police - have triggered a national debate about whether American cops have become too militarized. President Obama pointed to that concern yesterday.   There is a big difference between our military and our local law enforcement and we do not want those lines blurred. That would be contrary to our traditions.  But policing experts have been sounding the alarm about so-called militarization for years now. And many of them say the gear itself is not the real problem. NPR's Martin Kaste reports.  Sue Rahr was once the sheriff of Seattle's King County. Now she is the director of Washington state's police academy. She is one of the few people who was not surprised to see police militarization become a hot topic nationally.  This is something that has bothered me for the last couple of years.  She says it really hit her about two years ago when she took over at the Academy.  After 33 years in law enforcement I was surprised at how militaristic the training regiment had become.  The Academy had become a kind of boot camp and aspiring police officers were expected to snap to attention - their eyes front like soldiers. She says the Academy was teaching these new cops to be cold and distant instead of being friendly communicators. And she thinks there is been a nationwide evolution in the mindset of police - that it is gone from beat cop to Robocop from guardian to warrior.  The mindset of a guardian is I am here to protect. The mindset of a warrior is I am here to conquer. We are not sending police officers into communities to conquer them.  Assuming Rahr's analysis is correct why did it happen? She thinks it started in the late '70s when SWAT teams were invented and cops moved away from regular beats. Others blame militarization on the war on drugs or on the Pentagon which started giving its surplus gear to the police in the 1990s. Or maybe American police have just always had a military streak.  I mean I think in some ways I think there are elements of fear.  Brian Buchner is the president of the National Association for Civil Oversight of Law Enforcement. He says the reality for cops in America is just different than it is in other developed countries.  Police officers in this country have a greater level of fear that circumstances or persons that they encounter can cause them harm.  To be blunt American cops have an entirely rational fear of getting shot. And increasingly they are afraid of being outgunned. Tom Nolan is a former Boston cop who is now a professor of criminal justice. He says you do need heavy weapons for some situations. The danger though is when the cops start to see every situation that way.  In practice what could happen is anytime a police officer believes that someone might be armed it could justify taking out the semi-automatic rifle. And that is my concern.  But does it make sense to blame the gear? Despite her intense criticism of militarization Sue Rahr says no.  I think the gear is a visible symptom. But I do not think the gear is driving the culture.  She knows that people are focusing on the gear right now that the late-night comedians are mocking the small-town police departments with their armored personnel carriers. But she says those armored vehicles sure came in handy for her when she had officers who were pinned down by automatic gunfire. Rahr says the military gear should be kept out of sight until there is a real need for it. But she also thinks Americans should ask themselves why they ever became so tolerant of the site of police acting like soldiers. Martin Kaste NPR News Seattle. 