 Time now for sports.   There was big news in the NFL this past week. The Arizona Cardinals hired a new coach. Does not sound like a big deal you say except this coach is a woman. Her name is Jen Welter and this is a first for the entire league. But anytime any kind of sporting team hires someone out of the ordinary there is talk about whether or not said person will be a quote distraction to the team. Mike Pesca has been ruminating on this idea. He joins me now. Hey Mike.  Hello.  All right can you just start off by telling us more about this new coach Jen Welter? Who is she? What is her background?  Yeah she is got a long time in football about 15 years. She played professional women's football for a long time. Then she became the only woman in a non-kicking position to play in a man's game in the Indoor or the Arena Football League as it is sometimes called. She has a PhD in psychology. Add it all - she loves football - add it all up those are called kind of impressive credentials.   OK she is legit. But I am going to be the spoilsport here and point out the fact that this is not a full-time coaching job right? She is part of an intern program.  Right. So the NFL has a program - and teams do this where just to get other people in the pipeline and in the name of diversity in the name of just you know more opportunity. So she during the summer - during the preseason - will be coaching in an internship position paid the inside linebackers. But that does not mean this is a sham. From this very program other assistant coaches NFL head coaches have emerged. So she will really be doing coaching. And the Cardinal staff will really see what she is got.  All right but apparently there are some who say that just having a female on the coaching staff at all is going to be a distraction. Who is saying this and what is their argument? Because I mean come on it is 2015.  There are some and there is this thing called social media.  I have heard of it .  And whenever there is some  those some will say it on social media. But also you know sports talk radio even in the headline of just about the number one football blog the main quote was Bruce Arians coach of the Cardinals saying she will not be a distraction. So the question is...  So he is anticipating that criticism.  Yes why would she be a distraction? I think that you know some fans maybe do not want to be brave enough just to say I am sexist and this is wrong. So they say oh maybe she will be a distraction. And then if you look at the case of Michael Sam the NFL player the - who - first openly gay player there was so much media attention. And it does become a sort of self-fulfilling prophecy. But I also think that it is because fans or at least those posing the question do not understand the mindset of the professional athlete. And yeah they have to have physical gifts but you have to be so laser-focused. The mental part of the game is so important. I talked to longtime sports journalist Jeff Pearlman about this. He has written books on Roger Clemens Barry bonds the '86 Mets the Dallas Cowboys of the Michael Irvin Emmit Smith Troy Aikman-era in other words great athletes in teams who should be distracted and just were not. Now Pearlman thought of one instance where maybe you could say there was a distraction.  When Emmitt Smith held out and missed the first two games of a season it was a distraction. But it was really a distraction because the guy who replaced him a running back named Derrick Lassic just was not that good.  So well it was not Smith's fault. It was because people just missed him.  Right the falloff from a great player to a not great player hurt the team. The fact that guys were getting stabbed and arrested on that very team did not bother the members of the Dallas Cowboys just like there is no way that Jen Welter will bother the members of the Arizona Cardinals. In fact she might prove to be an excellent asset. You know Becky Hammon is a coach and she is on the bench with the San Antonio Spurs. And there was less talk of a distraction there just because the Spurs have proven themselves to be such an efficient excellent team. And I think what we are going to see with football - yes it is unusual to perhaps some people who have sports talk radio shows. But we are going to see that this is going to be no problem whatsoever. It almost never is.  Mike Pesca never a distraction - well sometimes but in a good way. He is the host of Slate's The Gist podcast. Thanks Mike.  Thanks Rachel. 