 The next story turns from the question of whether a sick patient should keep fighting to whether they should be able to end their life. In Europe many countries are struggling with whether doctors should be allowed to help in that process. Some like Belgium are making it easier. Parliament there approved euthanasia as an option for terminally ill children earlier this year. In Germany officials are considering what many fear could effectively be a ban on assisted suicide. We should warn you that you are about to hear some pretty graphic descriptions. Here's NPR's Soraya Sarhaddi Nelson.  For Stefan Daniel the hardest part of living with multiple sclerosis is losing control. The clinical psychologist who is a former runner is confined to a electric wheelchair. His hands shake and arms lurch uncontrollably. And he is completely reliant on caretakers like this young man...  .  ...Who heads out the door to pick up Daniel's prescriptions. Daniel who struggles to speak says his helpers come four times a day.  They clean my apartment they are cooking and they are taking me out of bed in the morning.  But the 51-year-old rarely leaves his ground-floor flat anymore.  I like to go outside but it is so difficult for me to open the doors. You have seen my shivering or shaking and it makes it so difficult and I have to be inside.  Daniel says he is accepted that his symptoms will only get worse. But he says there is one thing he will not give up to the disease the choice of how and when he will die. Daniel is one of many German patients who are turning to doctors for help with committing suicide. Experts and officials here say it could be hundreds or thousands. No one knows for sure. When asked how he feels about his choice Daniel smiles for the first time during our interview.  Only one word is in me - freedom. I do not have to think about how I will end my life.  He is being advised by his friend Christian Arnold a retired urologist. Arnold has been dubbed Doctor death by some German media because of this public advocacy for assisted suicide. Not just for terminally ill patients but for those like Daniel. He estimates he is helped a couple hundred patients end their lives.  So I had experience and I can accept the wish of a patient very easily. I think as a doctor it is my duty to go along with a patient and help him.  Dr. Arnold says he always tells patients about alternatives like palliative care and pain management. But in the end it is up to them.  Suicide and assisting suicide is not punishable in Germany. So everybody can do it.  Nevertheless it remains a murky legal question here. Killing terminally ill patients directly even if requested is illegal. But prescribing certain drugs to terminally ill patients and then letting them ingest or inject those medications is allowed. Germany's main medical board overseeing doctors opposes assisted suicide. But German courts have sided with doctors. This fall Chancellor Angela Merkel's government is planning a nation-wide debate on assisted suicide. Her Christian Democratic Union political party has vowed to stop organizations and doctors it claims are profiting from vulnerable patients seeking to kill themselves. Michael Brand is coordinating the CDU's effort on the ban.  .  He says we are not fundamentalist but are looking for a modern and humane answer for the most difficult question. He adds he is mainly going after doctors who have turned assisted suicide into a moneymaking venture. Elke Baezner who heads the German Society for Humane Dying says she understands the political desire to protect vulnerable patients but dredging out their care against their will and at great expense is also abuse she says.  .  She says our goal is to find a safe secure way for people who want to die to be able to do so peacefully and without pain. She like many German advocates of assisted suicide fears what  Germany will end up with as a de facto ban on assisted suicide. The ailing Daniel says he is following the debate anxiously. He has planned every detail of his final hours. Which he has decided will come when he can no longer see or speak.  I am worried right now. You understand I cannot lie in the bed and die. I want to sit and die.  He says he will sit on his living room couch with his girlfriend at his side while they listen to a soundtrack from a movie he will pick out featuring his favorite American actor Jeff Bridges. Daniel's last act will be to lift a glass containing a barbiturate he has purchased online drink the concoction and drift off to sleep. Soraya Sarhaddi Nelson NPR News Berlin. 