 It is Friday - time for StoryCorps which often brings us voices we rarely hear. Today - homeless family in Seattle. In 2008 Kris Kalberer was raising her kids while her husband worked at the home loan giant Countrywide. When that company collapsed in the mortgage crisis he lost his job. The family's finances began to spiral out of control and they lost their home in 2011. Since then they have stayed with friends and in motels but not anymore. Here's Kris and her teenage daughter Erika.  You and I and your dad and Jack and the dog - we sleep in our car. When the rain comes down or it is cold and the inside of the windows ice up it is very confusing and lonely. One time we were all asleep and a car pulls up perpendicular to us and turned their brights on and started yelling hey over and over again. And it turns out it is some high school kids waking us up to see who is in the car and what we are doing. I do not think they realized it was a family sleeping in a car. And I just felt ashamed. How is it to be around your friends?  I mean we have been living in our car for over a year now. So I am pretty sure some of them kind of have a hunch. There is only so long you can lie without them like suspecting. But I do not really want them to like pity me. And I have had to adjust the way I do things completely for school. I try to go to the library to do my homework but sometimes that is just kind of impossible - like we are not near one or we do not have enough gas to get to one. And that kind of screwed up my GPA and any chance of getting into colleges I would want to get into. I worry about that a lot. K.  Erika I do not think sometimes you know how strong you are. You are an extremely bright young woman and you can go to college. And you will go to college. E.  You tell me that I have my life ahead of me but I think that you do too. And I have no idea what I would be doing with myself if you were not around. K.  I think this whole thing has taken us for a spin. And this is one thing as a mom I did not expect I would have to try to fix. I have been able to fix everything else but this - I am having a hard time fixing. And I am disappointed that I cannot.  That is the voice of Kris Kalberer and her daughter Erika in Seattle. Their conversation like all StoryCorps interviews will be archived at the Library of Congress. Hear more on the StoryCorps podcast. You can find it on iTunes and at npr.org. 