 Now to some quintessentially American music.   The Motown sound. It is hard to put your finger on what exactly defines it but you know it when you hear it.   One of the key players behind that distinctive sound was David Van De Pitte an arranger who worked on some of the label's most memorable hits. Van De Pitte died earlier this month in his home in Southfield Michigan after a battle with cancer. As an arranger he was considered by music insiders as one of the unsung heroes of Motown. Arrangers did not share the same spotlight as signers or musicians but their role was no less important. Van De Pitte worked with dozens of artists taking the raw idea for a song and translating it into a structured musical language charting what each instrument would play. Music writer Susan Whitehall says you can hear Van De Pitte's work in Stevie Wonder's If You Really Love Me. Ms.  The hook of that song is after every time Stevie's sings if you really love me the trumpets come in after him with a counter-melody a little figure. It is just irresistible.  Mr.   And if you really love me will not you tell me yeah. And if you really love me will not you tell me yeah  Van De Pitte worked with many of Motown's artists including the Temptations the Jackson 5 Martha and the Vandellas the Four Tops Gladys Knight and Eddie Kendricks.  Mr.   Keep on trucking baby. I gotta keep on trucking. Got to get the old truck  The arranger's most noted work was with the late Marvin Gaye. Van De Pitte arranged the album What is Going On and was nominated for a Grammy for arranging the title track. Whitehall says that song is a perfect example of Van De Pitte's talent. Ms.  The thing that you are experiencing when you listen to that song that you are not really aware of are the strings over Marvin's voice are harmonizing and they are also answering. And then they are joined by horns. And it just gives this melancholy counterpoint to his vocals. It is just amazing.  Mr.   Mother mother everybody thinks we are wrong. Oh but who are they to judge us? Simply because our hair is long. Oh you know  David Van De Pitte was a native of Detroit and worked at Motown from 1968 to 1972. He continued to arrange and compose as a freelancer until the months before his death. He died August 9 at the age of 67. This is NPR News. 