 For a while it was tough to avoid this on the radio.   The hit single Crazy launched Cee-Lo Green into the mainstream as half the duo Gnarls Barkley. He went on to release a solo album and he was soon in living rooms as a judge on the NBC show The Voice. That Hollywood persona seems far away from the Atlanta scene where he got his real start with a group called Goodie Mob. They helped put Southern hip-hop on the map in the mid-1990s. Goodie Mob made its name with socially conscious rap music. And now after 14 years all four members including Cee-Lo Green are back together on a new album.   This track I am Set is off Age Against the Machine the new album out today. Cee-Lo Green says getting back to Goodie Mob was an opportunity to return something deeper to hip-hop.  We felt like you know we could bring some maturity bring some consciousness bring some wisdom.  Green joined us to talk about the album along with fellow Goodie Mob member Big Gipp.  When you listen to the radio it seems like everybody just lives in the club 24 hours a day which - we all know that life is not like that. So you know it is almost like it is a perpetuated scenario on just our community.  You said living in the club as opposed to bringing in you know politics and then sort of social awareness and issues like that.  Yeah I mean because look at the times and look at where our community is. You know what I mean? It is like some people say that it is what the people want. But I feel like it is what radio stations and then what program directors push onto the people - and especially young minds.  And Goodie Mob wanted to speak to those young minds with their song Special Education. In it Cee-Lo Green reflects on his own youth as an awkward kid. He was called names like Chicken Head. Special Education features singer Janelle Monae and it highlights Green's roots as a rapper.   Well Cee-Lo tell me what the message is in this song.  The message is originality the bravery to be oneself you know to shed enough light to guide someone else to themselves as well encouraging individuality you know which would ultimately classify as building the new leaders you know?  And it is really to champion those kids that may not be looked at as being cool right now. And you know we are just giving them a theme song well just to let them know that we understand how you feel you know. And right now it is like kids do not have that message. So I mean for Goodie Mob to be able to give them that message - I mean it is a great feeling.  The new album also takes on Cee-Lo Green's rise to fame and his return to Goodie Mob particularly in the song Power.   You realized recently that you had it wrong - what are you talking about there?  Hey man you are asking some good questions early in the morning.  We try. We try.   I am so glad of that. Now I have got the power but I have not had it long. And it was not until recently I realized that I had it wrong. You know? I guess I felt like I was not - to look back in the retrospect I do not know if I was shooting my best shot so to speak. And I had kind of just directed my energies at one demographic trying to better the perception of black music and black entertainment you know - and so much in fact that - you know sometimes I am not even considered a black entertainer anymore. Like I am just Cee-Lo Green. And so this song here is just kind of going back to root and reclaiming you know my position right on the front line and in the middle of a fight in saying that no I still have a very in-depth opinion of our overall state of the art - you know what I mean? - and state of society. You know what I mean - the state of mind. So Power is basically just saying I have acquired a higher platform you know to preach from.   Now Green says the title of this album Age Against the Machine is a nod to the '90s rock-rap group Rage Against the Machine which helped inspire Goodie Mob to take on social themes in their music.  When we classify ourselves as alternative you have to reference Rage Against the Machine because they were socially and politically opinionated rock and rap infused. So it was very different and unique. And so we of course are an extension you know of that eccentricity. And of course we aspire for that distinction ourselves. And in literal terms you know we were a lot more vengeful and I had a lot more rage when we were younger. So Age Against the Machine is not where there is a war of words it is where wisdom is the weapon of choice.  These guys sing about the influence of earlier musicians in their song Father Time.   Tell me what we are hearing.  Father Time? Just a written letter to the rap community to always remember your elders and remember where you got it from. And never feel like the things that you are able to accomplish you will be able to accomplish them if people did not come before you. And I think a lot of artists forget the reason that they are able to reach the heights that they are reaching right now is because somebody fought the battle for them.  No doubt.  Well Cee-Lo Big Gipp thank you guys so much for coming in and talking about this.  Thank you.  Oh thank you so much man. We really appreciate it.   Big Gipp and Cee-Lo Greene from Goodie Mob. The group's new album Age Against the Machine is out today. And you can hear from all four members of Goodie Mob at nprmusic.org. You are listening to PR News. I am David Greene.  And I am Renee Montagne.  