 President Obama's own push to overhaul health care is just one of the challenges his administration is facing - Iran North Korea Afghanistan. This morning more preliminary numbers are out on Afghanistan's presidential election showing Hamid Karzai ahead but with less than the 50 percent of the vote he needs to get reelected. It is one of the things we wanted to ask America's ambassador to the U.N. about when we reached her in her office in New York. Susan Rice is now six months into the job. Good morning. Ambassador  Good morning Renee. Good to be with you.  Let us begin with the latest news. Afghanistan's independent election commission has released preliminary results with President Karzai in the lead. But it does point to a possible runoff. What would be the implications of that? Amb.  Well Renee obviously we need to wait until the entirety of the vote is counted. The United States has been very clear that we do not support any particular individual or candidate but rather the opportunity for the Afghan people to express their will freely. This is going to be a process that yields a legitimate subsequent government is our hope and our expectation.  Well let us turn then to Afghanistan's neighbor Iran which had a disputed election in June and massive protests thereafter as everyone knows. It seems that the U.S. Iran policy has been on hold since those elections. Is that how you see it? Amb.  No Renee. I would not see our policy is on hold. Our interests remain constant and that is to Iran from acquiring any nuclear weapons capacity. That is essential for the security of Israel for the security of the United States and indeed for the wider region of the Middle East. It has been our view that we ought to try to pursue that in the first instance through an effort at negotiation and engagement. And that is why the United States joined with our partners in the Permanent Five of the Security Council -Russia China Britain France plus Germany - to table a proposed approach to the government of Iran. And it is why we have been clear that we are prepared to have a dialogue at the appropriate time and the appropriate level on a bilateral basis. But we have not heard back and our view is very clear of that this is not an offer that will be on the table indefinitely. We think it would be in Iran's best interest to have responded in a constructive fashion as soon as possible.  Now in terms of Iran's nuclear program the U.S. and France have threatened new sanctions if Iran does not respond to the offer to start discussions about its program. What is the argument that tougher economic sanctions would work? Amb.  Well first of all the means that are available range from the incentives to the pressures and economic pressures are already in place to some extent through prior United Nations Security Council actions and steps that we and others have taken. We have reason to believe that they have had some impact and there is obviously the potential for greater pressure. But we are not at that stage yet.  Now on to another question that is come up as this administration - it is been its first month dealing with the United Nations. One of the first big moves was a controversial one rejoining the U.N. Human Rights Council whose members have included some of the worst human rights violators. Beyond the question of why rejoin what has been the effect? Amb.  The rationale for our decision to run for election to the Human Rights Council is straightforward and that is that the United States is profoundly and deeply committed to upholding human rights and democracy around the world. And while this Human Rights Council is self-evidently flawed and we have been vocal in our opposition to some of its actions the Bush administration's posture of standing outside of the council did not ease human rights abuses or strengthen our ability to push back against them. The Obama administration took the point of view that our ability to strengthen it is enhanced from engaging from within rather than criticizing from the sidelines.  Although when you talk about engagement there that is reminiscent of an expression constructive engagement that  Amb.  I did not use that phrase did I?  I am sure you would not because of course this was a Reagan theory with apartheid during the 1980s. And the idea there was you know better to you know interact and engage and Amb.  But these are two different situations and I think you should not allow a noun in one instance modified by constructive to be applied to any other aspect of engagement. Engagement is not an end in itself. It is a means to an end. It is a means to advance U.S. interests and U.S. values as we will do in the context of the Human Rights Council and more broadly in terms of the way we relate to the United Nations and international organizations. We are involved in the United Nations because it serves U.S. interests. It is there to deal with very complex cases like North Korea where we recently succeeded in putting in place the toughest sanctions regime in the world today. It is there to deal with conflicts that are killing innocent civilians in places like Congo and Darfur. So we have an interest in effective collective action to deal with these 21st century challenges.  Ambassador Rice thank you very much. Amb.  Thank you Renee. Good to be with you.  Susan Rice is America's ambassador to the United Nations.   You are listening to MORNING EDITION from NPR News. 