 About a month ago we heard from John. That is not his real name. He is a single father in his 30s. He would fled Honduras with his daughter Marisol . After they were separated at the border John was deported to Honduras alone. We are only using their middle names because they fear for their safety. Reporter James Fredrick  has been keeping in touch with John and he joins us now from Mexico City with an update on this story. And John joins us on the line from Honduras. Good morning - buenos dias to both of you.  Good morning.  Buenos dias.  James I am going to start with you. You told us John's story last month. You have been reporting on him. Can you remind us who he is and why he and his daughter had to leave Honduras and go to the United States?  So John and Marisol fled Honduras back in May. They had been getting increasing gang threats there. They threatened Marisol with sexual violence so John thought they had to leave. Once they got into the United States officers told John they were going to take Marisol for just a moment to change her clothes and then he never saw her again. John then said he was tricked and deceived by agents into signing some forms. And before he knew it he was deported back to Honduras. His daughter Marisol is now in a facility for unaccompanied minors in the United States. He has really no way of getting in touch with her and just kind of sits around waiting for her to call him.  So John has been speaking with his 14-year-old daughter on the phone over these past weeks. She is been calling as you mentioned from a shelter in Florida. And he is been recording the calls. And he provided some of that for us. Let us listen.   .  .  .  .  .  .  So James tell us what is happening there. What are they saying?  So that is John Marisol when they first get on the phone with each other. Sadly they both kind of say I am not doing very well. Marisol tells him I feel even worse inside here.   .  .  They both say how desperate they are feeling.   .  And then John just kind of ends by saying you know she is locked up. It is normal she feels desperate because it is kind of like she is in prison up in the United States.  John I want to bring you on the line for a minute and ask you when you started recording your daughter. And I am going to be translating these questions into Spanish. John .   Because I hope so it can help people see hear that it is not easy to be there in detention. To be there is ugly horrible. I know that my daughter is doing badly there is suffering. Even if she is not suffering physically she is suffering psychologically.  Let us listen now to another recording.   .  .  .  .  .  So James Marisol here is telling her father that she has evidence that she is keeping hidden. Can you remind us what that is about?  So John - when he decided to flee Honduras he had it in his mind - he did not know exactly what it was but he knew that he could ask for help or protection in the United States so he brought evidence of threats against them. He brought evidence of his clean police record. He wanted to show I have been threatened. I am a good person. I am not a criminal. And you know this is why I have come to the United States. Marisol held onto that in case she - you know she is still requesting asylum. And she has this evidence to show why they fled Honduras.  John do you want Marisol to be able to stay in the United States and seek asylum there now even though you are both separated?   I always say my daughter comes first and I have to speak up for her well-being. I prefer never to see her again than have her with me suffering and fleeing the gangs in this country. I prefer that she stay there and ask for asylum. Even if I do not ever get to see her again in the flesh in my life I know she is better off there.  To say that you would never see her again - it must be very hard to say those words.   For me I am not losing hope that I will be able to see her again. But if life and circumstance do not permit that and all the injustices in this world do not allow it then I am going to resign myself to that.  So James as you have been reporting on this what is next for this family? Father in Honduras daughter in a facility in the United States. What happens now?  So John has been in touch with some lawyers at nonprofits in the United States who are trying to reunite families and help them with their legal situations. What John is hoping for is - John has one brother who is already living in the United States. And he is hoping that Marisol can be released to live with him at least in the meantime. The issue there is that John's brother is in the United States undocumented. And so his brother is quite worried about being in touch with authorities or getting on their radar. So he is open to Marisol living with him but he is very worried. So that is what happens next. But more than anything what John just says over and over again is he is confused. He does not know what is happening. And this is something that I have heard over and over again from people who have been separated from their children - is that they are just confused and do not know what happens next.  John . If Marisol is released to your brother - will happen what are your hopes for her in the United States?   What I wish for her is the best. I hope she succeeds there that she studies that she fights for herself. I do not have a future here because of the problems I have with the gangs - the reason why I left. You spend your life running away. It is hard.  We will be following this story as it continues with both James and John. That is reporter James Frederick from Mexico City. And John was on the line from Honduras. Thank you both so very much. .  Thank you.  Gracias. Gracias.  