 The investigation ramps up in Kenosha as anger continues to fill the streets. And it is not just Wisconsin.  Thousands marched in Washington D.C. chanting for justice and pausing for temperature checks. I am Scott Simon.  I am Debbie Elliott. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   Kenosha police say Jacob Blake had a knife in his car. The Wisconsin attorney general tells NPR releasing that information is part of their process.   The fact that certain evidence was recovered for example or that a Taser was deployed we are being as open and transparent about things as we can be.  The latest on that case and of the Illinois teenager arrested for the fatal shooting of protesters in Kenosha.  And we will go to Louisiana where they are just starting to recover from Hurricane Laura.  Stay with us. We have got the news you need to start the weekend.   There is a widely seen video and the account given by Jacob Blake's lawyers. But Wisconsin authorities have released very few details about the events leading up to Kenosha police shooting the 29-year-old Black man seven times in the back.  This weekend the union that represents the officers involved in the shooting is putting out their version and NPR's David Schaper joins us. David thanks so much for being with us.  My pleasure Scott.  Jacob Blake's lawyers said he was breaking up a fight then tried to walk away. What does the union say happened?  Well the Kenosha Professional Police Association says that Blake was not at all breaking up a fight. He was wanted on a warrant. He was armed with a knife. He was uncooperative noncompliant resisting officers' attempts to gain compliance. They twice shot Tasers at him. But the Tasers failed to subdue him. The union's statement goes on to say that Blake fought with the officers and put one of them in a headlock before breaking free and trying to get back into a vehicle. Based on the inability to gain compliance and control after using verbal physical and less lethal methods the officers drew their weapons the statement says adding that quote Mr. Blake continued to ignore the officers' commands even with the threat of lethal force now present.  And how have the lawyers for the Blake family responded?  Well in an interview on CNN last night Blake attorney Patrick Cafferty  called the union's description overblown says that witnesses on the scene have told them that the police were the aggressors that they almost immediately got physical with Blake and took him down to the ground and Tased him.   And as he tried to get away from them and walk around the van and tried to get away from the situation that is - at a time when he was posing no imminent threat they shot him in the back point blank seven times.  David any response or statements from the Kenosha Police Department and state investigators?  Not much. I mean they did put out a couple of statements and talked briefly but they have provided very few actual details about the events that led up to the shooting. They do say that there was a knife found in the vehicle after the shooting but they have not said if Jacob Blake was brandishing that knife before the shooting happened. Police have also confirmed that there was a warrant issued for Blake back in July and that outstanding warrant was part of the reason they were trying to arrest him. And they acknowledge that even though he is paralyzed he was handcuffed to the rail of his hospital bed while under a 24-hour police guard because of - he was under arrest. But attorneys for Blake say a 500 bail has been posted so the handcuffs were removed yesterday and he is no longer under that guard.  Of course there was also another shooting Tuesday night during the protest in Kenosha. And police have arrested 17-year-old Kyle Rittenhouse who is charged with shooting and killing two people and injuring a third. What is the latest on that case?  Well you know he was supposed to appear in court for an extradition hearing. It is just over the border in Lake County Ill. where he lives and is being held because that is where he was arrested. But the judge granted a one-month delay in that as his family organizes attorneys to represent him. One of those attorneys who is apparently representing him Lin Wood a high-profile defense attorney from Atlanta says the video will show that he acted in self-defense. And he tweeted yesterday or last night actually that murder charges are actually factually impossible adding that this is an egregious miscarriage of justice. Meanwhile Kenosha police are taking a lot of heat for being seen in videos appearing to be supportive of armed vigilantes including Rittenhouse before the shootings and after for allowing Rittenhouse to walk right by several police vehicles with his assault rifle slung over his shoulder. Police Chief Daniel Miskinis defends his officers saying it was a chaotic situation and Rittenhouse did not appear to be a threatening suspect.   There were a lot of people in the area a lot of people with weapons and unfortunately a lot of gunfire.  Now that response is angering a lot of people here who said had it been a Black man walking toward them with a semi-automatic rifle he would have at least been arrested if not shot.  David what is Kenosha like this weekend?  Well you know it is a town that is still kind of on edge but you know last night for the third night in a row it was quiet in terms of protests. There was a late afternoon march and vigil for Blake. A smaller group of protesters had gathered outside of the courthouse for a while past the 7 p.m. curfew. But they had pretty much all left and gone home before 11 oclock when we last checked. There are still people cleaning up damage from the fires and the riots earlier in the week and work being done on that front. But there is still a lot of tension here over the racial inequalities and the way this violent week has unfolded. And there is a big rally that is planned for today with members of Jacob Blake's family expected to attend.  NPR's David Schaper thanks so much.  My pleasure Scott.   People are in the streets of Washington D.C. thousands for a demonstration organized after the police killing of George Floyd.  It is called the Get Your Knee Off Our Necks March. And it happened on the anniversary of the 1963 March on Washington where Martin Luther King Jr. proclaimed I have a dream.  Activists who marched called for organizing and getting out the vote this November. NPR's Juana Summers watched the march and spoke to participants. She joins us now. Juana thanks for being with us.  Hey there. Good morning.  What did you see?  Yeah. So there were thousands of protesters who gathered at the Lincoln Memorial to call for racial justice and an overhaul of the country's criminal justice system. This was a really big crowd and also a really diverse crowd. And there were a number of speakers including union leaders politicians civil rights leaders. But they also heard some powerful words from a number of family members of Black people who would been hurt or killed in cases that have caught public attention. And we should note that this event had been coming together for some months now. But many people that I spoke to did mention Jacob Blake another name on a list of names that they say is just far too long.  We have seen activism in the streets all around the country this summer and violence in a few cities. And there I guess was a lot of talk about what this all may mean come November. What was the sense at the march yesterday which was peaceful?  Yeah. So something striking to me was the urgency that I heard from people around voting. As I was actually walking around there were volunteers it seemed like at every corner actually registering people to vote. I want to introduce you to one person I met. Her name is Stephanie Lyon. And when the 1963 march happened she was only 11 years old and her mom told her she was too young to go so she could not go and felt like she had to be there. And the other thing that she was very insistent about was how she planned to vote.  I think that mail-in voting gives me some suspect some apprehension in doing so. But standing in line shows that I am really going to support the voting process. And I think that it is going to be clean legal and straightforward.  And this topic kept coming up. We also talked with Ky Marshall who lives in Jacksonville about it.  So as soon as early voting opens in Florida that is when I go. Like I do not wait for the day of. I go a month before so the lines are lower or smaller and so I can get in and out but I still participate in the process.  Juana of course these activists were marching and gathering not far from the White House where just this week President Trump accepted the Republican nomination for president.  Yeah. And if you remember in that speech President Trump talked about gatherings like this. He described the people participating as agitators who he said wanted to destroy the American way of life. A lot of people who gathered heard that speech and had a lot of strong words for the president. Almost everyone I talked to said that they plan to support Joe Biden and Kamala Harris the Democratic candidates though there were certainly different degrees of enthusiasm. Akina Newbragh is 24. And I spoke to her about the Democratic presidential nominee and whether she thought that young people like herself would vote in November or whether a lack of enthusiasm for the ticket might keep them home.  They understand what is going on and they understand that whether you love Biden or not you have got to vote for him because we cannot have four more years of Trump.  Newbragh said that it did not matter whether Biden and Harris were a perfect fit. She said she was more worried about the future of the country and what it would look like if President Trump does win another four years.  NPR's Juana Summers thanks so much.  Thank you.  And you can hear more of Juana's reporting on the NPR sure to download and subscribe.   Much of southern Louisiana is still without power. For those who stayed behind Thursday when Hurricane Laura made landfall and for those who have returned since cleanup is difficult and slow going.  Trees and power lines are down throughout much of Lake Charles one of the cities that took the brunt of the storm's 150-mile-per-hour winds.  Aubri Juhasz of member station WWNO spent the day there and joins us now. Good morning Aubrey.  Good morning.  So tell us what you saw.  Yeah. So I started my reporting downtown and that is where a lot of the most you know visible damage is - storefronts blown apart debris everywhere windows shattered buildings that just you know completely fell apart. I saw this massive broadcast tower that had just crumpled to the ground. And when I talked to some of the residents who were around they told me they have often looked to this tower in past storms and it is been a comfort when it is still standing. And they did not have that this time around. It really let them know just how strong Laura was. Power is still out across the city and the water is not working either. Elected officials have said it might be weeks before residents get those services back. And because there is no electricity traffic lights are not working. Some roads are completely impassible either because they are covered with debris or floodwater. And while there were a lot of cars on the road you know relief workers and military vehicles there were not a lot of residents back just yet because the conditions are so difficult.  Now I understand you were able to spend some time though with some people who were returning and trying to figure out if their homes were still there and what damage had incurred and what the damage was. What did they find?  Yeah. So I did. I found a family the Piatts. They told me that they evacuated to Arkansas as the storm was coming in and that they returned to Lake Charles you know not exactly knowing what they would find. When they got to their house they said everything looked you know pretty good from the front. They could see that there was you know a branch on the back of the roof. It was not until they walked around to the backyard that they saw that this massive branch had you know crashed through the ceiling opened up you know a hole in the kitchen and was placing a lot of weight on the rest of the roof. I spoke with Abby Piatt the daughter of the family as she saw all of this and she had a good sense of humor about it.  Mom said I always wanted a skylight in my kitchen but not like this.  Yeah. And when I was there lots of people had you know descended on the house to help the family out. Some were on the roof using a chainsaw to cut the branches of the big oak tree others were in the back cheering them on and still more people were inside the house moving furniture and belongings to try and limit the damage.  We are trying to move everything before the ceilings cave in because it is looking like it will not last very long.  So good spirit there despite the destruction. Did you get a sense from residents what they are planning to do next in the recovery?  Yeah. So obviously it is you know always traumatizing after a major disaster like this. People are thankful for what they have and they are thankful to be alive. And a lot of the people I spoke to were just really relieved the damage from the storm was nowhere near as bad as forecasters had thought it would be. You know some people that I spoke to said they were really expecting to come home to you know homes that had been completely flooded out. And when they saw that that had not happened they were just you know really thankful. But still it is not easy to recover from something like this. Things are in really really bad shape and without having power without having water it is difficult for people to come back and it is difficult you know to get the ball rolling when it comes to recovery work. So you know people do not know exactly when they are going to be able to you know get to the bulk of the work. And right now they are just kind of you know trying to like keep things where they are right now so they do not get worse. It is also late August in Louisiana so it is hot and humid and those are not exactly the greatest conditions you know to try to put things back together.  Oh. That is Aubri Juhasz of member station WWNO who has been reporting in Lake Charles La. Thank you so much Aubri.  You are welcome.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday August 29 2020. I am Scott Simon.  And I am Debbie Elliott. Our weekend version of UP FIRST is produced by a caffeinated crew - Hiba Ahmad Denise Guerra and Danny Hensel.  It is edited by Ed McNulty Peter Breslow Martha Ann Overland D. Parvaz and Melissa Gray. They prefer hibiscus tea.  Our directors are Ned Wharton and Samantha Balaban. Our technical director is Stu - you say emu I say emoo  - Rushfield.  And keeping us all in line - supervising editor Evie Stone executive producer Sarah Lucy Oliver and deputy managing editor Jim Kane.  UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your week. In the meantime follow us on social media. We are UpFirst on Twitter and keep an ear on this feed for occasional special episodes.  For more on the stories you just heard and a look at Hurricane Katrina 15 years later secrets from the Vatican archives what is going on at Fort Hood and more...  Listen to us on the radio. Weekend Edition every Saturday and Sunday morning we are always there. Find your NPR station at stations.npr.org.  