 Americans spend more money on music at the online iTunes store than any other music retailer. But there is still many people who do not have a home computer to set up an iTunes account. As NPR's Laura Sydell reports a company called Cricket is targeting those consumers with its phone-only music service.  The customers who come to this Cricket store in Washington D.C. want cell phones that connect to the Internet to get their email and stay connected to family and friends. But they are not willing to pay the prices of many of the carriers and that is why they come here.  It is cheap and I have four children.  Cinthia Wilson a medical assistant in D.C. says her sister who used to be on Sprint just moved over to Cricket.  She got tired of paying all that money for the same thing she can get here for 55. She was paying a hundred and something. That is ridiculous.  And now for an extra 10 customers here can get an unlimited music plan. That appealed to Carlos Dugger.  Because I love my gospel and my jazz.  Dugger says it is his phone not his computer that is his main connection to the Internet.  I do use a phone more for Internet purpose than I do at home.  And it is people like Dugger who are not focused on their computers who are the target for Cricket's new music service.  Cricket's customers live on their phone. Their phone not the computer is the center of their life.  Jeff Toig developed Cricket's music service. Toig says most of Cricket's customers make 50000 a year or less. The iPhone probably is not even an option. Toig admits they could chose other music subscription services that cost ten dollars a month - names like Napster Rhapsody and Spotify. But he says those services all require customers to download an app to their phone first.  And the app is less functional. The experience does not start on the phone it starts on the computer and the phone is an extension. We have taken a fundamentally different approach because our experience is all about the phone.  Cricket's music service is built in. And it gives its customers access to millions of songs ranging from the work of great gospel singers.    The battle of Jericho Jericho. Jericho. Talk about the battle of Jericho and the walls came tumbling down. Halleluiah.  To independent artists.    Cannot give up acting tough. It is all that I am made of.  To hits from major labels.    I am beautiful in my way 'ecause God makes no mistakes. I am on the right track baby. I was born this way.  It is surprising in some ways that the big record labels went along with Cricket. They have been notoriously skeptical of online plans. But Michael Nash a vice president for Digital Strategies at Warner Music says the typical Cricket customer burns friends CD's and listens to radio.  So you have got a situation where you do not have you know great legitimate music proposition and you do not have a very convenient proposition.  Although the service is phone-based sales people at Cricket like to point out that it can easily be used to entertain at home. Sean Burroughs assistant manager at the Cricket store in D.C. shows off a speaker that can connect to the phone.  It is kind of like you have a party in your pocket basically. So this thing is able to - like I said you get a lot of sound in a small space.   But there are skeptics who do not think this phone really adds much to what is already out there. Imari Love an analyst at Morningstar says pretty much all phones now have Internet access and that is really all you need to have a phone with music.  Even playlists I mean you can set those up via YouTube. And I cannot remember the last handset that did not have access to that. So it is really about - actually I am actually kind of struggling actually with what real value the Muve product is going to add.  Laura Sydell NPR News. 