 It is hard to imagine politics these days without candidates playing gotcha with the other side. One method is called political tracking. That is the practice of following candidates around and then just constantly filming what they say in public. Now this has been pretty common in big races but now candidates for local office are finding themselves being tracked. North Country Public Radio's Lauren Rosenthal has the story.  A video surfaced this summer of Democratic congressional candidate Tedra Cobba meeting with teenagers in upstate New York. There is not much to look at. The tape is shaky and out of focus.   When I was at this...  But listen closely and you can hear Cobb saying something controversial that she supports a ban on assault weapons. But she is following campaign advice to keep that private.   Do not say...  That was a...  ...That you want an assault rifle ban...  No.  ...Because you will not win.  Before we a...  The tape went viral. It turns out the person who made this recording is a 17-year-old who was hired by national Republican officials. He is now an intern for Cobb's opponent in this race Republican Congresswoman Elise Stefanik. Stefanik says tracking is common on both sides. Democrats and Republicans do it.  Going back to my first campaign I have been tracked for years. I get tracked in Congress. I get tracked outside my home. I get tracked in public events and private fundraisers.  Stefanik says that is just part of being in Congress. But even in more local politics and races way down the ballot tracking is starting to become a fixture. In the last few years video or audio recordings have shaken up at least a half dozen state House and gubernatorial races a race for mayor in Atlanta and even a petition drive in the city of Palm Bay Fla. where the deputy mayor worked with his mother to track people circulating petitions. USC political scientist Christian Grose says this practice of tracking political players on tape has spread pretty far from its roots.  One of the very first ones I can remember that was a major tracking event was the Virginia Senate race in the 2000s when George Allen was speaking in a really rural area.  Allen used the word macaca a racial slur to refer to the tracker who was filming him that day. Allen lost his election by a tiny margin. That was 2006. A few years later Mitt Romney was caught on tape at a fundraiser criticizing people who do not pay taxes. The tape derailed his campaign. Researcher Robin Kolodny says over time smartphones have made it much easier to record candidates and share information fast. Kolodny says there is always a risk of being tracked no matter what you are running for.  You just ought to assume that everything - that like there is the camera in your house you know? - that everything is being surveilled just waiting for you know the statement that is going to ruffle some people.  Shocking voters is a tried-and-true political strategy says Tammy Vigil a communications professor at Boston University.  For a long stretch there was a lot of research that actually showed that negative campaign ads could be influential. And I think we have sort of taken that to the extreme.  Vigil says researchers are starting to examine what happens when negativity and strategies like tracking trickle down to local politics too. Some candidates have chosen to cut back on public events where they are at risk of being filmed. Tedra Cobb the candidate who was secretly recorded talking about gun control in upstate New York says she does not want to hide from voters.  I am going to engage kids and adults to have these hard conversations. And that is what we were doing.  But there is a price to that. Cobb's opponent recently put out a political ad with the comments about gun control front and center.   She confessed that admitting that in public would destroy her campaign. If we cannot trust Tedra Cobb the candidate how can we ever trust her in Congress?  That is a question voters may find themselves asking about candidates closer and closer to home. For NPR News I am Lauren Rosenthal in upstate New York. 