 Come this fall Major League Baseball could approve the largest deal in the history of the game. The billionaire Ricketts family of Nebraska reached an agreement last week to buy a controlling interest in the Chicago Cubs from the financially troubled Tribune Company. For about 800 million the Ricketts family would gain control of one of the most storied teams in baseball and not just the team but also its historic home Wrigley Field. What is not clear is what Cubs' fans might get out of the deal. From Chicago Public Radio Alex Keefe reports. Unidentified Man  Peanuts how about a big ol' bag?  Just around the back of Wrigley Field diehard Cubs fans are lining up to get their spots in the outfield bleachers. These are familiar stomping grounds for 59-year-old Chris Gorskey. Mr.  At seven years old I was coming here taking the bus by myself.  Gorskey says he is excited by the prospect of having new owners for the Cubs. The Rickettses made their fortune by founding the online brokerage firm TD Ameritrade and Gorskey's hoping their entrepreneurial drive can finally get the team what it is been chasing for more than a century a World Series title. But he quickly lapses into nostalgia about Wrigley Field. Mr.  Now I guess what is nice about it is is that it really has not changed much from the time I was seven years old to the time I am now and that is nice. We like that stability.  And there is the rub. Many fans like Gorskey are hoping for dramatic changes if the Ricketts family gains control of the Cubs. But they are also protective of the team's rich tradition. Mr.  We really have no idea how this franchise is going to change because they simply have not given us any information.  That is Gene Wojciechowski a senior columnist for ESPN.com. He says it is no wonder the Rickettses have maintained a media blackout since they started bidding for the team. They have slogged through more than a year of delicate negotiations complicated by Tribune's bankruptcy filing in December and an 11th hour bidding war. Wojciechowski says now he is waiting to see what happens next. Mr.  We do not know if Lou Piniella is going to be the manager next year or if they are going to blow up Wrigley Field if they are going to tear down the scoreboard and put up a JumboTron.  No one from the Ricketts family agreed to be interviewed for this story. Spokesman Dennis Culloton says that is because the deal still needs approval from Major League Baseball and a bankruptcy judge. He is hoping that will happen this fall. Mr.  In the meantime they are going to be respectful of those two very important steps.  Culloton will not speculate about changes in team leadership or in Wrigley Field. But he will say the Rickettses are life-long season ticket-holding Cubs fans who appreciate the experience of a game at Wrigley. Mr.  What you will see in this new era is a family that is very smart very successful and they are going to bring that to the Chicago Cubs. Unidentified Man  T-shirts get your t-shirts Cub souvenirs here t-shirts.  Back outside the friendly confines 28 year-old-fan Adam Beck waits near the gate to get players' autographs. He is here making his annual pilgrimage from Michigan to see his beloved Chicago Cubs and he has a message for the Ricketts family. Mr.  Bring home a World Series literally. Bring home a World Series. This is what this town needs.  That may require some patience but Cubs fans seem to have plenty. For NPR News I am Alex Keefe in Chicago.  Hey anything could happen. It is only been 101 years. 