 We have been hearing your signature songs this summer songs that mean so much to you they almost become part of your identity. Today it is Tanti Brownley's turn to share hers. She is 21 from Newport News Va. In her house when she was a kid there was plenty of music. Her brother liked rap. Her mom RB. Brownley loved country music. But one day she fell head over heels for a very different sound.  I was 13 years old. I was at home with my mom. We were sitting on the couch watching TV. I do not even remember what the show was. But in the background of it was Fly Me To The Moon by Frank Sinatra.    Fly me to the moon. Let me play among the stars.  Just his voice struck me that I had never heard someone sing that way before. And so I immediately Googled him and I fell down the rabbit hole.    What a world what a life. I am in love.  I watched all the movies that he was in. I have posters still of Frank Sinatra. And I listen to pretty much everything that he ever recorded which is a lot. . And I finally got to Cycles which is profound and...    So I am down and so I am out. But so are many others.  In Cycles he starts off the song just listing all of these terrible things that had happened to him.    My gal just up and left last week. Friday I got fired.  I was in an advanced program in school so I had a lot of work that I was feeling overwhelmed by and was having changing friendships and people falling in and out with each other. So you know having never dealt with that that was kind of my entire world  that I felt was changing and I was not sure how to cope with that.    So I feel like tryin' to hide my head 'neath these covers.  It was like a sadness that I had never felt because I was feeling lonely and I was feeling very overwhelmed. And most of the people that I had grown up with they are very strong people and do not like to show other people their emotions. So I was used to bottling it up. Or if you cried just sucking that right back in and the next day pretending like it did not happen.    I have been told and I believe that life is meant for livin'.  Cycles it is all about feeling the sadness and owning your sadness and just saying that all of these awful things in my life are happening and I am allowed to be sad right now. And that is just - it was astounding to me to hear someone say that.    So I will keep this smile awhile and see what tomorrow brings.  Going forward in the years since where I felt that sadness again I tried to know that eventually I will not be sad. I remind myself that I always come out stronger than before.    There is not much that I have learned...  That was Tanti Brownley of Newport News Va. sharing her signature song Cycles by Frank Sinatra.    ...Except that life keeps runnin'.  