 The fall of Saigon referenced a number of times today happened in April 1975.  Gerald Ford was president then and by that point in the Vietnam War Gallup pollsters were finding that 60 of the American public considered it a mistake to have sent troops to Vietnam. Two months later Gallup's measure of Ford's approval had increased.  So what can that history tell us about the politics of this moment for President Biden? For that we turn to NPR political correspondent Mara Liasson. Good morning Mara.  Good morning.  So let us stick with that Gallup comparison we are talking about - 60 for Ford and Vietnam. Last month 47 of respondents said involvement in Afghanistan was a mistake. So we are seeing a messy withdrawal from a conflict that was not as unpopular.  Not as unpopular but still really unpopular - majorities of Americans decided over 20 years and billions of dollars spent to train the Afghan forces with it seems very little result or zero result that this was not worth it. And two consecutive American administrations decided that leaving troops in Afghanistan were not in America's national security interests. We do not know what the political fallout will be for Joe Biden. We know that majorities of Americans wanted to withdraw. America has - American voters have lost their stomach for foreign military interventions and especially long occupations over a very long period of time. And there are a lot of questions remaining that will determine the political fallout for him. For instance will the Taliban give al-Qaida a safe haven again? And what happens now? But I can tell you at least for the moment the elite reaction is really devastating. When you have Ryan Crocker former ambassador to Afghanistan saying quote I am left with some grave questions in my mind about quote Biden's ability to lead our nation as commander in chief to have read this so wrong or even worse to have understood what was likely to happen and not care - I mean that is just really devastating. Now at the same time anecdotally we hear reports from members of Congress that they are just not getting calls about Afghanistan even congressmen who represent large veteran populations.  President Biden has been pretty firm in his stance that this war needed to end that U.S. involvement needed to end. He was - he campaigned on it. He has been firm about it while in office. He has been asked whether - if this goes poorly whether he will be considered responsible. And he has essentially said you know it is not all on me. This is a long time in the coming. Is that an argument that works with the public? Or are you telling me that the public does not even really follow?  Well two things can be true at the same time. The public might not really care about what is happening there. On the other hand he is the president of the United States while this is happening. Whenever America is humiliated or presides over something like what we are seeing now in Afghanistan it is bad for the current president. There is just no doubt about that. Now it is also true that Donald Trump did negotiate with the Taliban for a withdrawal as of May 1. And it is possible that the Biden administration concluded that the Taliban would have launched this attack anyway if the United States did not pull out and then Biden would have had to put more troops in - more than the 2500 he had at the time. So there was only escalation or withdrawal. But there will be a lot of questions about - and you raised some of them earlier - could this have happened in a more orderly fashion? Could the withdrawal have been handled better? Why did the United States and the Biden administration so grossly underestimate what - the speed that the Taliban would move? I mean so there is still a lot of questions.  National political correspondent NPR's Mara Liasson. Thank you for being with us Mara.  You are welcome.  