 High-stakes negotiations on climate change are underway with delegates from nearly 200 countries meeting in Bonn Germany. They are to resume negotiations on a new global agreement to cut greenhouse gas emissions. It is part of the run-up to a major summit in Paris later this year. And a key element - a very noticeable element - of the gathering is groups. The countries negotiate in groups some of which are a little puzzling. NPR's Nell Greenfieldboyce has put together this handy field guide.  When the United Nations get together to duke it out over climate change diplomats typically sit behind little placards that show the name of their home country. But when these people speak they are often representing not just their own country but a group.   Excellencies distinguished delegates ladies and gentlemen Nauru has the honor to speak on behalf of the Alliance of Small Island States.   Excellencies presidente  I have the honor to speak on behalf of the Environmental Integrity Group.  Speaking for a group is always an honor.   I have the honor to speak on behalf of the Least Developed Countries group which represents the 48 poorest countries in the world.  And there are a lot of different groups to speak for.  At last count I believe there are now 14 groups.  Elliot Diringer is with the nonprofit Center for Climate and Energy Solutions.  It might take you back to junior high school and cliques which can be very powerful forces actually.  Junior high had the popular kids the jocks the nerds the outcasts. Similar kids sort of gravitate towards each other. It is the same in climate change negotiations. By the end of this year the U.N. hopes to have forged a new global agreement that will affect everything from energy production to agriculture to transportation. We are talking the future of the planet here. Diringer says it makes sense for countries with shared interests to negotiate in packs.  Members of groups coordinate their positions because there is strength in numbers. They also serve as a bit of a support system particularly for smaller countries.  Diringer has been watching U.N. climate negotiations for two decades. He says in the early days there were just a few groups. For example the European Union has always negotiated as one block.  You then saw the emergence of the Umbrella Group which is basically the developed countries that are not within the European Union - the United States Japan Canada Russia Australia and a few others.   Thank you very much Mr. President. On behalf of the Umbrella Group of countries...  The Umbrella Group - where did that name come from? No one could tell me. But one diplomat jokingly told me it was because an umbrella is a good hiding place.  These are guys who wanted to do as little as possible. And so they found a shade for themselves. Canada's got its oil from tar sands you know. Where better do you go? You go to the Umbrella Group to hide.  That is Ambassador Nozipho Mxakato-Diseko from South Africa. But she says now that the U.S. has started talking big on climate change action...  I think there is a curiosity as to what is going to happen to the Umbrella Group.  Diseko is spokesperson for another group the largest one in the negotiations. It is called the Group of 77 Plus China. You might think it has 77 countries plus China. You would be wrong.  It is 134 in all 134.  The name is left over from when this huge group first formed. Its members are developing countries. There is everybody from Afghanistan to Botswana to Vietnam.  Countries that come to this process with an understanding of what climate change is because they feel the impact most immediately and have been feeling the impact for quite a while now.  But that does not mean everybody in that group sees things exactly the same way.  The most significant change we have seen in groups over the years is the emergence of smaller groups of developing countries.  Diringer says think about it - if you are a tiny island state and feel that your very existence is threatened by melting ice and rising seas...  At a certain point you realize that your interests may not be the same as those of a major emitting country like China or India.  It is now common for a member of the Group of 77 to also belong to another group like maybe the Coalition for Rainforest Nations or the Mountainous Landlocked Developing Countries or this one...   I take the floor on behalf of the Like-Minded Developing Countries.  What are they like-minded about? This group includes Saudi Arabia Bolivia Venezuela. Diringer says they are seen as the hardliners.  They generally speaking hew very closely to the traditional developing country view that there should be very stark differentiation between the obligations of developed and developing countries.  Meanwhile other developing nations say they will take action on their own without waiting around for richer countries. Some of them formed a group called the Independent Association of Latin America and the Caribbean.  So you have seen to some degree a splintering of the developing countries. And on the whole I actually think that is healthy because if everyone sticks to group positions and feels constrained by those group positions it can be hard to make progress.  And then there is the group that was founded by Switzerland. Franz Perrez is Switzerland's chief climate change negotiator. He says about 15 years ago famously neutral Switzerland was not part of any group. That became a problem when at one point in the climate talks the leaders of key groups went to a private room to negotiate. Perrez says his predecessor tried to join the discussion.  But was escorted out of the room by security because he was not representing a group.  The very next day Switzerland announced it was forming its own group.  And that any country who does not have a home is welcome to join that group.  Switzerland ended up banding together with Mexico South Korea Liechtenstein and Monaco. This unlikely team is called of the Environmental Integrity Group. Roberto Dondisch is Mexico's lead climate change negotiator. He says their group is really influential because its members are so different from each other and cross so many divides. Both developed and developing countries seem to think well if those guys can agree on something maybe we should take a look.  You know if we can get Mexico and Switzerland and Korea to share the same points you have a pretty good shot that that document could be adopted by almost everybody in the world.  And that is the ultimate goal here - to get a plan forward on battling climate change that virtually every nation in the world can sign onto. For that to happen all of these different groups will have to somehow come together and turn into one. Nell Greenfieldboyce NPR News. 