 And now it is time for sports.   Sports in the age of coronavirus bubbles testing quarantines and just enough time for a little game now and then. Howard Bryant of ESPN joins us. Thanks very much for being with us Howard.  Good morning Scott. How are you?  I am fine. Thank you my friend. Twenty-four NHL teams locked down in Edmonton and Toronto for the NFL - for the NHL playoffs. Today its Knights versus Avalanche Flyers versus Lightning. How do you social distance running a player into the boards?   And also having all kinds of scrums of weeks  as we have seen. It is actually - I have really enjoyed this.  I think with the WNBA we have seen the bubble working. With the NBA we have seen the bubble working. And now with hockey we are seeing the playoff bubble working. And it is been sort of fascinating to look at the teams that are ready the teams that are not ready. And you look at the records whether you have Montreal playing Pittsburgh. And Montreal was a terrible team this year. They were 31-40-9. And yet they beat Pittsburgh...  Not last night yeah.  And to advance which is sort of fascinating watching them simply because they were not really that great. And then you also saw the same thing happen with the Blackhawks with your Blackhawks another 12 seed beating Edmonton.  Here come the Hawks.  Yeah. So you are finding out here that it really has nothing to do. This bubble pandemic playoff hockey has very little to do with the regular season. But who is ready? Which teams can play without fans? Which teams - which you know which teams are able to adjust? Which teams are actually in shape? How many guys were actually sitting on the couch or how many guys really mentally did not think the game was coming back? And so when you are watching this it is going to make for a really interesting postseason and maybe these defensive teams that are not as skilled like Montreal maybe because they are - they play a more grinding sort of speed grinding defensive game. Maybe they are better equipped to play this weird sort of summer hockey that we are seeing. But it is been nice to watch live action.  And I want to ask you about Major League Baseball which has seen a flurry of coronavirus cases and had to cancel games. That being noted is Major League Baseball test driving some of the rules changes they have made for this season you know the seven-inning games for doubleheaders runners on second in extra innings?  Yeah 100 Scott 100 percent. I have taken the position that that every test balloon you are seeing right now in baseball is something they want to implement long term. They - you could not have interleague every single day playing under two sets of rules. So boy now the DH is gone. You have it in both leagues. You have - baseball for the last three years has been going back and forth about attention span and screen swiping and the whole thing. And they have been talking about pace of game and pace - and time of games. So suddenly now you have got seven inning games. I really believe Scott in 10 years or less you are going to see the seven-inning game be the norm. And the extra-inning man on second base I think is going to become the norm. I think that when you are watching pandemic baseball all these changes you are seeing - they are not going to be temporary including robot umps in the future. I think everything you are seeing now is something that they want for the future.  And it is OK to kick dirt on a robot ump right?  .  Howard Bryant of ESPN thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you.  