 This weekend the list of cities the Taliban have captured grows with alarming speed. At the moment they are just a few miles away from the capital Kabul. There is also fear of a humanitarian crisis. Fighting has displaced hundreds of thousands of people since May. And the U.N. says that half of Afghan children under the age of 5 are severely malnourished. We are joined now from Kabul by reporter Lynne O'Donnell. Lynne thanks for being with us. LYNNE O' Hello there.  And please let us begin on what is the latest you know about where the Taliban offensive is? O' The latest reports put the number of provincial capitals to have fallen at 18. This means probably more than two-thirds of the country is now under Taliban control. You are right. They are very very close to Kabul. And the conditions here are deteriorating by the hour as people are flooding into the capital from all parts of the country to escape.  And we have been hearing for many Afghans about what they fear it will mean. This is a clip from an Afghan citizen Rangina Hamidi who spoke with NPR yesterday.   I have a young daughter who is in fifth grade. And we have other kids living with us. You know they are oblivious to what is happening in Afghanistan. But it struck me to think and look at them and say God forbid but something can happen any minute. And these joyous little girls playing may end in a second.  And can you tell us what you have been hearing from Afghans? O' This uncertainty is just agonizing. People who are resident in Kabul and have their homes and their jobs - many are trying to get out. A lot of the embassies that were issuing visas to Afghans quite easily up until very recently are no longer doing so. The Taliban long ago took control of the border points. So even escaping by road is now no longer possible. As you know people here are armed. And that could very easily lead to armed fighting in the streets in the capital of the country.  Then I think a question that is occurring to a lot of people in Afghanistan and in America today as they know the terrible prospects ahead - the U.S. has spent more than 80 billion supporting building up fighting with Afghan forces. Why has the Afghan military failed to put up a fight? O' Some of those 18 provincial cities that have fallen in the past week have fallen without a shot being fired. The government of Ashraf Ghani has shown no leadership has been incapable of coming up with a strategy. So the question has to be asked of President Ghani. I do not know what the answer would be. But one of the answers has got to be corruption. A lot of that money has been pilfered. Police have not been paid for three months. The soldiers are the same. They are going without food supply of ammunition arms. They sit on the frontlines calling for airstrikes that do not come in. And none of them have faith in the government. If you do not believe in what you are fighting for why fight?  In the face of these momentous events President Ashraf Ghani finally issued a statement. But it was prerecorded. Did that raise public confidence? O' I do not think it is raised public confidence. There may be a sigh of relief that he has not resigned as had been widely expected. But there has not been anything that President Ghani has said that will change the situation on the battlefield or make people feel confident that he is come up with a strategy and is going to become the leader that their country needs.  Reporter Lynne O'Donnell in Kabul thanks so much. Take care. O' Thank you. 