 Here in Southern California a company based in Mexico is expanding north of the border. It is a chain of movie theaters and as reporter Amy Isackson found at one of its theaters in San Diego it is very high-end.  When you step into Cinepolis it does not look like a movie theater. Dave and Kris Litvak say it is more like a chic hotel.  It looks you know kind of young and hip and it looks like a fun place to come.  I mean from what it was it looked like a you know horrible kind of movie theater to now it is modern and it is elegant.  Cinepolis has raised the bar. The lobby floors are dark hardwood. There is an art gallery. General Manager Antonio Garcia points to people sipping cocktails at the bar.  We have an extensive wine menu with 40 different wines. We also have an extensive drink list from Chile mango martinis to Cinepolis Magnificent Margarita.  When asked where they think the concept originated people in the lobby have nearly as many guesses as there are flavors of popcorn on the menu.  I would guess France.  China? Greece? From Europe.  Honestly I am not even sure.  That is Kris Litvak Julie Brewster and Jenny Flannigan. When Kristen Blakeman finds out Cinepolis is from Mexico she is surprised.  Typically things go the other way as opposed to this kind of luxury coming up here from there.  It is always been like even since I was a little kid explaining to people that we do not necessarily drive burros and eat tacos every single day.  Carlos Wellman grew up in Mexico City. He is managing Cinepolis' expansion in the U.S. Cinepolis began in Mexico in the late 1940s. It is now the world's fourth-largest cinema chain. Even so Wellman says it was tough to open on this side of the border.  I mean how are you guys going to do theaters if we invented the cinema right?  Enrique Hernandez is an attorney in San Diego who specializes in helping Mexicans do business in the U.S. Cinepolis is one of his clients. He says there is a new generation of Mexican businessmen eyeing the U.S. market.  The small companies of the young entrepreneurs they say I have the vision. I have the energy. I am not afraid of the U.S. I actually feel very comfortable in the U.S. market. I have a good product and I can be successful there.  Hernandez says many of these businessmen like two of the Cinepolis USA partners get graduate degrees in the U.S.   Back at the movie theater Cinepolis director Carlos Wellman says he hopes the theaters help expand people's perception of Mexico.  There are surprising companies that people are not necessarily aware of that come from Mexico - the education the culture the population. And we hope this will set a standard.  For NPR News I am Amy Isackson in San Diego. 