 Last year alone dozens of states adjusted their sentencing and corrections practices. A think tank called the Vera Institute finds that many aim to reduce prison populations. One state now debating change is Alabama and the drive to keep fewer people incarcerated there has brought together two people with very different politics - Maria Morris of the Southern Poverty Law Center and Alabama State Senator Cam Ward.  I am a conservative Republican have been all my life represent a - kind of the suburbs of Birmingham and a heavily Republican district. I am socially and fiscally conservative.  I am a liberal Democrat. I am a civil rights attorney. I am quite liberal for anyone in Alabama certainly.  What is the basic problem you are trying to address?  Well first I will start off I guess by saying you would have to be blind whether you are politically right or politically left to not recognize that 192 percent capacity in your prison facilities is a problem. I mean there is just no other way around it. That is a problem. And also that overcapacity in my opinion creates a whole host of other problems. And I think anyone who cannot see that regardless of their political thoughts they are just not looking at a reality.  Maria Morris how would you define the problem?  I would largely define it the same way. The extent of the overcrowding leads to an enormous number of problems including a lot of Eighth Amendment violations particularly around medical and mental health care.  Has not the Southern Poverty Law Center of which you are a part filed a lawsuit relating to that?  Yes we recently filed a lawsuit regarding the failure to provide adequate medical and mental health care as well as the failure to accommodate people with disabilities under the Americans with Disabilities Act.  Senator Ward has this lawsuit influenced your thinking on this issue?  This would be the one area that - I do not want to say we disagree because I think there is a real challenge in our system. And I think we have got a lot of problems. I am not sure the health care and mental health care being provided meet the threshold of being unconstitutional yet. That being said over half of Alabama inmates have some sort of mental health disorder. And of that half 73 percent of them have some sort of substance abuse addiction. So you have got to look at that and say this is a problem. If they go into the facility and if they do not receive adequate treatment they are going to eventually go back out. And if they have the same mental health disorder or the same drug addiction as when they went in you are just spending a lot of money and you are not actually doing anything at all to enhance public safety.  So how widespread then is support for doing something about this issue in your state?  It has grown. I would have said 10 years ago that this you know this was the third rail of politics down here. You just would not talk about it or touch it. I think it is grown tremendously for a couple reasons - one I think media reports of officers abusing inmates female inmates. And then on top of that is actually a financial burden because what people are seeing now is states are having tight budgets. And now everyone's saying well we cannot afford to keep running a system like this and it be broken as well. And everyone realizes that should there ever be a federal receivership placed over our system like as in happened in California it would bankrupt our general fund budget. So I think money helps drive this too.  And now you say federal receivership. Let us describe that for people who are not familiar with it. You are saying there is a possibility that if the prison system gets enough out of control you effectively have a federal takeover and lose control of the prison system in Alabama.  At 192 percent capacity we are hands-down the most overcrowded system in the country. I do not know if we are there yet or not but I can tell you this. If we keep ignoring like we have you will eventually get there.  Well I am trying to think from the outside of the possible solutions here. I guess you can let more people go. You can put fewer people in in the first place or you can build more prisons. What solutions are on the table in Alabama?  I would like to add one option which is reduce the length of time you are sending people in for.  All right.  I think you are looking at a combination. First of all at some point you are going to have to have some new construction although I do not believe that helps your capacity level very much - mainly new construction to replace these facilities some that were built as far back as 1942. Second is what other kind of alternative programs do we have out there that maybe reduces those who are going into the system? Drug courts mental health courts veterans courts - are we utilizing them to the best of our ability? Probably not we need to use them more. And then finally I think you look at what can we do with community corrections? It allows an inmate to go into a facility. They are usually - they are always a nonviolent offender. They work during the day and at night they stay in this minimum security facility.  Senator Ward mentioned that this used to be the third rail of politics in Alabama something you just could not touch. Maria Morris what solutions just cannot be on the table in this situation?  To me I think a very bad solution to the overcrowding problem would be building additional facilities. We need to be providing appropriate care and appropriate staffing for all of the people in the prisons. And those are things that cost money and Alabama cannot afford that.  She is so right about that. You know and that is one thing that I totally agree with her on. There is been this notion somehow why do not you build your way out of it? Well we have a 1.6 billion general fund budget. Out of that 1.6 billion we currently spend 160 million on prisons. We would have to spend over a billion dollars of our budget just on corrections. And that is - not only is that fiscally impossible but that is also stupid because if we did that 10 years from now we would be back in the same spot again. So I agree that you just cannot build your way out of the problem.  Alabama State Senator Cam Ward and Maria Morris of the Southern Poverty Law Center. Thanks to you both.  Thank you.  Thanks for having us on. 