 This weekend TV's longest-running science-fiction program is getting a new hero - well sort of. The next season of the British science fiction show Doctor Who premiers Saturday night on BBC America. And it will now star Peter Capaldi. He will be the 12th incarnation of the Doctor the show is alien hero. Capaldi is a well-known actor and director in Great Britain. He tells NPR's TV critic Eric Deggans that the show he is now starring in helped him fall in love with acting in the first place.  Fans have waited more than a year to see how Peter Capaldi would play one of TV's most beloved science-fiction heroes. They got a clue in this speech featured in the trailer for his first episode.    I am the doctor. I have lived for over 2000 years. I have made many mistakes. And it is about time that I did something about that.  Capaldi has a strong argument for why producers picked the 56-year-old Scottish actor to lead this British TV treasure replacing an actor young enough to be his son.  I think the show is kind of in my DNA you know? I think it is sort of part of me. So I think I can recognize when it is right and when it is not right.  Turns out Capaldi's been a fan of Doctor Who almost since the show started in 1963. When he was a teen he wrote a fan letter to producers and got an unexpected package in response containing two scripts from episodes which had not even been broadcast yet.  I would never actually seen this document - this thing that had the dialogue written in it - the stage directions. And this document absolutely blew me away.  For a young self-described nerd it was like a sign from above.  And it sort of changed my life. Someone admitted me into a magic circle or probably propelled me into being an actor anyway.  But it would take decades before Capaldi got a shot at playing the Doctor a time traveler from an alien race known as the Time Lords. That opportunity came from a quirky plot twist producers dreamed up long ago. David Tennant one of the most popular actors to play the Doctor from 2005 to 2010 explained the move in a BBC documentary.   Any Time Lord - when their body runs out or when their body would otherwise die can regenerate and have a completely new body and start again.  In showbiz terms that means the program can change actors whenever necessary. 31-year-old Matt Smith stepped aside just last year. The change also brings new challenges for the character as Doctor Who executive producer Steven Moffat explained to the BBC.  But what is frightening for the doctor - what is alarming for any of us - if you were told tomorrow morning you will be somebody else - you will be alive but rewritten. That would be frightening. And that is what the Doctor faces each time.  When you regenerate you find yourself with this personality that you have no choice over which is not necessarily the personality you want.  And Capaldi's take on the doctor's new personality is quite specific.  This character presents himself to those around him in a certain way but in fact there is a completely unknown Doctor that is rarely revealed to those around him because that other doctor probably exists in a whole other plane and has a relationship with the universe that is probably beyond the ken of human beings.  This also makes Capaldi's Doctor seem a little darker and more impatient than previous versions - perfect for and age when even comic book champions are more antihero than hero. Capaldi is a veteran talent - an Oscar-winning short film director whose past TV roles include the classic British comedy the Thick of It. But a bit of the old fan boy enthusiasm creeps into his voice when he explains why audiences still love the Doctor who scoops up human companions for adventure in a time machine disguised as a police call box.  It kind of opens the door in this world and if you go through that door you can be taken anywhere in time and space but you will always be returned back to like your backyard or your hometown.  So far it looks like Capaldi's past makes him the perfect caretaker for the Doctor's future. I am Eric Deggans.  