 Hi. This is Lulu Garcia-Navarro. UP FIRST is here for you every morning bright and early to help you stay on top of what is happening in the world to keep you informed in a way that is reliable quick and easy. Now you can be there for UP FIRST. It is made possible by your NPR member station. So we are asking you to support them before this year ends. It does not take much time to do. Just go to donate.npr.orgupfirst. And thanks so much.   The Judiciary Committee has approved articles of impeachment against President Trump.   Mr. Chairman there are 23 ayes and 17 nos.  The article is agreed to.  The vote will go to the full House next week.  I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Scott Simon. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   Plus Obamacare - the deadline for open enrollment is tomorrow.  We will have all the information you need and an update on the future of the Affordable Care Act.  Also what a landslide win for U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson and his Conservative Party means for Brexit.   Yes they will have an overwhelming mandate from this election to get Brexit done and we will honor that mandate by January the 31st.  So please stay with us. We will give you the news you need to start your day.   President Trump is now the fourth president in history to face impeachment.  The House Judiciary Committee officially approved two articles of impeachment yesterday - one for abuse of power the other for obstructing Congress.  And the full House of Representatives is expected to vote on them next week.  But it is a long process. And NPR White House correspondent Franco Ordoez joins us now. Thanks very much for being with us Franco. FRANCO ORDOEZ  Thanks for having me.  What should we expect in the full House which after all is controlled by the Democrats? ORDO Well as you point Democratic leaders control the House. They plan to hold a vote on Wednesday but that will be after the Rules Committee meets on Tuesday. The Rules Committee will determine things like how much floor debate to allow on the floor before the vote. House Democrats - they appear to be maintaining a united front. But we could see some defections particularly among freshman Democrats who are elected in districts that voted for Trump in 2016. The White House and supporters have been putting a lot of pressure on them not to vote against the president. You know we will be watching that very closely as it could be a sign of how popular or unpopular this idea of impeachment is in battleground districts and the role it could play in 2020.  And then the Senate holds a trial. And after all Republicans are in control there. Do we know what that trial will look like? ORDO Well Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said he is going to wait until January for the trial. White House counsel Pat Cipollone has been in McConnell's office this week and he is regularly meeting with senators. McConnell said on Fox Thursday that he is been in constant coordination with the White House counsel's office and that there is no daylight between the two sides. He also raised some eyebrows about what he expected the ultimate outcome to be.   We all know how it is going to end. There is no chance the president's going to be removed from office. ORDO Those comments angered some Democrats who said McConnell was not even trying to act impartial. They basically likened it to a courtroom jury-rigging the results. Republicans - they argue that McConnell is just telling like it is. And it is going to be very difficult to get two thirds-majority in the Senate which is unlikely.  You were in the Oval Office yesterday - right? - after the vote. What did he say about the next steps? ORDO Well he is certainly not happy about the idea of being impeached. He is eager to address the accusations in the Senate where his own party has control. He said he will follow McConnell's lead if the leader seeks a kind of shorter trial. But at the same time Trump you know is very interested in possibly a more drawn-out affair. He wants to call witnesses such as the whistleblower and Representative Adam Schiff the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee.   I will do whatever I want. Look. There is - we did nothing wrong. So I will do long or short. I have heard Mitch. I have heard Lindsey. I think they are very much on agreement on some concept. I will do whatever they want to do. It does not matter. I would not mind the long process because I would like to see the whistleblower who is a fraud. ORDO His counselor Kellyanne Conway later in the afternoon yesterday echoed that sentiment. But she also said the White House is trying to stay focused on getting some work done. She did note the work the administration has done this week on trade with China and a trilateral deal with Mexico and Canada.  White House correspondent Franco Ordoez thanks so much for being with us. ORDO Thank you.   Tomorrow is the last day of 2020 open enrollment on healthcare.gov the insurance exchange set up by the Affordable Care Act also known as Obamacare.  Republicans have long been trying to weaken Obamacare both in and out of court.  Still people in many parts of the country will find more plan choices and lower premiums on the exchange. NPR's Selena Simmons-Duffin has more on what you need to know. Hi Selena.  Hi.  All right. First Obamacare has been remarkably resilient right?  Yes. So President Trump used to say that the exchanges would collapse and he made a number of policy changes to change the law - some would say undermine the law. And many people have heard that the individual mandate now has a zero-dollar penalty. So that part of it has gone away. And yet the exchanges are still there.  They are.  More insurers are offering plans this year. Premiums are down a little bit. And 80 of people are eligible for subsidies. Just to give you a sense for what premiums are like on the exchanges they use a medal system. So bronze is the cheapest plan and it goes up to platinum. And the average premium for a bronze plan is 331. For a gold plan it is 500. The deadline's...  That is a month right?  Yeah per month. Right. So the deadline for healthcare.gov is Sunday December 15. But 12 states and D.C. run their own exchanges and some have extended deadlines. It varies based on where you live. So you should make sure you know your deadline.  There is been a lot of discussion about obviously Obamacare over the years. How is it going?  So as we talked about President Trump's actions probably have depressed enrollment. Enrollment has been down slightly every year since 2016 but not what many had feared based on some of the things that he has done. Last year more than 11 million people enrolled and we are on track to be slightly behind that this year. Definitely there are people who could enroll who are not. As a reminder this is - these health insurance exchanges allow people - individuals to buy their health insurance on a marketplace. And one thing to note is that the Kaiser Family Foundation which studies health insurance found that many people who are currently uninsured - there are 27 million people uninsured - who are not enrolling on the exchanges - about 5 million people would be eligible for plans with zero-dollar premiums on the exchange.  So zero dollars - they would pay no money at all for their health care...  For their monthly premium right.  ...If they actually enrolled.  Right.  Why would not they enroll?  So the theory is that it is because of a lack of outreach. One of the actions that President Trump's administration took to change the law is to radically cut back the funding to do outreach and to do advertising to let people know that this exists.  So people just may not know that this is actually a thing that they are entitled to and they are not actually signing up. If you do go to the exchange do you have any tips for consumers?  Yeah. The thing that people - experts in this field always say is you have to shop around. Shopping for health insurance is extremely hard - trying to figure out your networks and your drugs and what is covered and what you are going to need in the coming year. You have to do this kind of prognostication. But you have to do it. If you just let yourself - if you are already enrolled and you let yourself being auto-enrolled you are probably going to be missing out on things because insurers offer new plans. So you got to log in. You got to check it out. And you got to make sure that you are on an official exchange website because there are some skinny plans there are these other health insurance websites that you can kind of find yourself clicking through to.  And they might not give you robust coverage.  Exactly.  They might just be health care in name only.  Exactly.  All right. NPR's Selena Simmons-Duffin thank you so much.  Thank you.   British Prime Minister Boris Johnson won Thursday's election with what he called a powerful mandate to get Brexit done.  But the terms on which Great Britain leaves the European Union are still unclear. The prime minister faces a country that is still divided and pulling at the seams. NPR's Frank Langfitt is in London. Frank thanks so much for being with us.  Hey. Good morning Scott.  Prime Minister Johnson's party won the biggest majority for a conservative government since Margaret Thatcher. What does that mean immediately for Brexit?  Well Brexit - he is right. Brexit is going to happen. And in fact I think it will happen very soon. He did not have the votes before. That is why he called this election. And he has a really big majority. But as you point out the future is not clear. Like what is this relationship going to be going forward? They are going to have to work on a free trade deal. And the interesting thing is I think a lot of people who wanted the U.K. to stay inside the EU are very disheartened by this huge majority that Boris Johnson got. On the other hand it actually frees up Boris Johnson to be able to maybe have a closer economic relationship with the EU going forward once they leave because he is not beholden to sort of the hard right of his party now anymore the ones who really do not like Europe. And so what I think's going to be really interesting to see Scott is what kind of future Boris Johnson forges now that he has this political freedom.  He has to negotiate this trade deal with the EU in an extremely short period of time.   Yes.  He said he is not going to ask for an extension. So is there still a possibility of a no-deal Brexit?  You know Wednesday I might have said that before this vote. It is now that he has all these big numbers I actually think - and he is gone back on things. He is made these pledges and then gone back on them. I think that he probably has the political capital to extend again if he needs to. And certainly if he wants a good complex and comprehensive deal he is going to need an extension. The idea of doing this in 11 months with the European Union is - nobody in Brussels believes that is possible. So I think that the cliff edge that we are expecting maybe at the end of next year - he can probably work his way through.  And then there is the challenge of what is going on in Scotland because of course the Scottish National Party ran the table did very well in the election on a platform of opposing Brexit. And they are claiming their own mandate for a new referendum on Scottish statehood. That is got to be a challenge too.  It is a big challenge and I think that what you are going to see is Nicola Sturgeon the head of the Scottish National Party asking for another referendum. Boris Johnson has said under no circumstances. And in order for that referendum to be real to actually have an effect here it has to be approved by the U.K. government to have that kind of referendum. What I think is going to be interesting is you - going into 2021 there'ill be Scottish parliamentary elections. And if the SNP does well then it is going to put a lot of pressure on Boris Johnson to continue to refuse this request from - you know what will look like from the Scottish people themselves if they keep voting in this direction. The other thing though that is really interesting Scott is you look at the European Union - you know the Scottish National Party says we want to leave the U.K. and rejoin the EU we never wanted to leave in the first place. Is the European Union going to be willing to take a Scotland back? It does not want to be encouraging countries breaking up. So it is very complicated. In the next - I think the next couple of years are going to be very important to see what happens in Scotland for the future of the United Kingdom.  Prime Minister Johnson has vowed to get this all done by January 31 2020. Is that possible?  Yeah. It is full steam ahead now. Now that he has this majority it is going to be the opposite of the paralysis that you and I have been talking about in the last three years here.  Yeah.  He is got the numbers. He - Parliament's going to reopen next week. He is going to introduce his - what has been a failed Brexit withdrawal agreement up until this point and it should easily pass. And I think everyone's expectation is at the end of January the U.K. is out of the EU.  NPR's Frank Langfitt thanks so much.  Happy to do it Scott.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday December 14. I am Scott Simon.  And I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your day. And follow us on social media of course. We are upfirst on Twitter.  And of course you know the news does not stop when this podcast ends do not you? We have got radio shows for that.  We do Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday. Find it on your NPR station at stations.npr.org.   And just a reminder about donating before the end of the year to your NPR member station which supports UP FIRST. Now to get started with your donation to an NPR member station visit donate.npr.orgupfirst or just text the word up to the number 49648. We will send you a text message with a link where you can find your local station and make your contribution. Message and data rates may apply. You can visit npr.orgsmsterms for privacy and text message terms. 