 Time now to talk sports. This year we had a lot to celebrate in the sports world. Think summer Olympics in London. Also a lot to deplore. There were steroids in the world of bicycling and another NHL lockout. So much to cover we reached out to NPR's sports gurus Tom Goldman and Mike Pesca. They have covered many of the top stories this year and they join me to talk about some of their favorite moments. Hey guys.  Hi David.  Hi David.  Our sports gurus guri whatever we call you whatever we...  Guros.  Guros. Let us before getting to you know tougher stuff let us start with some of the fun moments. You guys were both in London for the summer games. Tom Goldman take the first stab. What was your favorite Olympic moment?  Second Saturday night of the games. In less than a two hour period Team Great Britain which had a sluggish first week won three track and field golds and it really kick-started the Olympics for the host country. They won the men's long jump the women's heptathlon and then the men's 10000 meters. Mo Farah of Great Britain won the gold. His training partner and friend Gaylen Rupp of the USA won the silver. Now I have heard a lot of delirious crowds but this was the loudest. British reserve was torn to pieces. Going into the race African nations had won every Olympic 10k since 1988 and Farah and Rupp's coach former distance great Alberto Salazar said after the race that a big part of what these guys did was overcome the sense that the Africans were unbeatable.  Mike Pesca I assume that you and Tom were not like shadowing each other going to the same events. You might have some different memories from the games?  Yeah exactly. We are like the president and the vice president. We...  You are apart all the time.  Exactly. So you know one of the greatest events that anyone in the stadium will always remember is Usain Bolt's win in the 100. And he kept on winning. He won the 200. He won the relay. But Bolt was the standout athlete of the games. He combined athleticism with a sense of branding. And the great thing about Bolt I think is that he has ego enough ego to make himself great and yet it does not become overbearing. Sure if I am you know Tyson Gay literally crying on the track when I came in fourth I might think it was little bit overbearing but it was a fun ride to go along with Usain Bolt.  I mean when you are the fastest human in the world you can have a little bit of an ego right?  You need it yeah.  Now David one other highlight for me Claressa Shields of the USA won a gold medal in the new sport of women's boxing. Alas it has not paid off for her like gold has for other Olympians with lots of endorsements and appearances. And you can chalk that up to this being a combat sport and I think there is a little skittishness about highlighting that especially with a woman boxer. It is too bad. She is got a great personality and she is a terrific athlete.  Let us go to the NBA. A huge name Lebron James once the darling of Ohio then the bane of Ohio. He gets an NBA championship.  He became King James this year. He would been hyped as that long before he won a title. It was nice to see after his public humiliation the season before with his no-show at critical moments in the finals versus Dallas and he was of course the villain for leaving his hometown Cleveland for the beaches of Miami. He stayed pretty classy through it all and the way he changed his game around and he rediscovered his joy in basketball it was fun to watch finally winning that title.  Do not you think it shows the kind of collective idiocy we were involved with especially during the season when there seemed to be no reason to think that Lebron James was not a great player? I mean too many people hung on for too long saying it was character flaws that was getting in the way of a championship and then he obliterates the Thunder in the final. It is like oh yeah he is the greatest.  And I think that is a great way to define sports fandom in general collective idiocy. I think you have hit on something Mike.  It is what we strive for in a sold-out area yeah.  And here we are three sports fans who can be given that label.  Who are idiots.  Yeah exactly. It was - 2012 was a giant year in a lot of ways because the San Francisco Giants won the World Series. The New York Giants won the Super Bowl at the beginning of the year.  I see what you did there.  Oh you liked that.  And not to take - yes not to take anything away from them. I am not sure that those teams were the stories as subjective but they won. They are deserving winners. There are athletic reasons that they won. But for me in the sport of baseball especially I got to cover a couple times do a couple stories on R.A. Dickey pitcher for the Mets who is unique in so many ways. He does not have a tendon in his arm which kind of confounds medical science that he is not screaming in pain every time he opens a door let alone pitches. He is 38. He pitches a knuckle ball which is this old craft that no one in the league pitches and there is a - he calls it a Jedi council of old knuckle ball pitchers who advises him and he does it well. He won the Cy Young. And the great thing about him - when I said Jedi council that maybe gives you an insight into some of his interests away from baseball. He loves literature. He loves fantasy and so I asked him about his habit of naming bats after swords from The Lord Of the Ring series. I gave him some Lord Of the Rings trivia.  Narsil a fictional sword featured in the Middle Earth series was owned by who? R.A.  Narsil.  Yeah. It was later re-crafted and renamed Anduril.  Oh Anduril.  Yeah.  So that would - that was Elrond.  Close. It was Aragorn. So that is not the typical Major League Baseball clubhouse conversation and that is why R.A. Dickey is one of the more refreshing stories I have come across in sports.  I can see the image of Yoda like on the mound giving him advice during games.  The Force is strong with him.  Yeah. Okay. So we have covered the NBA the NFL major league baseball. I mean there is another big professional league the National Hockey League in U.S. What is - thoughts? No thoughts.  I think that is...  We might have a season.  Looks at watch uncomfortably.  So we move on. They deserve that for now do not they?  If you want some information no games through January 14. NHL no hockey looming.  Maybe no season at all.  If some deal does not get done by January kiss the season goodbye which they have done before.  Second time in eight years. It would be disastrous.  We would be irresponsible if we did not mention what seemed like another disaster in many ways and that is Lance Armstrong's spectacular fail. Tom you covered Armstrong extensively.  Yeah. So much said about this this year what a profound kind of fall from grace in many people's minds. He remains an incredibly polarizing figure. People still love him. Many more now do not love him. And you know we are going to see what happens with him in 2013 as far as new legal cases with companies trying to reclaim money from Armstrong whether he will in fact turn over trophies and yellow jerseys from his Tour de France victories which he is required to do. Keep an eye on a new group called Change Cycling Now. It is committed to lifting the sport out of its doping past and sending it forward on a different and what it says will be a cleaner more honest path forward.  We do not want to end on a negative note. Let us go positive. Each of you give me one hope prediction for 2013 in the world of sports.  I hope that the New York Jets the team I was raised to root for puts something in front of their name before the word stock other than laughing. Rising stock.  Rising stock.  Just get that laughing out before the stock.  Okay Mike uses this moment to promote his own team. Tom Goldman?  I hope my son has great success as an eighth grade basketball player and my daughter has great success as a varsity player as a junior in high school.  Well that is very inspiring Tom. And I am just going to join Mike in the  and say go Pittsburgh Steelers next year.  See but that is plausible David.  Exactly.  What I said about the Jets...  That is not plausible at all.  That is the realm of fantasy.  Mike Pesca Tom Goldman this was fun. Thank you guys.  You are welcome.  Sure thing David.  This is NPR News. 