 In Southern California the wildfire in Ventura and Santa Barbara counties has already consumed more than a quarter million acres. It is one of the largest fires in California history. It has destroyed more than 700 homes. As Stephanie O'Neill reports two new lawsuits put the blame on public utilities. STEPHANIE O' Dawn and Dana Ceniceros always enjoyed walking visitors through their artsy Ojai home in the remote Matilija canyon. But never did they expect to give this kind of tour.  This was our bedroom. We had a beautiful carved headboard. I remember saving the money to buy. That was the kitchen. And that is a 1920s gas stove that we used every day - had a beautiful yellow enamel finish on it. O' But now most everything inside and around their home is reduced to rubble and ash. It happened after a wind-fueled flare-up of the Thomas Fire exploded one night along Ojai's northern mountains devouring many of the homes in this once-lush canyon. Dawn says the couple had evacuated a few hours earlier due to heavy smoke and really thought they would be back soon.  I think back - like other things I could have taken. And I just did not believe it was going to happen. I actually was vacuuming my living room before we evacuated.  I have spent days on the phone with people whose - you know they lost everything. O' Alex Robertson is a Ventura County attorney who filed a lawsuit on behalf of residents and business owners. The lawsuit contends in part that Southern California Edison crews working above a campground near the town of Santa Paula are the likely cause of the fire.  They were working up there before the fire started. And then at about 20 p.m. one of our clients who works at the campground observed an orange glow coming from that canyon. And that is where the fire started. O' Robertson also alleges that water hydrants operated by the city of Ventura and the Casitas Municipal Water District did not work properly.  Many people are very angry at the water companies because the firemen were just standing there. You know they had plenty of firemen fire trucks on their streets. But they had no water. O' The water utility says its fire hydrants were working and that it is not liable for any of the losses. The city of Ventura did not respond to interview requests. And Southern California Edison says it cannot comment on the lawsuit but that the utility is cooperating with fire investigators. Robertson's lawsuit is the second so far filed on behalf of fire victims like Dawn and Dana Ceniceros whose last name Dawn points out means from the ashes.  We are going to sift through this ash and any little broken piece or whatever - I am going to reclaim it and make something beautiful out of it you know? O' And regardless of how the lawsuit plays out Dawn and her husband Dana say they plan to rebuild. For NPR News I am Stephanie O'Neill in Ojai Calif. 