 UPS truck drivers do not have the same luxury that others do with their vehicles this time of year especially in the South where tinsel is wrapped over everything that does not move - and many things that do. Here's essayist Diane Roberts.  You have trimmed the tree you have covered the shrubbery in colored lights fastened a candy-cane collar around the dog's neck and donned the fun cardigan with the red and green sequined Santa bears. But have you remembered to decorate the truck? In these parts you see a lot of wreaths on the fronts of Dodge Rams. The wreaths are mostly fake though I have also seen real holly wired to the brush guard of an F-150. Some people stick to tasteful greenery or red velvet bows but I say if you are going to pimp your ride for Christmas go whole hog. Got some antlers? Stick them above the windshield spray-paint one of those Nerf basketballs bright red and tie it onto your grille for an awesome Rudolph look. I saw a Durango done up like that in the mall parking lot just last week. Out on US 98 there was this Toyota Tundra with a Nativity Scene glued to the top of the cab - just Mary Joseph and the baby in the manger no angels no shepherds no kings no camels. The guy was going about 70. I waited to see if Jesus would fly off but he did not. If you need some ideas there are websites to help you fancy up your vehicle for Christmas. One suggests parking a giant blow-up snowman in the back of your pickup - just make sure you can see out the rear view mirror. How about tying ribbons to the antenna or spraying that fake snow stuff on the bottoms of your windows? That is a nice thing for down here where it does not snow. Another website offers a list of possibilities for decorating your class-eight truck. Class eights are those huge long-haul rigs that often have naked lady mud flaps though for Christmas maybe the naked ladies could wear Santa hats. My personal prize for the prettiest truck goes to a big old Silverado with icicle lights running around the bed up over the windows and down the hood. Seems you can take the plugs off a regular string of lights and hook them up to your battery. I can tell you that late on a cold clear night out on a country road that truck blazed like the Star of Bethlehem - if you can imagine the Star of Bethlehem barreling south down a state highway.  Diane Roberts teaches writing at Florida State University in Tallahassee. 