 We hear about the threat from ISIS and the war being waged to destroy it. But it is sometimes hard to grasp how much territory this group controls where its real influence is. Right now Iraqi security forces are making advances into one city ISIS has controlled Ramadi in Iraq. I spoke to two colleagues Pentagon correspondent Tom Bowman here in Washington and international correspondent Alice Fordham in Beirut. Both are very familiar with Iraq. Tom just returned from there.  Hello David.  Morning.  Let me just start with you both. Can you just paint us a picture of Ramadi the cities we have been hearing so much about the last few days?  Well Ramadi is a provincial capital of Anbar province. It is a sprawling city west of Baghdad. It is a poor city endless cinderblock houses and high-rises almost as far as the eye can see.  Yeah and it is a run-down city. It is a place that is seen you know pretty much 12 years of conflict on and off now. It is a little rough around the edges.  Well let me turn to you Tom because you just spent some time there speaking to people in the military. What are the chances of success here for the United States and Iraqi militaries to drive out ISIS and take control back of the city firmly?  Well at this point it looks like the Iraqi forces are moving into the city center itself. Now they have been working on this for seven months now. The American military's been pushing them and encouraging them to really get into the city and rout ISIS. So now they are finally doing it. There are a lot of car bombs and roadside bombs house bombs even in this city planted by ISIS. So - but it is going to be a tough fight ahead and the Iraqi generals expect to take the city back the city of Ramadi by mid-January.  So are the Americans mostly playing a supporting role here?  They are its training its equipment. And a key part of this David is the airstrikes. They have taken everything out from command posts to vehicles to individual ISIS guerrillas. So this would not have been possible without those punishing American airstrikes.  Alice Fordham let me ask you about the people in Ramadi. What will happen to civilians who have lived under ISIS control for a while now if ISIS begins to move out?  Right David. Yeah like Tom says I mean he is described months of heavy fighting in Ramadi and the city has gradually emptied out. And what we have seen actually is that it can be a slow process for civilians to come back to these places. There is often bad blood between the people who sided with ISIS and did not side with ISIS. And in another Sunni-dominated city retaken earlier this year in Tikrit it took a long time for government services to be restored electricity and water and the local police to come to control the place. So for these places to come back to life afterwards takes a while.  And I guess much of that might depend on the Shiite government and how much they will support Sunni communities coming back and sort of re-establishing themselves there.  Right which has been a big issue. And of course Iraq is a country with a long and difficult history of sectarian violence between Sunni and Shiite groups. And Ramadi's actually a really interesting test because what we are saying is Iraqi security forces with international support and local Sunni fighters allied with them. And if this works and if those Sunni tribal fighters are successful in retaking the city and if they are able to police the city afterwards then I think that that will be a significant moment in the fight against ISIS in Iraq.  Key point here that we have heard from President Obama and others that if you bring in Sunni fighters they are more credible in convincing a Sunni community to abandon ISIS and turn.  Absolutely it is a Sunni area. So the key here once Ramadi is taken that you have the Sunni tribal fighters Sunni police in there patrolling the city.  So could Ramadi in a way be a blueprint for using mostly Sunni forces in what sounds like it might be a successful battle against ISIS?  Right because they are looking at also organizing the Sunni tribes up around Mosul to take back that city as well. That is the second largest city in Iraq. That is going to be a very very tough fight. And the Shia militias were not used in Ramadi and we are told by the Iraqi generals that they do not want any Shia militias up in Mosul either to take back that city. So - but again that is going to be a very very tough fight.  Alice Fordham you cover this whole region and I think people in the United States hear about ISIS and the threat. But you know I struggle to understand exactly where they have territory what it means. I mean if Ramadi is taken away from ISIS if cities like Fallujah and then maybe Mosul I mean are these devastating blows to ISIS that could be real steps toward eliminating this group?  They would be significant steps toward eliminating ISIS as it currently exists which is to say as a group that is able to exercise a modicum of control. You might even say governance in these places. It would not eliminate the group as extremists as insurgents and I am sure they would continue to wreak havoc in various forms in Iraq and Syria and in another places. We do have to remember that Ramadi did not fall last year when Mosul was taken. Ramadi fell this year to ISIS fighters long after the Americans and other international forces were back in Iraq trying to train the troops participating in international airstrikes. The Iraqi security forces were still so weak even with all that help that they actually lost a provincial capital. So yes retaking Ramadi if and when that happens will be a step in the right direction but it is a long road.  All right that is NPR international correspondent Alice Fordham in Beirut NPR's Tom Bowman Pentagon correspondent joining me in the studio. Thank you both.  You are welcome.  Thanks for having me. 