 There are fewer than 230 fluent Eastern Band Cherokee speakers left. In North Carolina two Cherokee brothers are working to save that language and their identity. From member station WUNC Liz Schlemmer reports.  You see that wood back there in the corner?  Micah Swimmer points of the back of his classroom at a language school in Cherokee N.C. There printed sheets of paper display the names of fewer than 230 Eastern Band Cherokee members.  That is over than 16000 enrolled members. That is all we have left that are fluent speakers.  For more than 1000 years the Eastern Band Cherokee have been speaking their native language in what is now the North Carolina mountains. But today most of the remaining speakers are over 50 years old. The Eastern Band dialect of Cherokee is considered severely endangered by UNESCO. Four days a week Micah facilitates an all-day language session between young adults who are learning Cherokee and older fluent speakers.  Because if we do not teach these adults how to talk you cannot make the kids talk Cherokee. If they do not have it at home from their parents they are not going to talk it.  About 40 miles away in Robbinsville Micah's younger brother Jakeli Swimmer teaches Cherokee language and culture at a public elementary school.  Now if you want something you just say .  .  Both brothers say they are working to preserve their culture as well as their family heritage and identity. Here's Jakeli.  If we are not speaking Cherokee then what are we? Because that is what makes us unique.  And they are running out of time.  Worst-case scenario for the language - I will say 30 years.  Like most Cherokee their age neither Jakeli nor Micah are fluent. They both took language classes in high school and college. Jakeli writes down new phrases he learns in a little black notebook that he carries around with him. He says sometimes when he and his brother talk on the phone they start out speaking in Cherokee.  We talk until we are uncomfortable which is a few sentences. We will talk - .  Then they will switch to English. It might be surprising that these two Cherokee teachers are not fluent in their language but that is actually not uncommon for Native American language programs. Jioanna Carjuzaa runs the Center for Bilingual and Multicultural Education at Montana State University. She works with Indigenous language programs around the country.  We have been trying to really promote immersion programs but there are not teachers to teach these classes.  About half of all languages indigenous to the U.S. and Canada have disappeared since 1492. Carjuzaa says through the 1970s schools often discouraged students from speaking native languages sometimes even punishing them for it. Parents stopped passing their native languages on a generation gap emerged. Now many tribes are working to overcome that gap.  Speakers in multiple generations is how you save a language or keep it vibrant.  Jakeli and Micah learned that from experience. Their parents were not fluent but their grandmother was. Jakeli says he wishes he would spent more time listening to her when he was little at an age when he could have just soaked up her words.  There are some days Grandma would just speak Cherokee. And it just kind of clicked. She might say something and go - point over there. And you might not know exactly what she is saying. But that instruction kind of leads you to that way.  Jakeli and Micah's grandmother died in November at the age of 97. Micah removed her name from his list of remaining Cherokee speakers. Jakeli says his cousin told them it is up to you now. You have to learn it. And speak it right. For NPR News I am Liz Schlemmer in Durham N.C. 