 And for whoever replaces Secretary Clinton here is a reminder of what he or she will be dealing with U.S. officials fear North Korea's successful rocket launch this week took that country a step closer to being able to strike the United States with a nuclear warhead. They also wonder whether the test helped Iran the other country whose nuclear program concerns the U.S. The two governments have collaborated in missile development as NPR's Tom Gjelten reports.  Officials are now saying the satellite put into orbit by that North Korean rocket is wobbling. That does not necessarily mean the rocket launch itself was not successful. U.S. analysts say the North Koreans main goal here was not to put a satellite into orbit but just to see all three stages of their rocket work to show that the rocket could carry its payload a long distance - and it did.  In the last test in April the first rocket stages worked as designed but the third stage failed. Charles Vick a missile expert at GlobalSecurity.org credits the North Koreans with learning from their past mistakes.  They have demonstrated not merely an ability to identify problems but to resolve those problems and get the total system to work together all three stages working as a single launch vehicle.  So the North Koreans are making progress. Next question what if anything did this launch mean for Iran? We know North Korea and Iran have worked together in missile design. Vick says the evidence can be seen by comparing the North Korean Nodong missile with Iran's Shahab missile.  In every detail right down to the re-entry vehicles Nodong A is the Shahab 3. The technology is being transferred in both directions and I think that is what is going on in the nuclear technology too.  This North KoreanIranian cooperation may well have contributed to the success of this week's rocket launch. Theodore Postol a missile expert at MIT says the third stage of the North Korean rocket launched this week looks like a comparable stage in a rocket designed by the Iranians.  They were able to collaborate with equipment given to them or sent to them from North Korea and at the same time do a lot of the research and engineering development needed to build this upper stage.  What this means Postol thinks is that this week's North Korean rocket was actually a joint production between North Korean and Iranian engineers.  While the North Koreans were working on the first stage these guys were working on the third stage. So there is no doubt looking at the technology you do not need access to the intelligence information to see that these programs are very very strongly collaborating.  But that leads to another question. Who exactly is helping whom? Missile analysts think the rocket technology now used by Iran came originally from North Korea. But Jeffrey Lewis a proliferation expert at the Monterey Institute of International Studies thinks nowadays it is the Iranians assisting the North Koreans with missile development.  The Iranians were doing innovation and change taking things apart and putting them back together and it now to me looks like the Iranians are better at this than the North Koreans. And so the North Koreans have gone from being a technology supplier to possibly the recipient of technologies and services back from the Iranians.  This reversal from North Korea helping Iran to Iran helping North Korea is important. Remember a big question is whether this week's rocket launch helped Iran as well as North Korea. Some American officials have worried about that but Jeffrey Lewis is not convinced.  I look at this test as a contribution to North Korea's program but I think it is probably a pretty marginal contribution to the Iranian program.  Of course Lewis says every test is a learning experience. Iran may want to develop its own long-range intercontinental ballistic missile North Korea's demonstration of such a capability this week should provide data that Iranian engineers can put to good use. A final point successfully testing a long-range missile is one thing putting a nuclear warhead on the missile is quite another. Experts say North Korea as well as Iran are still a long ways from being able to do that. Tom Gjelton NPR News Washington.   Many of our listeners have asked where Steve has been the last couple of weeks. And we are excited to tell you that he is been in China with his family welcoming a new addition - 3-year-old Anna Shou Inskeep adopted in China Steve says as he was adopted in Indiana.  We are so happy for the entire Inskeep family and we will get to tell Steve that in person when he is back in the studio next Wednesday. You are listening to MORNING EDITION from NPR News. 