 This summer Cardi B and Megan Thee Stallion made history with their song WAP. They became the first all-female rap collaboration to debut at No. 1 on the Hot 100 Billboard chart.    Now from the top make it drop. That is a WAP. That is a WAP. Now get a bucket and a mop. That is a WAP. That is a WAP.  But that success is by no means isolated.  For anyone who engages with hip hop - like women have been a part of it from the very beginning. They are a part of the building block.  That is music critic Briana Younger. She says this year...  They have been putting out some of the most interesting rap music. They have been writing circles around a lot of their peers.  So for NPR Music Younger organized a list called 2020 Was The Year Female Rappers Dominated. She invited other writers like J'na Jefferson to contribute. J' You will get women talking about their experiences growing up. You will get women talking about what they prefer in the bedroom as we have seen with WAP. But we also have women who will talk about mental health struggles. And we will have women talking about how it took them a little longer to get to the place that they are today.  That is true of Jefferson's pick.  So I chose Chika's BALENCIES.  Which is all about what it means to make it in the industry.    Four years later and my racks blue and my whole team is seeing green like yo she acts too. Now people take and in your face say I as not ask you.  I love her perspective on her career and how far she is come. But I also like how she likes to look back and see who she was before the fame.    All that pain and anger and just make rhymes. How I am uplifting your whole life but still I hate mine?  The pain of 2020 was compounded for Black Americans by continued acts of police violence and crackdowns on peaceful demonstrators. This year had a lot of artists questioning their place within social justice movements.  There is also been a really great discussion and a healthy one about the role of celebrity in society.  That is journalist Shamira Ibrahim.  Noname has definitely been one of the artists who has tried to publicly educate herself and also create a forum to educate others.    I saw a demon on my shoulder it is lookin' like patriarchy.  Hailing from Chicago Noname is both a rapper and outspoken critic of the American criminal justice system. She runs a book club Noname Book Club that highlights the work of authors of color. And though she had said she was taking a break from music she came back this summer when rapper J. Cole wrote a thinly veiled criticism of her activism into one of his songs.    He really 'bout to write about me when the world is in smokes? When it is people in trees? When George was begging for his mother saying he could not breathe you thought to write about me?  Her response titled Song 33 is Shamira Ibrahim's pick for the list.  What it really does is one just kind of ground a response in censuring the real objective of what we should be doing but also just remind people that she is an artist.    Little did I know all my readin' would be a bother. It is trans women bein' murdered and this is all he can offer? And this is all you all receive? Distracting from the convo with organizers. They are talkin' abolishin' the police. And this the new world order.  Hip-hop you think about it and it is like men and like what men want to do and what men are talking about. But this year really was just like women setting not only the bar but setting the tone for the entire year.   Hi I am LaTesha Harris. I am a news assistant for NPR Music.  She chose a song called Telepathy by rapper Junglepussy.    My problem is I be stuck in my feels. Do not look at me like that. Easy you turn me on. My friends say I am just a wreck when I am in love. Do not mess with me.  Lyrically it is so funny and witty. But it is about just her obsessing over this guy that is like not that cool.    I am my own snack. Why you brought me to the store?  Over at The Gumbo a hip-hop site for and by Black women founder Nadirah Simmons picked a song by rap duo City Girls.    I make him grow like Pinocchio. I ama freak like a Scorpio. Let us go live make a video. And I ama ride you like a rodeo.  The song that really really stood out for me was Rodeo. And that was the one where as I was going through the album I literally got up off of my bed and started dancing. I was like this is the song that I need to hear outside.    I got my spurs on San Antonio. I am a thoroughbred. You a phony ho.  I love hearing two women kind of go back and forth on a track and pick up where another person left off.    I am young and I am sexy and reckless period.  We remain at the forefront when it comes to being innovative. So I think 2020 just really exemplified that.  And along those same lines Briana Younger wrapped up the list with a track by Yung Baby Tate and Flo Milli called I Am.    I am protected well respected. I am a queen. I am a dream. I do what I wanna do and I am who I wanna be.  Kind of like about like speaking life into yourself and like manifesting you know yourself. And I think all of the women on the list do that. Like all of these women are here because you know they have had no choice but to manifest and they have had no choice but to you know speak positively to themselves because it is a genre that often does not speak positively to them.    I do not need no one. I am independent on my own. I get that money and I can spend it 'ecause it is long.  And looking forward...  There is still more to learn. Like we need to invest in these women the same way we invest in digging through men.  This list she hopes is a step in that direction.    I wanna name it just for you. 