 This is PR News. I am Renee Montagne.  And I am David Greene. We are getting a new read this morning on the state of the U.S. economy. It is a jobs report for the month of November and it came in stronger than expected. The Labor Department says the unemployment rate fell to 7.7 percent and employers added 146000 jobs to payrolls. This news comes of course as the White House and Congress try to find a compromise on how to address tax hikes and spending cuts that are due to hit starting next month. Joining us to discuss what this report means for that as well as the economy are NPR's White House correspondent Scott Horsley and business correspondent Yuki Noguchi. Good morning to you both.  Good morning.  Good morning.  Yuki get things started for us if you can. What do you see in this report that is significant?  Well we were all expecting this report to be downbeat because of Superstorm Sandy and the surprise was that that did not happen. The Labor Department is saying in fact the weather did not substantively impact this report. Now we could see some revisions and that could change. But as of today the report says the number of jobs added last month was much better than expected 146000.  Well that - give us a sense of what that number means in the context everything.  Well here's an interesting thing. Are you ready?  Yeah.  The number of jobs added every month for the last two years has been about 150000. For two years that is the average. And that is what you are seeing of course this month. You saw about 150000 new jobs. So it was not worse last month but it really has not gotten better for a long time. And 150000 is just enough job growth to chip away at the unemployment rate and as you mentioned it dropped from 7.9 percent to 7.7 percent last month.  So one sign that over the last few years the economy is not getting worse but also not getting better perhaps.  Yes.  Scott let me turn to you. You know when we talked about jobs a month ago jobs report we were talking about a bitter presidential election fight. Now we are talking about a political fight over the - avoiding the fiscal cliff in Washington. Could this report change those negotiations at all?  Well because it came in so average I do not think it is going to be a major factor. One thing that is interesting is that the numbers for September and October were both revised down. Those months turned out not to be as strong in terms of job growth. But President Obama is really sticking with his line that tax rates for the upper-income earners have to go up. That is where fight over the fiscal cliff is and I do not see this being a major influence on that battle.  Could this report do anything else? I mean could it spur some kind of action in Congress perhaps a new stimulus or maybe an extension of unemployment benefits?  I do not really see that at least in terms of the new stimulus - perhaps an extension of unemployment benefits. Even though this report came in better than expected you know we are still talking about unemployment that is 7.7 percent. That is much higher than anybody should be comfortable with. The jobs numbers are still not enough to really make a meaningful dent in the millions of people who are looking for work. But even though the president's been pushing for stimulus for over a year and a half now it is just not getting a lot of traction in Congress. I think the prospects for a major government addition to the economy are pretty slim. The best we can hope for is that they do not have a major subtraction for the economy which is what the fiscal cliff would be.  And Yuki this unemployment number 7.7 percent it is a new low for some time right now right?  The lowest it is been in four years.  But still a pretty high number as I am sure a lot of Americans are feeling. If there is new hiring Yuki where is the hiring coming from?  Well last month it happened in retail professional services and in the medical field. And where it is losing ground is in construction and manufacturing. Now I have talked to businesses who say they have already changed their hiring plans because of the fiscal cliff. And it is - you know it is not just that businesses may have to pay higher taxes. It is that the fiscal cliff could take a bite out of an already weakened economy. This quarter the fourth quarter is expected to just barely grow. So depending on whether we hit that cliff you know we could move into negative territory recession territory. Then again David a lot has changed and one thing seems to have stayed the same The economy stubbornly keeps adding the same number of jobs month after month.  OK. We are talking this morning about a new jobs report that says for the month of November the unemployment rate fell to 7.7 percent and employers added 146000 jobs. NPR's Yuki Noguchi NPR White House correspondent Scott Horsley thank you both.  You are welcome.  Thank you David. 