 More than 9 out of 10 farm owners in the United States are white according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. And there is a growing movement to try to change that. The goal is to help more people of color become farmers and to make healthy living more accessible to more people. NPR's Alan Yu reports.  Chris Newman used to be a software engineering manager in the D.C. area - well-paid but he worked long hours ate fast food and went to the doctor a lot. Eventually enough was enough.  I do not eat at Popeyes anymore. I think it is disgusting. I used to love Popeyes.  Newman says he and his wife moved to Charlottesville Va. to become farmers. He keeps pigs ducks and chickens.  I have a really hard time eating bad meat. I will eat a vegetarian dish at a restaurant if I do not know where that meat's coming from.   There is no bad meat on this farm. Newman knows these chickens and takes good care of them.   He says the idea is to give the animals sunlight and room to run around so their manure does not overwhelm one spot and so he does not have to give the animals antibiotics.  It is not just about our happy damn chickens. This is about how do we fix this system?  Newman wants a lot more people like him growing food using these methods. Specifically he wants to help more people of color get involved in farming.  So what has to happen in order for this to be accessible to everyone is way bigger than me is way bigger than this farm is way bigger than all the farms in central Virginia or the mid-Atlantic or anywhere else.  To get more people of color interested in farming first you have to show it is a viable career. But then there is a more complicated problem - one that the vast majority of farmers do not have because they are mostly white. A couple years ago Newman was driving past a rich neighborhood. He pulled his pickup truck over to the side of the road to eat his lunch.  This lady like jogs by and she gives me this look. And every black man in America knows that look. It is a mix of fear and incongruence. Like you do not belong. Something's wrong. And as soon as she you know ran by and gave me that look I am like the cops are going to be here in less than five minutes. And lo and behold like five minutes later here comes a cop.  Newman says this officer was in a part of town where police almost never go. The cop slows down and looks at him.  I know how to disarm white people you know? First thing you do is smile. You act like you own the place. You act white. Change your voice you know to where you code switch and you become a lot more articulate. You maybe lower your voice a little bit. Or maybe you just raise your voice a little bit and talk like kind of an intellectual. You make sure that there is not too much in your voice. And smile. Always smile.  Newman is addressing the lack of diversity among farmers by hiring interns focusing on women people of color and other underrepresented groups. And there is demand for this kind of work. Leah Penniman is a farmer and activist at Soul Fire Farm in New York state.  I started getting calls from mostly black women in different places in the country who were saying like I just need to hear your voice and know that I am not alone and to know that it is possible to be a farmer.  She also teaches black and Latino people basic farming skills. And demand for her training is booming. And she is developed a system where the people who can afford it pay more to cover the cost of those who cannot.  The food no matter what - it comes every week to folks' doorsteps - high-quality full box of veggies. And for many people they say if it was not for that they would just be eating you know boiled pasta because that is the most calories for the least money.  Penniman says she hopes to bring healthy food to people who cannot afford it - one household one farmer and one box of veggies at a time. Alan Yu NPR News.  