 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Jennifer Ludden. And forget New Years. The most important countdown of your weekend ends in three two one. Let us puzzle.   Here as the ball drops for the last puzzle of 2013 is Will Shortz. Of course he is the puzzle editor of the New York Times and WEEKEND EDITION's puzzle-master. Good morning Will.  Good morning Jennifer. Welcome to the show.  Thank you. So remind us Will what was last week's challenge?  Yes. Last week's challenge came from listener Andrew Chaikin of San Francisco. And I said think of a well-known filmmaker - first and last names. I said add sun S-U-N before this person's first name and last name in each case to form a common English word. Who is the famous filmmaker? Well the answer is Ken Burns. If you add sun you get sunken and sunburns.  All right. Well we got over 1100 correct answers this week. And our randomly selected winner is Josh Gutman of Providence Rhode Island though lately in San Francisco and he joins us from there on the line now. Congratulations Josh.  Thank you very much.  So how did you figure this one out?  Well I spent a lot of Sunday trying to figure it out without aid and failing because of my lack of knowledge of filmmaking. And went to the Internet on Monday finally. And as I went down the list of filmmakers Ken Burns jumped out and worked.  All right. And have you been playing this a long time?  Oh since the postcard days.  Great. Well we are happy to have you. Are you ready to play this week's puzzle?  As ready as I will ever be.  OK. Will take it away.  All right Josh and Jennifer. With this being my last on-air puzzle of the year I have brought my annual new names in the news quiz. And here's how it works. I am going to give you some names that you probably never heard of before 2013 but that were big in the news during the past 12 months. You tell me who the people are. And these names were compiled with the help of Cathy Baker Tim Goodman and Sandy Weiss. Start with some easy ones. Number one is Rob Ford.  Boy. That does not ring a bell at all. Do not know.  Do you know this one Jennifer?  Think. Well I would say think National Enquirer but I think that was on NPR as well. Mayor of Toronto.  Oh.  Yes the crack cocaine-smoking mayor of Toronto good.  I remember the story but not the name.  Here's your next one Edward Snowden.  Oh yes. The fellow who was leaking all the NSA information.  Yes. Former CIA employee. Good. George Alexander Lewis Windsor.  That does not - I cannot I do not recognize that name at all.  And your hint is George was born this year.  Oh the child of the royals the royal son.  New royal baby good. How about North West?  That is a name?  Those are two - first and last names. That is correct. North West.  First and last names. No that one I do not know at all.  You know that one Jennifer?  No idea.  That is Kim Kardashian and Kanye West's child.   West of course. Kanye West.  OK. How about Hasan Rouhani?  Oh I know that name but I do not know from where. He is the new the head of the government in Iran?  Iran yeah new president of Iran.  Excellent Josh.  Considered a moderate. Very good. How about Janet Yellen Y-E-L-L-E-N?  Oh yes. The new head of the Federal Reserve.  That is right. She is Obama's nominee to head the Federal Reserve. She would be the first one to hold this position. Yeah you know your hard news. I like this. How about Magnus Carlsen Magnus Carlsen. Your hint is he is world champion but at what?  Magnus Carlsen.  I will give you a second hint. He is the first world champion born in the West in this activity in 40 years.  Weightlifting?  No.  My goodness. I do not...  Do you know this one Jennifer?  Not so up on my sporting news no.  Not actually sports. He is the new world chess champion. First one born in the West since Bobby Fischer actually. And here is your last one sunny S-U-N-N-Y. And your hint is it is not a human.  Yeah. I was starting to wonder about the single name whether it could be a dog but...  Yes it is a dog. Whose dog?  The president's dog?  Yes it is the new White House dog to accompany Bo.  Josh you did great.  Excellent.   And for playing our puzzle today you will get a WEEKEND EDITION lapel pin as well as puzzle books and games. You can read all about it at npr.orgpuzzle. Before we let you go can you tell us Josh your public radio station?  Yes I listen out here in San Francisco to KQED. But back in Providence I am a member of WRNI.  Josh Gutman of Providence Rhode Island this was so fun and thank you very much.  Thank you so much I enjoyed it. Thank you both.  OK Will. What do you have for us next week?  Yes this week's challenge comes from listener Steve Daubenspeck of Fleetwood Pennsylvania. The word wizard has the peculiar property that its letters can be grouped in pairs - A and Z D and W and I and R - that are opposite each other in the alphabet. That is A and Z are at opposite ends of the alphabet D and W are four letters in from their respective ends and I and R are nine letters in from their respective ends. Can you name a well-known brand name in six letters that has this same property?  Wow. OK well maybe some people will have some holidays off to ponder that one. When you have the answer go to our website npr.orgpuzzle and click on the Submit Your Answer link - just one entry per person please. Our deadline for entries is Thursday January 2nd at 3 P.M. Eastern Time. Please include a phone number where we can reach you about that time. If you are the winner we will give you a call and you will get to play on the air with the puzzle editor of The New York Times and WEEKEND EDITION's puzzle-master Will Shortz. Thanks so much Will.  Thanks Jennifer.  