 Hi Scott Simon here. UP FIRST is here for you to help you stay on top of what is happening in the world to keep you informed in a way that is reliable quick and easy. And now it is your turn to be there for UP FIRST. It is made possible by your NPR member station so we are asking you to please support them before this year ends. You can do it quick and easy. Just go to donate.npr.orgupfirst. And thank you so much.   COVID cases surge in South Africa as a fourth wave of the virus takes hold there.  The steep increase is being driven by omicron the new COVID variant first identified there and in Botswana last week.  I am Scott Simon.  I am Ayesha Rascoe. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.  Omicron has now been detected in dozens of countries including the U.S.  What do we know about the protections that vaccines and boosters offer against it?  And what steps can we take for safer gatherings this holiday season?  Plus the parents of a teenager who allegedly shot and killed four classmates in Michigan have been charged with involuntary manslaughter.  Why do prosecutors say they are culpable? Please stay with us. We have got the news you need to start your weekend.   Scientists say the case rise in every major city in South Africa is unprecedented far more dramatic than the first three waves of the pandemic there.  NPR's Eyder Peralta is in Cape Town South Africa. Eyder thanks so much for being with us.  Hey Scott.  How huge a rise are we talking about?  I mean if you look at that curve it shows an almost vertical spike in cases. And you know just to give you some numbers on November 16 the seven-day moving average of laboratory-confirmed COVID-19 cases was 332. And now that number is more than 4800. And scientists here are saying that that is unprecedented. It is a much faster acceleration that we have seen in the previous three waves. And this is happening across the country at the same time in every province and every major city. And most of these cases are the omicron variant.  And at the same time what are scientists learning from this wave in all the cases?  Yeah I spoke to Dr. Juliet Pulliam who directs a modeling center here at Stellenbosch University. And she and her team were one of the first to say that this new variant seemed highly infectious. And in a new pre-print paper that they published yesterday they found that it has a remarkable ability to get past the antibodies that people form when they have COVID. So South African scientists throughout this whole pandemic have been very realistic. From the start they said this would be long. And very early they said that herd immunity was just a mirage. The vaccination program however was just getting up to speed right now and many people have already had COVID here in South Africa. So I think everyone was hoping that maybe you know this summer - we are headed into summer here - would be the beginning of the end of COVID. And I think a lot of people thought that they had this figured out. I asked Dr. Pulliam if this will ever actually end. And here's what she told me.  I have no idea. I wish I knew. After the delta wave I was very relaxed and I sort of thought we had a while. Like I was not sure there was not going to be a fourth wave but I did not think it would be this fast. And it is just come out of nowhere and hit us.  Hit us hard she says. And this is still uncharted territory. And so her advice is simple. Until we know more about the omicron variant you should be as careful as you can.  Based on the cases we have been able to see so far do we know whether this variant differs from some of the others in terms of who it affects?  I mean one of the concerning early pieces of data that we are seeing is that people under 40 are getting infected at higher rates. And health authorities have also found that in Gauteng province kids below the age of 2 are being hospitalized at a much higher level than in previous waves. But they do not know why. Does it mean that kids are more susceptible to this virus? Or are doctors admitting healthy kids because there is enough beds? We just do not know the answers to those questions yet.  Eyder how are South Africans bearing up?  You know the country and the people as a whole have been really good at handling this pandemic. They have been a model really. People wear masks and the government has put in place some of the most draconian lockdowns in the world. But you know this is also a country that has been the hardest-hit in sub-Saharan Africa. And this was supposed to be the first normal summer in two years here. And I think at this point as this wave accelerates people are thinking the government will impose new lockdowns. And I think everyone is sort of depressed you know? And it seems certain that everything will be anything but normal right? And South Africans I have talked to in my regular life - they are just - they are sick of this. And some you know do not know if they will survive this new wave economically.  NPR's Eyder Peralta in Cape Town - thanks so much.  Thank you Scott.   Since omicron was first detected in Botswana and South Africa it is shown up in dozens of other countries and now almost a dozen states in the U.S.  Well there is still a lot we do not know about omicron. Preliminary data shows it is more transmissible than delta which is the dominant variant here in the U.S. and that reinfections are more likely.  That is got many people wondering what kind of changes they need to make to stay safe. And here to help us think through those questions is NPR health correspondent Maria Godoy. Welcome Maria.  Thank you.  I think two big questions on many people's minds are whether their COVID-19 vaccines are going to protect them against omicron and whether getting a booster will help. What do we know so far?  Well scientists say there is good reason to hope that the current vaccines will still offer protection against severe disease. You know the Biden administration is urging people to get a booster to help protect against omicron. And science so far backs up this advice. Scientists are learning that boosters do not just raise your antibody levels. They also help broaden your immune response in ways that help protect you against multiple variants. Paul Bieniasz is a virologist at Rockefeller University. He studies how the immune system response broadens over time. And he says yeah get a booster shot.  I am somebody who is been vaccinated three times. And I think that is absolutely the right way to go.  And if you spend time with someone who is immunocompromised or otherwise at high risk for severe disease from for their sake too.  Maria omicron is here just as the holiday season is getting underway. Should we be canceling our holiday parties and our gatherings?  No. But experts say you want to layer the protections as we gather indoors - and not just because of omicron. Remember the delta variant is still spreading in the U.S. with an average of around a hundred thousand new cases a day over the last week. So for safer gatherings experts say make sure everyone attending is vaccinated and boosted if they are eligible. And take a rapid antigen test - the kind you can take at home - within a day of the party to reduce the risk that someone who shows up might be infected with COVID. Here's Dr. Carlos del Rio of Emory University.  If I had tests available - readily available - when I get together for Christmas with my family I may just say let us get everybody tested since we are all coming from different parts of the country. That is a great way to prevent somebody who is infected from coming in and infecting somebody else.  Dr. del Rio is advising everyone to get tested. But the issue is those at-home tests can be really hard to find. And they are not cheap.  I know. The cheapest one will still cost about 12 a test. So if you have to ration tests Dr. Monica Gandhi of UCSF has this advice.  If we have to use testing judiciously - which sometimes we do because rapid antigen tests are not as available - I would really favor those who are unvaccinated testing - who are coming to the gathering - and then also anyone who has any symptoms.  Now the Biden administration announced a new plan this week to make tests more available and affordable. Private insurers will soon have to reimburse consumers for rapid tests. And people without insurance will be able to get free tests from health clinics and other sites.  What about holiday travel plans? Like is it time to cancel that winter vacation in Costa Rica? I mean I do not have that plan but maybe somebody does have a nice winter vacation plan.  I wish I had that. No not necessarily. But do weigh your decision to travel carefully. If you are at high risk for severe disease maybe do not go just now. Wear an N95 or similar high-quality mask if you are flying. And if you are traveling abroad you now have to show a negative coronavirus test taken no more than one day before returning to the U.S. So if you are in a foreign country make sure you know where to get a test 'ecause that could be a logistical headache.  NPR health correspondent Maria Godoy - thanks so much.  My pleasure.   We turn to Michigan now where prosecutors are going a step beyond charging a 15 year old accused in a school shooting in the small town of Oxford.  Ethan Crumbley is accused of killing four of his classmates and wounding seven other people.  Now officials say Crumbley's parents James and Jennifer Crumbley enabled their son to go on the rampage. Both parents are charged with four counts of involuntary manslaughter.  Neither parent appeared in court for their scheduled arraignment on Friday. And police arrested them in Detroit early today. Quinn Klinefelter of member station WDET is covering the story and joins us. Quinn thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you.  How were the parents taken into custody?  Their lawyer had said they left town earlier in the week for their own safety and planned to turn themselves in. But early this morning Detroit Police Chief James White says the police got a tip that the two were in a commercial building in Detroit. They surrounded the building and moved in.   We were able to take them into custody without incident. However they were very distressed as we were walking out.  The chief says that they were not armed and they did not resist.  What are the parents accused of doing for which the prosecutors consider them to be part of the crime?  Well it is equal parts action and inaction. Law enforcement officials say Crumbley's father allegedly bought the murder weapon as a Christmas present for his son only days before the shooting. The teen supposedly showed it off over social media and the father kept it unlocked in a bedroom drawer which allowed easy access to it. The day before the shooting prosecutors say that a teacher saw the teen searching for ammunition on his phone. The mother was contacted and then she told her son in a text message L-O-L I am not mad at you. You have to learn not to get caught. And then Oakland County Prosecutor Karen McDonald says on the day of the shooting school officials brought the parents in to examine a note that their son had written which ended with the words my life is useless.  A drawing of a semiautomatic handgun pointing at the words quote the thoughts will not stop. Help me end quote. In another section of the note was a drawing of a bullet with the following words above that bullet - quote blood everywhere end quote. Between the drawing of the gun and the bullet is a drawing of a person who appears to have been shot twice and bleeding.  Quinn you can certainly understand why the school would be alarmed on seeing such a note from a student. What did the parents do?  Nothing according to the prosecutor. She says there were steps that could have been taken. Remember this was a short time before the shooting began. And yet McDonald says the parents refused to act.  Both James and Jennifer Crumbley failed to ask their son if he had his gun with him or where his gun was located and failed to inspect his backpack for the presence of the gun which he had with him. James and Jennifer Crumbley resisted the idea of their son leaving the school at that time. Instead James and Jennifer Crumbley left the high school without their son.  The teenager was returned to class. Not long after officials allege he emerged from a school bathroom with a gun and began methodically firing down school hallways and into classrooms. The prosecutor says the parents' behavior goes way beyond mere negligence to the point where it is criminal behavior.  Quinn after all these signs do officials say the parents did anything to try and stop a potential shooting?  Prosecutor McDonald only notes an instance about a half hour or so after sheriff's deputies had taken him into custody when reports of the shooting began hitting the media.  When the news of the active shooter at Oxford High School had been made public Jennifer Crumbley texted to her son quote Ethan do not do it. And James Crumbley called 911 reporting that a gun was missing from his house and he believed his son may be the shooter.  Now Michigan does not have a law requiring gun owners to lock weapons away from minors but adults have been prosecuted before in such circumstances.  Quinn Klinefelter from WDET in Detroit - thanks so much Quinn.  Thank you.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday December 4 2021. I am Scott Simon.  And I am Ayesha Rascoe. UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your week. Follow us on social media. We are upfirst on Twitter.  And for more news and interviews books music entertainment fun you can find us on the radio.  Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings. And a reminder - if you can please consider donating to your local NPR member station during this holiday season so we can continue to bring you UP FIRST every morning. Go to donate.npr.orgupfirst. And thank you.  