 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. Im Scott Simon. During the holidays most families tell and retell magical stories of years past. Steve Satlow has all of us beat. His childhood tale includes a special gift from Jackie Robinson - yeah that Jackie Robinson. Sharon Robinson children's book author and daughter of number 42 Jackie Robinson of the Brooklyn Dodgers has retold that story in her new book Jackie's Gift A True Story of Christmas Hanukkah and Jackie Robinson. Sharon Robinson joins us from New York. Sharon thanks so much for being back with us again. Ms.  Thank you for having me back Scott.  And joining us from Gainesville Florida is her old neighbor from Brooklyn Steve Satlow. Dr. Satlow thank you very much for being with us. Dr.  Glad to be here.  Sharon let us turn to you. We should explain you were not born when this gift was given. Ms.  No I was not. But I grew up hearing the story.  Okay. Well tell us what you heard. Ms.  Well Steve's mother is an amazing storyteller. So she would remind me periodically that she met my father when he delivered a Christmas tree to her son Steve.   This presented some problems of etiquette right? Ms.  Yeah...  I mean your mother was trying - I mean you know your father was trying to be nice. Ms.  My father was being generous. Steve had been over at the house helping them decorate a tree. And neither my father nor my mother understood that Jews did not have Christmas trees on Christmas Eve. So when they heard that Steve didnt have one dad said okay and he went out and brought a Christmas tree and met Steve's mom for the first time.   Well Merry Christmas and Happy Hanukkah. So when Jackie Robinson brought over a Christmas tree did your mother plotz?  Dr.  Yeah. Yeah. Well it was my father. What are we going to tell your mother? You know? And eventually it was told and my mother accepted the tree with my dad. And it turned out great.   Now Steve we should explain. Jackie Robinson was already your hero. Dr.  Oh yes. The whole neighborhood was abuzz that Jackie was going to play for the Brooklyn Dodgers. And us being accepted as friends of the Robinsons was just wonderful. And of course I remember over the years going to multiple many games especially with Little Jack your brother... Ms.  Right. Dr.  ...and being down in the clubhouse with the Dodgers and on the field before the game started.  Oh! Dr.  And all the Dodgers knew us Pee Wee Reese Junior Gillian Duke Snider Carl Furillo Don Newcomb.  Oh! Dr.  I mean and they would feed us hotdogs in the clubhouse.  Dr.  I loved that.  Dr.  I loved that.  So as depicted in the book were you this adorable little towheaded boy with a Brooklyn Dodger cap on your head looking up at Jackie Robinson? Dr.  I was an average kid in Brooklyn. I used to love to play softball and two-hand touch football and stickball. And it was a wonderful experience because Jackie took a special interest. And just to mention two quick stories. I had a ruptured appendix. I was in the hospital for a few weeks. Jackie came to the hospital and gave me one of his practice mitts.  Oh! Dr.  And he also later - believe it or not - gave me a personally-signed 1955 baseball when the Brooklyn Dodgers defeated the dreaded Yankees finally.  Dr.  And when Brooklyn went wild you wouldnt believe it I gave that ball to a baseball fan who ran an Italian restaurant so I could get extra big veal parmesan sandwiches...  Oh!  Dr.  ...when I was 17.  Oh! Im sorry for a lifetime of veal parmesan sandwiches thats not worth that baseball. But oh my word. Now you grew up hearing this ChristmasHanukkah story which I guess - it begins with I guess a bowl of cherries. Ms.  Yes. My parents moved in to Tilden Avenue. Steve was waiting outside you know hoping to see meet Jackie Robinson. And he is disappointed when the moving van comes 'ecause he sees my mother and he sees my older brother but doesnt see my dad. So then the next day he and his mother deliver a bowl of cherries. They had a big cherry tree in their front yard. And Sarah said let us bring them a welcoming gift and she and Steve brought the cherries over. And my most fun piece of art in the book is Mom and Sarah talking and Steve peeking around the corner still looking for Jackie. But once again he is disappointed because Jackie's not home.  In the book young Steve is aware of the fact that there are some people that dont want Jackie Robinson to play for the Dodgers some people that dont want him to live on their street in Brooklyn. And Steve in the book your parents say well you know thats just wrong and it is especially wrong for Jews to think that way. I mean your family kind of knew the sting of anti-Semitism didnt they? Dr.  Yes. The reason my grandfather came from Moscow Russia was because of persecution against the Jews in about 1903 and he felt it personally and the same with my grandmother.  Sharon you know it is often been pointed to - your father really developed - boy how do I say this in these politically correct times? Well he had a lot of Jewish friends and really developed a feeling for Judaism. Ms.  We had  in our family we - we worked together with Jews to raise money right at our house for the civil rights movement.  Yeah. Ms.  The religious difference made us closer because we both had gone through both segregation which - and the persecution against Jews. We both had been through hard times and we felt very very much very close to each other and like we had a common goal.  Dr. Sadlow if I could get you to talk in front of Sharon who you have known for so many years what was it like as a kid to be in the presence of Jackie Robinson? Dr.  It was fantastic because the friendship like I said continued. We visited them maybe once every two or three months in Saint Albans Long Island and eventually North Stamford Connecticut and it was - Jackie was a regular guy. He was always - and Sunday he was in front of the TV. You know he played football for UCLA. He was...  He was the best running back of his time. Dr.  He was one of them and all these dignitaries would be marching around in their living room but Jackie would be eating a hamburger a chocolate milkshake and watching football. He was a really regular guy and a straight shooter all the way through.  And Sharon? Ms.  Yeah.  Steves mother and your mother have remained devoted friends I guess. Ms.  They have. In fact I have a PowerPoint that I show the children in school and after going through the book and doing a reading I end it with a picture I took of them Steve about three weeks ago  three or four weeks ago? Dr.  Mm-hmm. Ms.  And their heads are together and theyre down at - Steve's mom lives now in Florida with - on Steve's property - and so their heads are sort of together and the cows are in the background.   Cows? Youve got... Ms.  Hes gone from being a doctor to a cow farmer.  Oh my word. Do the cows get a Christmas tree Dr. Satlow or are they Jewish too?  Dr.  They are the fattest cows in - west of Ocala.  Dr.  They get everything.  I found this an utterly charming book and story and I just wonder what each of you hope youngsters and their parents who read the story to them are going to take away from this story. Ms.  I hope that they take away the importance of friendship that they should treasure friendship and let it develop in spite of race religion that does not matter. If you find a really good friend you need to nurture that relationship.  Dr. Satlow? Dr.  Well I think that is an excellent summary. I can only add that every child should have aspirations and dreams. Mine was to be like Willie Mays Mickey Mantle Jackie Robinson. But I could not be that so I strived in other areas to do what I could. But it is always great to dream especially around Christmas time.  Well it is a wonderful book - for Hanukkah for Christmas. Ms.  Thank you Scott.  For everything. Wonderful to talk to both of you. Thanks so much. Dr.  Thank you. Ms.  Thank you for having us.  Steve Satlow who is in Gainesville Florida and Sharon Robinson in New York. Happy Hanukkah. Merry Christmas. 