 One of Ohio's online schools has added an unusual offering to its course lineup chorus. Now students are learning to sing together even if they are only joined by an Internet connection. StateImpact Ohio's Molly Bloom explains.   Jingle bell jingle bell jingle bell rock.  Diana Newlon sits on her living room couch leading choir practice. With her laptop balanced on one arm of the sofa she looks at a screen full of videos of girls singing Jingle Bell Rock. Each girl is in her own little square arranged Brady-Bunch credits style on the screen. Newlon teaches at the Ohio Distance and Electronic Learning Academy OHDELA for short. And she is the founder of perhaps the only all-online school choir in the state or even the nation. Newlon's boss the principal of t she was crazy when she suggested starting a school chorus last year. OHDELA students live all over Ohio and take classes entirely online.  And he said well how could you do that? And he said Well I just do not think they would come.  He was wrong. Nearly 20 students enrolled this year. They practice online through group video sessions twice a week. Plus they have in-person practices at least once a quarter.     Instead of lining up on risers they use a video-chat program for the online practices.  They are there with their bed hair and their pajamas and sitting on their bed sometimes.  But a school chorus taught mostly online? Can that even work?  I feel so because you know Ms. Newlon is an awesome teacher. Awesome awesome. And if we have a problem she is right there to say OK well if you have problem with this listen to how I do it.  That is Erika Blon. She is a senior at OHDELA and a leader of the chorus.   That is like the .  Recently the choir held one of its in-person practices at OHDELA's headquarters in a downtown Akron office tower. Afterwards as the chorus members got ready to leave I talked with OHDELA student Hannah Fulks. Hannah has cerebral palsy and her voice sometimes wavers.   Need a little singing ringing through the rafter. And we need a little snappy.  But Hannah loves to sing. She is wonders whether she would be welcomed in a regular school chorus.  Because would they accept me or not? I am not sure. These girls all accept me like I am like just another girl.  The full chorus's first performance will be a holiday concert today in Akron. For the first time the online chorus will perform in front of a live audience.  Other people will get to see what a online school can do without being together like every day.  Hannah says it is going to be awesome. For NPR News I am Molly Bloom on Akron Ohio.   This is NPR News. 