 A woman who is cranky religious profane and indomitable comes to live in a van she parks in the street in an artsy London neighborhood. Neighbors mutter about her some also bring her creme brulee. A local playwright Alan Bennett who was part of the Beyond the Fringe players and would go on to write The Madness Of King George III The History Boys takes an interest in her. Is it personal? Is it literary? Is it truly kind? The Lady In The Van Alan Bennett's memoir and play about a woman who lived in a van in his driveway for 15 years has become a movie. It stars Alex Jennings as the playwright and Dame Maggie Smith as Ms. Mary Shepherd the lady in the van. It is directed by Nicholas Hytner. And Nicholas Hytner and Alan Bennett join us from New York. Gentleman thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you.  Thank you.  So Mr. Bennett may I ask you call this a mostly true story. What is that?  Well it is true in a sense that Ms. Shepherd lived in the street and then I invited her to bring her van into the drive thinking she would be there for three months. And then she turned out - this turned out to be for 15 years. And at the end of the 15 years she died. And I then found out from her next of kin which was her brother all the facts of her life which are that she would been a very promising concert pianist and that she had been involved in an accident in which somebody had been killed and she would left the scene of the accident and so was technically speaking on the run from the police for most of her life - none of which I knew and which is woven together in the story.  It is only mostly true to the extent that you see in the film Alan the writer wrestling with the best way of telling the story so that when the literal truth has to be remolded you see something of the process. So the label mostly true is in a way illustrative of Alan Bennett's scrupulousness. He hates it when he has to part from a little truth and when he does he fesses up.  Your neighbors in Camden Town with some exceptions Mr. Bennett at least as depicted in the film tried to be kind to Ms. Shepherd. They brought her creme brulee they brought her Christmas gifts.   They did not bring her creme brulee on a regular basis.  Well at least once.  Occasionally when it turned up at dinner parties and they had some left they brought it over. And they brought over Christmas presents and so on. But she did not want anything that is the thing. She - the Christmas presents she would just hurl into the mess that was inside the van and never open them because she was not - she did not want to be beholden to anybody. She did not want to be - to have to be thought to be grateful. She was a very independent spirit.  So Nicholas Hytner is it tempting in a film with Dame Maggie Smith to sentimentalize or lionize the lady in the van?  No that temptation does not exist mainly for the reason that Maggie would not go there. I mean she is one of the very great actors I suspect ever. And Maggie is able to display a kind - or to reveal a kind of ocean of regret. It is not soft. It is not sentimental. It goes way beyond that.    You are not doing me a favor you know. I have got other fish to fry. A man on the pavement told me if I went south of the river I would be welcomed with open arms.  Slowly you realize that she is aware of the gap between where she is ended up and what she could have been. Although having said that she is hilariously funny because there is something incredibly funny about this fierce armor-plated rude aggressive old woman laying about the guilty liberals of educated North London not allowing them even the small pleasure of feeling that they have done her a favor. None of that.  Yeah. There is a moment in the movie when Alan Bennett observes - talks about all that is necessary to care for Ms. Shepherd. And he tells us in the audience what he has learned caring is about. There is no way to avoid the sentence but I think you have to utter the line not me.  About caring?  Yeah.  I in the movie get very cross and say what people never say about caring. It is about  because it is about cleaning up after people. And there was a lot of cleaning up to do over Ms. Shepherd. But I think it is true to the facts of life really not merely her life but anybody who has to look after anybody who is difficult and exasperating in exactly the way she was and who expects it to be done but does not refer to it.  Despite all do you think that Ms. Mary Shepherd had moments of joy in her life during the 15 years she was in your driveway?  Well there is a scene where I am pushing her in the wheelchair and she said push me up the street. And it is not a request it is an order really. And then she free-wheels down the street in her wheelchair. And that is a moment of pure joy. But it is - her joy in life was to do with motion. And she was never happier than when she was at the wheel.  There is a plaque there is not there?  Well there is a plaque in the film. I am afraid there is not yet a plaque in...  Really.  ...In - I wanted to save the plaque and have a sort of clandestine plaque on the wall but it is been taken down. But I am sure she will get a plaque in the end because everybody remembers her. I mean often when I am in a cab the driver will say have you still got your old lady? And everybody knew about her. And she deserves a plaque I think.  Alan Bennett has written and Nicholas Hytner has directed Dame Maggie Smith in The Lady In The Van. Gentlemen thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you.  Thank you very much. Thank you. 