 Mr.  Okay yeah. We have got our whisk. We have got our grater. We have got pitchers of wine and cream and sugar and some lemons.  That is Frank Clark supervisor of Historic Foodways at Colonial Williamsburg with the ingredients for a dessert drink that was very popular in the 18th century syllabub. We met him just before Christmas in the Governor's Palace kitchen to talk about the eating habits of the colonists. He is going to show us how to make syllabub but we also wanted to know more about the role food played in the early years of our nation. Clark says the meal on the table reflected the class of the diners. The wealthiest class included the governor other palace residents and their guests. Mr.  The key here is variety. Only poor people have one meat or no meat. If you are the royal governor as a general rule of thumb you should have a meat and a side for each guest at the table for the first course and for the second course - those are the two main courses. Then there would be a very light dessert course consisting of candied fruits and nuts and jellies and jams and syllabub which we will get to in a little bit. But two very large courses and then a light course at the end.  And then the gentry class what would they eat? Mr.  The middling sort are going to go and try their best to follow the example set by the very wealthy but of course cannot afford to put out the kind of quantities that they are. So more meat and potatoes kind of a menu as such in the middling sort of household.  And if you were poor what would you do just end up with a one-pot meal? Mr.  One-pot meals exactly right. Most folks if you look at the cooking equipment in their household they have one cast iron pot and that is about it.  However all colonial Americans regardless of class had one thing in common They loved to drink. Not water - that was considered unsafe. Alcohol on the other hand was thought to cure the sick strengthen the weak and liven the aged and make the world a better place. Beer and hard cider were very popular as were drinks with such names as rattleskull bogus toddy flip and of course syllabub.   All right. So syllabub where do we start? Mr.  Well you start probably with the lemons. What we will need to do is grate the outer rind off of our three lemons. I will just do that on the big grater here.  Mr.  Get as much of that lemon rind...  Frank Clark says food played a leading role in the social lives of 18th century Virginians. And an elaborate feast at the governor's table sent a message. Mr.  Well it shows your wealth and it shows your hospitality even at the royal governor's household. He is paying for this food out of his pocket. So if you were lucky enough to get an invitation and he is putting out all this food it is a clear indication that he wants you to be happy.  It must have also been a place where people could get together and just talk. Social occasion was also for information too correct? Mr.  Absolutely. This is where you get our news. And as a guest or diner at the table it is your responsibility to provide entertainment for your fellow guests. You do not go there to shovel food in your face and sit there. You do that you will never get another invitation to the governor's again.  We are sitting in front of a giant hearth. Was that the main source of heat for your cooking? Mr.  Yes. The cooking was done in this household at the royal governor's house by European cooks. The very very wealthy in England hired French cooks because they were considered the best. So they brought their cooks with them from England. When they got here English folks and French folks for that matter had never cooked on a wood fire. By this time wood is gone. On a little island like England there is no longer available. So their fuel has changed from wood to coal or charcoal or peat. So when they come to Virginia and they see a wood-burning fireplace in this kitchen they change it. They put in a grate that holds charcoal. They put in a stove that burns charcoal. And they set this kitchen up to be just like their kitchens back home so that they can prepare the same kinds of cuisines and dishes that the governor was used to at home.  There is a crackling fire burning in the kitchen's hearth keeping us warm while Frank Clark shows me how to make syllabub. Mr.  Now what we are going to do is simply add our white wine. Equal portions in this case about a pint of each.  That is two cups of... Mr.  They call this Rhenish wine because it comes - or Rhenish wine -because comes from the Rhine in the Rhine Valley in Germany. So German white wine there. And then yeah about two cups of the cream as well. And you want to use a heavy cream. This is not a health dessert. This is a holiday dessert okay? And then the rest you can call for well there are about 12 14 different versions of syllabub but it can be up to a pound of sugar that is added in.  A pound of sugar? Mr.  It can be up to a pound of sugar.  The lemon begins to curd the cream. Mr.  Exactly right. It is the lemon juice and the alcohol and the white wine that is curdling the cream. And so what we are going to do is simply stir it. We are going to stir this for about maybe 5 to 10 minutes. As we stir it it is going to start getting thicker and thicker and thicker. And you will be able to feel it. Let us get you on there.  Get me on the whisk. Mr.  Whisk away there for a minute.  While Frank Clark hunts for one of the syllabub recipes I whisk the ingredients together. Now there is no anachronistic mixer or a metal whisk in this kitchen. I am working with a bunch of small birch branches that have been tied together with twine. Everything in the Governor's Palace kitchen - the copper pots iron pans and ceramic pitchers - are handcrafted reproductions of what the 18th century chefs would have used. You know we live in an age you know you know exactly how much time it takes to make something. How did they do it here? Mr.  Experience. It is your experience that tells you the food's done even today. The buzzer goes off you do not pull that right out of the oven. You open it up and you look. You shake it around you poke it whatever you do that allows you to realize that it is finished and it is ready to go. And they did the same thing all the time. The difference is we put things in our oven and then we go off and do something else. Two hundred years ago you were not leaving this room. You are watching those things as they are baking so you are always there. It is not a set it and forget it - it is a constant watching. If you look at the recipes of the 18th century they almost never give times because time is only relevant if you know the temperature and we are not using thermometers. So if you look at a cake or a baking recipe they will describe the oven temperature in terms of speed a quick oven a moderate oven a slack oven high medium low. What you are going to do is you are going to stick your arm into that brick oven after it is been preheated and you are going to feel the heat level. Now no one can stick their arm in an oven and tell whether it is 350 or 375. So we forget all about Mr. Fahrenheit and his little temperature scale and think about ovens in terms of heat levels.  Are there special dishes that would have been prepared during the holiday season? Mr.  Not so much yet. The idea of a particular meal for a particular holiday is really a very late 19th early 20th century occurrence in our country. There are a few things that did sort of mark the Christmas season in 18th century Virginia. One of them was a piece known as a rich cake. And the rich cake you can really think of as our fruit cake of today. And they will have a pound cake base. Just about all your cakes start off as a pound cake which is of course a pound of flour pound of butter a pound of sugar and a pound of eggs. And then to that we are adding candied fruit peels candied nuts spices brandy to create this rich cake. You also see a recipe for something called a Yorkshire Christmas pie. Down in the South today in America we have a dish called a Turducken. Well you may be familiar with this. This is a series of birds stuffed into each other. The same thing with the Yorkshire Christmas pie. It is actually seven different animals deboned stuffed and then put into each other and then placed into a giant very hard coffin shell and baked. In Virginia here surprisingly enough one of the things we see consistently mentioned at Christmastime is rockfish. Of course this is the time of year where the rockfish come into the bay to spawn. So they are available and you would be catching them and eating them for Christmas at that time as well.  By this point the curdled lemon cream is pretty thick and my arms are getting pretty tired. Frank Clark says if I whisk too much I will end up with lemon butter. Thankfully he tells me to stop.  Mr.  So yeah that one's pretty thick good consistency. Now what we are going to do is pour this into the glasses. What will happen is over the next couple of hours this is going to separate out. And what you will do is you will have a foam on the top that you eat with a spoon and the white wine below. Do not refrigerate it.  I was going to ask... Mr.  You have already - if you refrigerate it it takes forever to separate out. You have already curdled the cream by adding wine and lemon juice to it. So there is no point in keeping it in the refrigerator now. You are making a cheese here. This is an intentional cheesing of the cream. So if you sit it out on the counter in fact the recipe for everlasting syllabub says to sit them out for up to a week and they get better as they age.  So you just eat this and then drink it. Mr.  And then you drink .  And then you are very happy. Mr.  Exactly right. In fact that is what happened to Little Miss Muffet. You remember her? She was sitting on her...  Sat on her tuffet curds and whey? Mr.  ...eating her curds and whey. This is curds and whey. Any milk solid and liquid is considered a curds and whey. That is why she saw the spiders. Too many syllabubs and all that wine and you got to be careful.  Poor Little Miss Muffet. Mr.  Well that is the point of rhyme is to remind your parents that your children are drinking alcohol. They drank it every day. Safer than water right? But you do not want them to have too much or they will start seeing spiders like Little Miss Muffet.  Frank Clark is the supervisor of Historic Foodways at Colonial Williamsburg. You can watch a video of Frank making the syllabub at our blog NPR.orgSoapbox.  This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. Happy New Year. I am Liane Hansen. 