 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News I am Linda Wertheimer. During his presidential campaign Donald Trump hammered away at the troubles of the American economy. But if you look at the numbers the economy does not seem to be doing so badly. The unemployment rate is now 4.6 percent - half what it was when Obama first took office. Home sales are up. Energy prices are stable. The stock market is soaring. To talk more about what kind of economy Trump is inheriting and what happens next we invited Bloomberg View columnist Megan McArdle into our studios. Thank you very much.  Thanks for having me.  So many of the numbers we look for as indicators of our economy's health are positive. I want to ask you for your take on them. Do you - let us start with unemployment - 4.6. Is that - that is a good number is not it?  It is a pretty good number but you have to qualify that because one thing that we have seen since this recession is that unlike earlier recessions we have not seen employment recover the way we would normally expect to. So the unemployment rate is low. What we have not seen is labor force participation is about three percentage points lower than it was in 2007. And if you have fewer people looking for work you can get a low unemployment rate but that does not necessarily mean that things are healthy because people may have dropped out because they cannot find a job and they just say you know what? I am not even looking anymore.  President-elect Trump also talked a lot about international trade agreements and it was his view that some of these agreements have hurt the sort of American workers you were just talking about. Do you think he will be able to renegotiate trade agreements and if he does will it help those people?  The president does actually have extraordinary latitude on trade agreements and on foreign policy more generally much more than he does on domestic policy. So he could throw any number of monkey wrenches into the operation of our international trade agreements. But you have to ask first of all whether he will because it is easy to talk about those things in abstract. But then when you start actually doing it you know there is lots of interest groups that are going to be descending on Washington saying please please please do not do this. He may want to get re-elected. And then the more complicated question is does that help American workers? Because I think that you know 10 years ago when I was working for The Economist I would have said look trade's great for everyone. It is win-win. It you know rising tide lifts all boats. And I think that we have actually decided there was an emerging consensus among economists that that actually has not been the case. First of all because some of the trade adjustment things we wanted to do like retraining have not worked out that well but also because China itself such a huge economy so many people was such a shock to the system that normally over the course of a decade we would lose some jobs to trade. And some people would be hurt by it but then other things would compensate. The dislocations were too big for the economy to absorb as readily. That does not though mean that undoing it is actually going to fix the problem. You know there are things - you cannot - if you break a jar of mustard you cannot put it back together and put the mustard back into the jar right? It is broken. And that I think is similar with a lot of these things that have happened. And those factories went and they are not coming back no matter what we do.  Mr. Trump is promising 4 percent GDP growth which is up from the current 2 or so. Is that possible?  It is theoretically possible certainly for a few quarters anyway. But you know the president just does not have that much control over the economy. And I think that actually you know all presidents promise that they are going to make it grow. They are going to do all these things. The good news is that they do not have that much control over our economy.  Which is also the bad news.  It is somewhat the bad news but if you think about it if a president could come in and make the economy grow at 4 or 5 percent because he wanted to that would also mean that a bad president could come in and give you a recession of negative 5 or negative 10 percent. You know you can really screw up an economy if you want to. I think Venezuela is a good example of that right now. But in general within the limits of the U.S. political system the president has maybe a few tenths of a percentage point impact on our GDP growth. Most of it is Americans deciding to do things more efficiently to create jobs to invent things. President Trump cannot make that happen. No one else can either.  Megan McArdle is a columnist with Bloomberg View. Thank you very much for coming in.  Thanks for having me. 