 You might be tempted to channel surf when a commercial comes on. If you do you could miss a great song.    Counting all different ideas drifting away past and present they do not matter now the future's sorted out...  That is the French band Phoenix with its song 1901. The song's been featured on a recent Cadillac commercial in the United States and is taken from the band's fourth album Wolfgang Amadeus Phoenix.    It is 20 seconds 'til the last call going hey hey hey hey hey hey. Lie down you know it is easy like we did it all summer long.  Phoenix is currently playing to sold-out venues in the United States. They have been called rock's great French hope by no less than Rolling Stone magazine. Thomas Mars and Laurent Brancowitz of the band join us now from the studios of WOSU in Columbus Ohio. Thanks very much for being with us gentlemen. Mr.  Thank you. Mr.  Thank you.  Laurent I have been told that your mother does not like that album name -Wolfgang Amadeus Phoenix. Mr.  It is true. She is German. Playing with the name of Mozart is like a crime you know. When we told her the title she laughed a lot and cried. That is when we really knew it was a good title when you have these kind of reactions.  Your song Lisztomania...    Lisztomania   Is the Liszt of whom you were singing the composer or the Roger DaltryRingo Starr film? Mr.  Both. We saw Lisztomania before we wrote that song. And it is to be honest it is not my favorite movie but I love the idea. The one we like is the Hungarian composer and the fact that his life is really connected to Paris too. It is very inspiring his life.    From a mess to the masses Lisztomania think less to see it grow like a riot like a riot oh not easily offended no one to let it go from a mess to the masses. Follow misguide stand still disgust discourage  We are talking to Thomas Mars and Laurent Brancowitz. They are two members of the band Phoenix from France - this may be obvious from the accent. Thomas may I ask you a question that might be personal? Mr.  Yes.  So you and Sofia Coppola that is true? Mr.  Yes yes we - I mean it is true since a long time.  OK. That is what I read but I just want to make certain. Mr.  We have a daughter together.  Oh that I did not know. Congratulations. Mr.  Yes. Thank you. And another one coming.  Well double congratulations. Mr.  Thank you.  Your song Too Young was featured in her film Lost in Translation. Let us listen a little bit to that.    Baby when I saw you standing at the end of a street I knew a time was gone and it took me like ages just to understand that I was afraid to be a simple guy. I try my best to smile  Did you write that just for the film? Mr.  No. We wrote that for the first record we did. She liked it. She liked that record. She like the song called A Honeymoon first and she send us one of the best music video we could ever had which was Bill Murray dancing on our music.    Deep inside my heart I felt it was shouting like a crowd dancing. I guess I could not live without things that made my life what it is. Cannot you hear me calling? Oh yeah. Everybody's dancing. Oh yeah.  Your song Love Like a Sunset has been the object of a remix done by the American band Animal Collective. Have you heard it? Mr.  Yeah of course yeah. We all love it.    Visible horizon.  Now when you hear a remix this particular remix or another are you flattered - or is there a part of you that wants to say oh go write your own tune just do not use ours. Mr.  No. We are flattered for sure. We did everything we could so everybody could remix our music. You know we put the separate tracks of the songs on our Web site. We prefer though that the remix stays a bit less good than the original you know. But no we love it and we love the fact that at some point you know the music belongs to everybody.    Here comes a visible horizon. Right where it started oh and then we start the end.  What do you think of Carla Bruni's music? Mr.  What do we think? Maybe we should invent our own truth and just imagine that she is the first lady that suddenly released a very beautiful album.  yeah she wrote a very good album actually. The first album is good. And she makes men become crazy.    Who is the boy you like the most? Is he teasing you with  underage?  Gentlemen very nice talking to both of you. Mr.  Thank you. Mr.  Thank you so much.    Static silhouette somehow single in his bed someday. Quiet 'til it falls falls falls...  Thomas Mars Laurent Brancowitz members of the band Phoenix. Their album Wolfgang Amadeus Phoenix is out now.    Oh no what did I say? What can I say? Rome Rome many tears have fallen here I will be driving you look the other way. It as not easy to ignore when the shutters open all the way.  And this is WEEKEND EDITION ... 