  Triumphant new theme music for our most triumphant Sunday sports guy NPR's Mike Pesca. And this week with hockey still locked out basketball is our major indoor sport at the moment. And today we will address one of the simplest yet challenging elements of the game right?  Yeah. This music makes me wonder what is coming up next on Fantasy Island?   Petticoat Junction?  Oh do not you wish you knew.  Mr. Roarke. Well even Mr. Roarke could not satisfy the dream of one Dwight Howard. He is a center for the Los Angeles Lakers. He was supposed to be the difference and make the Lakers one of those teams to beat. He has a flaw in his game. Dwight Howard just an excellent center great shot-blocker very bad at free throws. And as the name implies free throws are meant to be free but a lot of guys have trouble throwing them. And tension's been focused on Howard because the Lakers have been losing and his free-throw shooting in the fourth quarter has been really bad. He is a pretty bad free-throw shooter for his career but this year he is just been awful. And if you look statistically throughout his career there are years where he actually was a 60 percent free-throw shooter in the fourth quarter and now it is hovering in the 40s and that is kind of killing a team.  So I do not get this. I mean I actually just do not understand why someone can be a professional basketball player and not be good at this very central part of the entire game.   Well you know it seems central because it is called basketball and they are free throws and the names imply that you can do it. Also 12-year-olds do it eight-year-olds do it...  I do it for crying out loud.  Right. Now I am going to say that you probably have not had 20000 people at the Staples Center riding on your free throws.  You do not know Mike.  I know that is true. But first of all I think the name is a little - not unfair that is what the name is - but it gives rise to the notion that these things should be gimmes. And they are not. They are a feat of athletic performance. And one aspect of what Dwight Howard does no one else can do. He slams the ball he gets rejections he is probably the best at that aspect of the game - being very close to the basket being very tall and being athletic.  So we can forgive him that he cannot do a free throw. That is what you are saying.  What I am saying is there are guys who can make plenty of free throws but they cannot dunk. No one says oh this short this relatively short point guard is not a dunker. He is not a complete basketball player. Because there is no aspect of the game where the whole thing stops and everyone says now go ahead and dunk the ball. And it is also very unlike other sports. I guess it is analogous to putting in golf or to kicking a field goal. But field goal kickers that is their only job. And if you are not a good putter you never even get to be known as a good golfer. So it is this odd thing. It goes back to essentially 1896. It was not one of the original rules of basketball but soon became one of the rules. Everyone stops and says go ahead sir. And when you fail on that stage it makes it seems awful. There almost seems to be an ethical dimension. How could you not shoot your free throws? You must not be trying. You must not be serious.  Or you are not practicing enough for crying out loud.  Yeah. And that is not true. It is a portion of a basketball player's repertoire and there are a couple of guys who really do not have it. And the light shines on them just because everyone stops and looks at them and slams their hand to their head and says how could this guy be getting paid 15 million and not make a 15-foot shot?  Yeah. Well the question still remains for me. I do not know if I am convinced but you know.   We will live to argue this another day. You have curveball?  I do. The New Orleans Hornets are not long for the Hornets. They are going to change their name to the Pelicans. The Charlotte Bobcats were once the Hornets. They might want the Hornets back. This got everyone thinking oh my God this could lead to the great renaming because there are so many NBA teams that are misnamed. The Utah Jazz does not make sense. I have been to Utah - not a lot of jazz but they used to be the New Orleans Jazz. The L.A. Lakers does not make sense. I have been to L.A. - not a lot of lakes but they used to be the Minneapolis Lakers. But you know what once we go down this road where does it stop I say. The conference known as the Big 10 currently has 12 teams - will soon have 14 teams. The Dallas Cowboys play in the NFC East. And you know we just had the baseball winter meetings. You know a lot about the seasons Rachel?  Some some.  What season is it now?  I think it is still fall right?  Yeah. There was no solstice. There was no equinox. So there you go.  So the lies - stop the lies is what you are saying.  This is what sports about. It is not about accuracy just like Dwight Howard's free-throw shooting. There it is the ribbon.  Wrapping it up - NPR's Mike Pesca. Thanks.  You are welcome.   You are listening to WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. 