 It is Election Day in Alabama.  It sure is. And it is worth remembering this is just one of 100 Senate seats that is at stake. It is the seat vacated by Jeff Sessions now the attorney general. But allegations of sexual misconduct amid a national debate about it have raised the profile of this race. Democrat Doug Jones says this election means a lot to Alabama.   This election is going to be one of the most significant in our state's history in a long long time. And we have got to make sure...   We have got to make sure that at this crossroads in Alabama's history we take the right road.  So that is Doug Jones. Republican Roy Moore is accused by several women of pursuing them when they were teenagers. He was in his 30s. Roy Moore has broadly denied this.   This election's for the people of Alabama. We dare defend our rights and we will defend our rights in the United States Congress.   Rachel Martin is joining us from our member station WBHM in Birmingham Ala. with more on the race. Hey there Rachel. How they are treating you down there?  Hi. Oh it is the South. They are treating us great. You kidding me?   Of course they are. Of course they are.  Birmingham is a great town.  All right I do not want to keep you from your breakfast but let me just ask a couple questions if I might. How are the two campaigns focusing at the end?  Well it is the push to the finish right? We are in the final hours. Today's voting day. The Moore camp has been pretty consistent in this last push. For Roy Moore this is the next step in a very long career in Alabama politics. His message is the same as it is always been that he is an independent voice with a conservative Christian worldview. And he says he is not going to hesitate to break glass in Washington take on the establishment. Meanwhile the Democratic challenger Doug Jones - he is obviously got a steeper hill to climb. This is a bright-red state. So the state has not elected a Democrat to the Senate since 1992. Jones is hoping that he can turn out African-American voters. He is been pushing in that direction. The campaign's put a lot of energy there. Senator Cory Booker from New Jersey was here over the weekend - former Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick. And of course the most popular Democrat in this state is former President Barack Obama. He has not been here in person to stump with Doug Jones but he has recorded robocalls in support of him.  Although of course none of those outsiders have a vote. What are the voters saying?  Right and indeed. So the diehard supporters in each camp - they have got their positions and they will tell you great things about both candidates. But on the whole I would say based on the conversations we have had there're a lot of conflicted voters here. One conservative Christian we spoke with said he is going to vote for Moore but he is not happy about this at all. He described it as a similar feeling to the way he felt about voting for Donald Trump in 2016. He thinks that the candidate - Roy Moore in this case - has a lot of personal failings as he thought of President Trump - Donald Trump. In the end though Moore is the guy he sees as the person who reflects his values. He is going to cast votes in that direction. And foremost for him is the issue of abortion which has really become a central issue in this debate. Doug Jones is a Democrat. He has a pro-choice policy platform and even though he says he does not want to change the state's laws on abortion that is not satisfying for Christian conservatives. On the other side though you have got Democrats voting for Doug Jones and they are not that psyched. I talked to one cabdriver. He could not even conjure up the name when I asked who he was voting for. He just said I am not voting for Roy Moore I am going to vote for the other guy.  Oh this is the problem when you are running against somebody who is getting such white-hot attention as Roy Moore has. The other guy becomes the issue. Let me just ask though - you mentioned personal failings according to a Roy Moore voter - personal failings of Roy Moore. What are people feeling about the allegations against Moore very briefly?  I mean his supporters say there is just no evidence. They say they are still allegations and they have not been proven. If they were that would maybe be a different story. They question the timing. This guy's had a long political career. Why are they only coming out now?  OK. Rachel thanks very much appreciate it.  You are welcome.  And we are going to hear much more from Rachel Martin over the next couple of days from WBHM in Birmingham Ala. And of course whoever wins the race in Alabama is going to end up reporting for work at the United States Senate.  Roy Moore has vowed that if he wins he will back President Trump despite some doubt about how reliable a vote he would be here in Washington. Senate Republicans do need his vote but they are also wondering a lot of questions about the baggage he might bring.  NPR White House correspondent Scott Horsley joins us next. Scott good morning.  Good morning Steve.  So President Trump has not only endorsed Roy Moore but even recorded a robocall urging voters to back him. How much is at stake for the president?  Well it depends on the time frame Steve. In the short term it is worth noting whoever wins this race is not going to be seated until after the holidays. So in terms of the year-end push on the tax bill and spending bills this does not matter. In the medium term certainly the president is looking forward to having another Republican vote on issues like welfare reform entitlement spending. And then there is the longer term which is what this election could mean for the GOP brand. If Moore is the victor you can certainly look for Democrats to try to make him the poster child for the GOP in 2018 not only over these recent allegations of sexual misconduct but also some of the many controversial things Roy Moore has said and done in the past and the controversial things he is likely to do and say in the future.  But what if Doug Jones wins and becomes that relative rarity the red state Democrat in Congress?  Yeah Donald Trump has said that Doug Jones would be a puppet of Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer. With the exception of abortion there actually has not been a whole lot of talk about you know traditional Senate political issues during this contest. But it does look as if Doug Jones would be a pretty traditional Democrat on issues like Medicare the Affordable Care Act immigration. On trade he is a free trader which was a onetime Republican attitude although it is not the Trump attitude. He might break from Schumer and Pelosi stylistically on some Second Amendment issues. We have seen that from other red-state Democrats. Another big question though as Mary Louise hints is you know how reliable a vote would Roy Moore be for Republicans? Even though there has been this late push on his behalf he owes very little allegiance to Mitch McConnell and the GOP.  How awkward is it for President Trump that there are these allegations against Roy Moore and a number of women who have accused President Trump in similar ways - somewhat similar ways in the past - have chosen this moment to come forward again?  Yeah the White House continues to sort of dismiss the charges against the president although they are not as dismissive as he was during the campaign. Remember back then he threatened to sue his accusers. He did not. And in fact one of them has sued him for defamation. But the White House continues to dispute the facts of what these women say. And more importantly their argument is look voters knew about all these accusations last November and they still elected Donald Trump president. So that they say should give him a sort of ballot-box absolution.  NPR's Scott Horsley - thank you very much.  You are welcome.   All right we are still tracking the massive wildfires in Southern California.  Yeah. The biggest blaze - that would be the Thomas Fire - has charred more than 231000 acres. It is now about 20 percent contained but firefighters are struggling still to keep it away from coastal towns.  And KQED LA bureau chief Steven Cuevas joins us now from Southern California. Good morning.  Good morning Steve.  What is in danger now?  Well this thing continues to burn in the west - to the west up in the foothills above Santa Barbara County coastal towns like Carpinteria Montecito and Santa Barbara itself. So the concern continues to be that any significant shift in winds could send flames back towards these communities. And right now it is mainly being driven not so much by the winds but by very thick dry brush that in some areas you know has not burned in a century or longer.  So we heard yesterday from our colleague Eric Westervelt about the scene in towns that have not yet been evacuated and they are just watching the fires on the hillsides above town and waiting for the evacuation order. I gather you have been spending time with people who have had to evacuate. What is it like to go into one of these almost like refugee centers and what do you hear?  Well I visited one in - on the campus of Cal State San Bernardino - excuse me Cal State Santa Barbara. A lot of people who were there came from some of these communities like Carpinteria. It is a good distance away too. We are talking about 20 miles. And I spent some time with a couple of elderly women one of whom was 92. She was pretty remarkable. She was still pretty spry. She could get around on her own with the help of a little walker. They both left their homes in Carpinteria in the dark of night. It was about 30 in the morning when the flames really started coming into town. They are doing quite well. They are a bit shook-up but I think they speak to the sort of hardy kind of nature of a lot of the people that live in these smaller coastal communities. This is not Malibu we are talking about. These are pretty you know scrappy little towns along the Pacific Ocean.  Although you are talking about people who have to walk away from everything they own and not know if they are going to see any of it again.  In some cases for sure - the good thing in a town like Carpinteria is that so far we have only seen a couple of structures lost including one perhaps two homes. We do not have a full assessment of that yet. It is not like the damage we saw further to the west in the town of Ventura which is also part of this you know monstrous fire complex.  And that damage is more severe in what way?  Far more homes got destroyed. We are talking hundreds - well over 600 in addition to many many houses damaged. In addition too I might add the one factor that is really bothering a lot of people is this thick heavy smoke that is hanging  the region.  OK. Steven Cuevas thank you very much really appreciate it.  Thanks Steve. Good to talk to you.  He is with KQED.  