 Now last week we put out a call asking you to record yourselves singing the Christmas classic Deck the Halls. We promised that we would bring your voices together to the best of our abilities in one glorious chorus. Hundreds of you sent recordings to us. We heard a cello duet a tuba band children's choirs. We even got alternate lyrics fill the bars with Christmas drinking. A few of you said you have not sung in years but for ve it your best shot and we appreciate it. We are about to hear voices from all over the country starting in Colorado with Drew Neilson and Dan Courtney and Christy Rowe. They sent this recorded in their car. Hit it.  All right. Is everybody ready? Courtney you start...   Deck the halls with boughs of holly fa-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la. 'Tis the season to be jolly...  ...fa-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la.  Don we now our gay apparel...  Fa-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la. Troll the...   Ancient Yuletide carol fa-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la.  See the blazing Yule before us fa-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la.  Strike the harp and join the chorus fa-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la...  Follow me in merry measure fa-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la...  While I tell of yuletide treasure fa-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la.  Fa-la-la-la-la-la-la-la...  Fa-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la.  Fa-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la...  Fa-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la.  OK. That is a musical selection we will never forget. So you just heard Carley Evans and Hollan Kreil also Sharon Oats' homeroom class at Charlotte Latin School in Charlotte North Carolina Amelia Catanzaro Mia Samaha and Emma McBride Kim Kilby and Bryan Alex and Tucker Cherry Tony Dreiling Fran Theisier John and Thera Ringhofer J.P. Torres Kristin Netzband Risa Goehrke and Kathryn Metz Liberty Huskey and co-workers at SDL International Connie Macek Sebastian Peoples Mary Hager and Zoe Stathis Tom Gillespie and John Campbell and finally members of the U.S. Department of Commerce's International Trade Administration who said they made this recording after work hours of course. And the cello music you hear is from Elise Baker and Janet Harvick. And I got to tell you we also received some amazing video submissions. They are worth a look at NPR.org.   On this Christmas Eve day we are hoping that many of you have the day off work and are getting a chance to relax and spend time with people you love and also eat. We also know many Americans will be working in hospitals police and fire departments churches stores restaurants - the list goes on. And of course that list includes NPR where our colleagues at work include a fine group of engineers Zachary Coleman Gregory Gavin Brian Jarbo Melissa Marquee Ted Mebain Dennis Neilson Renee Pringle Daniel Sukin Curt Snodeker Jerry Tenant and the person responsible for the sounds you are hearing on this program this morning Elizabeth Acklee. I am waving to her through the glass right now. Elizabeth thank you.   This is NPR News. 