 Today is the last day of open enrollment for 2020 under the Affordable Care Act also known as Obamacare. It is helped provide health care coverage for millions of Americans. Republicans have long been trying to weaken Obamacare both in and out of court. And for a checkup on the health of the law itself we are joined now by Mary Agnes Carey of Kaiser Health News. Hi.  Thanks for having me.  So remind us who this deadline affects.  It affects everyone who is currently enrolled in the Affordable Care Act. It affects people who have been thinking about it perhaps want to check it out. And they can start at healthcare.gov if they want to take a look.  And what have you seen during open enrollment this time around when it comes to how many people are signing up?  Overall it is down about 6 at this point. However the number of people who are coming back and actively renewing - that number has been increasing particularly in the last week's snapshot of numbers as well as new people coming into the exchange. So the thought is there is always a last-minute rush. There always has been every single year - that that will perhaps accelerate enrollment or at least keep it stable where it has been. And we have to remember if you are currently enrolled in an Affordable Care Act plan and you do nothing you will be automatically reenrolled.  What are the possible reasons though that the overall enrollment was down from last year?  There could be a lot of factors that have been ongoing for last couple of years - big drop in advertising from the federal government. That has been down 90. The navigators the assisters - this is the on-the-ground one-on-one help - that has dropped. There certainly have been a lot of concern a lot of talk from President Trump and Republicans opponents of the health care law - that it is a failure that it does not work. People may simply be confused about it. That could certainly be part of it. But another factor is for people who do not get a subsidy - that is some of the cash assistance - policies in the Affordable Care Act have been unaffordable and might continue to be so for them. So there is a variety of factors if you will involved in that.  As we mentioned the Republicans have repeatedly tried to weaken the ACA. Among other things they have eliminated the individual mandate that required everyone to have health insurance or pay a penalty. The Trump administration expanded access to these short-term plans right? They are...  Exactly.  ...Sort of less comprehensive.  Right.  They do not give you a lot of coverage.  They do not have to be as comprehensive as the ACA plans.  Right. And it is allowed states to require Medicaid beneficiaries to prove that they either work or go to school. I imagine that those - I imagine that all this has had quite a significant effect on Obamacare.  No I think they can. I want to - for example the work requirements have been somewhat of an issue. They have been challenged in court and so on. But in Arkansas for example 18000 people lost their health insurance under the work requirements. And part of the thought was people did not know about it. The information campaign was not out there. State officials were trying to correct that. But the thing to note is that most Medicaid beneficiaries live in a home where people work. And something like 6 out of 10 Medicaid beneficiaries already have a job. So the whole issue of work requirements has been debated whether - is it really worth the investment financially that states are making? - because many of these folks are already working.  And then there is of course been this concern for quite some time about the number of insurers per state. A number of places were down to just one or two available providers. And those numbers have gone up have not they?  They have gone up. While the average premium has dropped about 4 for 2020 nearly 7 in 10 people will have access to at least three marketplace plans and that is up from 6 in 10 a year ago. So insurers who may have left the marketplace because of all the turmoil - whether it was the drop in the advertising or the outreach or the government stopped spending money on these cost-sharing subsidies to help beneficiaries some of the lower income ones with out-of-pocket costs - that basically insurers who may have stepped out have now stepped back in. They have seen it is a profit-making enterprise. They can do well in the Affordable Care Act marketplace and they have come back in. So the number of options available has - they are increasing for 2020.  What would you say the health is of the ACA right now?  I think it is resilient. I mean you have still got about 20 million people that have received coverage either through the Affordable Care Act exchanges or through the Medicaid expansion. So you mentioned earlier the political fire the dozens of attempts by Republicans in the House to repeal all or part of the Affordable Care Act its failure to - for Republicans to repeal it in the Senate. After all of this the law is still there and is still standing.  And polls show that most people actually support Obamacare now.  Right. It has grown. My polling colleagues at the Kaiser Family Foundation have found that the favorable rating if you will has clicked up. It is at about 52 and the unfavorable about 41. And that is a change from prior years.  That is Mary Agnes Carey of Kaiser Health News. Thanks so much.  Thank you. 