 NPR's Mary Louise Kelly reports on U.S. military and intelligence efforts to counter a growing threat.  When General David Petraeus overall commander for U.S. forces in the Middle East and central Asia showed up to give a speech at the National Press Club this past September he delivered a report card on progress against al-Qaida. Petraeus said the overall effort was going well in Iraq Lebanon Egypt Saudi Arabia - a whole raft of countries.  ...with the exception of Yemen. And that is where al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula has established its headquarters. This is a concern.  The question is What can or should the U.S. do about it?  The reality is Yemen's going to need help.  That is Juan Zarate a top counterterrorism adviser in the Bush White House. He notes that Yemen has not been shy about asking the U.S. for training and gear.  Everything as basic as Humvee-like vehicles armored vehicles to military transport planes and then weaponry. Yemen is always in need of lots of things.  But there are limits to this approach as Juan Zarate points out.  I think a major question and impediment frankly in terms of any counterterrorism relationship is Can the country actually absorb the training the dollars the equipment and then use it effectively at the end of the day? If the answer to that is no then throwing more money at the problem is not going to necessarily solve anything.  A former top U.S. intelligence official tells NPR that in the years since then the CIA has played an active role in Yemen and has shared intelligence gathered by satellite imagery spies and other sources.  Barrett who just returned two weeks ago from a trip to Yemen says the more that becomes known about U.S. efforts there the less effective they will be.  The American involvement with the Yemeni authorities will be likely in the short-term to bring more support to al-Qaida because the anti-Americanism there will rise.  That argues for the U.S. to provide help quietly Barrett says to help the Yemeni government avoid a backlash.  There is a very difficult balance to strike between getting support from outside and losing support from inside.  Mary Louise Kelly NPR News Washington. 