 The holiday season is flavored with many spices nutmeg ginger peppermint and cinnamon as we mentioned. It turns out adding cinnamon to our hot cider and cookies may contribute more than just festive flavor. NPR's Allison Aubrey reports.  If you spend a few bucks on the grocery store variety of cinnamon you have got a little jar that is loaded with intense flavor. Chef John Crictchely of the D.C. restaurant Bourbon Steak is a big fan of  cinnamon.  So we are using a Saigon cinnamon which is most beloved for its fragrant aroma.  Cinnamon comes from the bark of trees. It is long been considered a medicinal plant. There are a bunch of different types harvested from southern China to Southeast Asia. I am going to get it a little whiff.  Yup. Go for it. It is very aromatic.  Oh wow.  And it is got some good heat to it too.  In Crictchely's view cinnamon is  underutilized. Lots of people think of it  as a spice  you only add to sweets.  It really has many more uses than just your pumpkin pie.  Take for instance what he is whipping up today a spinach salad with pine nuts raisins and cinnamon. Along with a lamb-loin covered in an herb and cinnamon rub. So this is our lamb loin. Should we give it a go?  Sure.  The cinnamon rub Crictchely says will coax lots of flavor out of the lamb. But it turns out there is much more to cinnamon than adding flavor to food. This pungent spice is chock-full of health-promoting compounds. For years there have been hints that adding cinnamon to your diet can help control blood sugar. And a recent spate of studies adds to the evidence that the effect is real. Researcher Paul Davis of the University California Davis is the author of a study published in the Journal of Medicinal Food.  Yes according to our meta-analysis it does work. Cinnamon does lower fasting blood-glucose.  The reason that this is important is that in addition to the nearly 25 million Americans who already have diabetes there are another 80 million Americans - that is nearly one in four of us - that have unhealthy levels of fasting blood-glucose also known as blood sugar. Doctors refer to this as pre-diabetes meaning blood sugar is not high enough to meet the cut-off for a diagnosis of diabetes but it puts these people at high risk of developing the disease.  Now it is not clear exactly how cinnamon helps the body regulate blood sugar. But the process  goes something like this...  When people develop pre-diabetes or diabetes their bodies become less efficient at responding to insulin. And insulin is the key to  getting sugar out of the bloodstream and into places in the body where it is used for fuel.  And the problem is when insulin sensitivity is out of whack those processes become out of balance and things go to where they do not really need to go.  So how does cinnamon help? Well it seems to help the cells in the body become more responsive to insulin. Now Davis says on its own the power of cinnamon to lower blood sugar is not huge.  I mean according to our results it is a modest effect. It is maybe three to five percent. But that is about the level of some of the older generation anti-diabetic drugs.  For people who already have diabetes it is not an alternative to medication. But for those with pre-diabetes who are interested in using diet to manage their blood sugar experts like Emmy Suhl of the Joslin Diabetes Center say it is one of many strategies that are worth considering.  If they want to try it they are welcome to because you know it is perfectly safe it is inexpensive.  The big question is How much do you need and how often? Suhl says she is not convinced the studies have answered these questions.  The evidence is still inconclusive.  It could be as little as a quarter of a teaspoon a day up to a whole teaspoon.   And this takes us back to John Crictchely's kitchen at the Bourbon Steak Restaurant where he is searing that cinnamon covered lamb in a skillet.  So we are going to let that go for about three minutes a side and we will have a nice lunch.  We are going to have a nice little lunch here. There is about a quarter of a teaspoon of cinnamon per serving in this lamb. It is so good.  Great. It is not screaming cinnamon it is just sort of screaming flavor. That is the goal.  Add to this the cinnamon in the spinach salad. With these two dishes and  maybe a little cinnamon sprinkled on your oatmeal in the morning you could be taking a worthwhile step towards controlling your blood sugar. Allison Aubrey NPR News. 