 The writer Elif Shafak tells stories of Istanbul Turkey a city she used to call home.  Almost like a pendulum I would leave and then I would miss the city. I would come back. Again I would feel suffocated. I would leave. And then I would miss the city and come back.  She says in Turkey the act of writing is a risk. People pass books from hand to hand and writers keep writing them despite the danger. Shafak herself was once put on trial in Turkey for writing about a sensitive subject. She discussed her new novel with our co-host Steve Inskeep.  She does not live full-time in Turkey anymore. She spends more time in London and sometimes the United States yet Elif Shafak says she is been drawn back again and again to her former home of Istanbul on the dividing line between Europe and Asia.  In countries where there is no freedom of speech ironically sometimes words matter even more.  She was there in recent years as Turkey's leader took over newspapers and arrested opposition figures. Elif Shafak's new novel is largely set in Istanbul. It is called Three Daughters of Eve. The main character is a woman in her mid-30s. Almost the first thing that happens is she is robbed and sexually assaulted on the streets yet she overcomes her attacker and continues on to a scheduled dinner where she tries to pretend that nothing at all has gone wrong. So a lot of this novel takes place in a dinner party in Istanbul. And there is a passage where the people who are quite elite are discussing democracy. And some of them are saying democracy we do not really need that. It is a luxury. There is no point. It is a waste. Better to have a benevolent dictatorship. And as I am reading that I was wondering if this was virtually a transcription of some conversation you have been in in Istanbul?  Yes. As you pointed out the structure of the book is such that we observe a dinner scene with starters the main course the desserts. And to be honest the dinner scenes were the most realistic scenes in the book if I can put it that way. Everything that I observed I heard firsthand I have seen throughout the year 2015 2016 in Istanbul.  The whole period where Turkey was becoming less and less democratic you are saying?  Absolutely - more and more authoritarian definitely more and more nationalistic isolationist and inward-looking. It was quite a difficult time in many other ways as well because as you might remember there had been so many terror attacks throughout that period in Turkey in different parts of the country. At these dinner scenes dinner environments it was almost schizophrenic. One moment people would be talking about very mundane things. And the next moment they would be talking about death because someone might have checked their Twitter feed and they might have just found out that there was a terror attack somewhere nearby. And then five minutes later again the mood would change. So everything that I observed directly firsthand somehow seeped into those dinner scenes to such an extent that at some point I wanted to call this book The Last Supper Of The Turkish Bourgeoisie.   So are people in the elite in Turkey giving up on democracy?  I think that is quite - of course I cannot generalize. Not everyone...  The people you know sure.  Not everyone is like that. But I have heard enough conversations in Turkey both from different class backgrounds people saying - questioning actually - the value of democracy. And it was not like that. I mean this was a country that was very much longing to be part of EU Europe. My generation we grew up with very different values in Turkey. And now we have a different Turkey where the political elites are talking about joining the Shanghai Pact. They are saying you know the EU is not for us. And the Shanghai Pact as you know with Russia with China with Turkmenistan Kyrgyzstan that is the right place to be if you do not - if you have a very poor record of human rights and freedom of speech. I do not want my motherland to walk in the opposite direction. So I can see these shifts in daily life people's talks but not only in Turkey. I think all across the Middle East unfortunately there are many people who believe that democracy particularly liberal pluralistic democracy is a Western concept and maybe it is not that suitable for our part of the world. I find that quite alarming.  Is the conversation that you hear about democracy any different when you come to the West?  Especially after 2016 there have been lots of shifts in the West as well - in Europe too. And many people unfortunately the elections in America did not make things easier. Many people started questioning can we really trust the ballot box? Can the ballot box be manipulated? I think we are all going through very turbulent times. In the past there used to be this assumption that some parts of the world were liquid lands and there were more turbulence. And some other parts of the world - namely the West - was supposed to be more safe and stable and solid. But I think more and more we are starting to understand that in fact this division this hierarchal geography is quite artificial. And in fact we are all living in liquid times like the late Zygmunt Bauman told us years ago.  You said liquid lands. You are making me think of a line in the book in which you compare Turkey to a river which I took to mean that it is constantly changing. The water's high. The water's low. You are in a flood. You are in a drought. Anything could happen.  Yes. And that is a very tiring feeling. I think it is very tiring to be a Turk. And it is a very lonely feeling too even though there is supposedly millions and millions of us. It is a very polarized bitterly politicized country. As countries become more authoritarian as they slide backwards the way we have been sliding backwards and tumble into nationalism isolationism or populism I think the society also changes - not only the governments or the politicians but also the society. And the culture even becomes more inward-looking more xenophobic. And if that is the case I think it should concern us women much more than men because when societies go backwards I believe women have much more to lose.  Elif Shafak is the author of Three Daughters Of Eve. Thanks very much.  Thank you.  She was speaking there with our co-host Steve Inskeep.  