 Tens of thousands of people have demonstrated in cities across Russia today to protest alleged vote-rigging in recent parliamentary elections. Protests reportedly took place in more than 50 cities but the largest by far was in Moscow. Reporter Peter van Dyk is in Moscow and joins us. Peter thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you.  You were in the crowds. What were they like?  It was an amazing atmosphere. It is the sort of gathering that Moscow has not seen for many years and obviously therefore for many of the people there the first time. It was a buoyant atmosphere - very vibrant. There was a unity of purpose.   And no...  What is the common cause? What do we hear demonstrators calling for?  The thing that they are most angry about is the parliamentary elections last Sunday. Observers said there was fraud in the elections and a lot of Russians themselves monitored the elections recorded evidence of fraud on their phones. And this is something that has really built up a lot of emotion in many people here. Here's one of the protesters Dimitry Ryov a lawyer for an international law firm.  So it is really very difficult to leave now here because we will know that what is the liberty that is what we want. Or what is a democratic country. But in fact we see corruption. There is no freedom.  This corruption that he mentions has also been a big issue. The opposition rally themselves accusing the United Russia Party the ruling party of being the party of crooks and thieves. The feeling is that bureaucrats here make a lot of money off individual people and also of state funds. So that is something that Russians are very angry about and they feel like their government is not listening to them.  Peter what is been the response of the Russian government to tens of thousands of people turning out?  Well I have not seen any response from senior figures but in a way the fact that tens of thousands of people were allowed to turn out to an unauthorized rally is a response in itself. So another response is that it was the lead item on the evening news. A week ago on Monday when there were large protests in Moscow - at least 5000 people - that did not make the main evening news. So in a way there is a response in the fact it happened and it was covered by the biggest news media.  And has social media been involved the way it has been in some mass movements we have seen in other parts of the world over the past year and a half?  It certainly is involved. It is a very important thing for Russian opposition groups. A lot of the evidence that the people themselves have gathered of vote fraud has been published on blogs on the Internet. So that is been a factor in building the anger and then all these 50 or so protests that have taken place across Russia today they have each had a page on the social networking site - on Facebook particularly for the Moscow one but also on Vkontakte which is the Russian equivalent of Facebook. So people have been able to sign up on those sites and see where in their towns to go and at what time. So that definitely has been a factor in these protests.  Reporter Peter van Dyk in Moscow. Thanks so much.  Thank you.   You are listening to NPR News. 