 Now Debbie remind me your member station.  I listen to WUWF in Pensacola Fla. and also to Alabama Public Radio.  Our family rolls with WBEZ Chicago WAMU in the DMV KQED San Francisco. We also love WBHM Birmingham and more.  I love Birmingham. I love WBHM too - plenty of stations to choose from. NPR's journalism relies on the more than 1000 member stations around the country and those stations rely on your support.  Your member station is how you can hear not only NPR programming but also excellent local journalism.  UP FIRST has been covering the essential stories all year. And we need your support to keep you informed in the new year.  So here's how you can help. You can go to donate.npr.orgupfirst to get started with your donation. And thank you very much.   Economic recovery is slowing as the number of coronavirus cases rises.  Job gains are down sharply compared to last month and more than a million people are still filing initial jobless claims each week.  I am Scott Simon.  And I am Debbie Elliott. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.  President-elect Joe Biden called yesterday's job report grim. He said it shows the country remains in one of the worst economic crises in modern history. And he warned that later this month...   Twelve million Americans will lose the unemployment benefits they rely on. Merry Christmas.  All the more reason for Congress to get its act together and agree on a new economic aid package.  But worried that they will not one state is handing out what it can.  Do not worry. It is not all bad news. Stay with us. We will tell you why there really is reason to be hopeful.   As the U.S. economic picture grows more dire the pressure is on Congress to come up with a relief bill to try to help out those Americans who are hurting the most.  But if the last several months are an indicator it is not clear if Republicans and Democrats can reach an agreement on a new economic stimulus deal by year's end.  NPR congressional reporter Claudia Grisales joins us. Claudia thanks so much for being with us.  Good morning.  Congress has been deadlocked for months on this. Did something change?  Yes. We saw a major breakthrough with both parties starting with a group of bipartisan lawmakers who put together a 908 billion proposal one that is in range of what Republicans have been previously endorsing. And Democrats who were not willing to bend below a 2 trillion mark for a plan just a few weeks ago have reconsidered. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi told reporters yesterday that circumstances have changed with the election as they now have Joe Biden headed to the White House in January. And with that they can get additional waves of aid next year. Let us take a listen.   With a Democratic president committed to a scientific solution for this with the idea that we will have a vaccine it is a complete game changer.  So after months of Pelosi saying she would not budge below this 2 trillion mark with a President Trump in place she now says she thinks a deal can be had before year's end. But we should note this package is just a starting point and could shift with the talks.  What is in the package they are discussing?  It would direct about 300 billion to small businesses including this popular paycheck protection program. It would extend additional aid for unemployment benefits and direct another 160 billion to state and local governments. And there is also money for vaccine development housing assistance student loans and one key provision for Republicans. That is a liability shield for businesses struggling during the pandemic. Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer have said that this should be the basis for talks. And McConnell met with lead members of his party pushing the plan. And he is looking at pulling elements from it for an ultimate deal. But as they say the devil is in the details. And this weekend congressional staff is putting together the actual text for this bipartisan plan and that includes language for the business legal protections. And that is a key part of negotiations that could dictate whether an ultimate agreement is reached.  Did President-elect Biden play a role?  It appears Biden has worked behind the scenes here but publicly has said any package passed in the lame-duck session is not going to be enough overall. It is critical but it is just a start. He spoke about this in Delaware yesterday. Let us take a listen.   I have made it real clear. It is just a down payment. This is not the end of the deal.  So he has talked about the 900 billion bipartisan proposal. But he is also kept his distance to some extent publicly. Remember Congress has been stalled since the spring. Republicans and Democrats have been very far apart in the amounts they are asking for. And he was asked directly if he is talked to McConnell and he evaded the question. He also said as he has been saying that even if Congress passes this bill he will be back to ask for more in January because coronavirus will not be over by then.  NPR congressional reporter Claudia Grisales thanks so much for being with us.  Thanks for having me.  And to keep up with the latest out of Washington D.C. be sure to subscribe to the Politics Podcast.   And as Congress tries to come up with a stimulus bill many state leaders are losing faith that a federal rescue package will ever come through.  Even in cases where their own budgets are strained states are scrambling to throw lifelines to struggling individuals and businesses.  With so much on the line Democratic Governor Jared Polis of Colorado called state lawmakers back to Denver this week to pass an emergency coronavirus relief spending package.  With the pandemic however that is caused its own unique set of problems. Colorado Public Radio's Bente Birkeland is here to explain. Good morning Bente.  Good morning.  So let us start with the budget. As we said state leaders are worried that Congress is taking too long to pass a federal relief package. What is Colorado doing?  Governor Polis and legislative leaders said the needs were too urgent and the state could not wait for Congress to act. They wanted to do what they could now although they acknowledged it is a drop in the bucket compared to what is needed. Unlike we have seen in some other states state income tax money had come in higher than projected. So lawmakers decided to send some of that back into the economy rather than put the money in a rainy day fund. In two and a half days a bipartisan group of lawmakers in Colorado pushed through more than 300 million in relief spending in the form of direct assistance to small businesses and restaurants and rental assistance for individuals among a few other things.  So Colorado has a very high COVID-19 infection rate. And I gather that lawmakers were not required to wear masks. How did they feel about being at the Capitol altogether?  It depends on who you ask. About a third of them worked remotely. It was very clear that nine months into this pandemic divides persist over everything from the effectiveness of masks and tests to the deadliness of the disease. Democrats stuck to the public health guidelines. Some Republicans did but not everyone. Most Republicans did not take a COVID-19 rapid test before entering the building and some did not wear masks. For lawmakers masks were recommended but not required. Democratic State Senator Julie Gonzales told me that she and her husband assumed she would be exposed to the coronavirus.  We basically are treating these days of this extraordinary session as a contact event quite frankly. And so he packed up and went to his mom's house. And he took the dog and  so it is just been me at home.  Conversely a Republican state representative Mark Baisley said COVID-19 has not led him to really approach the session differently.  I kind of hope to get it because I want to you know build up the immunity and move on you know? I would not have wanted to get it back in March. But now that doctors are a lot smarter about it then yeah I would be fine with it.  Of course doctors warn about the idea that herd immunity could protect the population.  I cannot imagine wanting to get sick. When states go back to their regular legislative sessions early next year a lot of people are suddenly going to be working in small spaces again. Based on what you witnessed how do you think that is going to work out?  When the pandemic first hit in March states like Colorado adjourned or temporarily paused their sessions. And most state legislatures do not meet in the summer and fall. So not many have had to deal with this. So it is hard to say how it may go. Some states have made changes to allow for virtual meetings and more remote participation. Others are looking at larger spaces to meet rather than crowded Capitol buildings with poor ventilation. Wyoming is delaying the start of session. So it is really going to be a mixed bag. But in Colorado because of the declared public health emergency legislative leaders could convene the session and then pause it again until later in the year.  That is Bente Birkeland with Colorado Public Radio in Denver. Thanks so much.  Thank you.   The numbers this week are as bad as we have ever seen. There are more than 2800 deaths just on Wednesday from COVID-19 and more than 100000 people are in the hospital. The nation is sick and exhausted but news of vaccines that will soon roll out gives reason for hope. Joining us with the latest is NPR science correspondent Richard Harris. Richard thanks for being with us.  Sure. Good morning Scott.  We have heard and absorbed so much devastating news about the worsening of the pandemic this week but - so let us try to look instead on potentially encouraging news.  Yeah that works for me for sure.  Is hope really just around the corner?  Well I cannot promise but all indications are we are moving in the right direction and at a remarkable speed. I started the week talking to the president of Moderna Dr. Stephen Hoge about the prospects for his company's COVID vaccine. New data showed that it was 94 effective overall. And among the relatively few test subjects who took the vaccine and got sick anyway he says not one of them had a severe case.   So it looks like in the trial we have been a hundred percent effective at preventing severe COVID-19 which is really what is driving the burden of disease in hospitals and ultimately straining our public health systems.  The FDA is now reviewing what sounds like really encouraging data. And the Pfizer vaccine had similar results. In fact health authorities in the United Kingdom approved Pfizer's vaccine last week and the FDA will now review it at a public hearing this coming Thursday. If it looks good an OK from the U.S. could come really almost immediately.  And when would people begin to get it?  Well people at the top of the list like health care workers and older people who live in nursing homes and other group facilities like that they could get the first dose of their first two shots this month. The list after that is long and will take many months to go through. It includes essential workers people with underlying health conditions and those over the age of 65. And beyond that is everyone else though you know there are still big questions about pregnant women and children because you know they were not part of the original studies.  What happens to them under this scenario?  Well it is not entirely clear. When it comes to pregnant women the FDA could simply leave that choice up to the women and their doctors. Vaccine researchers do not expect the shot will put the mother or newborn at risk. But you know they do not have a lot of data to draw on. Now children are a trickier question. One school of thought is they are unlikely to get seriously ill so doctors should take their time to study this group carefully and not be in a rush to vaccinate them. But at a federal advisory committee meeting yesterday Dr. Stanley Plotkin from the University of Pennsylvania said kids do spread the disease. And they do face some risk according to several studies he cited.  About 2 of the children were admitted to pediatric intensive care. There was very low mortality 0.8. But nevertheless a dead child is not a happy thing.  Certainly not. What do we know about the safety of the vaccine in adults?  Well vaccine researchers say that most serious side effects from vaccines have tended to show up within the first two months. And the FDA already has data about that period for many of the study's participants. To be safe the government has also put together a very elaborate system to follow the health of people once they have been vaccinated. For example the CDC has developed a smartphone app that vaccine recipients can use to track their health after getting a shot. Dr. Tim Shimabukuro  at the CDC said it will send out frequent text messages asking for health updates.  If they report that they missed work or were unable to do normal daily activities or receive medical care we consider that a clinically important health impact. And at that point we will reach out and call the individual.  Now people will have to opt into this system but the CDC hopes a lot of people will. At any rate though safety data will be collected with a whole bunch of other systems.  NPR's Richard Harris thanks so much.  Hey any time Scott.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday December 5 2020. I am Debbie Elliott.  And I am Scott Simon. UP onday with news to start your week. You can follow us on social media. We are UpFirst on Twitter. And keep an eye on this feed for the occasional special episode.  And for more news and interviews books and music you can find us on the radio.  Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings - find your NPR station at stations.npr.org. And if you can please donate to your local NPR station.  