 2019 will go down as the year of the media apocalypse. Nearly 8000 newsroom jobs disappeared this year in a flurry of layoffs buyouts and mergers. Digital outlets like BuzzFeed and Vice eliminated entire areas of coverage while legacy media giants like Gannett cut hundreds of positions after a merger. And some local news outlets shut down altogether leaving huge swaths of the country with no local papers at all. NPR's media correspondent David Folkenflik joins us now to talk about what happened and why it matters. Hey David.  Hey Lulu.  It is been a bad year.  Yeah it is been pretty crushing to see this play out among our colleagues and in our communities.  Yeah. We have seen some quite colorful goodbyes. I am thinking of the farewell tweet of the OC Weekly - adios expletive. Today before Thanksgiving our owner has decided to shut us down. For the last quarter century we tried to bring good stories to Orange County. It is been fun but now we are done.  I am from Orange County. That hurts.  What is lost when a paper like that closes?  You lose a sense of community. It is something that tends to bind people in neighboring centers together with a shared understanding of what is happening around you of what might be important of what might be overlooked of what might be outraging and what may be happening to your own neighbors.  Let us talk about the ownership a little because that is also played into this. We have two huge legacy papers The Washington Post and the LA Times that are run now by billionaires. Others are run by hedge funds and those have fared the worst right? Is some of this about companies and how they are selling the business of journalism?  Yeah. I mean look. You know The Wall Street Journal is also owned by - or controlled by billionaires in the Murdoch family...  Right.  ...Through a public company. Similarly the Sulzberger family seems devoted to the public service journalism but is enjoying a robust time. But yeah there is been essentially a focus on the bottom line. Now you are seeing these investment companies and hedge funds that are simply - seemingly from the outside adopting what was called a harvest strategy. And that is you see something that is dying and you try to pull the profits from them while you can even as you watch them descend. You know I interviewed the head of the new Gannett Company - that is a combination of GateHouse Media and the old Gannett Company - a guy named Mike Reed. He swears that they are still investing enough to try to press forward and seek new advantages by being so huge - so many hundreds of publications - and that they are going to sustain journalism. But I got to say from the outside you know they just as you said in your intro cut a bunch of jobs. And he is not ruling out future cuts. In fact the likelihood given that they have to save some 300 million or more a year in their operating costs to justify the debt they incurred for this acquisition - the likelihood is they are going to cut many many many more jobs in the year or two to follow. So it is very grim. And you are looking at places that basically are extracting their own profits at the expense of newsrooms and at the expense of figuring out what might be sustainable.  Yeah. And let us talk specifically about local news. That is a trend that is been going on for a while too. But we are seeing sort of the expansion of these news deserts.  Yeah. And one of the things is there are newspapers that are closed. You can think about The Vindicator - Youngstown Ohio. It is far from alone. You are seeing newsrooms that once were 200 people that are down to maybe 30. You have maybe one person to cover six counties. It is not doable in any appreciable way. And that is the way things go wrong - not only go wrong for news coverage but go wrong for communities. People cannot blow the whistle send up flares and say hey there is something troubling here about traffic deaths in a certain area about the way in which infrastructure is failing the way in which our kids are overheating in their schools because there is no way to cool them off. There are more crises than you can imagine to name. It is journalists and reporters who by and large are the ones who go out and either identify those concerns or amplify them to force public officials and corporate actors to take measures to address such concerns.  Looking ahead what do you think we will see? I mean this is a very difficult time. While we are seeing all these cuts polls show a growing distrust of the media in part because of course we are under attack by our very own government and our president.  You know there is some countervailing things going on. I think as media organizations have come under financial threat people have become more appreciative of what they provide both at the local level and particularly at the national level where you have seen digital subscriptions really help sustain The Washington Post The Wall Street Journal and especially The New York Times. Smaller newspapers have had real trouble figuring out how to make that work however. I think you are just going to see that we are going to rely more on these national publications in a way to figure out how to help do project. You have seen I think green shoots. You have seen some really good partnerships - ProPublica. John Thornton who helped found The Texas Tribune is involved in a new venture I will probably be reporting about in the new year that helps to find local news sites that are making a difference in states across the country. But there is no one panacea no one answer. You mentioned the mistrust Lulu. The funny thing about the question of trust is that actually trust has grown I think in part because of the kind of accountability that a lot of these organizations have tried to provide in the age of Trump which has of course rejected the very notion of the legitimacy of the press in so many ways. And there is an asymmetrical approach to it that is - that really - Republicans - loyal self-identifying Republicans have greatly increased distrust whereas among independents and Democrats it has actually grown to some extent. But it is definitely a tension and a bifurcated dynamic that you are seeing going on there. And the question of trust in the media is a real one that we are going to have to deal with for many years in the future well beyond Trump.  That is NPR's media correspondent David Folkenflik. Thank you very much.  You bet.  