 Victims of Bernie Madoff's Ponzi scheme may finally get some of their money back. U.S. officials said they have recovered 7.2 billion from the estate of a late investor who got sizable payoffs from Mr. Madoff's firm. NPR's Jim Zarroli reports.  Ever since Bernie Madoff's arrest in December 2008 U.S. officials have been looking for ways to recover some of the estimated 20 billion that investors lost. They have seized property and homes frozen bank accounts and sued banks and hedge funds that did business with Madoff. Yesterday U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara announced the largest fortitude of money in law enforcement history. Mr.  Today's settlement marks a major milestone. We are close to 10 billion now recovered. We have together collected close to 50 percent of the principal that victims lost to Madoff's Ponzi scheme.  The 7.2 billion came from the estate of Jeffrey Picower who died of a heart attack in the swimming pool of his Palm Beach mansion 14 months ago. During a 30-year relationship with Madoff Picower steered lots of investors his way and profited nicely from doing so. Rob Stein is president of the Network for Investor Action and Protection which represents Madoff victims. Mr.  I mean obviously he was close to Bernie Madoff and a tremendous amount of money was ushered through him to Madoff and a tremendous amount of money was pulled out.  U.S. officials refused to comment yesterday about Picower's role in the fraud saying that because he is dead it is a mute point and his widow insists he knew nothing about what was happening. But she agreed to surrender money that investigators say he took from Madoff's firm over the years. Whatever the case the money will be put in a fund intended to compensate the investors who lost money to Madoff. Stein says the money will not come a moment too soon. Mr.  I think where the frustration is amongst most of the victims is how few settlements have actually taken place up till now. And the fact of the matter is the trustee has been going after these individuals for the better part of two years.  Many of Madoff's victims are elderly or retired and are struggling to get by today. Now the trustee appointed by a bankruptcy court to recover their money says they will get back at least 50 cents on the dollar perhaps as early as next month and the recovery effort is not over. Jim Zarroli NPR News New York. 