 Hi Scott Simon here. And UP FIRST is here for you to bring you more topics more conversations more unheard voices and keep you informed in a way that is quick and reliable. But UP FIRST is only possible through the support of NPR member stations so we ask you to support them before the end of the year. It is quick and easy and so much appreciated. Please just go to donate.npr.orgupfirst and thank you.   Lots of cancelled plans this holiday. Many hospitals overwhelmed.  What can we anticipate in the weeks ahead as omicron surges across the United States?  I am Scott Simon.  And I am Eyder Peralta. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   The House committee investigating the January 6 attack continues to pursue information despite a recent lack of cooperation from some witnesses. Here's committee member Liz Cheney.   We cannot be satisfied with incomplete answers or half-truths.  We will bring you the latest in the investigation.  And some 100000 Russian troops remain on the border with Ukraine.  It is sparked concerns over a possible invasion.  How are the U.S. and its Western allies responding? Please stay with us. We have got the news you need to start your weekend.   It is another winter and another surge of the pandemic.  Earlier this week the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported that omicron has already become the dominant variant here in the U.S.  Scientists are projecting a rapid rise in cases in the coming weeks which is already well underway.  We are joined now by NPR health correspondent Rhitu Chatterjee. Rhitu thanks so much for being with us.  Of course Scott.  Omicron has taken over at a time when hospitals in many places are already kind of taken over themselves. What do doctors say about what they fear about this winter surge?  Yeah. So I asked that same question to Dr. Preeti Malani. She is an infectious disease doctor at Michigan Medicine in Ann Arbor. And she said she is feeling sad when she thinks about the weeks ahead.  Because I know that there are so many individuals out there and so many families where the vaccination rates are low. And we are going to have a lot of transmission in the coming days.  You know Scott it is become very clear from the data so far from the U.S. as well as other countries that we are dealing with a much much more transmissible virus so lots of people will get infected. And as Malani said we still have lots of unvaccinated people in the country. And so she expects hospitals to be overwhelmed with COVID patients. And just this week in anticipation of that the CDC changed its guidance on how long health care workers need to isolate if they get a breakthrough infection and test positive for coronavirus. The CDC now says those nurses or doctors for example can return to work after just seven days if they test negative. It used to be 10 days before. And if we really see hospitals slammed with patients the CDC says medical staff could return after just five days.  Rhitu we have seen that data from South Africa seem to suggest this new variant might cause a milder form of symptoms. Do we see that here in the U.S. and other countries too?  So it is still early days. But one study from England this past week suggests that people infected with omicron are 15 to 20 less likely to need hospitalization compared to delta and about 50 to 60 less likely to spend more than one night in the hospital. I also spoke with doctors here who are treating patients infected with omicron. Dr. Aaron Glatt is the Chief of Infectious Diseases at Mount Sinai Hospital in Long Island. He says all the COVID patients in his hospital have the omicron variant but...  We have no patients that are triply vaccinated in our critical care units. We have no patients even that are doubly vaccinated in our critical care units. The only people that are unfortunately still getting very sick are the unvaccinated.  So if that trend holds that is good news for people who are vaccinated and it is bad news for those who are not.  We do have treatments and tools at our disposal this winter that we did not have a year ago. What do experts say about how they might mitigate the impact?  So everyone I spoke to said that while omicron wave will be scary - lots of people will get sick - but we are in a much better place than we were say last winter because now we have vaccinations. And now as of this week we have two new drugs that were approved by the FDA that will further help people stay out of hospitals. One drug is made by Merck and the other is made by Pfizer. It is called Paxlovid. They are both pills for people who have just gotten sick. Here's what Dr. Monica Gandhi of the University of California San Francisco says about the drugs.  Paxlovid it is likely more effective. It reduces hospitalizations and deaths by up to 89. That is like a vaccine for those who have declined to vaccinate.  She says given that many Americans are vaccinated and now we have these new drugs that should give us more hope for 2022 though I should point out that while some of these pills will be available in January the supplies will be fairly limited at first. It is a tool but not a fix for the unvaccinated who are most at risk.  NPR's Rhitu Chatterjee thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you Scott.   It is been a busy time for the House committee investigating the violent January 6 riot at the U.S. Capitol.  So far the committee has interviewed hundreds of witnesses and it is been sued by others seeking to block subpoenas for testimony including Michael Flynn the one-time national security adviser to former President Trump.  The committee is also in court to try to get Trump-era documents from the National Archives. And this week they opened up a new line of inquiry and asked fellow members of Congress to cooperate.  Joining us now to discuss it all is NPR's Deirdre Walsh. Hey there Deirdre.  Hey there.  So this week the committee sought testimony from two sitting Republican lawmakers Representatives Jim Jordan and Scott Perry of Ohio and Pennsylvania respectively. Why these two?  Well Congressman Jordan has said he talked to former President Trump on January 6. He may have had multiple conversations with him on that day and the select committee chairman Bennie Thompson wants details on all of those. The panel is also asking for any information on meetings that Jordan had with White House officials or outside activists who were talking about strategy to try to overturn the 2020 election results. On Pennsylvania Congressman Scott Perry the committee says it has evidence he was involved in an effort to install Trump appointee Jeffrey Clark as the acting attorney general in the days leading up to the attack on the Capitol.  So what are Representative Jordan and Perry saying about these requests?  Well Perry has just flatly declined to appear voluntarily. It is unclear whether the committee would issue a subpoena but they have not ruled it out. Jordan says he is reviewing the letter from the committee but he also says he has concerns about how the committee operates. But back in October he was before another committee on Capitol Hill and he said he has nothing to hide when he was asked if he would talk to the committee.  Should we expect more requests like this for other lawmakers?  We could see more. I mean the committee has thousands of pages of documents including some text messages from former White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows with some current lawmakers. We do not know the identities yet of all of them but Chairman Thompson has not ruled out asking for testimony from others. We also know House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy talked to Trump on January 6 as rioters were actually storming the Capitol. And Thompson has said quote no one is off limits to a subpoena and that also includes former President Trump.  What do these requests tell us about the direction of the investigation?  Well it just shows how aggressive they are in terms of how they are pursuing information from lots and lots of witnesses. After the committee recommended two people who were not cooperating to vote them in contempt of Congress Steve Bannon a former Trump adviser and Meadows the former White House chief of staff the House approved those contempt resolutions and both were referred to the Justice Department for prosecution. Bannon was charged with two counts and we will see what Attorney General Merrick Garland decides to do on Meadows. But take a listen to Liz Cheney. She is a GOP member of the select committee and she talked about the panel's attitude towards those who do not want to cooperate.   We cannot be satisfied with incomplete answers or half truths and we cannot surrender to President Trump's efforts to hide what happened.  So let us look at the future to 2022. What is the timeline for the committee's investigation?  There is a lot of pressure on the committee to wrap up essentially by the summer. Democrats control the House now but political analysts are forecasting that the Republicans could win control in the 2022 midterms. So it is likely if that happens Republicans will do away with the select committee. And they want to put out their report you know by the end of the year. There is also still a fight in the courts over records from the Trump administration. The former president's lawyers actually appealed to the Supreme Court to block things like visitor logs and White House documents that the National Archives has.  That is NPR's Deirdre Walsh. Thank you so much.  Thank you.   Tensions remain high over Ukraine.  A buildup of Russian military forces near the border of that country has prompted concern over an invasion as well as a showdown with the U.S.  NPR's Charles Maynes joins us now from Moscow. Charles thanks so much for being with us.  Happy to do it.  How did things get to this point?  You know for over a month now the U.S. has been raising the alarm over some 100000 Russian forces gathering near the border of Ukraine. The Kremlin has repeatedly denied its troops pose any threat and yet it is pretty clear now. You know Moscow has used this demonstration of strength to pull the U.S. into discussions about not only Ukraine's future but also the role of NATO in Eastern Europe. And what Russia says it wants are security guarantees legally binding assurances that would you know not only keep NATO out of Ukraine and other states bordering Russia but also roll back the alliance's activities back to where they were in the late 1990s in fact before all these former communist countries in Eastern Europe joined.  Vladimir Putin gave his annual press conference this week. Did he offer some idea of where things might be headed on this issue?  Yeah he said that Russia did not want conflict but he also made clear the Kremlin wants its demands taken seriously and he raised what are familiar grievances here. He says that NATO had taken advantage of Russian weakness in the 1990s. It had tricked Moscow in the past by breaking promises to not expand towards Russia's borders. And Putin said those days are now over. Let us listen in for a bit.   .  So Putin here is saying that Russia's actions will not be determined by the outcome of some negotiations with the U.S. but only by Russia receiving ironclad security guarantees over the long term. Now I should add that Putin's answers on Ukraine were not all a harangue. He also said he saw it as positive that the U.S. was considering Russian proposals. In fact he announced that there would be talks in Geneva between the U.S. and Russia right early next month soon after the new year.  And the U.S. confirms that?  Well they are in the sense that they say the meeting will take place. They are not getting into specifics. But we do know the U.S. position here. They say that they are willing to talk with Russia about its security concerns but they say that even the Kremlin knows that many of its terms are non-starters that they are essentially conditions the U.S. will never agree to such as for example giving Russia a veto over the alliance's future membership and while White House officials also say they have their demands of what they want to see from Russia and that begins with de-escalation near Ukraine. And meanwhile the U.S. and its allies have all warned the Kremlin it will face what they say are massive consequences including tough economic sanctions should Russia choose to use force against its neighbor.  And while the world waits on those negotiations Charles what is the risk of direct military conflict now with guns pointed at each other along the border?  You know yeah it is still tense. There are still thousands of Russian troops near the border with Ukraine and Ukraine has its forces dug in in defensive positions. Now just to back up a bit let us remember this is all taking place in the east of Ukraine in the Donbas where Russia is backing separatists in a long-simmering war with the government in Kyiv. And now there have been some reports that some Russian volunteers mercenaries who were active in the war in east Ukraine in 2015 are now headed back to the Donbas to reinforce the separatists. You know if there is a glimmer of hope here it is that the OSCE the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe has renegotiated a cease-fire in that region. And that cease-fire is key if it holds because it is part of this wider-stalled peace deal between Russia and Ukraine called the Minsk accords. Now the thing is here that in the past Russia has seen the Minsk agreement as a way to extend its influence over Ukraine partly because it grants more autonomy to these Russian-speaking enclaves in the Donbas. Only now it seems that the Minsk deal was just a means to an end with the greater goal of keeping Ukraine very much in Moscow's orbit.  NPR's Charles Maynes in Moscow thanks so much.  Thank you.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday Christmas Day December 25 2021.  This weekend version of the podcast has been produced by Andrew Craig and Danny Hensel.  Our editors are D. Parvaz Ed McNulty Ian Stewart Melissa Gray Ravenna Koenig and Samantha Balaban.  Hiba Ahmad Isabella Gomez Sarmiento Michael Radcliffe and Ned Wharton are our directors.  Alex Dirwenskis  and Brian Jarboe are our technical directors with engineering support from Daniel Shukhin Josephine Nyounai Kwesi Lee and Stacy Abbott.  Evie Stone is our supervising editor. Sarah Oliver is our executive producer.  And Jim Kane our deputy managing editor - I am Scott Simon.  And I am Eyder Peralta. UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your week. Follow us on social media. We are at UpFirst on Twitter.  And you know what? You can hear us on the radio too. WEEKEND EDITION is on every Saturday and Sunday morning. Find your NPR station at stations.npr.org. Have a wonderful holiday weekend.  And Merry Christmas.  