 Turkish television is known for its soap operas that air around the region. But this year a Turkish miniseries streaming on Netflix takes a deeper look at the divides in Turkey - rich and poor secular and religious. Here's NPR's Peter Kenyon.  The English title for the miniseries is Ethos. And in the first episode we meet Meryem a young headscarf-wearing woman from a religious family. It is her first visit to a therapist and she is not sure how to proceed.   .  .  .  At first a nervous Meryem talks about everything but the reason for her visit - where can she catch a bus home she has to take care of her niece. But eventually she reveals her problem - inexplicable fainting spells that doctors cannot find a cause for.   .  Peri the therapist sits stiffly at attention throughout this first visit and she seems almost as uncomfortable as the young woman in front of her. Then we see Peri in a role reversal. She is in the office of another therapist trying to explain how shocked she was and how resentful she felt about the young religious woman who was seeking her help.    She is so smart talkative so pretty and so young and has a face like a painting. But me I cannot do it. I listen to the girl but I feel a feeling inside me that I cannot explain. Like I - anger. Anger.  Ethos is not the first work to take on religious class and racial prejudice in Turkey. Such themes have been explored by authors Orhan Pamuk Elif Shafak and others. But journalist and Turkish academic Kenan Behzat Sharpe says this look at the divide between the pious and more secular people of Turkey seems to have struck a chord among viewers. He says the rise to power of the ruling Justice and Development Party led by pious Muslims has brought the divide into sharper focus for Western-oriented professionals such as the character of the therapist Peri.  So a character like Peri from a very young age has had this upbringing that women who wear the headscarf are ignorant. And she is unable to really see the person across from her as a person because in some ways for her all headscarved women are the same. And she is aware of it but cannot quite overcome this prejudice.  Sharpe finds this a refreshing change from previous Netflix productions of Turkish programs which leaned heavily on teen dramas or Ottoman-themed superhero shows. Istanbul viewers are largely impressed with Ethos. Thirty-six-year-old Magda Kouriya  says she loved the main character Meryem and especially her therapist.  The one conversation that I found very very interesting was between the two psychiatrists.  She says she enjoyed watching the therapist Peri switch from impassively listening to Meryem to having her own emotions spill out as she discussed her own prejudice with another therapist.  And then when she went to her own therapy and she was like devastated and revealing all her real self and how much she was sick and tired of being judgmental or racist you know all these things you kind of get angry with her but then you already understand her inner fight.  Critic Kenan Sharpe says he hopes the success of Ethos will encourage more productions that take a deeper look into Turkish society. Peter Kenyon NPR News Istanbul.  