 Up to now we have had almost no eyewitness reporting of an emerging civil war in Ethiopia. The reporting we have next is about as close as anyone can get. NPR's Eyder Peralta is today in eastern Sudan near Ethiopia's border. Eyder will you just describe where you are and what you have been able to see?  Hey Steve. Yeah. I am at a place called Umrakuba camp and we are not far from the Ethiopian border as you said but about two hours from the nearest town. So this is a really desolate area. It is incredibly hot. It is arid. And right here in this camp where I am there is about 10000 refugees and they are expecting more buses to arrive today. And the thing is there is just - there is very little here. Most of the people escaped here with nothing but their clothes and they still do not have much. Most people here they are just camping under the few trees that are here. And it is - they are really just trying to rebuild a sense of normalcy.  Well let us just remind people these are people who have fled a war as there is a kind of breakaway province inside Ethiopia. And the government has been cracking down. As I listen closely to you Eyder I think I hear maybe kids playing in the background. Can you describe the conditions in that desolate spot?  Yeah. So I am actually standing right outside a food distribution spot so there is a line of women who are just sitting waiting for food. And so there is aid here but there is just - there is little of it. There are few materials for people to build their shelters. I spoke to a pregnant woman who had not eaten in three days. And I also spent some time with Lentikele Bilai  who is 56 and she is been here long enough that her family has built a small hut. But she told me that in every other instance in her life she could rely on her family on her kids on her sons to help her. But now she cannot. Let us listen to a bit of what she told me.   At this time no one can help us. Indeed we are suffering lack of food lack of medicine lack of everything.  And what she told me is that she just really feels - she feels alone right now.  Eyder when you speak with these refugees what do they tell you about the war across the border?  It is heartbreaking. Pretty much everyone describes heavy fighting and trying to run from shelling from explosions. I heard from a father who does not know where his kids are because everyone just ran to save themselves. I spoke to Tesfiye Tedesi  who is 25 and he says he saw militants just rampage through his town. He says he saw his friend be killed. He was running he says and the militants asked why they were running. And they shot him and others. And he says that if people were not killed by bullets that the militants would finish them off with machetes. And you can see the horror of this on some of their faces. I spoke to a mom who was holding her little girl and she was about 3 years old. They were sitting in the shade. They were trying to get away from the really hot sun. And her daughter was just - she was clinging to her and she looked shellshocked. And her mom says it is just - it is hard to explain to her what is happening right now.  I think I hear you saying people are describing these militant groups not just regular army forces and that they seem to be targeting civilians. Is that correct?  That is right Steve.  Eyder thanks very much for the update really appreciate it.  Thank you Steve.  NPR East Africa correspondent Eyder Peralta. 