 There are those who say that 3D extravaganza Avatar just might be the action movie of the future. Opening this week James Cameron's space fantasy is chockfull of dazzling special effects. And like his last epic Titanic it offers an unlikely love story. Jake a former U.S. Marine turned Avatar played by Sam Worthington falls for a beautiful blue humanoid on the moon Pandora. And for that alien world the director commissioned an entirely new language.  Unidentified Man  Unidentified Woman   The language that we are hearing was invented by Paul Frommer. He is a linguist and professor at USC Business School and he joins us here in our West Coast studios. Good morning. Professor  Hi Renee how are you?  What did James Cameron say he wanted when you first started out on this project? Prof.  Well he wanted a complete language with a totally consistent sound system morphology syntax. He wanted it to sound good. He wanted it to be pleasant. He wanted it to be appealing to the audience.  Would you mind terribly giving us a fair sample not in the movie? Prof.  Uh-huh.  Speaking to us. Prof.  OK. I could say for example  Renee  Which means hello Renee I see you. Are you well? It is a pleasure to be able to chat with you.  And then what would I say back? Prof.  You could say  which is a short form of I see you.   Prof.     Prof.  Yeah that is quite close right.  I gather when the film Avatar was shooting you were on the set. I mean what was your most important function? Prof.  The primary function was to be there for the actors and to help them with pronunciation and to coach them between takes. But every so often there was a moment of panic when someone would come up to me and say oh Paul we decided that we need to put in this extra line and how do you say such and such. And sometimes I could come up with it on the spot. And sometimes I had have to say give me five minutes. OK the most memorable example of that was when Jim Cameron and Sam Worthington came up to me and said we have decided that the character Jake is going to be recounting an incident he had where he was bitten in his big blue butt  so how do you say big blue butt?  Prof.  So I said give me - give me a minute. So I had big and I had blue but I did not quite have butt. So I - the final word was . So my big blue butt is .  The actors then are speaking in another language that has real meaning. It is not just a fake Prof.  Oh very much so.  fake sound of another language. Prof.  No no it has real meaning. It has grammar. It has syntax. It has all the things that a real language would have.  Did they master the language itself or were actors saying what is on the page? Prof.  Saying what was on the page. I think at this point I am pretty much the only one who knows the grammar and you know maybe that will change as time goes on.  So you have - there is no one beside yourself that you can actually converse with in Na'vi? Prof.  Well so far that is true yeah.  So far?  Prof.  Who knows? I mean  Somebody - you know someone who happens to be learning it right and studying it? Prof.  Well I have been pleased to see that there is been some interest out there. I have been getting enquiries as to where can we learn this language. So  Oh oh you have already? And the movie is not even out yet? Prof.  And the movie is not even out yet.  So this is a little like Klingon the language from Star Trek that people have been speaking actually for years now. Prof.  Yeah Klingon is an incredible language. It is a difficult language and it is really taken on a life of its own. There is a translation of Hamlet into Klingon. So if Na'vi ever achieved anything close to that I would be absolutely delighted.  Well thank you very much for joining us. Prof.  It is a pleasure.  Linguist Paul Frommer of USC's Marshall School of Business. 