 This is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. Good morning. I am David Greene.  And I am Renee Montagne. As 2013 ends many TV critics are filling their best of lists with unconventional comedies like Netflix's Orange is the New Black. Our NPR TV Critic Eric Deggans picks this year's highest-rated comedy and it is rooted in the style of old school TV classics.  I should admit this right now I was not always a fan of The Big Bang Theory. Maybe it was the premise dysfunctional science geniuses with their bombshell blonde neighbor. The easiest joke in sitcomland.     When I go I usually just get hammered and ride the cable cars.  But then these clichs were transformed into fully complete characters. In particular actors Johnny Galecki and Jim Parsons are a new school Laurel and Hardy. Galecki is the straight man as physicist Leonard Hofstadter with Parsons as his awkward roommate Dr. Sheldon Cooper.   Did you remember to ask for the chicken with broccoli to be diced not shredded?   Yes.   Even thought the menu description specifies shredded?   Yes.   Brown rice not white.   Yes.   Did you stop at the Korean grocery and get the good hot mustard?   Yes.   Did you pick up the low sodium soy sauce from the market?   Yes.   Thank you.   You are welcome.   What took you so long?  In some ways The Big Bang Theory is the oldest of old school shows. It is filmed in front of a live audience with multiple cameras just like I Love Lucy or All in the Family.   It moves beyond its situation to hook you with its characters just like Seinfeld which started as a clunky comedy about dysfunctional singles.   Until we got to know the sidesplitting quirks of Jerry Elaine Kramer and George.   I connected with The Big Bang Theory after I got to know Leonard Penny Howard Raj and especially Sheldon - who is so oblivious his nerdy girlfriend cannot stand him sometimes.   There is a reason why Jim Par sons has won three Emmy awards. he Big Bang Theoryis the year's funniest and best old school sitcom. And its success is grounded in techniques old as television itself.  Eric Deggans is NPR's TV critic.  