 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. There is a memo circulating around Capitol Hill all over the Internet these days addressed to Republican senators that insists the minority party quote must use the tools we have under Senate rules to insist on a full complete and fully informed debate on health care legislation. These tools include quorum calls points of order and filibusters all of which could bring the Senate business to a crawl. Senator Judd Gregg of New Hampshire wrote that memo. He joins us now from the Senate. Senator Gregg thanks so much for being with us. Senator  Scott thanks for having me on.  Is it a fair interpretation to say these are all tips for how to slow down the Senate? Sen.  It is an absurd interpretation. When a bill comes to the floor of the House the Rules Committee determines how long it will be debated how many amendments will be allowed. On this bill the most important piece of legislation domestic legislation we will ever undertake the House allowed one amendment - one. The Senate does not work that way. As George Washington said the Senate is the saucer into which the hot coffee is poured. Our purpose is to basically be more deliberative try to air the bill out try to improve the bill try to make it a better piece of legislation than the one that was drafted behind closed doors and is so big. I mean it costs a billion dollars a page.  Senator Gregg any one or two things you have noticed in this bill you would like to point out to us? Sen.  There are ways to improve health care. There are ways to get health care costs under control and also deliver better health care. But CBO has told us this bill does nothing absolutely nothing to get health care costs under control. In fact under this bill health care costs to the federal government go up they go up. They do not go down. Now the president said when we started this debate he had three goals. One get everybody covered. Two  health care costs. Three make sure that if you had an insurance that you like that you were comfortable with you did not lose it. All three of those tests have failed under this bill. The purpose of this bill at its core is to expand the size of government and to basically put government into a controlling situation in health care pushing us down a path towards what I call what we all know to be a single payer system like they have in Canada and England which I think undermines health care. I mean those systems have rationing they have delays they have lack of innovation all - they have a very severely restricted health care system. I do not think we want that and we do not have to have it.  Did the Congressional Budget Office also say that it did not think that this bill would increase the deficit over a 10-year period? Sen.  Yes but that involved massive chicanery of the shell game nature. In the first 10 years the tax increases which are very significant in this bill - in the first 10 years they are around 700 billion - they start on day one. But the programs the brand new entitlements they do not start until the fourth and fifth year. So you have got four and five years of spending matched against 10 years of revenue and ten years of spending cuts in Medicare. So they were able to claim that they were in balance. In fact when Senator Reid allegedly sent this bill initially to CBO he had the program starting in the third year because he thought that would be when he would be able to hit balance. Turns out the CBO came back and said no you do not get balance then 'ecause your spending is too high. So he just moved spending back a year. I mean if Bernie Madoff did this - I mean Bernie Madoff did do this by the way this is exactly what Bernie Madoff did. I mean as a very practical matter this is Bernie Madoff accounting and it is really highly inappropriate.  But once again to point to the obvious are not there - at least every public opinion survey I have seen - suggests that a majority of the American public also want a public option for health care. Sen.  Well a public option is not something I think most Americans would want if they take a look at it. And I have not seen studies that show that most people want to be under a Canadian or English system. A public health care system absolutely leads to a deterioration of health care generally for the American public if everybody's forced into it.  This finally Senator what priority do you put on covering the tens of millions of Americans who presently do not have health coverage do not have health care? Sen.  It is critical it is absolutely critical. And I have got a proposal to do that. The Widen Bennett proposal which I am a co-sponsor does that. Senator Coburn and Senator Burr have a proposal that does that. But you do not have to nationalize the system to do that. You simply do not.  Senator Judd Gregg senior Republican member of the Senator Budget Committee thanks so much for all your time. Sen.  Thank you Scott. Appreciate your time. 