 In Wisconsin and Michigan voters in November replaced Republican governors with Democrats. But before they officially take office in January the Republican-controlled legislatures are taking steps to weaken their power. In the case of Wisconsin the state legislature passed a set of bills this past week that would place limits on incoming Democratic Governor Tony Evers. Outgoing Governor Scott Walker says he plans to sign the measures. Joining me now to talk about this and how the two parties plan to move forward in the state are Wisconsin State Representative Jim Steineke a Republican and Wisconsin State Representative Amanda Stuck a Democrat. Welcome to you both.  Yup. Thank you.  Thank you for having us.  All right Amanda I am going to start with you. You have written that what the Republicans have done is a quote power grab. Tell us why you see it that way.  Because this is something they did not draft until after the election. This was simply meant to preserve their power when they were angry that they would no longer have a Republican in the governor's chair. And this really went way out of line with what - anything we have seen before in terms of shifting power from the governor to the legislature.  Jim you have described the outrage as quote hyperbole and that the goal of this legislation is to ensure a balance of power and to protect the legislative process. Please explain.  Yeah. Over the course of a number of years both Democrats and Republican-controlled legislatures have shifted authority to the executive branch. Everybody's bemoaned that over the years. And really all we are doing is regaining authority that we have had in the past.  Jim to Amanda's point the timing does seem purely partisan in nature. It was I believe 141 pages of bills by a body in a lame-duck session.  Really what this is about is codifying things that we have done over the last eight years to make sure that if the incoming governor wants to make changes to anything that we have done all he has to do is work with the legislature in order to get it done use the same process to change things as we used to put them in place.  Amanda?  First of all limiting voting - I do not see how that has anything to do with a equal balance of power. That simply...  One of the measures limits early voting.  Yeah limits it to two weeks. And so I do not see how that has anything to do with the balance of power. That is simply is punishing voters who did not vote for Republicans statewide. You know I would also say that Republicans had a chance to really set a tone of working together and chose - instead they chose to go this route which was really a tone of saying you know we do not want to really work in a bipartisan way. We want to protect our power at any cost.  Well the standardizing - the early voting - I mean all we are saying is that - a standardized two weeks - if you cannot get there over the course of two weeks how long do you need? I mean is six weeks enough? Or should we go eight or 12? I mean it is getting to the point where people have to make voting a priority.  Amanda what do you think it is about if it is not about what Jim is saying it is about?  They want to win by changing the rules. They know if they limit early voting - that tends to help Democrats because it allows more people to vote that cannot vote during normal voting hours. And so that is why Republicans want to limit it.  Well it is important to realize that we did not limit ours. What we are talking about is just standardizing statewide so everybody has equal opportunity to vote. In many parts of Wisconsin municipalities just do not have the resources to be open for voting for six weeks.  Jim I am going to jump in here. I want to look at one of the other measures which would make it harder for the state to withdraw from a lawsuit challenging the Affordable Care Act. It is not like health care was a small issue on the campaign trail. Democrats promised to get rid of this suit and they were voted in. Are not you going against the will of the people there?  No I do not think so. I mean we - in the assembly we passed a bill to protect pre-existing conditions so people would continue to have coverage. Unfortunately in the state Senate they were not able to get it passed. So it continues to be a priority of ours. And hopefully that is one of those areas that we can work with the incoming governor - getting something passed so in case the ACA for some reason does go away - that protections for pre-existing conditions are in place.  Amanda do you think the fact that it will make it harder for the state to withdraw from that lawsuit is going to really hamstring on the incoming Democratic governor?  Yes it will. And that is why people voted for him. The governor did campaign on health care and talking about that. And by usurping that power taking that making it harder for him to follow through on his campaign promises what they are doing is telling the voters that we know better than you. And we are going to stop what you voted for and what you said you wanted to happen.  So I am listening to you both. And I have got to ask you can you find common ground moving forward? Both parties have a mandate for Wisconsin. And what does this say about the state of our politics? I will start with you Amanda and then over to you Jim.  Well I would say right now it does not say very much. I mean quite frankly the national headlines have been pretty embarrassing. But I would say with that being said I mean there are certainly members on my side who want to say remember what the Republicans did? - in kind of get-them-back attitude. I would say we simply cannot afford to do that. We simply do not have time to fight amongst each other anymore and play these games. We should have been having a special session on transportation or the budget or all these other things but we did not. Instead we had a special session about power.  We are going to do our best to put aside our differences. The key is that I think by and large we all kind of like each other both Democrats and Republicans. We get along pretty well over the course of the last eight years. Over about 90 percent of the bills that get signed into law have bipartisan support. So we have had the ability to work together in the past. We are going to have the ability to work together in the future. I know Governor Evers a little bit. I know Lieutenant Governor Mandela Barnes even better. I think we are going to have a decent relationship. It is going to take both sides to reach across the aisle.  That is Wisconsin State Representatives Amanda Stuck and Jim Steineke. Thank you both for being with us today.  All right - thank you.  Thank you. 