 Think now about some of the most potent cultural images we have of cars cool cars. There is usually a young man behind the wheel from Ron Howard cruising in American Graffiti cousins Bo and Luke from The Dukes of Hazzard sliding over the hood of the General Lee James Dean behind the wheel of his Porsche. Well these days some of the coolest things about cars are not there to dazzle the young. They are actually there to accommodate the aging. Today's business bottom line has baby boomers behind the wheel. There are 10000 baby boomers turning 65 every day and as NPR's Sonari Glinton reports car makers see a market.  I will absolutely positively not tell any old people driving jokes in this story. I will let Jerry Seinfeld do that.  They drive so slowly and I would think the less time you have in life the faster you would want to go. You know I think old people should be allowed to drive their age. If you are 80 do 80. If you are 100 go 100. But they cannot see where they are going anyway. Let them have a little fun out there.  Ok That is funny and all...  But in reality what we know is that older drivers are actually among the safest drivers on the roads.  Sharon Berlin is with AAA the motor club. The research shows older drivers are more likely to wear seat belts. They are less likely to drink and drive. And yes they drive slower which is much safer.  Driving is a function of ability not necessarily a function of age. With age come certain conditions that become more common. And those conditions can make driving a little bit more difficult.  It is those conditions that carmakers are trying to design around to make it easier to drive and more comfortable. One of the simplest new features is push button ignition. Again Sharon Berlin.  It really can benefit anybody. If you have any arthritic joints in your hands the fine motor skills needed to grasp the key and turn it can really elicit a lot of pain. So the push button ignition simplifies that.  It is not just push button ignition. There are a whole bevy of features that are making driving easier for adults.   All those features can be a giant help for drivers who are physically limited. Lane assist helps if say you have trouble turning your head or if you have poor peripheral vision. Wider doors can help you get in and out of vehicles. Lisa Molnar is with the University of Michigan's Transportation Research Institute. She says many of these new features are specifically for older drivers but they are also just good universal design.  To a great extent a lot of the things that we can do to make things easier for older adults will actually make things easier for the larger population. And so it is a win-win situation when that works.  Molnar says what is good for older drivers is not always good for younger drivers. She says in an ideal world there would be different vehicles for older drivers. But she says...  It does not probably make sense to design a vehicle that we call an older driver vehicle and market it in that way.  I know it is not because my mother as not driving no old vehicle.  Exactly exactly and that is clearly what the consumer literature shows. People are not going to buy a car that is marketed as an older driver vehicle.  Molnar says while there will not be old people car per se drivers at least can pick features that make driving easier. She says all the engineering that is the easy part. The hard part is making the transition from driving to not driving.  There are often ways that people can continue to drive albeit under more limited circumstances but without having to give up the keys altogether.  Both experts say we all need to make plans for when we will not be able to drive. They say we plan for retirement and we should plan to stop driving in the same way. Sonari Glinton NPR News. 