 We have here David Sterman who is an expert on homegrown extremism. He is with the New America Foundation. Thanks so much for joining us David.  Thanks for having me.  Now let me just ask you about what happened in San Bernardino. Do you see this as an act of terrorism?  At the moment we do not really have enough information to say whether it is terrorism or not. Terrorism is generally understood as political violence against civilians or noncombatants. And we just do not know the motive yet.  But the idea that they should have shown up in - with all kinds of automatic weapons with - dressed in camouflage gear suggests a level of organization.  Certainly. And that may be suggestive of terrorism although public violence that is organized could also occur for other motivations workplace violence rather than a political purpose.  Workplace violence - you mean like - like as we - the very first occasions of this kind of thing postal shootings?  Right. Or for a variety of motivations that you see for example in school shootings and other locations that do not appear to be tied to a particular political ideology.  Do you think that people will see something like this as a political act? Are they - the general public - likely to do that? I know that when the Planned Parenthood shooting was - obviously - it was a political act in a sense. But I think people tended to see that this person seemed to be very disturbed and put a lot of value on that.  There is certainly a tendency when an attack occurs and it is not motivated or carried out by people inspired by jihadist ideology to dismiss it as mental illness or a lone case. In fact at New America we track the deadly incidents since 911 and have found that more people have been killed in that time period by people inspired by right-wing views understood as antigovernment antiabortion or racialist motivations. Yet those are consistently underreported. That to some extent makes sense 911 the 911 attacks creates a true narrative of what the threat can be. However even when looking at like instances of homegrown extremists without turning abroad there is this distinction in coverage and narrative.  So very briefly - we have like maybe 10 seconds - is there anything to do about this?  Gun control is certainly something that should be considered. However when dealing with isolated or more isolated instances it is very hard to actually prevent.  Thank you very much. David Sterman with the New America Foundation. 