 No violin maker is more fabled than Antonio Stradivari. Today Stradivari's violins and cellos can sell for millions of dollars at auction thanks to their unparalleled musical qualities and their scarcity. Stradivari has been dead for nearly three centuries. Only 650 of his works are estimated to survive yet the forest where the master got some of his lumber thrives. And thanks to the surprising teamwork of modern instrument makers and forest rangers Stradivarius trees are doing better than ever. Christopher Livesay explains.  Violinist Gil Shaham got a huge break when he was just 17 filling in at the last minute for Itzhak Perlman and playing a borrowed Stradivarius. He eventually bought it and its sound helped establish his career.   But before it could sound like this it sounded something like this.   This is a 300-year-old spruce in the Fiemme Valley the same corner of the Italian Alps where Renaissance luthiers such as Stradivari Guarneri and Amati handpicked the trees that would be turned into some of the world's finest instruments. Thanks to a serendipitous combination of climate and altitude these have come to be called Il Bosco Che Suona - The Musical Woods.   Oh yes I would say there is a beautiful violin hiding under your bark.  The man knocking on and talking to this tree is Marcello Mazzuchi. He is a retired forest ranger with an uncanny knack for spotting timber that is ideal for instruments. It is led some to call him the Tree Whisperer.    I am really more of a tree listener. I observe. I touch them. Sometimes I even hug them. Trees are our friends. Look carefully and they will tell you their life story their traumas their joys - everything such humble creatures.  He leaps from trunk to trunk crossing flawed candidates off his list.   This one over here was struck by lightning. Who knows what kind of sound its violin would make?  Until he finds a contender.   Look here. This is a truly nice tree. It shoots up perfectly straight. It is very cylindrical no branches at the bottom. If you ask me there is a violin trapped inside.  Here's how he figures it out. Mazzuchi takes out a manual drill called a borer and twists it like a corkscrew through the bark. Every time you hear a knock that is the borer hitting a new ring. Mazzuchi listens carefully and pulls out a core sample shaped like a pencil - an excellent specimen he concludes.   A lumberjack then chops down trees like this one and carts them to a lumberyard right here in the Fiemme Valley where the spruce is milled into sections. Local instrument maker Cecilia Piazzi examines a piece.   It is magnificent. We use it for making the table - that is the beautiful part on the front of a violin or cello with the sound holes on the surface. Yes this piece is the right piece. I can tell just by flicking it.  It takes months to complete a single instrument which can cost over 10000 - a bargain when you consider a Stradivarius that came from the same forest can go for over 10 million. But it is enough to keep this community humming. The Fiemme Valley is one of Italy's most prosperous areas thanks in large part to these musical woods. And it is going to stay that way because people like the Tree Whisperer take care of it.   I have felled 1 million trees in my career but in their place a hundred million more have grown up.  Before a tree hits the chopping block Mazzuchi looks around to see if there are any tiny saplings struggling to grow nearby. If so removing an adult tree will let more sun in and actually help the babies mature. Bruno Cosignani is the head of the local forest service.  The light is the limiting factor and as soon as a tree fall down those who were born and suffering in the shadow can start to grow more quickly.  Chop down a tree only if it will allow more to one day become musical instruments. For NPR News I am Christopher Livesay. 