 The Council on American-Islamic Relations or CAIR was the group that tipped off the FBI that the five young men from Northern Virginia had left the country. It is important to note that there is been a contentious relationship between CAIR and the FBI in recent years. We reached Ibrahim Hooper CAIR's communications director in his Washington D.C. office to ask about the group's role in this particular case. Did the council contact the FBI because you thought this was a missing persons case or something else might have been involved? Mr.  Well we had really strong concerns about what this group of young people was up to. The parents started building some suspicion over a weekend at the end of November. They had reason to believe that they were being lied to about where their adult children were. They started to get indications like foreign cell phone rings. You know when you call somebody it does not sound like it does here in America. It has a different ringtone to it. And they put two and two together and figured out that their children were overseas somewhere and they just did not know what was going on. They had you know of course the worst fears as a parent. They contacted local Muslim community leaders who brought them to us and that - we met with the five families on December 1st. Coupled with their story and the video that had been left behind we knew immediately that we had to contact the FBI. And that is what we did. we did.  Do you know any of these young men? Mr.  I do not personally no.  The council has been outspoken in condemning terrorism and calling on American Muslims to cooperate with government authorities in investigations. Do you get any negative reaction to that sometimes? Mr.  Well remember one of the first things we did also is connect all of the families with legal representation to make sure that their constitutional rights were protected. So that goes hand in hand with our concerns for national security. And you know you get an occasional email you know why are you working so closely with the government or something like that. But by and large I would say no the reaction has been very supportive from the American Muslim community.  You do not know much about the circumstances of this case or at least any more than has been in the news? Mr.  Well we do know more but because of confidentiality reasons we cannot put out more information. People have to know that as a civil rights group when they come to us we are going to maintain their confidentiality. Of course everything that we think is relevant or that has been told to us has also been told to law enforcement authorities but that is not a violation of the confidentiality. And also we just do not want to compromise the investigation either.  Yeah. Is it possible that this was all just talk? Mr.  Well even talk can get you in trouble nowadays. So you know even if it is talk it is serious enough to be dealt with.  In this case by the Pakistani government. Mr.  You mean talk - well that is the issue too. We have heard things coming out of Pakistan that we know not to be accurate just from what we know as fact. So I would take anything coming out of Pakistan now with a grain of salt because you just do not know what the real situation is on the ground.  Ibrahim Hooper communications director with the Council on American-Islamic Relations thanks so much. Mr.  Thank you. 