 What if we could fight climate change by manipulating our environment like spraying sulfur into the stratosphere or brightening clouds? Those are two ways to reflect light back into space and reduce global warming. It is called geoengineering and there is a new bill in Congress to research this and the potential risks. Congressman Jerry McNerney Democrat of California introduced the Geoengineering Research Evaluation Act and he joins me now. He is a member of the House Committee on Science Space and Technology. And by the way he is also an engineer and he has a Ph.D. in mathematics. Congressman welcome to the program.  Well thank you.  So can you just run through what exactly we are talking about when we talk about geoengineering the planet?  Sure. There is two sorts of categories. The one category is removing carbon from the atmosphere. You can do that by planting a lot of trees. You can do that by trying to seed the ocean to grow more carbon-absorbing plants like seaweeds. And then on the other hand there is what they call albedo modification which is reducing sunlight. One category that is cloud brightening - where you try to add more vapor to the atmosphere so the clouds turn whiter and reflect more sunlight. And then the other one is actually putting sulfur particles into the atmosphere. The sulfur particles are very reflective in that they will reduce sunlight that gets through to the Earth. Those are the sort of broad categories.  I am sure a lot of listeners are also wondering about the unintended consequences of tampering too much with nature. You know what could possibly go wrong? I have seen the movie.   Plenty could go wrong. But I think the biggest thing is that we might change the climate patterns enough to disrupt national production of wheat or food. It could cause severe flooding and severe droughts in certain parts of the world. So I think the risks are very very high and we need to have a clear understanding of what the science tells us about these projects.  Why geoengineer at all? Is not it better to simply try and cut carbon emissions and tackle global warming that way?  Oh absolutely. We have to reduce carbon emissions first. That is our first priority. That is the thing we have to do with all vigor. But you know it takes years or decades for carbon buildup in the atmosphere to have a noticeable impact. And so we are just on the leading edge of climate change and there is about 10 years of carbon emissions out there that have not even impacted us fully yet. So we may be in for some truly catastrophic changes. We need to know what the alternatives are.  Do you think we are really at a place where some of these big science ideas that seem something out of science fiction are really now the only way forward maybe to help the planet?  We might be Lulu. We might be. If we start seeing sea levels rise rapidly then we might be forced into action like this. I hate to say that but it is true. Is not there an old saying that if you are in a hole stop digging? Well we are clearly in a hole now. Climate change is becoming more obvious and if we do not stop emissions or reduce emissions then it is just going to accelerate. So we have to know what our options are.  Congressman Jerry McNerney of California thank you for joining us.  Thank you Lulu. Appreciate it. 