 U.S. cybersecurity officials had been preparing for Russian interference in the U.S. election. They say that kind of attack never came. The main disinformation instead came from the departing president. But it does appear that Russia was busy elsewhere. It was allegedly hacking U.S. government agencies that were not directly involved in the election. NPR national security correspondent Greg Myre is covering this story. Greg good morning.  Good morning Steve.  What was hacked?  Well it looks like it was the Treasury and Commerce Departments. the leading suspect is the Russian Foreign Intelligence Service known as the SVR. It is sort of the equivalent of the CIA in Russia. Russia has issued a statement denying this. But according to American authorities it seems to have been going on for months and was only recently uncovered. We do not have many details at this point. But both the National Security Council and the Department of Homeland Security have acknowledged that a breach took place and they say they are working to sort it out.  Well I am trying to think through these couple of agencies. The Commerce Department supports American business especially overseas. They oversee a variety of other things like the census. The Treasury Department of course is deeply involved in the economy and the operations of the government. Is it understood what kind of information may have been stolen from those agencies?  Well we do not know precisely. We do know the email systems were hacked and - but as you note was this just routine office email or was this some more valuable important classified information with business and financial information that would be quite important? And then there is the larger concern - were other government departments hacked as well? We do not have an answer to that right now.  Is it just random that Treasury and Commerce would be targeted?  We do not know that. You know they certainly have their own value if they were hacked. But there is certainly the expectation that other parts of the government would have been targeted as well. If the Russians or whoever was able to get in to those departments they would look elsewhere. The Russians were responsible for a major breach back in 2014 and 2015 which included the White House and the State Department.  Greg one other thing - how if at all does this connect with other news from just a few days ago of another suspected Russian hack?  Well that previous report involved the cybersecurity firm FireEye a major firm that said it lost some of its valuable tools that it uses to look for security and when it checks out the networks of clients. The company said they believed it was a state-sponsored attack. And they did not name Russia but analysts say that was clearly the implication. And they are looking for links between these two attacks. One possibility seems to be that the hack was carried out through software updates that are widely used both in the U.S. government and in many private companies. So that seems to be what they are checking. Again it speaks to Russia's ability to go after very hard well-defended targets.  Greg thanks very much.  My pleasure.  That is NPR's Greg Myre. 