 Before we start the last UP FIRST Saturday show of the year we would like to talk about what goes into keeping NPR programs on the air.  NPR's journalism relies on more than a thousand member stations around the country and those stations rely on your support.  Your member station is how you can hear not only NPR programming but also excellent local journalism that is important for your community. Here at UP been bringing you the news you need all year long and we need your help to keep you informed in the New Year.  If you are in a position to offer support go to donate.npr.orgupfirst to make a contribution. And thank you. Now let us start the show.   Witnesses say they heard a computerized voice saying over and over again evacuate now.  The warning came from an RV parked in downtown Nashville. After 15 minutes the vehicle exploded.  I am Sacha Pfeiffer.  I am Sarah McCammon. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   Authorities are investigating what may be human remains at the site. But they still have no motive. We will update you with the latest on the explosion.  Meanwhile President Trump's failure to sign the COVID relief package means unemployment benefits expired at midnight. The president is under tremendous pressure to sign the bill. But will he?  And in Europe after months of no progress the European Union and Britain will make their final break from each other. Stay with us. We have got the news you need to start your weekend.   A massive explosion shattered the quiet Christmas morning in downtown Nashville Tenn. Authorities do not know who did it or why.  There are no confirmed fatalities although investigators are examining tissue found at the scene as possible human remains.  Three people suffered injuries including a police officer who was knocked down by the blast. They are hospitalized in stable condition. NPR's John Burnett is in Nashville with the latest. Hi John.  Morning Sarah.  And John what do we know at this point?  Well what appears to be a white recreational vehicle drove into a deserted entertainment district of Nashville about a block from the Cumberland River and parked in front of an ATT building. That was just after 1 a.m. Christmas morning. Later in the morning a recording of a woman's voice was coming from the RV warning people to evacuate because it was about to blow up. Then at about 30 a.m. this horrific explosion went off that destroyed a portion of 2nd Avenue. The front desk clerk here at my hotel said it rattled her house 17 miles away and scared the wits out of her family. Officials said they would received no warning. And at first they thought it was a propane tank on the RV that blew up. But at a press conference last night Mayor John Cooper confirmed it was a bomb deliberately detonated in the heart of his community.   And the blast caused injuries and catastrophic damage to this very historic part of Nashville. Now at the end of the day I think all of us - I certainly have - have gone from relief that there were not more casualties to now anger and determination and resolve.  John do we know anything about a motive here?  Well that is - those are the questions that the investigators want to answer Sarah. The FBI is in charge of the case. Federal agents have poured into downtown to look for pieces of that RV and other evidence. They are reviewing videos from security cameras. They have asked the public for any leads. The police chief John Drake singled out the heroism of six of his officers. They went door to door evacuating residents in the minutes before the blast as the recorded voice inside the RV warned it was about to blow up. Chief Drake says it appears the bombers did not want mass casualties because they targeted empty streets on this quietest of mornings.   You would think that this person did not want to harm people that maybe just wanted to destroy. But we are not sure until we you know get further into the investigation.  And John you are there in Nashville. How is the city coping with this bizarre act of violence on Christmas Day no less?  Yeah. Well police have blocked off a big portion of downtown and put on a curfew to keep folks away. The mayor said 41 buildings were damaged and at least one collapsed entirely. The Red Cross has set up an evacuation center for displaced downtown residents. And damage to the ATT data center caused communication outages all over town and briefly grounded flights at the airport.  Investigators will continue to be on the scene today. What are they looking for now John?  Well Sarah it always amazes me how top-notch investigators can unravel a crime scene. I covered the Oklahoma City bombing back in 1995 when a domestic terrorist killed at least 168 people inside of a federal building. FBI agents combed every inch of the area surrounding the blast. And they found an axle from the exploded rental truck with the VIN number on it. They traced that to the rental agency and eventually tracked it back to Timothy McVeigh who was tried convicted and put to death for the bombing. That is the kind of evidence they are looking for here in downtown Nashville. Find the bomber bring them to justice and put this city at ease.  Well thank you for your reporting John.  You bet.  That is NPR's John Burnett speaking to us from Nashville.   Millions of Americans are waking up to a grim reality the day after Christmas. That is because some government programs that provided much-needed help to people hurt by the pandemic expired overnight. Others are set to expire in less than a week.  Congress passed a 900 billion stimulus bill this week to continue providing unemployment assistance for a few more months but President Trump has criticized the bill. And it is not clear if he will sign it into law.  We are joined now by NPR's Jim Zarroli to talk about what happens next. And Jim give us a sense of the importance of this aid to affected Americans.  Well remember that since the pandemic lockdowns started we have seen 22 million Americans lose their jobs. It is really just been a historic loss of jobs. Some of these have come back but many have not. And for the people who are unemployed the money that was doled out by Congress has really made all the difference in the world. It helps them pay their mortgages helps them put food on the table. Now President Trump could decide to sign this bill which would extend the benefits and then immediately - you know it would immediately ease their burden. If he decides to veto it Congress has the votes to override the veto. So the bill would become law but it would take time. And if the bill is not approved by January 3 when the current session of Congress expires it is going - it will die. And Congress will have to vote on a whole new bill.  And why is he not signing it? Not only why - he is explained why he is not signing it but what other reasons might be behind that?  Right. What he says is that the bill does not go far enough. It provides 600 stimulus checks for individuals who make less than 75000 a year. But this week the president really took everybody by surprise by saying he wanted - wants the checks to be 2000. Now Democrats love that idea. They tried unsuccessfully to get bigger checks in the bill. It is really the Republicans who do not like the idea. The president's also raising some other objections to the bill about assistance to other countries. He does not like the fact that the bill provides money for two new Smithsonian museums for women and Latinos. But it is really mainly about the size of the financial assistance in the bill.  That it is not large enough he says.  Right.  What is the likelihood that despite his current stance he will eventually give in and sign it?  You know that is what everybody's wondering. I mean the 900 billion bill that Congress passed this week was sent down to Florida where the president is staying this weekend in case he decides to sign it. And a lot of people think he will. They say you know there is a fair amount of political posturing taking place right now. Do not forget this bill was passed by overwhelming majorities of both houses of Congress of both parties so having to start all over again is something really nobody wants. So the president is under a lot of pressure to sign it. But you know this is President Trump and he has a way of keeping people guessing.  And if Trump does refuse to sign the bill what are the consequences for the millions of people who have lost their jobs or seen their salary cuts? Is it just you are on your own?  Well if Congress has to restart negotiations and come up with another bill it will make the situation of these unemployed people more dire. I mean keep in mind this bill took months to negotiate. So imagine how long it is going to take to write up a new one and get it approved by Congress. And the timing right now really could not be worse. This month alone we have seen some really disturbing economic numbers. Personal income is down for the second straight month. Consumer spending is also down. Unemployment claims are still really high. So we are going into a - you know what could be a pretty harsh winter for the economy. The relief bill was supposed to address the pain that people are feeling. But the longer it goes on without becoming law the tougher their situation is going to be.  That is NPR's Jim Zarroli speaking with us from New York. Jim thank you.  You are welcome.   It had all the makings of a terrible divorce that was settled amicably at the last minute.   So we have finally found an agreement. It was a long and winding road but we have got a good deal to show for it.  That is European Union President Ursula von der Leyen after the U.K. and the EU hammered out a trade agreement on Christmas Eve just days before Britain's exit from the EU becomes complete. It was a hard-fought deal with 200 officials working out last-minute details including quotas for individual species of fish.  But how will it be received in Britain? We have NPR's Frank Langfitt on the line from London. Hi Frank. And give us a broad overview of what is in this deal.  I think Sacha the most important thing is no tariffs or quotas on most products which is the same as things are now. That'ill reduce disruption of the board at the end of the year as you were saying when the EU and the U.K. do their - basically their final split. And this is really important to manufacturers. It would have been a nightmare for the car industry to have to deal with tariffs. Many factories were actually built here because of tariff-free access into Europe. That said there will be border checks health forms to fill out value-added and excise tax on some products. So there will be delays come January 1. I think the most important thing though to remember is that this deal does not really say much about services which are 80 of the economy. So for instance London has been the financial capital of Europe. London is going to lose market access to EU clients. So a lot of this remains unresolved.  Frank one of the final sticking points in negotiations was overfishing specifically whether EU fishermen should still have the right to fish in British waters and how much fish they can catch there. I take it that is fully resolved?  It has been. The amount of the EU catch is going to slowly reduce over the next 5 12 years and then there'ill be a negotiation. The EU did pretty well here. I think it got roughly what it wanted. And in exchange the EU basically gave U.K. car manufacturers that tariff-free access into Europe that they wanted. The fishing is symbolically really important. The concept - if you go back to the 2016 Brexit referendum - was to take back control of laws and power from Brussels and that included fishing grounds.  The British Parliament as well as the European Parliament have to approve this deal. Are both expected to pass it?  Yes I think both Parliaments will pass it certainly here. And frankly in Brussels and across the EU it is been 4 12 years. People are exhausted by this. That said the entire text has just come out this morning. And so I think you will see particularly here in London members of Parliament poring over it very carefully before the vote which I think is expected around the 30th.  As you said Frank people are exhausted. And you know well how much the Brexit vote split this country in so many ways. One of them is that retirees voted heavily to leave the EU while students voted overwhelmingly to stay. How does this deal affect younger Britons who were so against Brexit?  You know Sacha it really damages their opportunities. I will give you an example. The U.K. will no longer be able to participate in a program called Erasmus. This provides grants for up to 17000 British students to study or work in apprenticeships anywhere in the EU so they could study in Rome Paris Berlin. I know lots of young people who love this program. Boris Johnson says it is too expensive and he is going to replace it with an international program to go to other universities around the world. But given COVID-19 pandemic as well as the economy here you got to really wonder how much funding the U.K. government will have for this.  After this bitter battle that went on for years do you sense that U.K. citizens can finally move on and put the divisions over Brexit behind them?  No I have real doubts about that. A Brexit vote - I got to say Sacha it was like a political bomb in ways that people did not really fully appreciate. And we are still feeling the shock waves here. The most obvious example is actually north of here in Scotland. It is created a new push for an independence referendum up there. And so I think the next thing for Boris Johnson to try to do is to try to basically rebuild ties with Scotland and try to see if he can head off an attempt for another referendum. And that is going to be his next challenge in the coming months.  That is NPR's Frank Langfitt in London. Frank thanks for your ongoing reporting on this.  Great to talk Sacha.  And that is UP FIRST for Saturday December 26 2020. I am Sacha Pfeiffer.  And I am Sarah McCammon. UP FIRST is produced by Hiba Ahmad Samantha Balaban Andrew Craig and Danny Hensel.  Our editors are Peter Breslow Barrie Hardymon Ed McNulty and Martha Ann Overland. Our technical directors are Stu Rushfield and Brian Jarboe.  Our directors are Sophia Boyd and Ned Wharton. Our senior supervising editor is Evie Stone and our executive producer is Sarah Oliver.  UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your week. Follow us on social media. We are UpFirst on Twitter.  And for more news and interviews books and music you can find us on the radio.  Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings. Find your NPR station at stations.npr.org. And if you can go to donate.npr.orgupfirst to make a contribution.  