 If you want a little more quiet in your life consider moving to the Northern Great Plains. You can wake up to the subtle sounds of cows a passing Chevy pickup or blowing snow. Unless of course you live near South Dakota's Ellsworth Air Force Base.  That is the sound of a B1 bomber taking off from that base. It can sound louder than a rock concert and above the normal threshold for pain. The military is proposing a huge expansion of the bomber's training area. And the plans have some rural residents launching a counterattack. Here's South Dakota Public Broadcastings Charles Michael Ray.  Its a wintry afternoon on the Dakota Plains and the prairie wind is packing a cold bite. But this hasnt stopped the Reinhold family from going out to bring home the cattle. Unidentified Child    The Reinholds loaded four of their children into the back of an SUV and they are driving across the prairie tossing out pellets of cattle feed as they go. Larry Reinholds family has owned this ranch for more than a century. Mr.  There arent many places like western South Dakota and this is kind of the last frontier.  Reinhold worries about plans to expand the B1 Bomber training range four fold. It would mean war planes streaking through these skies flying as low as 500 feet and sometimes breaking the sound barrier. The new range includes huge sections over Montana Wyoming and both Dakotas. Air Force Colonel Jeff Taliaferro says the expansion is vital for crews preparing for combat. Colonel  We have to do realistic training. We need airspace that fits todays needs not 20 years ago needs. We need airspace that matches the combat environment.  Many of the ranchers here say they understand the need for training  but they complain the military flights could spook their cattle and lower their land's value. Marvin Kammerer stood up at a recent public meeting on this issue and shook his rough calloused fist as he spoke. Mr.  You wouldnt want to buy a house and live next to a railroad track. That would be rather stupid if you wanted peace and quiet and we treasure that.  Ranchers point to more than two dozen court cases where landowners have been compensated for excess aircraft noise. Kammerer says at the very least ranchers here should get consideration. Mr.  If you want the over flight and the use of this land then have the good grace to pay us like you do everybody else.  This economic issue stretches beyond ranches. Ray Jilek manages the airport for the town of Spearfish South Dakota. The flights out of this small airstrip would be cut in half to make way for military training. Jilek says the airport is in the middle of a 15 million expansion project. Mr.  And all of a sudden essentially they are going to say well youve made the investment that is great but were only going to let you use it part of the time now.  The Air Force says there are no plans to pay anyone here for losses. However military officials stress they will do all they can to address concerns. But ranchers like Robert Heidgerken say the opinions of those who are scattered across this rural part of the country are being ignored. Mr.  We dont deserve to be treated this way. Were American citizens. We provide a service to the country. We provide food for them. And I really feel that we deserve better than this.  Bombers could begin flying in the new airspace by late 2012. Thats barring any legal action on this case. Rural residents here cherish their tranquility. Theyre promising to be anything but tranquil if this plan moves forward. For NPR News Im Charles Michael Ray in Rapid City South Dakota.   This is NPR News. 