 After the Camp Fire in Northern California two musicians from Paradise wrote a tribute to their hometown a town that was destroyed in that fire. The song is called One Of These Days. It went viral online and now they have made a professional version of it. Here's Rachael Myrow of member station KQED.  Like so many of his neighbors in Paradise Nate Smith survived the Camp Fire with the clothes on his back and not much else. So when Smith and his co-composer Miykael Goodwin performed their song for me in Chico Smith was playing on a guitar gifted to him by somebody who found out about his plight online.   'ecause I can still remember the first that I fell in love with this town.  Smith and Goodwin grew up in Paradise. Goodwin says the lyrics in the song acknowledge what they have lost.  It was really based on memories from our life up there. To be honest we wrote it for us and our friends and had no idea it was going to get this much attention. And we are really glad it is helping people.  Smith and Goodwin have performed the song at memorials for some of those who died in the Camp Fire as well as fundraisers for Camp Fire victims in Butte County and beyond. But Smith adds they also want the song to explain Paradise is worth rebuilding.  I wanted it to be a song of hope that would really reignite everybody's heartbeat you know?  Their home recording of One Of These Days received more than 115000 hits on Facebook not to mention local and regional press attention. Then a Grammy Award-winning producer Smith knew from when he tried his luck in Nashville a few years back contacted them. He offered free studio time to the men if they could get there. A couple of Goodwin's relatives obliged with plane tickets. And a few weeks later there was a new version of the song.    The tall green trees the mountain breeze the girl that made me shake in my knees - I am going to miss it. I already miss it.  The heart of the song is still there. It is a fully produced track with drums and keyboards and electric guitars but the vocals are really the main point. It is about the message of the song really.    I am going to miss it. I already miss it. Whoa....  It is a message of hope in a time that is pretty grim for tens of thousands of people displaced from Paradise whether they are planning to rebuild or not. Smith is living with his dad now in Chico. Other wildfire refugees have spread out to Sacramento and even out of state wherever they found a place to land. But Smith says the communities around Paradise have pulled together in a way he does not remember from the past.  This is the first time that I have felt like everybody's family. Like you go into any store and now you stop and talk for 20 minutes. And like - oh you lost your home? I lost my home. Oh come here.  His guitar was a gift. The studio time was a gift. And the song is a gift too. The men intend to donate whatever proceeds they get from sales of the song online to Camp Fire victims. For NPR News I am Rachael Myrow in Chico.    Never going to take our home - one of these days we are going to see the Sunset rise in Paradise. One of these days we are going to rebuild that church on the corner. One of these days... 