 Time now for StoryCorps and today we hear from the sole survivor of a shipwreck. In 1966 Dennis Hale was a watchman on a ship called the Daniel J. Morrell. One night the Morrell was hauling steel across Lake Huron when it got caught in a severe winter storm. The ship broke apart and sank. Of the dozens of sailors on board only Dennis Hale and a handful of others made it onto a life raft. He came to StoryCorps with his wife Barbara to look back on what happened.  It took eight minutes from the time the general alarm sounded until I wound up in the water. The main deck was starting to tear. You could see sparks. You could hear it ripping real slow like a piece of paper. The noise the noise was just unbelievable. I did not have any clothes on. I had a life jacket a pair of undershorts and a pea coat on. And we went through this big wave. The first thing you hear when you come through the backside is everybody gasping for air and then a 65 mile an hour wind would hit you and it just felt like your skin was being pulled off. By dawn I looked at the kid in front of me and there was some white foam coming out of his mouth. And I jabbed him and I said You all right man? And he did not respond. And behind me was another fellow there was no response from him either. And so I kicked the third guy and I said Are you okay? He says I am hanging in there. We talked about being home for Christmas with our families. But he says It feels like my lungs are filling up or something. Well he started coughing and he passed away and he fell with his arm around me. I guess my biggest fear right then and there was I did not want to be out there alone. When you are in a situation like that you do not really care if you live or die you just want the whole thing over with. And that night you know I had my hands in mouth to keep my hands warm I thought maybe there is some way I could shove them down there far enough I could block off my air. But all I managed to do was gag myself. And before long I saw daylight again. At one point I heard this noise overhead and I looked and it was a helicopter. And I waved to them.  How long did all this take?  Thirty-eight hours. And the next morning I was not fine but I was not dead either. Every day I would ask the nurse if there is any survivors. I figured I survived why could not somebody else? Finally one day she came in she says You should stop asking. It is been too long. If there is anybody else out there they are dead. I just felt shame embarrassment. I did not want to be the sole survivor. I just wanted my old life back. There were 28 people aboard. It was quite a loss my whole family.  If you had a chance to talk to your shipmates what would you tell them?  That I miss them that I love them and I am glad for the time we had together.   Dennis Hale remembering his shipmates who died in the Daniel J. Morrell shipwreck of 1966. He told that story to his wife Barbara at StoryCorps in Ohio. You can get the podcast at NPR.org. 