 The name of Jenny Sanford the estranged wife of South Carolina's wandering governor made it onto a number of those year-end lists of most fascinating and admired persons. Instead of standing by her tearful husband Mrs. Sanford moved out of the governor's mansion moved on with her life. In a recent post on The Daily Beast syndicated columnist Kathleen Parker lauded Mrs. Sanford who is a former New York investment banker and her husband's brain trust as a class act. And she expressed the hope that Mrs. Sanford might become a political influence in South Carolina which Kathleen Parker who also lives there calls the same tiny asylum. Her phrase not mine. Kathleen Parker joins in our studios. Always good to have you here. Ms.  Nice to be here Scott.  How - how has Jenny Sanford wound up how can I say this come out you know...smelling... Ms.  Came out on top.  Yeah exactly. Ms.  She came out on top by not standing by her man. You know we have seen that over and over these women whose husbands have run off with others standing next to their husbands biting their lip looking downward while he talks about forgiveness and redemption and all that. And it is - I think it is why Jenny is so interesting it is that she has chosen not to take that route and in fact instead of standing next to her man she went out on the street and handed out press statements. And she is managing her own brand all the way along. She is an interesting woman. She is very smart. She was already a successful businesswoman when she met Mark Sanford at a party in the Hamptons. He convinced her to move to South Carolina where he would enter politics. She is essentially run his campaigns from their home. So she is a very hands-on forward-thinking person. So a lot of people are talking about whether she might enter politics. She says no.  Mm-hmm. Ms.  She has no interest in being a candidate let us say. She does have interest in policy however. And she is well liked she is respected and she is a brand new woman.  So let me ask you to be profound in a hurry.  Ms.  Profound in a hurry.  What does that say about what is going on in contemporary political culture now? Ms.  Well I do not know that you can extrapolate from South Carolina to anything else. The asylum reference comes from James Pettigrew who was -during the secessionist years said that South Carolina was too small to be a republic too large to be an insane asylum. We have always been an odd little place. But I do think if we do extrapolate it would be nice to think that Jenny Sanford is a prototype for a new woman who does not feel that she has to sort of take what is handed to her.  When we cast back to other political wives who have stood by behind tearfully... Ms.  Mm-hmm.  ...their husbands as they make that kind of an announcement or at least metaphorically if not publicly - in the alchemy of human relationships though there are a lot of reasons for them to keep their family together are not there? Ms.  Sure. Oh absolutely. I do not think adultery is necessarily a deal breaker for every family. In her case if Mark Sanford had shut up instead of making these embarrassing confessions over and over again and then making these statements such as - I am trying to fall in love with my wife again or that this woman in Argentina was my soulmate. I mean these are pushing things beyond a point where most people could tolerate I think. So this is again in a unique place this is a unique situation.  Let me take you in another direction. Tiger Woods's wife Elin might be his estranged wife at the moment we speak at least according to certain reports and according to other reports is in negotiations with a rival athletic shoe company - I will mention their name Puma - to become one of their corporate symbols. Is this...   Help us read the tea leaves. Ms.  You know I hate the term go girl but boy does that ever want to fall off of my lips.  Ms.  I think it is fantastic. She is - she may as well make something out of this. And I think that is what Jenny Sanford has done too. You know this is my little horror show and I am going to put in the best light that I possibly can for my own self-preservation my own self-respect.  Columnist Kathleen Parker thanks so much. Your most recent book is Save the Males. Ms.  Yes that would be the most recent one. 