 There is a reality facing communities across the country. Hospitals are inundated with COVID-19 patients so much so they are having to open field hospitals to deal with the demand. And that is the situation in Rhode Island where we find Dr. Laura Forman. She runs a field hospital in Cranston outside Providence. She is also the head of emergency medicine at Kent Memorial Hospital in the city of Warwick. Dr. Forman thank you for all the work you are doing and thanks for being here.  Thank you so much for having me. I really appreciate it.  So when - at your hospital Kent I mean what are you seeing on your daily rounds these days?  So we are seeing more and more patients coming in with COVID. You know we had a bit of reprieve over the summer and we started to see cases climb through the fall. And certainly after Thanksgiving we saw a big spike. And now after Christmas we are already starting to see the beginnings of another climb in cases. You know what we saw in the spring initially was people who were not as sick with COVID. Now our ICU is filling up. Our stepdown unit sort of the lower-level ICU is filling up as well - more and more patients coming in with this. And we are also seeing younger patients come in with this as well. It is been really heartbreaking to see.  Younger patients with serious cases you are saying?  Yes.  How is your staff holding up?  You know that is been the really difficult part now. I feel like we faced the spring surge with a lot of energy and determination to get through this. And now we are 10 months in and the resilience is waning. One of the amazing things in health care is getting to work with such committed compassionate people who want to bring their whole selves into this work and connect with our patients. And doing that day after day in this pandemic in which the necessities of protection really prevent us from connecting with patients in the same way has been so hard - to have to - to be in rooms with patients and not be able to offer them comfort they cannot even see us smile. They can barely see our eyes. To be in rooms with people as they are dying without their family members there and to have to hold their hand through a glove and through layers of PPE has been incredibly trying on the staff. You know among the physicians and nurses working in these hospitals there are very few among us who have not used our own personal cellphone to FaceTime a patient's family as the patient was dying and to use that phone to hold up so that they could see their loved one as they died. And we sit in these rooms with patients. And that is - it is heartbreaking. And I have seen it really take a toll. I mean I think the pandemic has taken a toll on everyone in the population. Levels of anxiety and depression are rising. Among health care workers I have seen the rates of PTSD skyrocket. And that is been painful to watch happen to people who have been working so hard to care for the community. We are seeing a lot of burnout in staff now.  I cannot imagine - I mean so heartbreaking - and to go on for this long. Can you just tell me - this field hospital that is being used as well - I mean which again speaks to just the massive challenge you have - what does that look like and what role is it playing?  So the field hospital is filling up with patients. It is providing a relief valve for us and a place to offload some of the pressure that is on the hospitals now. So it is a very difficult place to be. It is hard to imagine that we have come to that in this country.  And it is filling up as well at this point? I mean you are seeing more and more patients coming there too?  We are seeing more patients coming in. Our numbers are still not as high as we were concerned that they might be. But we are very worried about what happens after the Christmas and New Year's surges.  Dr. Forman we will be thinking about you and your staff. And again thank you for all the work that you are doing. We really appreciate it.  Thank you so much. I really appreciate it.  It is Dr. Laura Forman in Rhode Island. 