 The Golden Gate National Recreation Area in California's Bay Area is known for its towering redwoods and stretches of sandy beaches. Its boundaries are expanding quite literally up next to some people's backyards. And while you might think residents would be thrilled to see this scenic landscape preserved the relationship between the National Park Service and locals is off to a rocky start. From member station KQED Amy Standen reports.  If you love your dog the way Peggy and Bill Bechtell love Kalie...   ...you could not ask for a better place to live than right on the border of Rancho Corral de Tierra 4000 acres of cypress trees grassy rolling hills about 20 minutes south of San Francisco. Peggy Bechtell says it is dog paradise.  We do not have a community center. That is our socialization out there so there is 12 dogs running around playing together.  Until recently this land was owned by a local land trust which mostly just let it be. But in January the land officially joined the Golden Gate National Recreation Area. It is now part of the National Park system. But the Bechtells like a lot of others here are none too pleased.  We have had nothing but a great community here for 32 years. And the minute they come they ruin it. Everybody is upset. Everybody is furious and frightened.  Bechtell is referring to an incident that made national headlines recently. Dog walkers in the normally peaceful Rancho Corral de Tierra Open Space near Montara are on edge. This comes from the local NBC affiliate.   According to the park ranger Gary Hesterberg of Montara was walking his two dogs off leash. That is in violation of official National Park policy. The ranger tried to give him a ticket but Hesterberg allegedly gave her a false name and refused to stop. John Bartlett was there saw Hesterberg collapse onto the ground.  I did not know if the guy was dying. For a leash on a dog.  Now there is some back story here. Out of nearly 400 national parks in the United States Golden Gate National Recreation Area is the only one where park officials have been forced to make some exceptions to their dog policy. So at a few other parts of the park locals can take their dogs off leash. But here at the Rancho officials had hoped to impose the more restrictive dog policy. That is because they have other species to think about here too.  So this is our plant here. This is our featured resident.  Susie Bennett is a naturalist for the park service. She is pointing with great pride to a fragile looking little yellow flower with heart-shaped petals.  This is a very very special plant. It is only found in two places in the whole world.  It is called Hickman's potentilla. It is not just a pretty plant. It is also a botanical mystery. Scientists studied this flower for years and they still do not know how it pollinates and spreads.  So it is a real plant that we would like to focus some management on.  This is a big and delicate project. The Park service will have to pull out invasive plants and encourage bees and other insects. It is not hard to see why a bunch of local dogs would get in the way of that process. All of which forces the question who are national parks for anyway?  We have on the one hand the mandate of the National Park Service to protect resources for the future.  Howard Levitt is a spokesman for the Golden Gate National Recreation Area.  At the same time parks are there to be enjoyed by people and so creating a balance between protecting resources and allowing people to enjoy the areas that house those resources is always a challenge.  That is a bit of an understatement. The park received 5000 letters over its proposed dog policy. Levitt says the Service is now considering letting people bring their dogs off leash in this part of the park too. For NPR News I am Amy Standen in San Francisco. 