 In the mid 1980s Simon Norton was considered one of the great mathematical prodigies of the 20th century. He worked on a hyperdimensional math problem so complex it was called simply The Monster. But then things fell apart for Norton and he ended up in a dingy basement packed with bulging plastic bags and piles of bus timetables. And there he may have remained in obscurity - but for the fact that his upstairs neighbor in Cambridge England was biographer Alexander Masters. Actually Simon Norton was Mr. Masters' landlord. The two men developed a kind of friendship even traveled together. The result of their time together is Alexander Masters' new book. It is called Simon The Genius in My Basement. And Alexander Masters joins us now from the studios of the BBC in Cambridge. Welcome to the program Alexander.  Hello thank you very much.  First let me ask was it just pure chance that threw you and Simon Norton together?  Yes I knew very little about him. He was a character I had seen around the city a bit. One of the things I enjoyed about him as a subject for the book is he looks the stereotypical cracked mathematician.   And he is got wild hair. It all sort of seems electrified. And quite frequently his trousers were a bit torn and his shoes flapping. So I would seen them in him about. But when I would eventually arrived at this house and knocked on the door to apply for a room I had not known that he was going to be the one to open the door. And then did not know till several months later what his qualities were - I mean that he would been this extraordinary mathematician.  When did you first comprehend the extent of his intellect?  Well it took me - I studied math myself as an undergraduate and was intrigued when I found out he was a mathematician. But his math was a very different - I was applied mathematics physics. And he was pure mathematics and - infinitely harder. So I had very little sense of the sort of world he worked in. But amazingly the basics of his subject are quite easy to grasp. That is part of what makes them so intriguing - or what make the subject so intriguing is that it arises out of great simplicity - without understanding it myself one little bit.   When I listen to Simon I just listen in awe. You know it is a pleasure just to listen to him try and attempt to describe this stuff to me. And it was - he never made me feel small that I could not understand the elements of his subject. And it was just a joy to have such a person be prepared to spend the time with me.  He does also have a particular fascination with public transit right?  Yes. Yes. Now this is one of the things that sort of replaced his mathematics. And I think this is not that unusual - I mean for mathematicians who have spent a huge amount of their youth just focusing on nothing but this subject to feel the need to take on something else. And that leads to a loss of concentration on the mathematics and a loss of focus. So what happens often in their 30s in their 40s mathematicians - it is not so much that the genius vanishes as the focus starts to diminish a little bit. And this is what happened to Simon. He had been interested in buses and trains for a long long time ever since he was a child. And then in the sort of '80s at just about the time when his capacity was peaking when he was known as the peak of his powers also he was starting to get more and more politically involved in this and trying to figure out ways where a public transport system could be better run and so on. So this has now become the dominant theme in his life and he spends far less time on the mathematics.  I am trying to think of a sensitive way to ask this. But the person that you describe - the level of genius his kind of social awkwardness and obsessions - was Simon ever in therapy for any kind of behavioral disorder?  Are you saying is he autistic?  Yes.  Now I thought about this. I mean everyone thinks about that the instant they see him. And I made a specific effort - I did not want to use the word at all in the book. Because it seems to me you take Simon as Simon is. Now if you are born with this degree of genius this degree of capacity you are going to grow up a bit weird. Because when he is 5 he can do the mathematics that a 15-year-old can do. When he is 15 he can do the mathematics that a professor can do. You know who does he talk to who seems worth anything? So he might be autistic or he might not be autistic. I think you know it would be very hard to tell whether genius is what he suffers from or autism is what he suffers from. And in a way it just does not matter.  I think it is fair to call Simon a bit of a social misfit. And you have a certain attraction to people who live at the fringe. Your earlier book called Stuart A Life Backwards was about a homeless man. What is attractive to you about people who are living at the edge this way of mainstream society?  I think with both Stuart and Simon it seemed to me that if this is a person who could appear in fiction - as a type that could appear in fiction if you read about these characters in fiction unless the writer is very very good they all have a sort of flatness about them because you are constantly aware of the fact that it is the author's imagination that is presenting this character. It is not the richness of a genuine character. It is not about that these two people are on the extremities of society. It is that they are interesting very complex people who tend to get very simple descriptions given to them. And if you just go and ask them you shove a tape recorder in front of them and you hang around them for - in my case five years each - you begin to realize that this is really a very very complex character who it is impossible - in a sense I feel both my books are failures 'ecause you do not at the end have a sense that oh I now understand this character. My aim is just that at the end of the book you have a sense of oh I begin to understand the complexities of this character. And also that it is someone I can be fond of.  I mean it is clear that you developed a friendship with ...  Yeah.  ...Simon and a sense of compassion. What did you learn from him?  Oh boy. I think - oh I know. I think Simon achieved a great triumph - has achieved a great triumph. Here he was this extraordinary genius the envy of everyone around him and now he is a person who wanders around on trains and buses whom some people will cross the street in order to avoid. And you think well this is a catastrophic failure. Amongst other mathematicians they would consider him a catastrophic loss of capacity. But he is the only person - amongst all these people who are all weeping for his lost ability - he is the only one who is not weeping. He is content. He is happy. He has had this extraordinary capacity. He has enjoyed it. He is now enjoying something else which is the desire to battle for better public transport in this country and around the world. And he is dedicated his life now to that. He does not feel a sense of loss. He constantly feels a sense of purpose. I think that is magical. And I think that as a thing to take away from Simon is a great great treasure.  Alexander Masters is the author of Simon The Genius in My Basement. Alexander Masters thanks so much for talking with us.  Thank you. 