 Pegi Young's new album is called Raw. And it is.    Why'd you have to ruin my life? Why'd you have to be so mean? Why'd you have to tell me such lies? Why not be straight with me?  In 2014 her 36-year marriage to Neil Young ended in divorce. He would struck up a new relationship with actress Daryl Hannah. Out of that Pegi Young did not shy away from any of her emotions. She is called her new album the soundtrack to the seven stages of grief.    You hurt me so bad. You were the best love I ever had.  Pegi Young joins us now to talk about that album from member station KQED in San Francisco. Welcome.  Thank you. It is a pleasure to be here.  Great to have you. So this project as you have mentioned came out of a very tumultuous time in your life. Did working on the album help you process everything that was going on?  Definitely. When things first were changing I just found a lot of solace in writing and writing and writing. And then we just took this stack of lyrics that I had. And some of them were just bleh you know?   I needed to express things that not necessarily you know ended up being songs. They were just thoughts and feelings and you know pretty all over the map .  Yeah. How do you take those feelings as you say all over the map and make them into something coherent that speaks to people?  Well I hope you are hearing it. And I hope others that hear the record will you know be able to apply it to their lives in some ways. And that could be through divorce. It could be you know late-in-life divorce. It could be death. It is - you know loss and heartbreak are pretty universal.   You have a song on the album called Too Little Too Late. Let us listen.    We regretted the changes that brought us to now. I would take it all back if I only knew how. You can drive on away with the weight of demand. And the road keeps on going until you find where you land.  If you could just take us back to when you were making this album you know what was going through your head? How did you feel after such an important part of your life had ended?  Well there is sort of two questions there. I enjoyed making the record because I love being with my bandmates. I love working in the studio. I love that act of creative expression. And this was an interesting change on this record as well in that I did not play any instruments. I just sang because after things became upended I just could not play. I got pretty frozen there for a while. But I could write. So it was actually quite freeing to get in the studio and just sing and not have to you know think about learning the chords and remembering the chord changes.  Why do you think you could not play?  I could not do a lot of the things that you know I really enjoyed doing. I could not read a book. I could not even watch TV. I do not know. It was - I - you know I went into a depression. So you know I would just start by getting out of bed and then...   ...You know just gradually pull myself back together.    In the arms of another keeping warm at night is a much better option than continuing to fight. Too little too late - too little too late.  Going on close to three years down the road now I mean I am in such a different place. You know the first song you played was clearly written out of you know anger. But really anger's a secondary emotion to hurt. And so you know were a lot of emotions swirling around in there .  There always are.    Do I ever cross your mind? Darling do you ever see some situations somewhere - somehow takes your memory?  What is the advice that you would give? What have you learned from this painful journey?  You just cannot ever know what is going to happen . Life is full of surprises. Yeah. That is what I know. You know you kind of envision a future. You know I was looking at our third act and what that was going to be like. And you know you just never know what is going to happen next. But hopefully you have got the capacity to keep going.  That is Pegi Young. Her new album is Raw. Thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you so much.    Trying to live my life without you babe is the hardest thing I will ever do. 