 Last night's Grammy Awards offered some upsets with a couple of very big names coming away with very little in the way of honors. NPR's Mandalit del Barco was backstage at the awards here in Los Angeles and has this report.  Late-night TV host David Letterman appeared behind his desk in a video to read his top-10 list of Grammy surprises.   Mr.  Number seven Jay-Z revealed Empire State of Mind was really about Trenton. Trenton.  That is right. Number six the new category best male or female traditional RB urban alternative non-classical Latin pop performance by a duo or group with vocals.  Letterman was poking fun at Grammy's 109 hyper-specific categories. Only 10 were given out last night during a three-and-a-half hour telecast that was long on extravagant production numbers and short on drama - with a few exceptions. Surprise number one came in the best new artist category which did not go to Canadian 'tween heartthrob Justin Bieber. Instead it went to Esperanza Spalding. Ms.  Wow. I take this honor to heart so sincerely and I will do my damnedest to make a whole lot of great music for all of you. It is such a blessing and an honor. God bless. Thank you.  Spalding became the first jazz musician to win a best new artist Grammy.  Backstage the singer bassist and composer told reporters that all of those disappointed Justin Bieber fans will have plenty of time to celebrate his music in the future. She hopes now they might spare a moment for hers. Ms.  Hopefully people will realize that there is things happening in the jazz world they did not know about. There is so much incredible music. So maybe if they want to put their sights in the jazz world and discover more people that would be great.  Surprise number two Eminem was all but shut out of the Grammys. He is been snubbed before but this time he was a favorite with 10 nominations. But he won only best solo rap performance and best rap album.  Thank you to the fans. What up Detroit? Stand up.   Eminem was beat out for record of the year and song of the year by the far less-threatening Lady Antebellum. The country trio from Nashville won in those two top categories for Need You Now.    It is a quarter after 1 I am all alone and I need you now.  Lady Antebellum appeared to be on a roll to take top prize album of the year. Then surprise number three announced by Barbra Streisand. Ms.  And the Grammy goes to The Suburbs Arcade Fire.   The Canadian rock band's 2010 release came out on a small independent label trumping artists who were all on the majors. When the members of Arcade Fire took the stage they seemed as shocked as Streisand. Unidentified Man  What the hell?  Singer Win Butler crawled on his knees to accept the prize. Arcade Fire closed the show with another performance then marched backstage with Grammies in hand.  Butler told reporters that at a time when music sales are dominated by downloads winning album of the year is still important. Unidentified Man  In the age of the iPod no less. Mr.  In the age of the iPod and the age of the single or whatever it is. You know we still really care about records. So it means a lot to us.  Mandalit del Barco NPR News.    Now I am ready to start. If I was scared I would. And if I was pure you know I would. And if I was yours but I am not.  This is NPR News. 