  The defense rests in the Senate trial of former President Trump.  Trump's attorneys argued the trial is unconstitutional and played on repeat video montages of Democrats using the word fight.  I am Scott Simon.  I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   Also South Africa switches to a new vaccine in its fight against a dangerous variant of the coronavirus.  And a rare and mysterious illness a byproduct of COVID-19 is putting children on life support.  Especially in these cases where you have a child go from previously healthy to something like what you see here that is terrifying for people.  Stay with us. We have got the news you need to start your weekend.   As former President Trump's impeachment trial continued the Senate chamber witnessed emotional testimony jarring videos and some contentious debate.  On Friday Trump's defense argued that he was not responsible for inciting the January 6 attack on Congress and the vice president. Here is Trump's lawyer Michael van der Veen.   To claim that the president in any way wished desired or encouraged lawless or violent behavior is a preposterous and monstrous lie.  Congressional correspondent Kelsey Snell has been following the trial all week and joins us now. Hi Kelsey.  Hi. Good morning.  So bring us up to speed. How did Trump's lawyers defend the former president?  The defense arguments were actually really short compared to the House impeachment managers. They only took about three of the 16 hours that they could have taken. And they mostly dismissed the process as politically motivated. We heard them repeat the claim that this was a witch hunt. And they tried to compare Trump's calls for his supporters to as he put it fight like hell during a rally before the attack to times when Democrats used the term fight when talking about policies fighting for policies fighting for ideas. They also tried to compare his positive comments about supporters to Democrats backing rallies for the Black Lives Matter movement back over the summer. You know this is all despite the fact that the vast majority of those rallies over the summer were peaceful demonstrations. And Trump's lawyers argued that the House managers presented a selective case against Trump essentially saying that they altered tweets and made changes to videos. And Democrats roundly reject those allegations. Trump's lawyers also argued that the rioters on that day preplanned the attack. And therefore former President Trump could not have been responsible for that. Now the attorneys frequently pointed out that Trump told rallygoers to be peaceful. And they avoided discussing any context for the rally or Trump's repeated false claims about the election.  Senators then had the chance - right? - to ask the prosecution and defense their questions. What stood out to you there?  Well it was kind of a mix of questions. Some of them were leading questions from kind of partisan questions and attempts to get the attorneys to make further points to address things that either Democrats or Republicans felt needed to be driven home in this last portion of the arguments. Trump's lawyers repeatedly were asked when and what Trump knew of the riot and what his response was.  Of course the question what did the president know and when did he know it?  Yeah. And they basically punted on that question. They said it was up to the House managers to present evidence of what they found out present that they had done an investigation. Here's how Trump's lawyer Michael van der Veen responded one of the times that the question was asked.   At no point was the president informed the vice president was in any danger because the House rushed through this impeachment in seven days with no evidence. There is nothing at all in the record on this point because the House failed to do even a minimum amount of due diligence.  But Senator Tommy Tuberville of Alabama told reporters he told the president personally over the phone during the insurrection that Pence was being taken out. And House Republican Jaime Herrera Beutler put out a statement recounting a call between House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy and the president during the insurrection where McCarthy was demanding help from the president. But Trump responded well Kevin I guess these people are more upset about the election than you were.  But then there was this sort of moment of unity at the end of the evening.  Yeah. There was a lengthy standing ovation for Officer Eugene Goodman. He was seen in those videos moving the rioters away from the Senate floor and directing Senator Mitt Romney away from danger. The Senate voted unanimously to award him the Congressional Gold Medal which the House will also vote on.  Kelsey we are going to hear closing arguments. And then senators could vote right after they - and those - I mean this has been an incredibly speedy trial. We knew going into it the Democrats were unlikely to get enough Republicans to vote with them to convict Trump. So what will senators you think be considering as they go into this vote?  Only about a half a dozen Republicans even agreed that the trial was constitutional. So both sides were pretty aware that the Senate really is not in a position to be convicting Trump. But you know this is not just a trial in the Senate. This is an opportunity for the impeachment managers to make arguments to millions of people in living rooms across the country. And they are speaking to people who were not in the building for that insurrection. And they are attempting to make this a visceral moment connecting exactly the way that former President Trump's words spoke to his supporters and what that did what that did to drive them to to to the Capitol that day. And that is kind of the argument that they are attempting to make as much as they are attempting to convince Republicans to vote for conviction.  That is NPR congressional correspondent Kelsey Snell. Thank you very much.  Thanks for having me.  And for more on Congress like the status of the pandemic aid package you can check out the NPR Politics Podcast.   The Biden administration has announced plans to secure another 200 million doses of vaccines for COVID-19 and said there should be enough to immunize most of the country by July.  But in many parts of the world the vaccine news was not so good.  UNICEF says that nearly 130 countries still have not administered a single dose. And now South Africa has abruptly switched vaccines for the launch of its national immunization campaign. NPR's Jason Beaubien joins us. Jason thanks for being with us.  It is great to be with you.  That figure from untries is alarming.  Yeah it is. You know we are talking about countries with 2.5 billion people that have not started vaccinating any of their health care workers or really anybody outside of clinical trials. And it is not for lack of trying. Almost all of these countries except for some of the poorest of the poor - they are all trying to get their hands on this incredibly limited vaccine doses that are out there right now. And many of them simply cannot get any.  Tell us about South Africa. It was all set to start its immunization campaign next week. Suddenly they switched vaccines.  They were planning on using the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine. And then results came back from a fairly small study in South Africa that was showing that AstraZeneca might not be very effective against a new variant of the virus that is become dominant in South Africa. So just days before they were going to launch this national campaign they switched to another vaccine made by Johnson  Johnson. The Who is chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan - she says this is not sort of a problem with AstraZeneca. Many vaccine manufacturers now are finding that their products are not as effective against these new strains of the virus. And some of the people who get vaccinated still end up getting mild infections. But Swaminathan says the vaccines do appear to keep people from getting really sick with COVID. And that is good news.  Our goal in the first wave of vaccinating people is to protect those at highest risk from severe disease and hospitalization and death.  And she says you know all the studies so far have shown that even these ones against the variants - they do protect people from getting really sick and dying.  Do you think other countries might make the switch as well?  Possibly. But the thing is AstraZeneca currently is the most important vaccine in the global arsenal against COVID. A lot of low- and middle-income countries are completely banking on it. Countries have prepurchased more AstraZeneca product than any other vaccine. There are orders out there right now for 2 billion - with a B - doses of AstraZeneca. You know and despite some of the new concerns about variants many scientists say there is good reason to be optimistic that AstraZeneca will continue to help countries rein in this pandemic. This is Bruce Aylward. He is also with the WHO. He says we are at war with this virus right now.  We have got to optimize our control over this virus as rapidly as possible. We use the tools we can as rapidly as possible.  And he says one of the best tools we have right now are these vaccines.  You might pick up something in his phrasing. For a long time there was talk about using the vaccine to end the pandemic. Now it seems to be about controlling it.  Yeah that is right. You know there does seem to be this shift that is going on right now. And you know countries are saying we are going to just get it under control. The vaccines might not completely wipe it out. But we are probably going to be able to keep it from becoming as - being as deadly as it has been.  NPR's Jason Beaubien thanks so much.  You are welcome.   For a final item today we have a preview of Lulu's reporting on a mysterious illness that affects children.  Yeah it is called MIS-C or MISC Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome in Children. And it is very rare.  But it is related to COVID-19 and something Lulu you have been following for months. So let us start by trying now to explain MIS-C in more detail.  Yeah it is a condition Scott that occurs in children who have been infected by the coronavirus. So it is post-viral and it causes inflammations in the heart lungs brain other organs. The latest tally by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention puts the case count at 2060 here in the United States with 30 deaths. Compare that to the total amount of American COVID cases 27 million and nearly 480000 deaths. So yes while it is rare it does make children very sick. And when I visited the pediatric intensive care unit at Children's National Hospital here in Washington D.C. this week Dr. Matthew Bell said something surprising was happening recently.  This is probably our busiest we have been in the ICU. I think we are into the 30s of kids just since the first of the year. They are coming in sicker. We do not know why that is true. But before about half the kids who would come to us would need MISC and now it is about 90 coming to us.  Lulu I remember when you first went to Children's National and how hard it was to hear about how sick these children were. What does it mean that the children they are seeing now are even more sick?  Yeah back in May I talked with Chiri McBride  and his mom Tammy Herston . Chiri  had a fever back then stomach pains redness on his skin and in his eyes. Those are some of the typical symptoms of MIS-C. Some others are swollen lymph nodes swelling in the hands and feet. Chiri  was ill and got treatment. His heart was inflamed but he never got as ill as the young girl Dr. Bell was treating when I was with him this past week.  The kid came in at 2 oclock in the morning. She had a rash and she has the skin findings. And her blood pressure was terrible. Her heart function was bad. So we worked on her from 7 oclock this morning till 20 and she is on cardiac bypass.  By bypass he means an ECMO machine basically a type of life support that acts like an external heart and a set of lungs. It pumps the blood out of the body adding oxygen to it before putting it back in. It is a very serious treatment Scott and used only on the very sickest patients if they are near death. And they are using it much more now for cases of MIS-C.  Lulu what do we know about why this condition which I guess we need to stress again is extremely rare seems to be getting more serious?  Scott that is the big question. It is a mystery. And another one concerns who is getting MIS-C? It turns out that hospitals are seeing many more Black and Latino kids relative to other ethnic groups up to 90 of all cases. Now it should not be surprising that MIS-C is changing because we have watched the coronavirus change - right? - over the course of this pandemic. The new variants for example - that is what Dr. Roberta DiBiase told me. She is the head of the infectious disease division at Children's. But Dr. DiBiase has some other ideas as well as to what may be happening here.  It is possible that these kids are having multiple exposures to virus. So it could be they were exposed in March and they get reexposed again in the late fall. And then with each exposure perhaps the inflammatory response if they are the right kid that has this rare propensity to develop this - it is just that maybe these additional exposures are causing a higher amount of inflammation.  That is because the coronavirus of course is circulating so widely. And there are other ideas that researchers are looking into. And they have just launched a study that will follow 600 kids who have had MIS-C including Chiri McBride to learn more. But like COVID-19 this is just a very new disease that is changing even as we try to learn the basics about it.  Well it sounds very important and I cannot wait to hear it.  Yep. It will be on Sunday morning. Thanks for tuning in. 9SOUNDBITE OF MUSIC  And that is UP FIRST for Saturday February 13 2021. I am Scott Simon.  And I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. UP FIRST is back on Monday with news to start your week. Follow us on social media. We are UpFirst on Twitter.  And for more news interviews and stories like the one on MIS-C that we just talked about you can find us on the radio.  Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings. Locate your NPR station by going to stations.npr.org.  