 It is a brutal job and it sucks. Honestly like the only way I can think.   I am trying to think of it like the most like articulate way I could say but I am like the first thing that comes to mind is just brutal and it sucks. Like your whole job is to physically dominate people. So the way you practice for that...   ...is also a brutal kind of a practice.  That is the voice of John Moffitt. And the brutal job he is talking about is playing in the NFL as an offensive lineman most recently for the Denver Broncos. Moffitt played for both Denver and the Seattle Seahawks during his career. Those are of course the teams squaring off today in the Super Bowl. The 27-year-old Moffitt could have been on the field today. But last fall he walked away from the NFL midseason losing out on more than a million dollars in salary and all the fame and potential glory that come from playing professional football. John Moffitt is our Sunday Conversation.  Well I remember my work week in the NFL and you know we work real hard Wednesdays Thursdays. Fridays would slow down a little bit and then Saturday walk-through Sunday you play the game Monday you go through it. Tuesday you are off. And I would just almost take every day of the week except for like Tuesday and Saturday. I think it is drudgery honestly. And I was so bored with it. I remember being at a practice like stretching out warming up and some of the last few times and just being like this is just this is not a dream for me like this is misery. And I just did not even want to do the practice 'ecause I felt like I would been doing it for so long. You know?  When you decided to quit you called up John Elway who is the head of football operations for the Broncos - huge legend in that town with that team. What was that conversation like? Was it awkward?  No. He was really great about it. He asked me the questions. You know obviously he was curious. But he respected my decision. The whole organization did.  What about your friends and family? How did they react?  They were pretty shocked. I think it is the people that are closest to you that it kind of affects because they had partially lived it as well. So they were really shocked. And at first it was tough for them to hear and at first the support was not really there. I think when everything kind of went you know everything cooled down they came around and saw that I was really doing it for the right reasons.  Is this something you had done in the past? Would your friends and family describe you as someone who makes impulsive decisions?  No. I am definitely I mean I would consider myself slightly impulsive decision but I am not impulsive to the extent of like a major massive you know life shifts. You know it is funny someone asked me a question the other day and I found it very interesting. And they said do you think that it is possible that your impulsive decision is the result of possible CT symptoms or brain-related injuries that you might have sustained during the NFL? Now I look at it on the humoristic side and basically said well I quit the NFL because the NFL and you are basically saying I quit the NFL because of the NFL.  Do you think it would have been different had you been a huge star if you were starting every game and got to feed off the adrenaline of being out there in the field of big moments?  Yeah. I totally agree. If I was out there playing and maybe that adrenaline or maybe a part of that maybe I would have stayed. Maybe it would have changed me. But I think the whole entire process and my whole entire path was something that was drawn out of myself and something that I think I am really happy the way it all happened. I would never trade it for anything. I do not want to be in the NFL right now.  You do not want to be in the Super Bowl?  No I do not. I am very happy with where I am. I honestly feel like the craze of the NFL and the obsession nationwide is the biggest distraction and some of the worst television at times and just like a waste of time.  That is hard for me to hear John as a football fan.  Yeah. It is just too much though. I feel like all we watch now is sports. I feel like all we talk about is sports. And it is just - I think there is so much more to life than sports. And maybe this is coming from a person who has been doing this for 20 years and I am just very much done with it.  We have been focusing on your decision to quit but I would like to go back to when you started playing football. What did you like about it?  It is funny. I hate saying it now 'ecause I do not really look at things like this anymore but I liked the brutality of it I liked the violence of it. Now I do not really - I try to look at myself as more of a you know I am not a violent person. I do not really try to enjoy violence anymore enjoy people getting hurt or hit. I do not look for that and I do not want that but I was a person that did do that.  How long did you play football? When did you start? Were you really little?  I was 8 years old when I started.  What are you doing now? Are you feeling any kind of void or are you just making plans for the future?  A little bit yeah yeah. There is a huge void. And not an emotional void just a time void and almost a purpose void. You know I have a podcast I just started. I am really excited about that. I am writing about a lot of my experience in the NFL. So that is kind of what I am doing more of the creative stuff. But yeah there is a void because my work it is so abstract now and before it was so concrete. You know go to work nine to five hit people your results are on Sunday. So now it is that big transitional phase for me. But I am really excited 'ecause I am doing the things that I am passionate about again.  Former NFL offensive lineman John Moffitt. Thanks so much for talking with us John.  Thank you very much.   And you are listening to WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. 