 India has more young people than any other nation on Earth 600 million people. About half the population are under the age of 25. Among other things that means the country needs more college classrooms a lot more. By one estimate India needs to build at least a thousand new universities in this decade alone. In the southeastern state of Andhra Pradesh NPR's Anya Kamenetz visits a campus that was built in just five months. They are on an unlikely quest to become one of the top universities not just in India but the world.  So we have got the beauty parlor the salon and also the pharmacy.  Nothing on the campus of SRM University in Andhra Pradesh is more than two years old.  This is the open cafeteria. It starts...  And everything from the labs to the library looks as spiffy and spotless as a computer rendering. Aayushi Biswas an engineering student from central India has filled her dorm room with plants Harry Potter merch.  Plus a lot of books - I love reading books.  With her long hair and glasses Aayushi is the kind of bright self-starter you would expect to meet at U.C. Berkeley where she did study abroad. But here in her home country she is found a university that matches her interests.  The way this university promoted entrepreneurship is something I have never seen before in Indian colleges.  This broader region of India is famous for producing and exporting technical talent. In fact they have sent so many graduate students and engineers to study and work abroad in recent years that Telugu the local language became the fastest-growing foreign language in the United States.  We are the brain-power suppliers to the world.  Narayana Rao is the university's vice chancellor.  I coined a phrase. You take any product coming out of America there is an Indian inside like Intel inside.  But that is exactly the problem says Rao. To get to the next level of development India needs to home-grow its own talent and keep them here. He points to the country's fledgling space program.  All of these achievements of the space programs were accomplished by the Indians trained in India.  SRM AP for Andhra Pradesh is the newest and smallest campus of SRM Institute of Science and Technology a private institution founded in the 1980s. It was designed from scratch to be innovative. Besides a high-tech research into areas like batteries and 3D printing there is an entire school of liberal arts which is not always found at Indian universities. Most SRM AP students are studying engineering and computer science like Aayushi. But they also take classes like rhetoric theater and gender studies. SRM AP is trying to innovate not just what Indian students learn but how they learn. Former Vice Chancellor Jamshed Bharucha says the norm since he was growing up in Mumbai has been bunking or skipping classes and then cramming or what they call here...  ...Mucking up for exams - very memorization-oriented very rigid curricula.  So SRM AP is working with an American startup called Minerva. Their software uses artificial intelligence to promote active learning keeping students speaking up and problem solving all through class.  Massoum...  Yes sir.  Define what is a thesis for us?  A thesis can be defined as a main idea or the topic...  We are in a freshman English class where the students are all wearing headsets and sitting in front of monitors. They can see their classmates over video chat. The software is selecting students at random to answer the questions from the professor.  In the beginning like we all were exhausted. Like the class is like an exam to us.  Freshman Sai Krishna Vishnamuluka  explains this class really keeps them on their toes. And it teaches students to...  ...Learn how to apply this - like how to apply what we have learned.  This American-style learning also spills over into extracurriculars. Aayushi Biswas belongs to a group called Next Tech Lab that has won hackathons all over the world. She is leading something called Python in Pajamas an all-girls late-night event using the python coding language.  It is just going to be a night full of coding Python - girls in a room in pajamas.  SRM AP has more women in engineering than most Indian schools. They make up about 35 of the program. Aayushi says in India girls are often pushed towards studying and passing exams. She wants them to know they can build their own stuff too.  Like in India specifically 11th and 12th grade girls are pushed into getting good grades. So they are not that much into these things building stuff.  The students' optimism here is infectious. But there are very literal roadblocks to the development of SRM AP. We are an hour from the nearest city. And the road here ends in a muddy rut. The campus was built on subsidized land because it was meant to be part of a brand new capital city called Amaravati. But right now that project seems to be held up. Rao the vice chancellor says the fact that the campus is currently surrounded by banana fields and herds of goats is no problem.  The students look for - will I get good education and training here? Will I have opportunities to work on my dream ideas? Do I have role models here?  Applicants will not be so concerned he says with the type of road or lack thereof.  Cement road tar road - they will not ask.  At the end of the conversation Rao points out a model of a real working satellite that was built and launched by SRM undergraduates from the Chennai campus. He says...  Ten years - we will be No. 1. Of course no university becomes world class on the day one.  So they are reaching for the stars. Will they get there? Maybe. But Aayushi Biswas for one probably will not be with them. She is got her sights set on MIT for grad school. Anya Kamenetz NPR News Vijayawada India.  