 No matter who wins an Oscar tonight undoubtedly at least one acceptance speech will go on too long and the orchestra will get its cue - as Cuba Gooding Jr. found out the hard way back in 1997 after winning Best Supporting Actor for his role in the film Jerry Maguire.  CUBA GOODING JR. And God I love you. Hallelujah. Thank you Father God for putting me through what you put me through. But I am here and I am happy.   I just want to...   ...oh here we go. OK. Studio I love you. And Cameron Crowe and...  Getting played off the stage is by now an Oscar tradition. Ian Chillag and Mike Danforth of NPR's How to Do Everything podcast explain just how it works.  Just so you can keep us straight I am Mike.  And I am Ian. Now everybody always wants to blame the conductor for playing the winners off.  You may remember Julia Roberts even got mad at it.   And sir you are doing a great job but you are so quick with that stick. So why do not you sit 'ecause I may never be here again.   Here's the thing It is not the conductor's fault.  It is not the music director that is making that call.  That is Bill Ross. He was the music director at last year's Oscars.  It is the director of the show the producer of the show. People think that it is the music director or the guy with the baton that is making this call and I can assure you it is not.  Every conductor has their own special song they use for this purpose. In Bill Ross' case...  It is literally called Too Long and it is always sitting there on the stand. And it is very simple.   The song Too Long is specifically orchestrated to make it harder and harder to talk over.  So Bill let us try this We will play a speech and you kind of tell us what is going on in your headset and in the pit as the speaker's talking.  Four score and seven years ago our fathers brought forth on this continent a new nation conceived in liberty.  All right let us get ready to play this guy off. OK.   Piano plays it is playing. It is slowly getting a little bit louder. And then on cue I will bring in the strings. So they start to build. We are getting more and more volume. Hopefully they are getting the message. And then at a certain point the brass come in. And it is orchestrated big and rich and hard to talk through. Hopefully by then they have wrapped up their speech and they are gone.  If they fail to get the speaker off the stage they dim the lights...  ...they will cut your mic...  ...and go to commercial.  They will not however tase you.  Yeah we asked.  But before the orchestra became the established way of getting people off stage they had other ways of doing it.  Here's historian Jim Piazza talking about the 1956 Oscars when Dorothy Malone won Best Supporting Actress.  She went on for five minutes and something and nothing they could do could stop her. And finally Jerry Lewis rushed out and took out his pocket watch and just swung it in front of her face. And that was her cutoff.  Even though music is probably more polite than Jerry Lewis the conductors still feel terrible about it.  Bill last year you played off Colleen Atwood who won Best Costume Design for her work on Alice in Wonderland. We can forward on a message. Anything you want to say to her?  Colleen I am so sorry. As far as I am concerned you can stand out there and talk as long as you want.  Hey Colleen does that help?  Oh that is very kind of him. I should thank Bill for that apology and - with all of the understanding of a fellow person behind the scenes.  Remember when you are watching tonight it is not the conductor's fault.  No it is the director.  Yeah blame him.  For NPR I am Mike Danforth.  And I am Ian Chillag.  Ian and Mike will be live-blogging the Oscars' red carpet with some of the other good folks from WAIT WAIT... Do not TELL ME! It is billed as style commentary from people who have none. Tonight at NPR.org. 