 When it comes to preserving important documents and recordings it is often a race against time with few resources. That is what Jocelyn Robinson has seen on the campuses of historically black colleges and universities or HBCUs. She is a radio producer who is been on a year-long project to find out what recordings those institutions have and whether or not they have been properly archived. NPR's Sophia Alvarez Boyd went to check it out.  When Jocelyn Robinson embarked on this project she was hoping to find something special.  That hidden Martin Luther King tape or some other kind of audio that would be remarkable.  And she is heard it is out there. Here's an email she got from a school in Greensboro N.C.   I know we made recordings of Dr. Martin Luther King Stokely Carmichael James Farmer Roy Wilkins Ralph Abernathy and many others. The library has since moved to a newer facility and I do not know if those tapes made the transition or if they were thrown away.  That is an issue Robinson has come across often. She is been to a dozen college campuses and the majority of them are not archiving or preserving their work properly if at all.  For folks who are trying to keep a radio station on the air or who are trying to educate students that is not necessarily a priority. But also as black folks prioritizing our history and prioritizing our legacy is something that we do not get to have time to do.  Preservation is time-consuming and costly work. And HBCUs tend to have limited funding and much smaller endowments than non-HBCUs. In some places Robinson has seen cassette tapes and floppy disks thrown into unlabeled boxes or bags reel-to-reel tape that is past repair. At one school she says there was not anything saved from over 40 years of broadcasting. So Robinson is trying to get more schools at least thinking about preserving what they have got.  I have come to find that very few radio stations have a relationship at all with the archivist on their campus.  About a third of historically black colleges and universities have a college radio station. But today she is going to an HBCU where the radio station does not exist anymore - the University of the District of Columbia. She meets with curator Judith Korey.  Hello. Hello.  It is nice to meet you.  Welcome. Come on in.  Twenty-three years ago the university was in a financial crisis and it had to make a sacrifice. It sold its radio station WDCU for 13 million to C-SPAN.  Selling a license - it is an incredible asset. And that asset is at risk in many places. So if - to keep the school open the license has got to be sold then what do we do with that continuing legacy of that station? And how can it be made useful for the campus community for researchers?  Here's some cassettes. But we keep our cassettes.  Unlike other archives that Robinson has seen Korey shows her one that is organized and full.  We actually physically carried all of those things over all of - you can see the LPs the - about 14000 recordings you know CDs all of the business records membership lists program guides lots of photographs and tapes as well. So we made sure nothing that we could get our hands on was thrown out.  Here at the University of the District of Columbia boxes are piled high almost reaching the ceiling. And Korey pulls out more than a decade's worth of CDs and other recordings from rolling stacks. She plays a tape of the program Cross Talk with host Ernest White from May 8 1991.   We are going to try today to touch on some of the pertinent issues facing...  Riots and protests had broken out in some neighborhoods of D.C. after an African American police officer shot a Salvadoran man.   ...In Mount Pleasant. Mayor Dixon imposed a curfew. And there were - what? - 66 arrests. And - but there was relative calm in that community. Well we are going to talk a little bit about what is at the core of the problem.  It is not the undiscovered audio of Martin Luther King Jr. that Robinson was hoping for but it is still a slice of history. Now she is even more determined to find some revelatory treasures.  I still think that that hidden tape is out there. But we have to get the process started so that we can find it.  Her next step is to assess which schools are most at risk and help them develop a plan to save their archival audio. Sophia Alvarez Boyd NPR News. 