 A book written 250 years ago has become a bestseller in France after last month's terrorist attacks on the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo and a kosher supermarket. As NPR's Eleanor Beardsley reports Voltaire's passionate cry for religious tolerance is flying off the shelves in Paris.  Like most bookshops around Paris Emile which caters to young readers sold all its copies of Voltaire's Treatise On Tolerance on January 8 the day after Charlie Hebdo lost eight journalists in a terrorist attack. The store has had to reorder twice. Employee Laurianne Ledus says she was surprised that an 18th-century manuscript could become a best seller today.  It is really really weird. But I think it is really an important book and even 200 years later it is very very important.  Ledus says no one really understands why the attacks happened and everyone is looking for answers.  The children have to understand and they need to understand the life the events. And I think parents need this book in order to explain.  Enlightenment essayist philosopher and historian Francois-Marie Arouet better known by his pen name Voltaire was born in Paris in 1694. He is famous for his wit advocacy of freedom of speech and stinging attacks on the Catholic Church. In Voltaire's day Protestants were persecuted and killed in France. In his book Voltaire defended the Protestants and excoriated the Catholic Church over its intolerance. In the recent Paris attacks four Jews were killed because of their religion. And since the attacks dozens of mosques have been desecrated. The Societe Voltaire a group that safeguards the philosopher's legacy called Voltaire the rallying symbol for those who do not accept violence in the name of religion. At publishing house Gallimard which puts out the pocket edition of Voltaire's tolerance manifesto Bertrand Mirande-Iriberry says the philosopher's ideas are reassuring.   At a time when our way of life of being of living together has come under attack this book is like an antidote a way of resisting.  Mirande Iriberry says in three weeks Voltaire's book has sold nearly half as many copies as it has over the last 12 years. And Gallimard is on second reprint. Gibert Jeune bookstore sits on Paris' busy Place St. Michel in the heart of the Latin Quarter. The large chain supplies many of the books on French school curriculums. Clerk Guillaume ElKasser says students used to come in and buy Voltaire for class.  Before this we sell Voltaire mostly for schools. People do not really read it for their own pleasure. Now they are.  A popular news magazine recently preprinted passages from the philosopher's 1763 treatise. In such somber times said the magazine we turn to Voltaire for solace and a reminder of our long-standing devotion to tolerance. Eleanor Beardsley NPR News Paris. 