 Volkswagen is introducing a new car  a design that will get 170 miles per gallon. That is a level of fuel efficiency never seen before in any car. But as NPR's Robert Krulwich says - VW prepare to be humbled.  No question - 170 miles per gallon that is a huge engineering achievement. But as the blues singer Muddy Waters could tell those oh-so-proud German engineers...  Mr.   Sail on my little honey bee sail on.  You can get even better mileage from of all things a bee.  Mr.   Sail on...  We are talking here about an ordinary honey bee.  Mr.   Sail on my little honey bee sail on.  'ecause when it comes to miles per gallon bees turn out to be better than the latest Volkswagen or better than any car ever made. I learned that from Steve Buchmann. He studies bees at the University of Arizona. Dr.  If you could introduce me as the international coordinator for the Pollinator Partnership.  I can do that. But I want to make sure since you like bees so much that you do not hate cars. 'ecause that would be unfair. Dr.  No no. I like cars.  Okay. Good. So it is your scientific contention then that a bee can take a unit of fuel and do more with it than a car. Dr.  Yeah exactly. It is the ultimate hybrid mini-vehicle.  Partly because muscles all animal muscles are superb converters of energy. And you know cars even the best cars how they get warm when the engine's on? Well when you feel that warmth on the hood... Dr.  I mean that is losing a huge huge amount of heat. But in the case of the bee it is just not losing nearly as much. So far more of the fuel is getting into the propulsion to beat those wings and drive the bee through the air.  Oh so they are pretty efficient. Dr.  Pretty pretty pretty efficient.  Mr.   Sail on...  Okay. So to calculate what we are going to call bee miles per gallon what I gather you do is you take a bee and you give it all the honey it could possibly drink and then you attach it to some kind of a pole. Dr.  Yeah. You can actually tether a bee onto a piece of wood or a little wire and then...  You do not think it is hurting the bee particularly? Dr.  No.  And how do you get it fly? Dr.  Sometimes you need to blow on them a little bit so give them a little experience of wind in their hair you know?  Mr.   Sail on my little honey bee sail on.  So this tethered bee is going round and round and round a device which measures the distance as the bee flies. So you watch... Dr.  And let them fly till they run out of gas till they cannot fly any more.  But now you know how far a bee can go on a tummy's worth of fuel. So you can multiply and figure out how far it goes on a gallon. And it turns out bees are good. Dr.  Bees are amazing creatures.  So if you were to give a bee a whole gallon of honey how many miles could that bee fly? Dr.  Four million seven hundred and four thousand two hundred and eighty miles per gallon.   Did you just say 4704280 miles per gallon? Dr.  Yes I did. Try that in the home automobile.  Mr.   I said a lot of buzzing.  Oh come on. Are not you just playing with the numbers here? Is not it that the bee is very little or is it really that the bee is that good? Dr.  We are playing with the numbers a little bit in terms of scaling factors. But honey bees are far more efficient than any kind of internal combustion engine that you know humankind has ever devised. So if you want to think in terms of miles per gallon no denying it - almost five million miles per gallon.  Pretty darn impressive. And we just thought the folks at Volkswagen should know. Robert Krulwich NPR News.  This is NPR News. 