 You know sometimes a dissertation just is not enough. A Ph.D. has to get up and dance. This weekend at The American Association for the Advancement of Science Convention they have announced this year's winner of the Dance Your Ph.D. contest co-sponsored by Science magazine. We will introduce you to the academic with the most dazzling footwork in a moment. But first we are going to speak with John Bohannan. He launched the contest now in its 11th year. Mr. Bohannon thanks so much for being with us.  Hello.  So what made you believe dance could illuminate science?  Well I have to admit it all started with a somewhat drunken party.  Keep it scientific here Mr. Bohannan OK?   Well all the partygoers were scientists. And I wanted to get them to dance. So I tapped into their competitive spirit.  And as a generalization are scientists gifted dancers?   I think in general they are exhibitionists. If you are willing to stand up and defend some crazy obscure research topic that you have devoted your life to then there is probably something in you that wants to dance.  Well we do not want to delay anymore. We want to introduce the winning entry a gentleman who authored a paper - I know you will all go about your Saturday humming this title - Impact Of Nonlocal Electrodynamics And Flux Noise And Inductance Of Superconducting Wires. It has however been transformed into Superconductivity The Musical!    These electrons have a predilection to shirk that sociable connection. Some non-interacting loners they can be.  Oh come on you just cannot stay in bed any longer after listening to that can you? This wonderous tableau of music and dancing electrons was created by Pramodh Senarath Yapa. Mr. Senarath Yapa is now working on his Ph.D. at the University of Alberta in Edmonton. He joins us from the studios of the CBC in that great city. Thanks so much for being with us Mr. Senarath Yapa.  Great to be here. Thank you for having me.  Describe this video for us if you can.  Yeah. So it is a look at the social lives of electrons in three acts. It starts off with electrons in a normal metal just being very unsociable as they are.  You mean like cold to each other distant not receptive that sort of thing.  Yeah they just completely ignore each other and do not pay attention to any of their neighbors. As the weather changes and it becomes a little chilly outside as it is in Edmonton right now they feel a need for companionship. And they pair up essentially.    Super-duper Cooper pairs. . And they are much happier that way. And they keep dancing throughout the wire. These electrons form something called Cooper pairs. And in the final act I bring in some final punk impurities...    The spin impurities come marching in.  ...Which are just some unhappy little dirt particles that are in superconductors. And they really do not like it when Cooper pairs are near them. And they get very angry and make a lot of noise.   .  By listening to this noise you can figure out what the Cooper pairs are exactly doing. And that is the topic of my research.  You wrote the music?  I did write the music. So I have been playing guitar and recording music for something like 13 years now - super into jazz. So yeah I wrote all of the music and recorded it in my bedroom over the course of six weeks last year.  Mr. Bohannon can we work in another question to you?  You bet.  I know you were not a judge. But what do you think got to the judges about this routine?  This year was special because we had not only a great dance. Pramodh really just had a wonderful wonderful dance that did these two jobs that we are always trying to do at once with the contest - not only explain science but actually entertain you.  To be clear though Mr. Senarath Yapa you just cannot do this as a dance right? You have to also like come up with papers and that sort of stuff.  Yeah I have actually published in an academic journal. So if you want to go read that the paper should be out in Physical Review Applied soon. But this is also a nice way to think about what is going on at the subatomic level in these really esoteric physics concepts.  So you can download the scientific dissertation or you can download the dance.  Yeah or you can do both.  John Bohannon is with Science magazine and is the founder of the contest. Thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you.  And Pramodh Senarath Yapa is the winner of this year's Dance Your Ph.D. contest. May your life be filled with dance and good physics.  Thank you very much.    Now they say when Cooper pairs flow this way that they stay on the edges even though it seems to be outrageous. If we peek when the Cooper pairs... 