 Amelia Templeton reports on why people keep coming.  In one cart Jonathon Balderi is handing a customer a cheeseburger.  Unidentified Woman Thank you.  Balderi is 28 and like a lot of young people here he came to Portland to get away from somewhere else.  My ex-girlfriend decided to go to art school here and I wanted to leave Pennsylvania.  Behind Balderi in the cart Quentin Gardiner is huddled over the grill. Gardiner says he had to get out of Binghamton New York. All he knew about Portland was it had a great heavy metal rock scene. And he says he is found a lot of people like himself here.  This seems to be a Mecca for the misplaced half-cast rock-and-rollers. A lot of half-rican halfie half-black half-white rockers out here and metal heads and punk rockers. I like that a lot. It seems to be that I chose the correct place to come if this is where we are all flocking to.  Portland has scooped up 20-somethings from shrinking cities in the Northeast and the Midwest. It gets the kids who dream of being in a rock band. But the city has also drawn well-educated young professionals. In fact the entire population is growing African-Americans whites and Hispanics. Standing in the rain at this food cart is economist Joe Cortright.  Talent is becoming more concentrated in some cities and moving away from other cities.  Twenty years ago the percentage of people with college degrees here was lower than the national average. Now it is more than 10 points higher about 40 percent. Cortright says the grads are not just coming for high-tech jobs.  People in the Portland metropolitan area are much more likely to be engaged in almost any form of outdoor recreation. We have more microbreweries than any other city in the United States.  Yup. Beer and the great outdoors. Turns out the stereotypes about Portland are largely true. In fact right next to us at a Korean food cart a young attorney in a fleece is picking up lunch. His name is John Sterm and he moved to Portland from Oklahoma.  I do a lot of home brewing and I have got an amazing number of folks who are into that scene. Biking to work and knowing that so many of my friends and peers are in that community and that culture is great.  I cannot think of another explanation besides quality of life.  That is state economist Christian Kaylor. He says wages here are sometimes 20 percent lower than in Seattle or San Francisco but people keep coming. In fact Portland's appeal is part of why the city's unemployment rate tends to be about a point higher than the national average.  In recessions Portland tends to see population growth even as we lose jobs. So one of the reasons we have that higher unemployment rate is because people do continue to move here even as jobs disappear.  Kaylor says the city's strong brand as a livable place makes it more attractive to companies too.  I will tell a story.  It is about Sun Microsystems asking some of its employees if they would relocate. The company was trying to decide whether to shutter a plant in Portland or in Silicon Valley.  And the responses were night and day. The skilled California workers they wanted to keep were enthusiastic about relocating their family to the Portland area. The Portland employees who were skilled indicated that they would quit rather than relocate in the Bay Area.  Today it is not ships but rather chips and sneakers - Intel and Nike - that offer a livable wage. Enrique Washington helps these large firms recruit minority candidates. He says his clients want a diverse staff to help them innovate and connect to consumers.  The more diverse culture you have the better your stock prices do.  In fact Portlanders often mention the engineers at Intel as an example of diversity here. Washington says Portland is slowly growing more diverse. There is a lot of international migration and about 10 percent of the city is Hispanic. But he says minority recruits worry there is not a strong community to raise their children in.  People have not made a decision to move here because a lack of people of their particular color be it Hispanic be it African-American be it Asian-American.  Back at the food carts I ask Gardiner - the half-black rocker - if Portland's whiteness bothers him. He says it all depends on your frame of reference. Portland may only be six percent African-American but he is lived in whiter places.  So to me it is actually got a pretty reasonable-size black community. I see blacks - I can look down this street and I can spot a black person somewhere. See?  For NPR News in Portland Oregon I am Amelia Templeton.   We are looking at cities in transition all week and you can find more stories from this series at npr.org. Next we travel to Phoenix to find out why foreign-born workers are faring better in this economy than people who were native-born.  I think it is flexibility and a certain desperation.  That is coming tomorrow on MORNING EDITION.   This is NPR News. 