 After Day 4 of former President Trump's impeachment trial we wanted to check in on a place that is been at the center of the political storm over the last few months the state of Georgia. There was what felt like a never-ending presidential race in that state that was mired in false claims of election fraud followed by more campaigning and the runoff election for two U.S. Senate seats in January and now impeachment all over again. Emma Hurt reporter for WABE in Atlanta has been talking to people in that city. Emma thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you for having me Scott.  Are people in Georgia just exhausted?   Some of them definitely are. I spoke to one Atlantan Charlie Black. He works in software. And he is a Trump supporter and he is really frustrated by the time the trial is taking away from other Senate business really.  Yeah. You got to wonder who sets the priority and why they are focused on this especially in Georgia in a way because we had the special runoff for the Senate races. And Joe Biden came to Georgia like the day before or so and they specifically made a promise that hey we were going to pass the stimulus this 2000 stimulus which of course has taken a backseat to this impeachment.  And you know he is saying he would rather than be working on COVID relief to help the local businesses that he sees that are still struggling. Of course as we know Senate leadership says they are doing both and that they will have a new coronavirus relief package soon.  There is also of course the argument that is been made that since - so far as we know - Senate Democrats have not been able to round up enough votes to convict Trump what is the point of having an impeachment trial now?  Yeah Black made that point too and I heard it from someone else who called herself torn about the trial because of that argument. Her name is Mariana Cubillo and she works for a consulate in Atlanta. And she said she leans Democratic.  I cannot help but think if it is actually going to make a difference or if it is only going to further divide people. And from what I have been reading of - more of like the Republican side some people are worried that this is only going to kind of gas the fire a little bit more.  But even though she said it might feel like this is beating a dead horse almost she does think that the trial is important in showing that words and actions have consequences.  I guess personally for me I am Latina. And so kind of seeing it more from a person of color standpoint it - I think it is necessary to hold people's actions and words accountable for what they have done whether it was intentional or not especially if it is anyone who is in power or has some type of voice in that - in a global arena.  She did tell me also she is just waiting for this to be over and she is tired of hearing Trump's name.  I want to pick up on what Ms. Cubillo just told you that she is worried this might only fan partisan flames. Anyone else mention that?  Yeah Sonya Anderson did. She is an Atlantan who is been recording the trial every day while she is at work and then watching it in the evening. She is a licensed mental health counselor and she said she feels really strongly that the trial is necessary because of the loss of life in particular at the insurrection. But she knows that a lot of other people do not agree and she is struggling with that.  I just do not understand what people do not understand about what happened. I do not. It is painful. It is concerning. It is hurtful. We are the United States of America and it feels as if we are the divided states of America. It breaks my heart. It really does because there are so much good in all of us more good than challenged and than bad.  To her there really needs to be some kind of consequence even if it is just a trial and not a conviction. And for that same reason she is also glad to see that one of our local DAs here this past week opened a criminal investigation into the president's pressuring of Georgia election officials to overturn the November election. As we know there was a dramatic example of that in that leaked phone call which is part of the House impeachment managers' case against Trump.  Emma Hurt reporter with WABE in Atlanta thanks so much for being with us.  You are welcome Scott. Thank you. 