 Rudyard Kipling's stories about a little boy's adventures in the Indian jungle were written for magazines in the 1890s. In April Disney presents The Jungle Book in 3-D live animation featuring one young actor.    Come on Mowgli. Let us be on our way.   But I am helping Baloo get ready for hibernation.  For her annual pre-Oscars tradition of looking at movie jobs NPR's special correspondent Susan Stamberg meets the boy and his on-set schoolteacher as they juggle jungles and sixth-grade history lessons.  Eleven-year-old Neel Sethi is about to be kidnapped by monkeys. N.  This is uncomfortable.  It does not look that scary on the set at Los Angeles Center Studios no animals no jungle just a blue screen in front of which the boy will run leap cavort rigged up in a harness.  You are just going to leave that strap hanging down.  His live-action will be mixed with truly lifelike animated animals later.  Nice and quiet.  Watching Neel's every move over 300 members of the crew including spotters will catch him at the end of this run.  Three two one go got him. N.  That was awesome.  But director Jon Favreau wants another take.  Remember look at the camera.  Three two one.  Cut not bad nice job Neel.  Take three take four take six.  This is the one. Look at the camera Neel.  Jon Favreau he directed Iron Man One and Two. Favreau is patient but very aware of the clock not just for bottom-line reasons but because his only live actor is a kid. Voices of grown actors are in the movie - Scarlett Johansson Bill Murray Ben Kingsley. But only the boy is on-screen.  You work very limited hours with kids. You have to be very careful about anything physical.  All sorts of laws govern the use of children in movies - time limitations procedures practices rules to keep them safe and educated.  You are coming to school in a couple minutes OK perfect.  Lois Yaroshefsky is Neel's on-set teacher. She is taught in school rooms and movie studios for almost 40 years. Film production companies hire studio teachers whose job involves supervising lessons and sprinting to and from sound stages.  Trying to get at least a 20-minute block of school in with Neel.  On this film Lois teaches three similar-looking young performers Neel his stand-in and his body double. All these young bodies are schooled on-set for three hours a day minimum. That is the law. Lois runs a clock on every encounter. If it is less than 20 minutes it does not count. So you are always looking at your watch. You are always running a stopwatch on it. How do you do it?  That is right.  The fact is that Lois is the boss.  Again director Jon Favreau.  You are on a set you could be spending millions and millions of dollars and you could have everything set up. And at the end of the day you have got to look at Lois and Lois is checking the watch and checking the kid.  Because by 4 oclock on this day it is all over. By law the workday ends for Neel and his young cohorts after nine and a half hours including school.  You with me? N.  What?  By 1849 people were coming from all over the United States.  About an hour before lunchtime on a January day last year Lois and Neel huddled for a while over a computer.  What is a miner? N.  A person who digs gold.  At last they are in school well a room near the state rigged out with three computers one for each kid. The walls are festooned with personal stuff Mets souvenirs for Neel - he is a New Yorker - photos crayon drawings. Starting in August 2014 Neel was in and out of this classroom for seven months. N.  Most miners had to work hard to make enough for food and supplies.  School - history math science - comes to him online. Lois Yaroshefsky supplements and supervises. Each boy has different lessons. Lois hovers to keep them on track.  I am not only the studio teacher but I am a welfare worker. I am always there on set especially if it is anything dangerous. In my opinion the schooling is very important but the welfare is probably the most important part of our job.  So the well-being of the child.  That is exactly right - the safety the health concerns. Because parents they do have to be here but they are not the ones that are saying yes or no to whatever's happening.  Neel's parents are here. Either Gina or Sam Sethi is on set throughout the shoot.  He loves being on stage he loves the shoot but learning is fun for Neel.  His parents did not raise him to be an actor. They have a different dream for Neel.  Hopefully will follow the footsteps of both of us.  And what do the folks do?  We are both dentists and that is the seed we planted in Neel's head. But you know this is a calling from above a blessing and here we are.  Here we go. Look for that camera. N.  Should I bend my right knee?  A little bit.  On the set another break.  It is a trap.  A chance to talk with extremely focused slightly wired young Neel. I noticed that your hands are very dirty and so are your feet. And you got terrible scars on your thigh. This was a rough day huh? N.  We are doing a monkey scene next where these monkeys like so many monkeys in trees and they are pushing me and throwing me around like I am just like a toy and that is where I got all these scratches. So this...  So I am glad they are fake. N.  Yeah.  How do you just in your own head keep your focus? How do you come to school go back fly with the apes? N.  I just say if I do this this and this the movie will be done and I could see it and I want to watch it a lot. I want to see myself on a big screen.  Well mom and dad I do not know fillings versus fame. Now ego can be a problem with young actors. Teacher Lois Yaroshefsky works to keep them grounded. It is not always easy.  I have had some kids that have been real problems and I have had a few kids fired off of different movies.  So how do you do handle it when he gets sassy with you as any kid would?  I will tell him honestly. A child like Neel he gets it. He understands. I am about today to talk to him and ask him to thank these two boys for what they do. You know the real actors in the real world they thank their stand-ins. They thank their stunt doubles. I want him to be a little more humble. And he will get it.  Neel you good?  Lois Lois one more.  Boss Lois gives the OK for one last take.  Three two one go.  Got him.  Cut.  That is a cut.  Let us give a hand for Neel.   Applause smiles cue the studio teacher ever vigilant in the pursuit of knowledge.  OK we get to go eat for a half an hour and then we run back the minute the half hour's up to get a block of school in.  In Los Angeles I am Susan Stamberg NPR News.  All right guys. That is lunch. Make it safe guys. That is lunch for a half.   Lunchtime it is not lunchtime. It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. 