  Ms.   Baby you are a firework. Come on let your colors burst. Make 'em go oh oh oh oh. You are gonna leave 'em falling down.  A little Katy Perry to set the scene. Her hit CD Teenage Dream is up for Album of the Year at tomorrow night's Grammy Awards. Of course the Grammys are of course recognized as music's highest honor. Ken Ehrlich has produced every Grammy Awards show well oh since before Hosni Mubarak was president of Egypt. Ken is at the Staples Center in Los Angeles where he is preparing for tomorrow nights big show. Ken thanks for being with us. Mr.  Its good to be with you Scott.  Contrary to popular impression I do not live under a rock and I have heard that a guy named Dylan is going to be performing. Mr.  Jakob?  Mr.  Oh no no his pop. Yeah pop.  I believe his dad. Yes. Mr.  Yeah we are very excited. We are going to do a segment with two young fresh really amazing bands the Avett Brothers and Mumford  Sons both of which have achieved a certain amount of traction this year. Mumfords nominated for Best New Artist. And when I started thinking about both of these bands it did not take a rocket scientist to realize where they came from and they came from Bob Dylan as did so many of generations. So we called Bob and asked his people if Bob would consider performing with them. And to our delight after a little bit of time you know obviously Bob checked them out and I think was already familiar at least with Mumford and said yeah I would like to come along.  Ken you let slip a phrase - we called Bob Dylan. Very few people can begin a sentence that way and be credible. If you do not mind me asking you persuaded Bob Dylan to be on the Grammys a few times now right? Mr.  I have. You know it goes back to an experience that frankly you and I share which was the first time I had worked with him was when we were both in Chicago and I was doing a show called Sound Stage and we did a tribute to John Hammond.  I was there that night. Mr.  And yeah and Bob agreed to come on because obviously John had been very important in his career to the point of around the building at one point I think they called Dylan Hammonds Folly.  Mr.  And which just goes to show you. So he came and he did Hurricane. I think he did Simple Twist of Fate.  Yeah. Mr.  And it was I do not want to say it was the beginning of a long-term friendship but he would answer the call you know for the next 35 years when we called. Hes just a remarkable talent and a really interesting individual.  You came up with the concept of pairing different musical acts unexpected if you please. What do you look for in that alchemy? Mr.  You know I do not know that I look for anything in particular. I like it when they do not really feel like on first glance theyll go together. We did kind of an odd pairing several years ago where we put Dave Grohl with Chick Corea you know. I think that was a late night pizza experience. But of course Prince and Beyonce Eminem and Elton. Last year Elton with Lady Gaga. You know those things kind of make sense. You know that if you put your faith in the artists and what they have come to do to a certain extent not always with us is put their faith in us cause they know that we will try and take care of them to the best of our ability that the potential for something really special is there.  Two big tributes as I understand it are planned one for Solomon Burke the late soul music pioneer. Mr.  Mm-hmm.  Can you tell us what you have planned for it? Mr.  Yeah. This is another get and one I can cross off the list. And if I really had a list I think this might be the last one living. Mick Jagger who I saw at the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame concerts in the fall and you know we struck up a little conversation. Weve asked him before and he never accepted our invitation for one reason or another. But then when Solomon died in the late fall and I went back to him and ask him if he would come and honor Solomon Burke that was it you know.  Yeah. Mr.  I mean this was a man who was very important to Mick. They had performed together. The Stones had done you know several of Solomon's songs and that was it. So we have Solomon Burke to both remember and to thank for Mick Jagger and the Grammys.  Other musical tribute is planned for Aretha Franklin. Mr.  Yup.  Who I gather has been dealing with some illness lately. Mr.  She has. I talked to her sometime around Christmas for the first time after she had had her surgery and she just sounded in great shape. And really literally only a couple of weeks ago you know I called her back and I said look I think we would like to do this. Ill only do it if you will bless it. But I can tell you that there is a community out there that wants to give good wishes to you. It is not a tribute. It is not the end of a career. It is a shout out you know? And she was thrilled and she said go ahead. And it is pretty amazing. I mean it is Christina Aguilera Jennifer Hudson Florence Welch from Florence and the Machine Martina McBride and Yolanda Adams. So you know when you do a salute to Aretha you better bring the singers and that is what it starts with and that is what it is about. Ken you mentioned Christina Aguilera will be part of the Aretha Franklin tribute. Are you taking special steps to make certain she knows the words? Sorry I had to ask.  Mr.  Oh Scott we are too old friends for that.  Mr.  She look as you know these things can happen and...  Yes of course anything can happen. Yeah. Mr.  You know it means frankly so little to me because of our history with her. I mean she is brought two or three of the greatest Grammy moments that we have had. You know when she channeled James Brown a few years ago and did It is a Mans World. It was unbelievable. And then a couple of years before that she sang her hit Beautiful where I think I looked out into the arena and maybe half the people were crying.  Yeah. Mr.  So shes really a special artist. She will prevail here.  And Barbra Streisand will be performing? Mr.  Yes. Well she is being honored this year by MusicCares. The first Grammy show that I did was the one where she sang You Dont Bring Me Flowers with Neil Diamond. And so we rehearsed with her on Thursday and wow. I mean it was you could hear a pin drop in this room and it is one of those songs that if you put a list together of Barbra Streisand songs this would be at the top of it.  Yeah. Mr.  And so I will not mention it cause I would like to think there is a little surprise left in the world.  Yes. Yes. Yes of course. Well what how do you know when you leave the control room you have had a great show? Mr.  You know I sometimes know before. And again as we have moved through these rehearsals you can feel it. You can feel it in the room. You can feel it on stage. Maybe the degree to which it will be successful is kind of unknown. But I know what we have got here. One of the things that we are doing is there are these three young bands two of them are from Atlanta the third is Bruno Mars who I think he is from everywhere.  Bruno Mars we have had Bruno Mars on the show. Mr.  He is great.  Yeah. Mr.  Hes really a musician.  Yeah. Mr.  So what we have done is we were talking about collaborations we put them together with B.O.B. with whom he did Nothin On You which was a huge hit this year and Janelle Monae whom I am just totally entranced by. And these three artists who represent freshness and some really new voices in pop in music. With all the household names that we have these three are probably not the least known but I mean you know you are talking about legends like Streisand and Jagger and Dylan and here are these kids that I think are going to - I do not want to say walk away with the show but their performance is going to be amazing.  Ken Ehrlich who is producing the Grammys speaking with us from the Staples Center in Los Angeles the site of tomorrow's Grammys Awards. Ken thanks so much. Mr.  Scott thank you.  Ms.   Some people talk about ya like they know all about ya. When you get down they doubt ya. And when you dip it on the scene yeah they talkin' bout it. Cause they cannot dip on the scene. Whatcha talk about it. T-t-t-talkin' bout it. When you get elevated they love it or they hate it. You dance up on them haters. Keep getting funky on the scene. Why they jumpin' round ya? They trying to take all your dreams but you cannot allow it. Cause baby whether you are high or low.  Thats Janelle Monae with Tightrope also up for a Grammy tomorrow night. You wouldnt let me hear Katy Perry again would you? This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon.  Ms.   Baby baby. Whether you are high or low. Baby whether you are high or low. You got to tip on the tightrope. Tip tip on it. Now let me see you do the tightrope. 