 As part of our ongoing series Take A Number here's another number - 21 as in 21 days. If you get sued for debt in Utah that is how long you have to respond to a complaint in the mail. The complaints are written in fine print legalese and they can be confusing. But despite that 98.5 percent of debtors try to navigate the process without any legal help and often end up paying more than they should. That is what an adjunct professor and group of law students at Brigham Young University want to fix. Lee Hale from member station KUER in Salt Lake City has the story.  Chris Edwards is 40 married has three kids at home. Over the years he is had highs and lows financially.  It is hard when you are bringing in a certain income and all of sudden it drops to maybe a third of what you were making before.  To sustain a level of comfort for his family in their home south of Salt Lake Edwards began visiting cash loan centers when work was slow. And he is often had trouble paying back what he is owed. He says debt collectors have come after him nearly 20 times now for various expenses including a gym membership that had lapsed. It ended up costing him a lot.  Like 1400 plus attorney's fees - yeah. So it was like 1600.  He did not have the money. And he did not get legal help. So the money was garnished from his paychecks at the car dealership where he worked.  When you get a summons they do not explain to you that you have to fill it out. You have it turn it in. You just hear you have to go to court. And when you are reading it it is almost foreign language.  The system is set up for lawyers. And so a nonlwayer trying to navigate that system - it is virtually impossible.  This is Kimball Parker a lawyer based in Salt Lake who gets pretty worked up about this stuff. In the world of Utah lawsuits Parker says debt is public enemy No. 1.  Basically when you are sued you have to file a response to the lawsuit within 21 days. And if you do not file within that amount of time you lose the lawsuit automatically.  Let us say you have a debt. It could be a medical bill or a payday loan. There will come a time when the company wants their money. You will get a complaint and summons sent to you that requires a response. And if you do not respond in 21 days whatever is written on that paper becomes fact. What they say you owe you owe. This is legal. And this is what brings us to Brigham Young University Law School and a class with a purposefully mysterious name LawX.  In other classes you talk a lot about problems and you theorize about how to solve them. But it does not go anywhere past that.  Together with BYU Parker hatched a plan to solve this debt problem. The idea was to create a semester-long design lab that would result in a free resource for those facing debt lawsuits. Nine students jumped at the opportunity. To help them get started two IBM engineers volunteered their time to strategize with the team. They filled a wall with Post-It notes worked on prototypes interviewed people in their homes. The result - a website that is hopefully as easy as TurboTax for debtors.  OK. So we tried to make this landing page really friendly. Sued for debt - we can help.  We are in a small conference room on BYU campus that serves as LawX headquarters. Parker is reviewing the website with this team. It is called SoloSuit. What happens is the debtor signs up. And then they use the complaint they got in the mail to answer some questions. What company or person is suing you? Who is their lawyer? And on the day I was there they were struggling with this question - which court should the response be mailed to? It is not always clear.  If they do not put it on the complaint do we need to put it on the answer?  Yes. Yes because we need to know where to send it. You send it to the district. Does that make sense? So...  The priority is to make this step-by-step process as simple as possible. What they are doing is crafting a highly detailed letter in response to the summons. They do not want someone giving up halfway.  It is so clear that there are so many rules and so many - you know if you miss one thing then your answer does not count.  Cami Shiel graduated from BYU Law at the end of last semester. Yet she is back on campus helping with the finishing touches. She is one of the nine students who helped craft the website. Shiel says this kind of scrutiny this designing and redesigning that has led to more work hours than anyone could have anticipated - that is kind of the reason she signed up for the class.  I wanted a more hands-on approach a more of a problem-solving experience as opposed to you know the other - a lot of the other classes are lecture and notetaking and outlining.  In its first week online 80 people used SoloSuit. The team is hoping for 1000 users by the end of the year. And its impact has not stopped at the state line. Alaska will pilot SoloSuit later this year. And there have been inquiries from groups in Idaho Washington and California. What started as essentially a class project could help shape how some states offer legal help to those who cannot afford it. For NPR News I am Lee Hale in Salt Lake City. 