 NPR's John Burnett has our story from Austin Texas.  In most states that have a concealed carry law premises of higher education are off limits. A bill in Texas would change that.  Right now so-called gun-free zones I think ought to be renamed victims zones. I just do not want to see a repeat in Texas of what happened at Virginia Tech.  Wheeler Police tell us a Colton Tooley a math major and sophomore at UT is the gunman who fired shots outside before shooting himself.   According to Wentworth and other supporters of the law a citizen with a handgun can possibly take out a campus shooter before police arrive.  Because when seconds count the police are only minutes away.  It is legal for license holders to carry on the campus grounds. Powers says his position has not changed.  Friday night comes on our campus once a week. Mixing youth handguns and partying is in my view a mix for serious concerns about safety on campus.  We get the mature thing a lot that college students are mature enough. And the alcohol thing that we are all just boozed up all the time.  As a license holder himself Zipperer discreetly straps on a .38 Special. In Texas he points out to get a concealed handgun license you must be 21 years old have a clean record and no psychiatric disorders and take a 10-hour instruction course that includes time at a firing range.  So if people think that 21 year olds are too immature to get a license it sounds like they have a problem with the whole concept.  When John Woods came to Austin for graduate school from Virginia Tech he thought he would left behind the rampage that killed two of his friends. When the Texas legislature took up guns on campuses Woods a 26-year-old biology graduate student stepped forward to become a leading voice opposing the bill.  People think of colleges as just being classrooms but there is a lot more going on here. We have hospitals on campus in some cases there are preschools again you have sensitive labs where there are hazardous materials. And this is also something where the legislature is taking away the higher education institution's abilities to make any policy on the issue.  At a nearby table inside the student union students Logan Healey and Bethany Ellerbrook totally agreed.  So our suggestion to stop people from bringing guns to campus is to allow other students to bring guns to campus so we can have gunfights.  That is an awful idea. I hate it.  The Brady Center to Prevent Gun Violence reports that 22 states have rejected similar legislation. One that did not is Utah where the University of Utah in Salt Lake City has had a concealed-weapon carry law for five years.  I would say the vast majority of our student body does not even know about that law or if someone does have a handgun in class I bet you 95 percent of the people would never know about it.  John Burnett NPR News Austin 