 Here's NPR national political correspondent Don Gonyea.  Two years ago the Tea Party did not exist. Last year the movement made something of a splash at CPAC as the new kid on the conservative block. This year Tea Party energy is front and center. Representative Michele Bachmann gave the opening speech and other Tea Party heroes spoke as well. Brand new Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky gave a shout out to those who made his election possible.  I am not sure if I heard it. Is there anybody here from the Tea Party?   Unidentified Man Hell no.  Will you fight for and help me defend the Constitution?   There were long lines at the student registration tables yesterday.  OK.   Kevin Seballa is from Stony Brook University in New York State. He is a fiscal conservative.  Like over the past couple of years after seeing bailout after bailout bad spending policy after bad spending policy one day I just decided you know what? Enough is enough. So I joined the Tea Party and I started one on campus.  Josh Kunkle is a senior at Manchester College in Indiana. He spoke about that topic - and abortion - and had some advice.  The pro-life movement is definitely very appealing to younger evangelical Christians  definitely the whole pushing like gay marriage thing that is more towards older folks. I do not feel like our generation really cares about that at all.  But for all of the focus on the youth the biggest moment of day one of CPAC came when the organization gave its Defender of the Constitution Award to Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld. The award was preceded by a surprise Rumsfeld was introduced by his old friend Dick Cheney. The crowd erupted.  USA USA!  Cheney who wears an external heart pump moved well and looked healthier than he has at some appearances over the past year. He jokingly acknowledged the crowd in typically unsentimental fashion.  All right sit down and shut up.   There were loud cheers for both Cheney and Rumsfeld. There was also some heckling by some in the crowd opposed to the war in Iraq and its costs. Still the applause drowned out the booing. Here's Rumsfeld...  It is good to be here. I have been around so long that I remember a time when CPAC did not exist when Ronald Reagan was still an actor when Barry Goldwater was our candidate for president and we only worried about socialism outside of the United States.  Don Gonyea NPR News Washington. 