 The book Cherry was a 2018 bestseller. It is semiautobiographical novel by Nico Walker who was a decorated Army medic in Iraq. Then he came back and became addicted to heroin and started robbing banks. Cherry is now a movie by the same name. NPR's Andrew Limbong caught up with Nico Walker who is now out of prison.  The movie Cherry stars Tom Holland. You might know him as Spider-Man from the Marvel movies. And it is directed by the Russo brothers who directed Avengers Infinity War and Avengers Endgame which happens to be the highest grossing movie of all time.  That in and of itself was pretty overwhelming.  Nico Walker wrote the book published it and sold the rights while he was in prison. He was not paying much attention to the Marvel Cinematic Universe but he knew it was a big deal.  I had never seen any of those films and I had to kind of take people's word for you know what was going on.  Cherry reads the same way Walker sounds - dry crass and sometimes ha-ha funny other times funny in a heavier way. Late in the book after getting back from Iraq addicted to heroin and a few bank robberies under his belt the unnamed narrator is eating dinner at his parents' house. His mom does the dishes. Walker writes I did not ever have to do the dishes since I got back from Iraq. My mom thought I was a hero. I was not. But then I did not try to correct her. Not that I wanted to lie by omission about being a hero I just did not want to have to explain anything. TIM O And it feels to me uniquely American in its tone.  Tim O'Connell edited the book Cherry for Knopf and he says Walker was touching on themes timely then and still timely now. O It is talking you know the opioid crisis the idea of vets returning and dealing with PTSD. Like it touches on a number of very important topics while also - just you cannot put it down.  Joe Russo knew 10 pages into the book that Cherry was the next movie he and his brother were going to make.  It felt to me like the friends and family that were close to us that were struggling.  They are from Cleveland just like Walker. Joe Russo even worked at the same restaurant as Walker. Walker told me that he trusted how adamant Russo was about making Cherry. But beyond the topical and timely themes of the story Joe Russo says it was the character's voice that fascinated him.  He cannot separate his life from its fictional influences. He is trapped in an artifice.  In a way that cuts through the fronts people put up.  To quote the book you know he says the drill sergeants were pretending to be drill sergeants. We were pretending to be soldiers. The Army was pretending to be the Army. It is all make-believe to him.    So what makes a joker like you want to join the United States Army for?  There is a scene in the movie where the character played by Tom Holland explains why he wants to join the Army or at least he says what he knows to be the right answer to that question.    Well I have just been seeing on the news you know that there are kids dying over there you know?  Director Joe Russo.  You know he is stuck in this sort of referential echo chamber for which he cannot escape and that contributes to the decline of his mental health.  For similar reasons Nico Walker does not plan on seeing this movie based on his novel.  I just do not think it would be good for me to see it. You know what I mean?  We got to talking about other writers he admires peers who have not gotten the same opportunities. Walker wonders whether he deserves his success.  You see these like billboards and like you know a whole street full of posters with Tom Holland's face on it. And it says Cherry you know and all this stuff. And I am just like you know I do not know. Is that even right?  Walker got out of prison early on compassionate release to take care of his mom who died of leukemia last year but not before she read his book.  I was glad to be able to do something to make her proud after so much infamy.  She did ask him to not swear so much in his next book which is going to be a third-person narrative inspired by his time in prison. Andrew Limbong NPR News. 