 There is a lot on the line tonight at the GOP debate in Greenville S.C. Hundreds of journalists will also have to perform. Reporters will be chasing comments for their stories. TV producers will be grabbing campaign staffers to throw on the air and fill time. As NPR media correspondent David Folkenflik found at last week's debate in New Hampshire it all makes for quite a scene.  We have people holding selfie sticks and announcing themselves in front of the Google transanalytical  charts interactive to be sure listing minute-by-minute search interests of each of the candidates. And you have a growing encampment of cameramen photographers reporters people wielding iPhones to gather at some point the spinners who will come into the room. This is John Sununu the former senator and a surrogate for John Kasich.  The media sort of has loved writing about Donald Trump. You adore Donald Trump. But at the end of the day he lost in Iowa.  What Sununu was doing there trying to make his guy sound like the night's clear winner that is what spin sounds like. Donald Trump of course crushed it in New Hampshire. When the votes came in a few days later John Kasich was elevated by running a distant second. We were in the gorgeously carpeted hockey rink at Saint Anselm's College in Manchester. The space had been literally rechristened the media filing center and spin room.  It is called a spin room for a reason.  That is former CBS news anchor Bob Schieffer now a political analyst for the network.  I mean you are never going to find out any revealing information. I mean I am waiting for the day when a candidate comes in here and says you know I really did not do very well tonight. But I am not going to hold my breath until I hear that.  By its very definition spin implies the manipulation of fact the clouding of truth. Spin therefore technically should be the reporter's enemy. Yet suited broadcast correspondents stood on risers at one edge slightly above the floor for live shots with spinners. Print reporters milled about in fleeces. Maggie Haberman of The New York Times made an affirmative case for showing up in the spin room.  You can read body language of advisers. Sometimes somebody will actually go quite off message when they are not supposed to.  And it is one-stop shopping Haberman said.  So if you are working on other stories you can grab people. That is what I tend to find this most useful for. But I do get something out of watching people's level of confidence afterwards.  Speaking of confidence did someone mention that Donald Trump usually stops by?  Mr. Trump.  You will have to make a decision.  I am from Laura Ingraham's publication.  Mr. Trump.  Trump likes to do his own spin.  She is so great. Where is Tucker?  And can I ask you a quick question?  I am right here.  Come here. Hey Mr. Tucker.  Nice to see you.  Good.  That was so intense out there. What did you think?  Tucker Carlson is the mirthful founder of the Daily Caller site and a Fox News personality. He had just days earlier disclosed Trump's vulgar taunt after Carlson had lightly mocked Trump's hair. Fame courts fame in the spin room. For the political press corps the debate spin rooms are like a weekly college reunion. Otherwise...  I find very little utility about the spin room and have for years.  Dan Balz has covered politics for The Washington Post for decades. He said campaign's efforts to shape perceptions of the debates are no longer effective. By 2012 he said viewers and analysts set their own conventional wisdom already on Twitter.  There was nothing that anybody could say in the spin room that could change a conclusion that had already congealed. It was a reminder to me that we live now in an instantaneous world and spinning is an after-the-fact exercise.  With the immediate demands of the web articles about the debate are written sent and often even posted before spinners enter the brightly lit room to make their case. David Folkenflik NPR News. 