 It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am Steve Inskeep in Tehran.  And I am Renee Montagne in Washington D.C. What with all the griping about Wall Street executive pay in Congress on the editorial pages and among taxpayers yesterday President Obama set new limits on pay at financial firms getting government assistance. CEOs at companies getting the most help from the government could see their salaries capped at a half million dollars a year. This comes after President Obama described the huge bonuses and perks on Wall Street as shameful. President  This is America. We do not disparage wealth. We do not begrudge anybody for achieving success and we certainly believe that success should be rewarded. But what gets people upset and rightfully so are executives being awarded for failure especially when those rewards are subsidized by U.S. taxpayers many of whom are having a tough time themselves.  The salary caps were unveiled as the government prepares to announce plans for additional help for banks. NPR's Scott Horsley reports.  The federal government has already devoted hundreds of billions of dollars to shoring up the shaky financial sector and Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner says the bailouts are not done yet. Secretary  We will have to do more substantially more to fix this crisis. Next week we are going to outline a comprehensive program for financial recovery. This program will be directed at supporting the flows of credit that are essential for our economy to begin growing again.  But no matter how essential that credit is devoting more taxpayer dollars to the banking system will not be an easy sell. Neither lawmakers nor the general public feel like they have gotten much in return for the huge sums already spent. Loans have not gotten any easier to come by and news that Wall Street paid out 18 billion in bonuses last year only added to the bad feelings. Pres.  In order to restore trust we have got to make certain that taxpayer funds are not subsidizing excessive compensation packages on Wall Street.  President Obama joined the chorus of critics last week calling it shameful that executives would consider spending money on bonuses office remodeling or corporate jets at a time when their companies are getting multi-billion-dollar bailouts. If shame alone will not control executive pay Mr. Obama says new regulations will. Pres.  For top executives to award themselves these kinds of compensation packages in the midst of this economic crisis is not just bad taste it is bad strategy and I will not tolerate it as president. We are going to be demanding some restraint in exchange for federal aid so that when firms seek new federal dollars we will not find them up to the same old tricks.  The new rule set the strictest limits on companies getting what the government calls exceptional help. Top executives at those firms will be allowed to earn just 500000 a year. Anything above that would have to be in the form of restricted stock which could only be sold after the government's paid back. But the rules are looser for companies getting somewhat less help from the government. They can waive the half-million-dollar salary cap. And while they might be asked to submit pay packages to shareholders the vote would be  nonbinding. None of the rules is retroactive for banks that have already gotten help. Economist Robert Miller of Carnegie Mellon University says he is not sure taxpayers will really see much benefit. Mr.  Well it certainly does seem to be a kind of political opportunity here to blame greedy managers. But I am not sure that the more we focus on that that part of the story if it is true the less focused we will be on trying to be think more constructively about how to revive the economy.  Mr. Obama says the rules announced yesterday are only the first step in examining executive pay. He wants to know if Wall Street's rewards for short-term performance may have encouraged excessive risk taking that contributed to the financial meltdown. Pres.  We are going to be taking a look at broader reform so that executives are compensated for sound risk management and rewarded for growth measured over years not just days or weeks.  For Mr. Obama himself the next few days are a big test. He is laying the groundwork for another round financial rescues or what he calls the second leg of the economic stool. At the same time he is still lobbying hard in the face of some skepticism to get the first leg - the massive economic stimulus bill - through the Congress. Scott Horsley NPR News Washington. 