 The Boy Scouts of America turns 100 years old this month. That is a century of merit badges campfires bowlines half-hitches jamborees and camporees first aid and community service. Steven Spielberg was a Scout. And so was New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg. Presidents Carter Kennedy Clinton Obama and George W. Bush all participated in Scouting. Half of all astronauts were Scouts too. As the Scouts celebrate 100 years they have launched a new project to keep membership up. To find out more we are joined by Marcos Nava. Mr. Nava welcome. Mr.  Thank you very much.  Now you are head of Hispanic initiatives for the Boy Scouts of America. Talk about what traditionally has the organization's involvement been with Latino communities. Mr.  Well let me start by saying that I have been with the Boy Scout for about 25 years. And during those 25 years we have had different approaches to include Hispanic families in the program. It is been done at the local level. Some are very good and some are actually assuming that the Hispanic community knows a lot about Scouting when in reality we had to take a step back and do a proper invitation by telling the Hispanic community what is Scouting how Scouting works. Some things are different that we have done now our Web page now can you can go to Scouting.org and the click in Espanol and now we have a lot of really new information that explains what Scouting is all about.  And what is the end goal for a program like this? Latinos are the fastest growing demographic. So is this an issue the Boy Scouts of America's survival? Mr.  Well you know it is the mission of the Boy Scouts of America to serve all youth across the country. And let me give you some numbers. Out of 2.7 million of registered traditional Boy Scouts and Cub Scouts and Venturers we only have about 130000 that have recorded to be Latinos. So we have a lot of room to grow. And we just want to make sure that every youth in America has the opportunity to join. In my case I am charged to focus in the Hispanic community and make that invitation to them.  Marcos Nava head of Hispanic initiatives for the Boy Scouts of America thank you for speaking with us. Mr.  Thank you Audie. Thank you very much.  Boy Scouts have gone on to become scientists politicians astronauts directors Pulitzer prize-winning authors and actors. I am joined now by one such Scout. He played a character that introduced the world to the liger -that is a cross between a lion and a tiger and who was all about the cool skills.  Mr.   Well nobody's going to go out with me. Mr.   Have you asked anybody yet? Mr.   No but who would? I do not even have any good skills. Mr.   What do you mean? Mr.   You know like nunchuk skills bow hunting skills computer hacking skills.  That is actor Jon Heder as Napoleon Dynamite in the film of the same name. Heder has also starred in Blades of Glory School for Scoundrels and most recently When in Rome. Jon Heder welcome to the show. Mr.  Thank you for having me.  So first of all I should say you are not just any Scout you are an Eagle Scout are not you? Mr.  Oh that is right. Not just a regular Scout no Tenderfoot here.  And I hear you come from a family of Scouts actually. Mr.  I do. My dad was a hardcore Scout when he was young and he became the troop Scoutmaster for many years and even when he was not the Scoutmaster he was the quote-unquote kind of the unofficial Scoutmaster. So I have four brothers. So five of us in all all have the Eagle.  Whoa. Mr.  Yeah.  So that is the meaning of hardcore?  Mr.  Yeah. Every troop has what they call the Scout closet where somewhere in the local community center basement or closet they have the Scout closet where they keep all the troop gear and he keeps that up in our attic.  Now we played that clip earlier from your movie Napoleon Dynamite with the list of skills and I am not sure Boy Scouts teach computer hacking but it sounds like... Mr.  There is a computer - there is no computer hacking merit badge but there is a computer skills merit badge.  Is there a nunchuks skills merit badge? Mr.  I do not know if they have martial arts.  Mr.  I think most of the boys would be qualified for the nunchuk one because I think it is a given at Scout camp that you have to make your own homemade pair of nunchuks.  Now Eagle Scouts also have projects and I want to know what yours was. Mr.  Mine was kind of pathetic but you know I organized it. I did it. It was organizing a group of boys to all build like a whole bunch of bird houses to put up in an Audubon Park in our community so that they were trying to turn it into a nature trail and you know to help populate the park with birds we put up bird houses. So we built them and then we you know installed them.  Now did you happen to earn the cinematography merit badge? Mr.  You know the two merit badges I mysteriously for whatever reason did not earn was art and cinematography because at that age I was really big into art and cinematography and I do not know why I never got it but I am working on cinematography right now with my Boy Scouts. I am a Scoutmaster right now.  You are? Mr.  I am.  I do not know if I should know this but do you have any sons? Are you carrying on the tradition here? Mr.  Well - yeah. I do have a son but he is six months old. So he is yet to become a Scout.  It is never too early though you realize that. Mr.  As soon as he can crawl.   Jon Heder is an Eagle Scout and an actor who starred in the movies Blades of Glory Napoleon Dynamite and When In Rome which is in theatres now. Thank you for talking with us. Mr.  Definitely. 