 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am David Greene. In October 1988 the big news was presidential politics. The race between George H. W. Bush and Michael Dukakis was heading into its final weeks. But NBC's Tom Brokaw ended one Nightly News broadcast with a story about stranded whales in Barrow Alaska. Turns out that was only the beginning. A dramatic whale rescue was about to captivate the world thanks to news reports like this one from NPR's own Renee Montagne.   That 1988 story is the focus of a movie in theaters right now starring Drew Barrymore. It is called Big Miracle. The real miracle though is how this became a story at all. The fact that three whales could draw a media horde to frigid Alaska not to mention grab the attention of people like President Ronald Reagan might be say a lot about the power of TV and how drama can turn a story that does not seem all that important into gripping news. Journalist and author Tom Rose wrote the book Big Miracle. He was among those in journalists assigned in 1988 to bundle up and head up to a remote outpost in Alaska to cover a whale rescue. And he joins us from Indianapolis. Tom Rose thanks for being here.  Thanks David. Pleasure to be here.  Well set the scene for us if you can back in '88. I mean they are just so many elements that seem to come together to make this a story. These trapped whales were not the kind that Native Alaskan Eskimos used to eat so they were not hunting them which allow them to survive. But kind of set the scene.  These three gray whales were stranded off the coast of Barrow Alaska off Point Barrow which is the northern most point of Alaska...  The top of the world it seems like.  Literally I mean literally and figuratively about - I do not know - 350 miles north of the Arctic Circle. Most of whales that are meant to survive end up getting on their way to their summer breeding grounds a lot earlier than the middle of October. These three for some unknown reason were stuck ended up perhaps feeding too long. There was a baby among them. Perhaps the baby did not have - you will pardon the pun - his or her sea legs.   They waited next thing you know they are stuck in the ice. It was a natural and normal cause of death for those kinds of whales. Anyway as it happens there was a guy out on the ice who managed to capture this on television. The images were so compelling that - to continue with his awful Arctic metaphor - the snowball grew in size and scope that if...  You like the metaphors.  There you go.   Well we do not have the actual images but we do have some of the sort of compelling feel from the movie Big Miracle that is out now that is based on your book. And I wanted to play one scene from it. This is a scene where a Native Alaskan fisherman is talking to an old 11-year-old boy and telling him to put his ear up to the ice and listen to these whales.     You hear them?    The mother is speaking to the little one. Her calls are calm gentle. Oh soothing.   And Tom Rose these are obviously actors. But you wrote that the real drama unfolding was not under the ice but it was on top of it. It was the people.  Oh absolutely. Everybody came to this story with their own preconceived notions about what was good or bad with the world. The environmentalist lobby had battled bitterly with commercial fishermen in the southern part of Alaska in the rich commercial fishing grounds. They battled ferociously with whaling communities on the Arctic fringe of Alaska. Yet here the subsistence whaling communities needed the environmentalists to help them make their case to the gathering media hordes that these were not bloodthirsty whale murderers that they were subsistence hunters who knew more about whales respected more of and about whales had a greater love for whales than any of the environmentalists could have fathomed in a thousand lifetimes.  And I suppose the environmentalists this was a way to vindicate their view that people care about animals and they really want to save them.  Absolutely correct. And had it not been for a woman who is portrayed in the movie as Drew Barrymore the real-life character of Cindy Lowery - she was the Alaska field rep for Greenpeace back of the time of this in the late 1980s - none of this would have happened.  And so let us actually play another bit of the movie. So in this scene John Krasinski plays the local reporter. He is with a whale rescue volunteer played by Drew Barrymore. They are in a car and a network news reporter played by Kristen Bell is trying to hitch a ride with them.     You do not care about the whales. You care about ratings.   Yeah the ratings are what is going to keep the rescue going which is going to save the whales.   She is right.  You were one of the reporters up there. You were sent there by a Japanese television company. I mean were journalists fighting to get out there and capture these images for the right reasons? Did they feel like keeping the story going might save these whales? Was it all about ratings? What were the journalists thinking?  It might have been all about ratings. But I guess David who cares if the end result is served? I mean you could not help let me put it this way - and I am an admittedly cynical guy now even back then.   You could not help but be moved by these creatures. The initial hole that was secured for these whales was no more than 10-11 feet long six or seven feet across. So when they came up and they had to take turns coming up to breathe you literally could touch them. I mean they were as close to you as the microphones are from you and me now. And it is hard not to identify with the majesty of a California grey whale when you are in that kind of constant proximity to them. So again intentions who knows I cannot judge anybody's intentions but at the end of the day folks were brought together who otherwise never would have come together you know and that in a way was what this whole episode was all about.  Tom Rose is radio talk show host on Sirius-XM and he is the author of Big Miracle. He joined us from Indianapolis. Tom thanks for chatting.  Thank you David. 