 As the Republican primary season pushes westward potential voters in Nevada Colorado and Arizona tell us about the issues that matter most to them.  My name is John Thornton. I live in Parker Colorado. Individual rights - state's rights smaller government.  Corrine Loyola I am from Castle Rock Colorado. What we need to do is start collecting our taxes properly. And we need to let corporations do what they are going to do.  My name is Howard Sheets and I live in Englewood Colorado. I think maybe immigration is a bigger issue West than it is out East. I think people seem to be more excitable about immigration issues here.  My name is Kelly Townsend. I live in Gilbert Arizona. Right now I am hearing 1.6 billion is going to fund people living here illegally so they can go to school get medical the jails food stamps housing and that is skimming the surface.  My name is Rochelle Ybarra and I live in Tempe Arizona. I think that certain people have been used as scapegoats for the problems in the economy but we do need people here that will do jobs that Americans will not.  My name is Carol Wright. I live here in Reno. We believe in people that come from the grassroots and build themselves up. Many many families are fifth sixth seventh generation here.  My name is David Derose. I am a Denver native. A lot of people in the East simply do not understand the culture here. Wide open spaces do not fence me. Things are more...  Open-minded because of the fact that we have got the 24-hour gambling alcohol and prostitution. My name's Anisa Lopez and I lived in Carson City Nevada.  My name is Michael Stallings. I live in South Lake Tahoe California. When I think of the West I think of kind of a outlaw-type place still and so there are a lot of values out here that can be taken advantage of by the candidates.  My name is Barbara Knutsen and I live in downtown Denver. Well I think we are very independent people but I do feel often that who runs the world is the East Coast and the West Coast unfortunately and they ignore us out here. I think they ignore us. 