 Of course there are ecclesiastical and political implications that swirl around Pope Benedict's decision to step down. But at the heart of the matter is one man and a very personal decision. Here to talk about that is Father James Martin. He is a Jesuit priest cultural editor of the Jesuit magazine America and regular guest on this program. Father Jim thanks so much for being with us again.  My pleasure.  Jim people have been referring to this routinely as surprising astonishing flabbergasting historic. I am wondering what it was like for someone like you in the Church?  Well my first response was you know great admiration for the freedom it took to do something like this. And my second response was boy he certainly has raised the bar when it comes to giving something up for Lent.   This cannot be a job you walk away from lightly.  No. It is obviously something that he had given a lot of prayer to. He had talked earlier about whether or not a pope should resign and said you know if the pope feels that he cannot do his job it is up to him to resign so he is obviously been thinking about it for some time.  John Paul as you know had often said that if people observed his suffering if people observed that the pope put up with disability it would give people all over the globe the kind of source of strength and sustenance.  Well I think that is true. I think too often we tend to shut away illness and age and I think it was a very Christian message that this is simply part of life. Jesus suffered you know the saints grew old and ill and I found it very moving. But it is interesting that Benedict came to a very different decision.  Yeah. We do have to note of course that his decision to step down follows ongoing revelations of sex abuse in the Church a scandal over Vatican documents that were leaked various other allegations. How do we go about assessing the term of Pope Benedict and is there any suspicion - suspicion sounds like an unkind word but just a rational human calculation that maybe there is something more involved in this decision too?  I really do not think so. I mean lets' put it this way.  The scandals and the crimes of sex abuse and all the things that he is had to deal with you know in the last few years I do not think they have been easy to deal with but I really do think it is a decision based on his physical condition. He is frail and he can no longer fulfill the duties of the job. And remember think of an 85-year-old man running an international conglomerate. I think it really is more to do with his health.  What I mean there has not been a precedent for so many centuries. What happens to a pope who is retired?  Well that is the big question. Technically he is no longer pope so he is not His Holiness. He will become I assume Cardinal Ratzinger again. He would probably like to spend the rest of his time simply studying and writing. You know this is basically an elderly professor and what an elderly professor would want to do is read his books and write books as well.  Any pope I guess lives an emblematic life in the sense that people refer to it familiarize themselves with it offer parts of it as instruction. It is kind of early to begin to write this I expect but what lessons do you find in pope Benedict's life conduct and his decision now?  For me his resignation is a great sign of spiritual freedom. Rare is the person today who will relinquish power voluntarily. And it reminds us that no one is indispensable. As my spiritual director likes to say there is good news and there is better news. The good news is there is a Messiah the better news is it is not you. So he is not Christ. He knows that better than anybody else. He is Christ's representative on Earth. But it really reminds people that we are all beloved children of God but we are all under God in the end.  Father James Martin Jesuit priest and cultural editor of the Jesuit magazine America. His new eBook coming out Together on Retreat Meeting Jesus in Prayer. Jim thanks very much for being with us.  My pleasure.   