 Tonight could be one of those telling moments early on in a presidency. President Donald Trump will be addressing a joint session of Congress. There will be the substance of the speech of course and also worth watching is always how lawmakers from both parties respond. We are hearing a variety of voices on the program this morning Republicans and Democrats. And let us turn now to Mo Elleithee. He is executive director of the Georgetown Institute of Politics and Public Service and a veteran Democratic campaign adviser who worked for Hillary Clinton in 2008. Good morning Mo.  Morning.  And we should say you are joining us on Skype this morning. I want to play a little bit of House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi who was on ABC's This Week on Sunday. And this is how she summed up the president's first five weeks in office.   He has nothing to show for it but fear in every way to people who are sick fear to people who are immigrants fear to people concerned about the greed on Wall Street taking us back to where we were.  Mo do you agree with that? Is Pelosi right that fear is what is being sold tonight?  Well I think tonight's going to be interesting. The president has not really done a whole lot to sell an agenda. You know even going back to his inaugural address which was sort of this really dark vision of how he sees America he has not really done a whole lot to turn the corner. So tonight's his shot. Tonight's his first real chance to do that in front of what may be the biggest audience he will have other than his inaugural address. He has not shown us a lot of effort to turn that corner. What I think a lot of Republicans are hoping for tonight is that he is going to come in and want to talk about taxes want to talk about repealing Obamacare. And I suspect we will hear some of that. But this president cannot control himself sometimes. And whether or not he is going to be able to avoid taking the cheap shot or bragging about his Electoral College victory or any of the other kind of nonsense we have heard you know that is the big question that we are all waiting to see.  Well I mean you call it nonsense. I mean Nancy Pelosi talks about fear. But many have said that Donald Trump has simply been carrying out his campaign promises - I mean on immigration the wall Supreme Court nominee. Has anything really surprised you so far?  No nothing has surprised me so far. This is exactly what he said he was going to do during the campaign. But remember this he entered office with the lowest approval ratings of any president in the history of polling. He is got a solid base of support. That is not going anywhere - anywhere from 38 to 41 percent. But there is about 5 to 8 percent of the vote that he got in the election that is not necessarily with him all the time people that the jury is still out for. He is not doing anything to solidify that and he is not doing anything to grow his support.  I suppose tonight is the kind of opportunity to grow that kind of support and reach those people.  It is the best possible opportunity to do that. He is never going to have a bigger audience than his first joint address to Congress. If you look historically it is been the highest rated speech for just about every president. This is his rare second chance to make a first impression. This is his real opportunity to begin to say to people I have got your back which was his campaign message essentially. But that has not borne out. And so this is it.  A lot of Americans Mo did not feel like Democrats had their back especially some of the...  Yeah.  ...You know the working Americans who voted for Donald Trump. So what should Democrats be doing right now? Should their tone be oppositional? Should they continue to just stand up against Donald Trump? Should they start looking at ways to connect with those voters who brought him to office?  It is not an either-or David. They have got to do both. Yes it is totally fine to lead a resistance against Donald Trump. It is totally fine to stand up against everything that he stands for and to be incredibly firm in that opposition. That does not mean you do not find the occasional thing where you agree on. But it is OK to do that. But at the same time Democrats need to avoid the temptation to make their entire next two years all about that. There is some in the party who feel like they just need to follow the Tea Party playbook and just offer nothing but resistance. I do not think that is going to get them there. I think Democrats need - to borrow a favorite Republican phrase they need to repeal and replace. They need to not only show why they oppose the president and fight him but they need to at the same time offer an alternative they need to find a way to connect with people they need to make an affirmative case for the party. And that is going to be - that has been a challenge so far.  OK Mo Elleithee executive director of the Georgetown Institute of Politics and Public Service joining us on Skype. Thanks as always Mo.  Thanks Dave. 