 The U.S. Capitol Building has been the center of so much drama since this year began - a deadly insurrection another impeachment the socially distanced inauguration of a new president and now a Senate trial the first of a former president. It starts on Tuesday. Joining me to discuss what we will see this week in that chamber is NPR White House correspondent Franco Ordoez. Buenos dias. Welcome. FRANCO ORDOEZ  Buenos dias.  Franco we have lived through an impeachment trial not that long ago. I mean it is pretty fresh in my memory. But a lot has happened since then. Remind us how these things are supposed to work. ORDO Well you know keep in mind that this is not just a legal proceeding. It is very much a political one. It is not the kind of court - or it is not the way we think of court. Basically the House impeachment managers function as the prosecution. You know they make their arguments why former President Trump should be convicted of quote incitement of insurrection. Now Trump's lawyers defend him. Then the senators vote. If two-thirds vote yes then he is convicted. Right now though that seems unlikely as it would require a significant number of Republicans to be in favor of conviction - at least 17 of them.  Considering that how long should this trial take? ORDO Well it is not expected to take as long as Trump's last impeachment trial which was about three weeks. You know the issues are less complicated. The senators already know the details.  They certainly do. They were there. ORDO There is only one article of impeachment this time not two. And Democrats have an incentive to finish quickly.  Who are the players this time? I mean who is going to be making the arguments? Who is defending the president? And is the chief justice of the Supreme Court presiding as is - you know as he did last time? ORDO Yeah under normal circumstances John Roberts would preside. But since Trump has left office Democrat Patrick Leahy the Senate president pro tempore will do so. There are nine House impeachment managers led by Maryland's Jamie Raskin. Trump has already rejected the idea of testifying himself. Instead he has some fresh lawyers including Bruce Castor - he is a former district attorney in Pennsylvania - and David Schoen who recently defended Roger Stone obviously a Trump ally.  Talk us through what arguments you expect both sides to make. ORDO Well Democrats will argue that the mob who stormed the Capitol that day did so at the behest of President Trump. You can expect a lot of video from that day. They are going to use Trump's own words against him as well as some of his baseless claims for weeks and weeks beforehand. Trump's lawyers meanwhile are already arguing the whole trial is unconstitutional since he is no longer president you know that there is no office to remove him from. Just a note - legal scholars largely disagree. But in a trial brief Trump's lawyers denied that Trump incited the violence and say he is protected by the First Amendment to quote express his belief that the election results were suspect.  And all of this occurring in a Capitol building that is now heavily guarded. ORDO Yeah I was actually there yesterday. It is still surrounded by a very large fence. There is barbed wire. The National Guard is there. You know several thousand troops continue to patrol the area.  And while this is going on this week what will be on President Biden's agenda? ORDO President Biden is going to be busy making - he is going to make sure not all the attention is on former president. He is got an interview today with CBS before the Super Bowl. On Monday tomorrow he will visit a vaccination center. On Wednesday he is heading to the Pentagon. On Thursday he is going to go to the National Institute of Health  where obviously Dr. Fauci works and there is a lot of vaccine development - or a lot of the vaccine development took place. So you got a little bit of counterprogramming happening. It should be interesting.  That is NPR White House correspondent Franco Ordoez. Thank you very much. ORDO Thank you Lulu. 