 Could a new arrangement with bondholders help to lift Puerto Rico out of bankruptcy? This deal would slash some of Puerto Rico's debt but the island's many pensioners are not thrilled with the terms and neither is the governor. Luis Valentin is going to help us explain this. He is with Puerto Rico's Center for Investigative Journalism and is on the line from San Juan. Good morning sir.  Hi. Good morning.  This wipes away I think 24 billion worth of debt. What is not to like?   Well the deal certainly will bring on board an important group of bondholders and hedge funds who have been fighting Puerto Rico government in court as part of the bankruptcy process that began in 2017. And as you said it would slash a good chunk of Puerto Rico's debt as much as 24 billion. But there is a lot of concerns questions and strong opposition from several groups including the local elected government the governor pensioners and even other bondholder groups. So...  When you say pensioners...  Yeah.  ...Who are we talking about? What are their pensions and what happens to them?  Well basically under the current framework that was - that is being proposed as part of Puerto Rico's bankruptcy process pensioners are looking at 8.5 maximum cut to their benefits if they make more than 1200 a month so it is a good chunk of the pensioners population. And we have to remember that this is on top of a sluggish economy of years of austerity measures of two hurricanes that hit us back in 2017 and now the most recent earthquakes that hit the island beginning this year. So...  So these are people who are on government pensions?  Exactly.  Former teachers government workers that sort of thing.  Yeah. Yes.  They are already in the pension system. They are already being paid now. They are on this fixed income and they are supposed to take an 8.5 pay cut so that it is easier for Puerto Rico to pay the debt that remains. Is that the deal?  Yes that will be their concession as part of the - you know the - how the - Puerto Rico's federally created fiscal board plans to solve and tackle Puerto Rico's debt problem.  Well this sounds like kind of classic austerity measures that a lot of countries have had to face and now you have the commonwealth of Puerto Rico facing it. But that does raise the question what is the alternative?  Well and it is true. There is a lot of people that ask like what could be done? The board has said - and we have to remember that the board that was imposed by Congress to overlook Puerto Rico's finances has exclusive authority to negotiate Puerto Rico's debt. So right now their proposal is we need concessions from everybody including pensioners and that is the way we will move forward. The thing is that from the other side there is a lot of people that question the board's proposal because right now there are a lot of bondholder groups who are getting a very good deal by signing off on this deal and there are other groups that are being hit the hardest such as pensioners. So it is an open question out there and they are still - and the deal is far from over. So there is a lot of negotiation that is still to take place. And it will be really important bringing on board the support from the local government.  Is there even the slightest chance that Puerto Rico might grow out of this problem? I mean it is been hit by a hurricane a few years ago but that is not going to happen every year. Is not there a chance of just economic growth that would take care of this?  Yeah and that is the biggest concern - how much you will put on the table and you know how much money or Puerto Rico's own resources will go to pay its debt that will no longer go to rebuild the infrastructure or - you know and restart the economy.  Right.  So that is the question right now and let us see what happens.  Luis Valentin of Puerto Rico's Center for Investigative Journalism. Thanks.  Thank you. 