   The harder you work here the less you get paid...  The music of the band Mozes and the Firstborn sounds like something that might waft out of a California garage in the 1960s. But this sunny crunchy extremely catchy sound is actually a product of the Netherlands. And strictly speaking it got started in a basement - not a garage. Melle Dielesen the band's lead singer says his mom's basement has always been a sort of escape.  When I was younger I had all of these crazy projects downstairs in the basement. It was kind of my playground. I used to like deconstruct old radios there and start my own like little detective bureau. I played soccer down in that basement. I did a film stand in that basement. I started fighting school down in that basement.  Wow that basement has seen a lot.  It is seen a lot. And at one point I started making music and that was really you know that was just the perfect place to start rehearsing with the band and start recording. We had all the time in the world. There was no one looking over our shoulders. We could do whatever we want.   I want to play another song off the new record. This is I Got Skills.    Skills I got skills. I got skills to make it through your doorway...  So pretty good hook you have there written for that song Melle.   Thank you very much.  How do those come to you?  For this - for I Got Skills it was a friend of mine a really good friend of mine he is mom used to listen to this mantra music. You know what I mean? Like this...  Kind of chanting?  Yeah chanting. Add me and my friend thought that was just really hilarious. And I was at my friends place once and he had a guitar there. And I was like yeah let us play one of those chants. And I could not really figure out the chords or the melody. And then I kind of like went like .    Skills I got skills. I got skills to make it through your doorway...  It kind of stuck with me. I you know I did not even have to listen back to the recording. It was just in my head the whole time. I was like man I have to get this out - it is just so annoying...   ...just going around in my head all the time so.  So we have a phrase for that. We call that an ear worm.  That is a phrase in Dutch as well oor worm.  Oh.  It is very similar.   Let us play another song. This one is called Seasons.    Babe I will take you to a world without seasons where the fruit has no taste...  So you have got quite a focal range on this album. There is some spoken word. At some points what we just heard there was kind of this raspy more intense almost like a yell at times. Also some really mellow crooning. It is all in English which is not your first language right?  No it is not.  Did you always write songs in English? Or did you ever write in Dutch?  I only wrote songs for fun like for family members kind of on you know special occasions in Dutch. It just really makes sense for me to write in English because all of the music I listen to is in English.  I do not suppose you could give me a sample of the little ditty in Dutch could you?  Of Dutch singing . And so on. And so on.   Well what is that song?   Yeah it is kind of you know carnival - which is like the Mardi Gras - it is kind of a song that you play around that time of the year.  So you are on tour right now - your first tour in the U.S. correct?  Oh no. It is her second tour.  Second tour all right.  Ya.  This is old hat for you.  Well no. It is still new. I mean I still cannot really get used to being in America. I mean it is just...  Why?  I guess for us as Europeans it kind of feels like just walking into a movie.  Can you give me an example of something that has really freaked you out some moment of profound culture shock?  Oh one of the things is that we had to do a 12-hour drive from Arizona to Texas. And the fact that you can drive for 12 hours...   ...then you get out of the car and people still speak the same language. People still have the same fast food chains. Whereas in Europe if you drive for 12 hours people speak really weird and you know they eat different kinds of cheese. And you know stuff.   It is kind of - it really does not make any sense to us.   I want to play Down with the Band. Let us listen to this one.    Well sometimes I seem to forget you are one of my best friends not someone that I can just use you someone I can use...  I wrote this song for Raven our drummer. There was a period of time where we kind of grew apart in a way. Like you start out the bands you start with music and you do something that you really love. And you know mainly you do it because you want to have fun and you are making music with friends. On the other hand the ambition has always been to become well like every professional band to become the biggest band in the world.   It is just kind of a song that just says like you know sometimes you kind of have to say like you know  we are just friends and do not been ruined our friendship.    Down with the band. Down with the band...  Melle Dielesen he is of the band Mozes and the Firstborn. That is M-O-Z-E-S Mozes. Their self-titled album is out this month. He joined us from member station WHYY in Philadelphia. Melle thank you so much for talking with us. Best of luck with the tour. Have fun.  Thank you very much. The pleasure is all mine.    Well sometimes I seem to forget you are one of my best friends...  You are listening to WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. BJ Leiderman wrote our theme. I am Rachel Martin    Someone I cannot use. So if I ever act a fool I will use my temper or my cool. It is just a demon in my head. My guts still tells me you are my friend and... 