 If you want to see the future of technology listen to people who break boundaries with it. Criminals do that using tech to break the law. Artists also do that thinking about the implications of technology in ways the rest of us may not. We are hearing from both in the days ahead beginning with the science fiction visionary who talked with NPR's Laura Sydell.  Most tech entrepreneurs and scientists will tell you they want to change the world. And they have but often in ways they never intended. I have wondered why is it so hard for these people to imagine the full impact of their inventions?  My name is Vint Cerf.  Vint Cerf created the Internet. Really. When Cerf and his team were working on the Internet in the early 1980s they imagined a world where the best and brightest would have access to unlimited information where scientists could share data across the globe and tackle the world's most vexing problems. As soon as they built the Internet others saw its potential too. In 1988 Cerf went to the first conference for Internet companies.  I just stood there thinking my God somebody thinks they are going to make money out of the Internet.  Did it scare you at all when they decided to commercialize the Internet?  No no. I was a big proponent of that. My friends in the community thought I was nuts - why would you let the unwashed masses get access to the Internet? And I said because I want everybody to take advantage of its capability.  Clearly Cerf is an optimist. That is what allowed him to dream big. But in retrospect some of the decisions his team made seem hopelessly naive for a bunch of geniuses. They made it possible to surf the Internet anonymously. Unlike a telephone you do not have a unique number that announces who you are. We know how that turned out. People with less lofty ambitions than Cerf used that loophole for cybercrime international espionage online harassment.  And we have to cope with that. I mean welcome to the real world.  Did you even have a clue that any of this other stuff would come along? Did it even dawn on you?  You know well to be honest no.  But as Cerf was creating the Internet someone else from a much less esteemed group was imagining its dark side with startling accuracy science fiction author William Gibson. In the early 1980s Gibson was a struggling writer living in Seattle. He did not even own a computer but he would heard about the Internet.  I was sitting with a yellow legal pad trying to come up with trippy names for a new arena in which science fiction could be staged.  The name he came up with?  Cyberspace a graphic representation of data abstracted from the banks of every computer in the human system. Unthinkable complexity. Lines of light ranged in the non-space of the mind. Clusters and constellations of data like city lights receding.  Listen to that. He understood the potential scale of it all those computers connected together. That passage is from his breakout novel Neuromancer which came out in 1984. In Neuromancer Gibson predicts that the Internet will be dominated by huge multinational corporations fighting off hackers. The main character is a washed-up criminal hacker who goes to work for an ex-military officer to regain his glory. And get this. The ex-military guy is deeply involved in cyberespionage between the U.S. and Russia. How was Gibson able to see what Cerf and others were blind to? Gibson says it is because he is always been fascinated by the way humans behave around technology.  I held off getting on the Net for a decade deliberately so that I would be able to watch people using it.  Gibson likes to tell a story about how TV changed New York City neighborhoods in the 1940s.  Fewer people sat out on the stoops at night and talked to their neighbors and it was because everyone was inside watching television. No one really noticed it at the time as a kind of epochal event.  After years of covering Silicon Valley and speaking with brilliant inventors Gibson's point was a revelation to me. Our tech entrepreneurs are focused almost exclusively on how their devices will be used by individuals not how it will change society. They want to make things that are addictive and entertaining. That is why I started to take this other form of entertainment more seriously science fiction. Take the Emmy Award-winning dystopian Netflix drama Black Mirror.   Charlie Brooker is the creator and writer.  It felt like tech companies have for years kind of just put stuff out there and they distanced themselves from the effect of their product effectively by saying we are just offering a service.  Brooker considers each new technology more like an untested drug waiting to launch us on a very bad trip. He tests it in the not-too-distant future. In one episode a grieving woman signs up for a service that will recreate her deceased lover. It uses his social media accounts email YouTube.    Hello?   Hello. You sound just like him.   Almost creepy is not it?  Yes it is creepy especially because services like this are already being invented. Writers like Gibson and Brooker are examining so-called innovations and asking is this really what evolution looks like?  It is a bit like we have suddenly all sprouted an extra limb and we do not quite know how to use it and so we flail around and sort of knock the furniture over. We are learning how to use these things. And in the meantime while we are learning how to use it we are making mistakes.  Brooker is able to see the pitfalls with startling clarity. He says it is because he is very very good at worrying.  I could scarcely have invented the shoe you know? I would be worrying that that would restrict your feet. Maybe there should be a council of very worried naturally worried worrisome people who look over  all new technological developments and kind of rank them for potential harm. .  It is not a bad idea but of course we also need those brilliant optimists who charge forward with their vision and we need those dystopian visionaries. Vint Cerf the father of the Internet reads science fiction.  It is the mind-stretching practice of trying to think what the implications of technology will be that makes me enjoy science fiction.  The artists are the ones who recognize a fundamental truth - human nature has not changed much since Shakespeare's time no matter what fancy tools you give us. Laura Sydell NPR News. 