 This is PR News. I am Renee Montagne.  Welcome to the program sir.  Thank you. Good to be here.  Welcome to the program once again Leslie Gelb.  Good morning.  And let me start with you Leslie Gelb. What is the danger in this situation?  The danger in this situation is that we push the Egyptians to plow ahead without due reference to two things. One is that they do so in an orderly way to give themselves the best chance of achieving a real democracy rather than - as Secretary Clinton said - a fake democracy. So to do everything from the streets and from riots and get the democracy a very complicated business.  Well Robert Kagan looking...  Secondly if I may...  OK. Go ahead.  Secondly if I may is we have to be attentive to American security interests in the area as well. And for all President Mubarak's ills and for all his repressiveness at home he has been a good ally and critical ally in the region. And we have to be attentive to that.  Robert Kagan why is the risk worth it - the risk of pushing for change?  I do not think there is enough trust among the Egyptian people that he - who has in fact rigged election after election after election over the past decades - is now suddenly going to oversee a fair election. So I think unfortunately - because I think we also want as much orderly stability as we can - the flow of events in Egypt right now is against Mubarak. But that does not mean we cannot have the kind of transition that Les is looking for.  Is the fundamental interest here gentlemen the fundamental interest of the United States just to be on the winning side no matter who the winner is?  Well it certainly is better to be on the winning side if the winning side is the people of Egypt. We have made mistakes in the past in dealing with various dictators. I mean among them you know you can criticize what we did or did not do in the case of the shah of Iran. But one thing...  In 1979.  ...we did succeed in doing was alienating the Iranian people for decades. And that turned out to be a big mistake. I think we need to - in our security interests - be on the side where Egypt is heading. And I think that means not trying to prop up some hated dictator now just because we think wrongly that that is where stability lies.  Leslie Gelb.  I do not want to prop up that dictator either. And I do not know any American who does. The issue is How do you get from here to there? And at the one hand people say well we have no influence whatsoever over what is going on in Egypt. And on the other they criticize President Obama for not taking an even more supportive position on behalf of the protestors.  Let me ask you both briefly gentleman. As we look ahead to other countries how should the United States approach protests in Jordan Yemen and who knows were next? A few seconds from each of you please. Should the U.S. be actively promoting democratic movements of this kind elsewhere in the Arab world?  The U.S. has traditionally asked these governments to do political and economic reforms. Almost all my life that is been the stance of the U.S. government. We do not crack their knuckles to do it because they benefit us in other ways particularly in foreign policy. And here again we do not want to push them to the point of collapse so that what succeeds them is worse than they are. The same thing in Egypt.  Robert Kagan let me give you the last word here. You have got about 15 seconds.  Look what we are witnessing in the Middle East right now is clearly the beginnings of a democratic revolution. It can go off the rails or it could be a really transformative moment in history that his very beneficial to the United States. Not a question of us pushing them but it is a question of us letting them move in this direction and not trying to staunch it in some illusory search for stability.  Leslie Gelb writes for the Daily Beast and is author of Power Rules. 