 The new album from punk band Against Me! is titled Transgender Dysphoria Blues - and that is not just a metaphor. It is the first album the band has released since lead singer Laura Jane Grace went public with her transition from man to woman. Now instead of hinting at feelings of gender dysphoria in her lyrics they are all right there front and center   The band Against Me! has been around for more than 15 years and built significant success on the back of those growling assertive vocals formerly attributed to Tom Gabel now Laura Jane Grace. She and band mate James Bowman join me now from ETV Radio our member station in Columbia South Carolina. Laura and James welcome to the program.  Thank you so much for having us.  Yes thank you.  Laura I would like to start with you. This has been a long time coming. What does it mean for you to be able to do your first album as a woman?  It is freeing. It is liberating.  What about your persona? Because a lot of being the front person of a band it is about you this personality and what you project. That has changed.  But that is where the disconnect was happening for me in a lot of way and where I was feeling a good majority of the dysphoria was being on stage. And being featured in magazines where you know rock and roll or punk rock it is a boy's club in a lot of ways. And you are out there with your photo side by side with these other people that you are supposed to measure up to and did not. I did not feel that way. I was not one of those dudes or whatever I like. So it was really felt more and more pressure to be someone I was not. and so to be able to be true to myself and authentic when I am on stage you know I do not have to think. I can just be and exist.  So James what was it like for you and the rest of the band when Laura first sat down and kind of came clean about where she was and what she wanted and her transition?  I remember I was not surprised or shocked really. And I guess maybe I was just expecting it somehow I do not know. But I remember the drive back. We were at the studio that we had in St. Augustine at the time. And I remember driving back and the car ride was really quiet. And I was just thinking. And it was actually just all the moments of like little snippets of lyrics and stuff like flashing back. And I was like ah. It all kind of makes sense now.   And what has been the reaction from your fans James? How is the tour going so far?  Yeah everything's been great. Everyone's really supportive and crowd interaction and reaction has been really supportive and really overwhelming. It is been really great.  Were you surprised by that at all Laura? Were you kind of girding yourself for a different response?  I really did not know what to expect but the support I have received from people has been definitely overwhelming and humbling.  And these feelings that you were in the wrong body this started a long time ago when you were very young right?  I vividly remember - I was probably about 4 years old and lived in Texas at the time - and there was a Madonna concert being broadcast on TV. And I just remember feeling self-recognition you know of like that is me and that is what I that is what I want to do. And at the same time realizing that there was a misalignment between like recognizing yourself in someone and realizing like but I am a little boy. And there were just many moments like that you know throughout growing up. But immediately when you have those feelings you feel shame.  So this goes on for years you kind of pushing down these feelings and setting them aside. Ultimately you met the woman who would become your wife Heather and you had a daughter. How has your transition affected your family life?  Well it is something that is in transition too. It is scary. You know I am not going to lie like it is really frightening feeling like that there is so much uncertainty and that you have made a decision even though it was not really a decision because it was something that was based on like either I am going to kill myself or I need to address this. And I know that it is something that is going to potentially like destroy everything in my life in a lot of ways and like that is going to cause a lot of uncertainty for things that I do not want to change.   James did you have any hesitations when Laura came to you and said OK I have an idea for our next album it is going to be all about me and what is going on in my life?   Egomaniac. No not at all. I think you know there is a good story behind the record that is really important for people to hear.   Has any of this changed the way you make music as a band at all?  No.   No. Not at all. You know and that is something that I think is hard to stress to people too is that there is like you know there was the initial moment where like I came out to everyone in the band or whatever. But then it was like the next day there was like business as usual.  Yeah. The only thing that changed honestly was pronouns. You know that is it.  And performing is better for you then now?  Of course yeah. I mean it is what it was when it started out as far as being a joyful experience and what I live for.  Laura Jane Grace and James Bowman from the Against Me! The band's new album is called Transgender Dysphoria Blues. It is out Tuesday. And for a few more days you can hear it at our website npr.org. Laura and James thanks so much for talking with us.  Thank you so much for having us.  Thank you.   This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Rachel Martin. 