 It is not just the U.S. trying to manage concerns from vaccine skeptics it is long been a problem in France. The French government has proceeded cautiously in its COVID vaccination rollout in an effort to try to get everyone on board. But the slow pace is now getting a lot of criticism. NPR's Eleanor Beardsley has more.  Even before the pandemic disinformation from the anti-vaxxer movement was rampant in France. In 2018 with measles cases on the rise the government made 11 childhood vaccines mandatory. Marie  is a member of a Facebook group started three years ago to counter the falsehoods.  We were upset by anti-vaxxer theories and decided to fight them on social medias.  Marie does not want to use her full name because members of her group Les Vaxxers have received death threats. She says anti-vaxxers believe the measles vaccine can cause autism. But it is something else for the COVID vaccine.  They think this vaccine could modify their genes. And maybe they will be remote controlled.  Despite 70000 COVID deaths in France nearly half the population says it does not want the vaccine. Antoine Bristielle a researcher at Sciences Po university says even before the pandemic there were many French people who believed in conspiracy theories about the government and pharmaceutical companies.  That financial interests were the reasons why the government promoted vaccines. Before the pandemic one side of the population believed that.  Since the pandemic Bristielle says membership in anti-vaxxer Facebook and YouTube channels has increased dramatically. But he says mainstream media has fed doubts as well.   .  Sud Radio is a small-talk radio with a populist tone. A recent guest was Professor Christian Perronne an infectious disease specialist known for his alternative theories. Perronne is cited extensively in a 2 12-hour French online conspiracy documentary that claims COVID was fabricated by governments and elites. It is been downloaded more than 6 million times. On the radio show Perronne said that COVID vaccines were developed far too fast and for a disease he said is only killing a tiny percentage of the population.    Maybe they are effective. But we need years to know. We have not seen any study results. But we have sure seen the stocks of these companies soar.  Unlike hardcore long-term anti-vaxxers those suspicious of the COVID vaccine can be convinced otherwise says general practitioner Bertrand Magnier . He plans to get vaccinated to set an example for his patients.  They are very anxious. And some of them want to wait maybe one two six months. They want to wait and to see if there is no problem.   .  Inside this Paris pharmacy pharmacist Laeticia Bellaiche  says customers are evenly split between those who trust the newly developed COVID vaccines and those who do not. She says even the pharmacists are divided over whether to get the vaccine.  .  If I was diabetic or had underlying health problems or was older I would not hesitate because you could die she says. But it is not the case. So I do not know what to do. A furious President Emmanuel Macron demanded that the vaccine campaign be sped up. The health minister now says a million people will be vaccinated by the end of January. Eleanor Beardsley NPR News Paris.  