  A wild ride on Wall Street. Online investors hit it big by outsmarting pros.  But the ride is not over and it is not clear who will be left holding the bag.  I am Scott Simon.  I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   Mutating viruses worry the nation's top scientists including the new director of the CDC.   I think and I believe that we should be treating every case as if it is a variant during this pandemic right now.  Vaccinating everyone is more important than ever but will it happen fast enough?  And President Biden has signed dozens of executive orders but that does not mean he is rolling back everything former President Trump did.  Indeed not. We will have that story in a moment and all the news you need to start your weekend.   More people are getting vaccinated in the U.S. And while infection rates are still high the winter surge of the pandemic seems to be slowing down just as a new threat has emerged.  Variants of the coronavirus are spreading and they appear to be more transmissible. And they may evade some treatments and vaccines.  NPR health correspondent Rob Stein has been tracking all this and joins us. Rob thanks for being with us.  Good morning Scott.  We just cannot seem to catch a break with this virus. Please bring us up to date on the latest about all these variants.  Yeah you know Scott every time scientists think they have a handle on this virus it seems to surprise them again. And like you say the emergence of these strains is the latest curveball. First the U.K. detected a variant that spread like wildfire through London even though it was locked down. It is now spreading in at least 29 states in this country. Then two other variants were spotted - one in South Africa and one in Brazil - that also looked like they are more contagious. The one from Brazil was found for the first time in this country earlier this week in Minnesota. And just days later health officials announced two people had caught the one from South Africa completely independently in two different parts of South Carolina. So it appears that variant's been quietly spreading in that state and probably other parts of the country. So all three of the variants that scientists are most concerned about are here now. Here's what Dr. Anthony Fauci said about all this during a briefing yesterday.   This is a wake-up call to all of us that we will be dealing - as the virus uses its devices to evade pressure - that we will continue to see the evolution of mutants.  And you know those are not the only variants. Scientists are studying one that is taken over in Los Angeles to figure out if - whether that spreads faster too.  But as we are given to understand it Rob the speed with which these variants spread is not the only reason scientists are so concerned is it?  No uh-uh. The British government says the U.K. strain might also make people sicker. Now that is far from clear yet but you know regardless if these strains spread faster then more people will get infected and more people will end up getting sick and dying. And that is not all. Some of those monoclonal antibody drugs may not work as well against them. And the big worry is these variants may have evolved the ability to outwit the vaccines.  What about the vaccines that so many people are getting and trying to get now? Will they work against these strains?  Well you know there are laboratory studies that suggest the shots people are getting may not work as well against the variant from South Africa. And just in the last couple of days two drug companies reported some unnerving findings about two new vaccines. A company called Novavax reported that its vaccine appears to be far less effective against that strain too. And Johnson  Johnson reported the same thing about its one-shot vaccine. Now it is important to remember that scientists are stressing that all the vaccines still appear to provide pretty good protection and do appear to keep people from getting really sick and dying. But the protection just does not look like it is quite as strong.  How could we stop the variants from spreading?  First of all we need to do a way better job of spotting these variants in the first place because really the best way to fight them is to keep them from spreading and to keep them from sparking yet another big surge and to help prevent new mutants from emerging. You know mutations occur when the virus is spread a lot and that means vaccinating people as fast as possible but also you know wearing those masks and washing your hands like crazy and keeping your distance from people who do not live with - those are still the best weapons against the variants and to keep new ones from evolving.  NPR health correspondent Rob Stein thanks so much.  You bet Scott.   Much of President Biden's first week in office has been undoing work done by the Trump administration.  President Biden reversed actions taken by former President Trump on health care the environment abortion and criminal justice.  So it was a bit of a surprise on Friday when Biden's national security adviser Jake Sullivan said the new administration will work to build on several key areas of Trump's foreign policy. NPR White House correspondent Scott Detrow joins us now. Hey there.  Good morning.  Good morning. During the election Biden talked - right? - a lot about the damage he thought Trump's approach to foreign policy was doing to the United States. So what do he and Jake Sullivan see as the positives?  One big area is the series of agreements that the Trump administration brokered in the Middle East last year - what they called the Abraham Accords. Bahrain the United Arab Emirates Morocco and Sudan all recognized Israel among other aspects. Sullivan says Biden sees the deals as positive for the economy and security in that region and positive for the U.S.'s national interest.   He would like to carry forward this initiative deepen the cooperation between the countries that have signed the accords make real the normalization that has taken root as well as - and Robert referenced it - add additional countries as well.  And you heard him mention Robert. That is Robert O'Brien who was Trump's last national security adviser. This was at a joint appearance that the two made at a panel sponsored by the U.S. Institute of Peace. For 20 years the group has held a conversation like this after the White House changes hands.  So were there any other areas Sullivan said worked well?  Yeah. He also had some positive words for how the Trump administration partnered with Japan India and Australia to confront China. He said that group will be a foundation the Biden administration builds though we should be clear that Sullivan and Biden have enormous problems with huge chunks of policy from the past four years. One specific area - Sullivan was a key player in the Obama administration's effort to put together the Iran nuclear deal. Trump of course pulled out of it and then ramped up sanctions on Iran. Sullivan was blunt at this forum arguing Iran has now moved closer to a nuclear weapon made improvements on its missiles and overall he just sees this as an escalating nuclear crisis. And the Biden administration is going to work to bring diplomacy back to solving that. But of course that will be an enormous challenge over the next few years.  All right. I am going to ask you about another area where President Biden has big differences with Trump's approach to the world. And that of course is Russia. Biden and Vladimir Putin held their first phone call this week. What was the tone? How did it go?  Well based on the readout that the White House sent around it sounded kind of tense. According to the White House Biden brought up among other things Russia's alleged major hacking of U.S. government computer systems Russia's attempts to interfere in the U.S. elections. But Sullivan says at the same time he is confident the U.S. and Russia are about to renew a major nuclear arms control treaty New START.   The Biden administration reached out to Russia and said we would like to do a full extension of the New START agreement by five years and to get it done before the treaty expires on February 5. That was a 15-day period from when we took over and when it expires. And we believe that we will be able to achieve that.  And of course another thing happening right now is these widespread protests over the arrest of Alexei Navalny a high-profile dissident. That is another thing that came up on that phone call between Biden and Putin. And depending on what happens next that could be the first big foreign policy crisis that Biden and his team have to respond to and try to manage from the U.S.  So President Biden's been making a lot of phone calls to world leaders as you note. But a lot of diplomacy of course happens sort of person-to-person. Any sense yet when he will meet some of them face to face?  Yeah. So much of the diplomacy that that Joe Biden has personally done over his years in the Senate as vice president were all about face-to-face meetings. But of course there is still a pandemic. And the Biden White House is being incredibly careful about that. Even though Biden has now been vaccinated - most other world leaders have - they have no announced plans to do any travel anytime soon. One example of that - this week Biden announced that there is going to be a big summit in April that the U.S. is going to host on climate change kind of a big symbolic show that the U.S. is back at the table there. I noticed they were all very careful to not declaratively say that will be an in-person meeting. I think the Biden White House like the rest of the world is just waiting to see what happens with pandemic over the next few months.  That is NPR White House correspondent Scott Detrow. Thank you very much.  Sure thing.  It is a David and Goliath story but with social media.  Yeah. A story of small stock traders outwitting big institutional investors and making a fortune doing it for the moment.  GameStop whose stock covered around 4 a year ago is now over 300. But the biggest gains have been just in this past week and in large part due to the buzz on social media.  Online brokers tried to put the brakes on the wild ride. But yesterday there were many more twists and turns.  NPR's Uri Berliner senior editor in our business desk has been following all this. Thanks so much for being with us.  Hey Scott.  Can you give us a recap of all the ups and downs this week?  Yeah. Well let us start with GameStop. It is a retailer of video games and it is familiar story. It hit hard times. It was in a lot of malls - was not a good place to be. And a bunch of hedge funds said you know it is only going to get worse for GameStop. So they bet against the stock. It is called short selling. At the same time though on these online communities where a lot of people have taken to online trading there were people who were - they were GameStop fans. Maybe they had bought stuff there as kids. And there were a lot more people trading online during the pandemic. And they started buying up the stock when it was really pushed down. And it just started picking up steam totally proliferated this week. And it became kind of a mass movement. It sent the stock price into the stratosphere. And the big hedge funds took a lot of losses.  I mean that is the point. Some people make money. A lot of people lose money. Who winds up paying the price?  Well so far it is the hedge funds the short sellers. They have lost a lot of money - billions. But that could all change if the GameStop stock tumbles back to earth like for example where it was at the beginning of the year it could be really painful for a lot of people who have joined these message groups in a place called Wall Street Bets where they gather. They push up the stock. It is been kind of a jubilant atmosphere. But if the stock starts falling they could get hurt pretty badly.  Should we expect greater controls on these roller coaster trades to come in now?  Well we saw some during the week. The popular online broker Robinhood restricted trading in GameStop stopped people from buying the stock. There was a huge backlash against Robinhood. People were saying there was a blatant double standard against small investors. Robinhood opened up trading again on Friday. Beyond that there should be hearings in Congress. And the Securities and Exchange Commission put out a warning says it is on the lookout for market manipulation. But there is no public evidence of that so far in this situation. There is nothing illegal or wrong about being enthusiastic about a stock. Now if there is evidence the stock price was artificially inflated that would be a different story.  How much has Wall Street been shaken by this? By seeing how - I do not want to say how easy - because I am sure it is not easy - but how this could happen so unexpectedly?  It is a seismic shift. The power was in the hands of small investors for once. You know Wall Street firms have had a lot of advantages in markets. That is led some people to think they are rigged. And this time the amateurs got the upper hand. Where this goes we do not really know. There could be some paring back of short selling. But really we do not really know where this is headed.  NPR's Uri Berliner thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday January 30 2021. This podcast is made assembled and polished by artisans Hiba Ahmad Sophia Boyd Andrew Craig and Danny Hensel.  Our editors are Martha Ann Overland D. Parvaz and Melissa Gray.  Our director is Ned Wharton.  And Stu Rishfield our technical director - Dennis Nielsen provides engineering support.  Evie Stone is our supervising editor. Sarah Lucy Oliver is our executive producer.  And keeping us all in line is deputy managing editor Jim Kane. I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Scott Simon. UP FIRST back Monday with the news you need to start your week. You can follow us on social media. We are upfirst on Twitter.  We also have more news interviews. We will talk books and hear new music.  And do not forget The Puzzle with Lulu.  Of course not . This can all be found on the radio - Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings. Find your NPR station at stations.npr.org. 