 Presidential inaugurations are supposed to be about unity. That may be more inspirational than aspirational rather than anything else this year. Donald Trump will be sworn in later this morning in the wake of a divisive and ugly campaign that perhaps describes the deeply partisan era we are living in. We are hearing different perspectives on Trump's Inaugural Day this morning and one of them is that of the novelist Attica Locke. She is also a writer on the TV program Empire and she spoke to our own Steve Inskeep.  We called you up on the morning after the election. That sounded like an excruciating morning for you.  It was and I cannot say that things have gotten necessarily better for me.  What do you mean?  I wake up every day and think this is how much this country cannot stand black people that this has happened. Or I think this is how much this country did not want a woman as a leader. This is how much this country does not want Muslims here. This is how much this country cannot stand immigrants. And though I know this to not be literally true that it is not that simple emotionally I feel a sense of rejection of what Obama's presidency represented.  Do you feel a personal rejection?  No it is not like that. It is just how am I letting my child my young biracial child know that this country loves her and makes space for her and wants her to do well?  OK so how are you doing that? You have got a 10-year-old right?  Yes I do.  A 10-year-old daughter - and are you talking to her about the political situation? And what are you saying?  We are talking about it to the degree that she shows interest. I am not trying to bombard her with depressing thoughts about how frightened her mother is. What I am trying to do is put Trump's election in some kind of context. I am definitely trying to not normalize what is happening. I do not want her to think that this is normal.  How do you plan to spend the next few years politically I mean? You have got a job but do you intend to engage yourself in some way that you were not engaged before?  Yes I mean I think that there will be infinitely more interactions be it correspondence or phone calls with my locally elected officials than I have ever engaged in before. I think that I will - my husband said this is the year we are going to get arrested.  Was that a New Year's resolution we are going to go out and get arrested at some point this year?   It almost was. And he said it very plainly and he was not kidding. And he may be right. And I am OK with that. But I am also going to continue to be frank because there is too much obfuscation in the media - that we are not calling a lie a lie that we are not calling racism racism. The concept of objective truth is now maybe up in the air. And so I am going to keep saying the truth as I know it over and over and over again. 