 Now this week we got a message through to Antarctica. We got on the phone once again with Felicity Aston. She recently became the first woman to ski solo across Antarctica from one coast to another. It took her 59 days to cover more than 1000 miles dragging her supplies behind her on sleds. Yesterday she was at the Union Glacier base camp on the Antarctic coast waiting to catch a flight toward home. Well congratulations on the journey.  Thank you very much. Very kind.  We last spoke with you in December we should remind people when you were on your way you were very very close to the South Pole. How did things go after that?  Well I arrived at the South Pole on the worst weather day of probably the entire trip.   It is a big station at the South Pole and yet I could not see it until I was maybe 100 yards away. But luckily there were people there waiting for me and it was just wonderful to see some friendly faces. And I spent a day at the Pole and it was a day off from skiing. But I think more than that it was a off from the stress of being totally responsible for yourself. You know at the Pole I knew I was safe.   But then of course I had to leave the Pole and I had a deadline at the end of the Antarctic season when everyone goes home because the winter approaches. So I started doing some really big days. And when I got to my second to my last resupply which is 500 kilometers further on I realized I did have enough time to make it to the coast. It was you know really quite something to change my mindset from being thinking oh I am just going to get out there and do my time every day and see how far I can get to thinking well I did know if I have actually got a shot at this and I am going to make it to the coast. And obviously seeing the coastal mountains ah that was a real moment. And...  Oh I bet.  ...it was a horrible day could not see anything and then just suddenly it was like a biblical moment. Slowly the clouds parted. The sun came out and seemed to shine right on me these little fat triangles on the horizon. And then I just stopped on my tracks right where it was and burst into tears.   'ecause it was like seeing the finish line. It still took me another four days to actually reach the coast. But you know the first sight of those mountain really was the beginning of the end and that was fantastic.  Oh now that sounds beautiful. But when you talk about the storms and being in the situation where you could not even see the South Pole station until you were a hundred yards away I am thinking about airplanes that sometimes do instrument navigation. They cannot see anything so they are relying entirely on instruments. Were you having to do instrument navigation as you walked?  Yeah I mean I regularly referred to it 'ecause I was flying on instruments today. There were days when I could not see the surface beneath my skis. You know it was just all white so it was no surface texture at all. And I was following my compass literally head down following that needle.  Do you feel like a strong desire to be around people having been around nobody for so long?  It actually does not. The only thing I have noticed is I did have to remind myself last night when I flew back into camp you know about the polite rules of society. Things like I cannot just have a pee wherever I want anymore.   I have to go into the appropriate place. And chatting to the sun is not acceptable either.   So I got to used to getting out of a tent in the morning and Morning sun how are you? And Nice to see you today. And things like that. And I have got to stop doing that otherwise I am going to sound like a mad woman.  Better to find a human being to direct those remarks to I suppose.   Yeah. Well you know I am looking forward to getting home and sharing the experience with people. And I am still finding it quite unbelievable that I skied across Antarctica. I was looking at a map this morning of Antarctica and where I started and where I finished and it just seems unbelievable that I skied all that way.  Felicity Aston became the first woman to ski solo across Antarctica. Congratulations and thanks for taking the time.  Thank you very much. It is been a pleasure.  The image of a single human being amid all that snow. It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am Steve Inskeep.  And I am Renee Montagne. 