 Is it possible that the calamity of the pandemic has finally peaked? Some researchers think so. The number of new cases has begun to drop. NPR health correspondent Rob Stein is on the line. Rob good morning.  Good morning Steve.  Got to say it does not feel like a peak.  Yeah yeah. You know that is because things are still really bad right now. You know lots of people are still getting infected sick and dying. But if you look carefully at the numbers the daily infections look like they hit a high about a week or so ago depending on how you crunch the data. And since then it looks like the number of people catching the virus every day has finally started falling. Here's one of the researchers I have been hearing this from Ali Mokdad at the University of Washington.  Yes we have peaked in terms of cases. And then we are coming down slowly. This is very good news very good news.  Because it could mean the U.S. has finally turned the corner on this nightmare. In fact it appears the number of people flooding into hospitals has peaked nationally too which means the number of daily deaths could start falling next.  Do experts agree that this improvement over a very brief period is durable?  So you know there are skeptics about whether the pandemic really peaked. The CDC for example is not quite ready to officially declare the pandemic has peaked. And even those who think the pandemic has peaked say there are some important caveats about this. First of all there are still hot spots around the country where infections are still rising. And there are some big ifs about what happens next. The virus could surge again if the sluggish vaccination campaign does not really start to ramp up and if people let down their guard again. I talked about this with Caitlin Rivers. She is an epidemiologist at Johns Hopkins.  Often what we see is a sort of cyclical pattern where things worsen and so people stay home more. They are more vigilant about wearing masks. They skip the restaurants or the get-togethers. But as things improve people relax a little bit and incorporate some of those risky behaviors again. And things can again accelerate.  You know and some experts think people need to be even more careful you know more mask wearing better mask wearing especially if those you know contagious variants lurking out there right now you know are a real threat.  What is the third of those big ifs?  So the third one is probably the most terrifying - those new variants. There is that U.K. one that is already here. There is the one from South Africa Brazil. Others are emerging in the U.S. If any of them take off before enough people get vaccinated or you know God forbid outsmart the vaccines then all bets are off. I talked about this with Dr. Ashish Jha the dean of the Brown School of Public Health.  I think this is a really substantial threat. The experience from the U.K. and Ireland and other countries that have seen this is it can very quickly reverse all of the gains and make things dramatically worse. So I am very very worried about this variant.  But you know Steve if none of these awful ifs come true things could continue to get better and life could slowly start to return to something much more like normal by the summer.  I guess we are at least moving in that direction for a few days...  That is right.  ...And we will see what happens. Rob thanks so much.  Sure thing Steve.  NPR health correspondent Rob Stein. 