 The fifth and final season of Comedy Central's Broad City begins tonight. Broad City follows Abbi and Ilana two 20-something women living in Brooklyn finding their way as 20-somethings do - but with a twist. NPR's Sam Sanders talked recently with Abbi Jacobson one of the creators and stars of the show. And they talked about Broad City's subversive feminism.  In the very first episode of Broad City Ilana shows up at her best friend Abbi's job.    What are you even doing here?   Nothing just strolling through the neighborhood and wanted to see my No. 1.  And then Ilana tries to get Abbi to leave her shift so the two of them can try to score tickets to a Lil Wayne concert.    I think you deserve like an Abbi Bueller's Day Off to just leave work in the middle of the day. Yes you can. You just lie and leave. All they let you do is fold towels anyway.   No they do not. They let me do a lot more than that. I wash the towels and then I dry the towels.  Abbi leaves her shift and then there is high jinks. In many ways this could be any show about young people in a big city fooling around doing dumb stuff. But Broad City is different because it is nasty. Abbi and Ilana are gross. They are slobs. They joke about and revel in bodily functions I cannot mention at this hour on this show. They get to be crass - like men. Creator Abbi Jacobson says that is the point.  Like do not you know - a lot of your girlfriends do not they - are not they like us?  Oh yeah.  So it is like when you - if you have watched the show you are not like that is a dude thing.  That is a dude thing. It is just like a...  No. Those are like girls I know...  I know girls like that. Exactly.  ...But maybe not girls that you have...  I see.  ...Seen on - yeah.  Abbi Jacobson and Ilana Glazer started Broad City as a Web series in 2009. Jacobson says FX was going to take the show to TV but pulled the plug after a year of development. The reason?  It was that it was too girly.  For FX's audience at least - Comedy Central picked it up and Broad City was a hit. Anne Helen Petersen is the author of the book Too Fat Too Slutty Too Loud. She talks about Broad City in that book. And she is intrigued by the way the show lets these two characters spend their free time.  Their leisure time is not consumed with bettering their bodies. Like they are not sitting around painting their nails or doing their hair.  Broad City is also very specific in representing a particular kind of woman - young white urban liberal. The show has been critiqued for that at times. Abbi Jacobson says she gets it.  We try to comment on the fact that we are these like two dumb white girls. It is not representing everybody.  Do you feel bad about that?  I mean in a way - but I think that when we first started the Web series like 10 years ago we were just trying to create characters for ourselves because we could not get roles on anything.  And that story - their story - that is guided the whole show the entire time. Anne Helen Petersen says the heart of Broad City is Abbi and Ilana putting their relationship above chasing a career or chasing beauty or chasing a man.  Yes they have relationships. But their primary relationship the love story is their friendship with one another and their absolute support for one another.  Five seasons in that is still pretty radical. Sam Sanders NPR News. 