 .  The rare sound of political dissent in Iran. Protesters there in Tehran chanting shame on you. They have been on the streets for five days now. Iran's president Hassan Rouhani issued a statement acknowledging the economic grievances that appear to be spurring these protests. But some are actually demanding political change as well going so far as to denounce Iran's supreme leader Ayatollah Khomeini. Ali Noorani joins us now. He is a reporter with AFP and he joins us on Skype. Thanks so much for being with us this morning.  Hi. Thank you.  Describe what it is like in Tehran today.  So far it is calm. The protesters have not started yet. They will start later. If they start they will start later in the evening as with previous days. But things are calm for now.  Although things have not been calm. These protests have turned deadly in the last couple of days. How is President Rouhani responding?  President Rouhani spoke for the first time on day four in reaction to these protests. And he did say that criticism is a right of people. But he said that there is a difference between damaging public property and criticism. And he said that Iran and the government will not tolerate disruption of public order and damaging public properties.  What is at the root of these protests?  The root cause is not really clear still. But it did start with the platform of economic problems in the northeast of the country in Mashhad Iran's second city. It started with people protesting the high prices and cost of living unemployment poverty. And at first many said including government officials - said that maybe the conservatives or Rouhani's opponents are behind this. But it turned out of control soon. And it is spread across the country.  I mean President Rouhani kind of sold the Iran nuclear deal as this way to improve Iran's economy right? But clearly you are suggesting that Iranians are feeling any benefit from that economic opening.  Yeah. Iranians on the street - yeah they are not really feeling it on the table. But Iran's economy has improved. The inflation has been tamed from over 40 percent to single digit. And there has been some international investment. But indeed it has not been as much as expected. The expectation is very very high for the people. And no yeah the people have not felt it in their own lives.  So we remember the protests that happened in Iran back in 2009. This was the so-called Green Revolution. Those protests were huge got big attention from around the world. But it did not change much in Iran. Are these protests destined for that same fate?  Yes. It is probably - the protests were really a surprise but these are much smaller compared to 2009. And they were suppressed. And probably these ones will be suppressed as they have turned to political and against the regime. And there are pro-regime protests popping up around the country. So the government will probably suppress it.  Ali Noorani a journalist with AFP joined us from Tehran. Thank you.  Thank you. 