 This is Weekend Edition from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. Shakespeare's Iago is one of the great defining villains of literature. He masquerades as a friend and that disguises his schemes to manipulate betray and destroy. He fools Othello into believing that his wife is betraying him - she is not - then manipulates his old friend and commander into having her killed in a fit of engineered jealousy. But when Iago's deceits are discovered and he is imprisoned he clams up invoking his right to remain silent centuries before the Miranda ruling. Demand me nothing he says at the end of Othello. What you know you know. From this time forth I never will speak word. So he does not - until now. David Snodin who worked as a script editor on a famous BBC production of Shakespeare's plays has now written a novel in which he imagines what happens after Iago is put behind a stout iron prison door in Crete. His new book is called Iago. David Snodin joins us from London. Thanks so much for being with us.  It is good to be with you.  What prompted you to pick up Iago and run with him into a new story?  Well I have been obsessed with him ever since as a mere boy. I went to the old Vic Theater here in London and queued all night and all day to see the great Laurence Olivier do his Othello. But despite his being extraordinary and quite the most remarkable theatrical experience I have ever had the person who I was drawn most to was Frank Finlay's Iago. And then I will not admit how many years later I was working here at the BBC on the BBC's Shakespeares and there was a production that Jonathan Miller Dr. Jonathan Miller directed with Anthony Hopkins as Othello and Bob Hoskins as Iago. And I have to say Bob Hoskins's performance as Iago is probably the best performance I have ever seen. And I have seen a lot of them. And it was from that point on that I began to think well it would be nice to try and portray this iconic Shakespearian villain as if he was just a man and to try and find out why he does what he does.  At the heart of your story is a character named Annibale Malipiero who is the chief inquisitor of the Serene Republic of Venice.  Yeah.  Is this a as they might put it in Venice waterway-weary cop.  How do you mean? I am sorry.  We would say street-weary cop but I changed it for Venice.  Oh well canal-weary cop.   Canal-weary better better.  Well actually I have made him not only a canal-weary cop but I have made him a cop who does not like water which I think is you know just one of the little jokes I have got in the book.  And the chief inquisitor hatches his own scheme if you please. There is a 15-year-old kid Gentile Stornello a dreamy boy who is been framed for murder. And he arranges for the two of them to escape from prison together. And they go off on a jaunt fleeing to the countryside. Now what is the inquisitor hopeful will happen on their romp?  Well he - I mean the most important thing to remember about Iago at the end of the play is that he says from now on I will speak no more. I will say nothing. And he has not spoken. And it is only when he arrives in the prison he starts to speak to the boy because the boy is in fact a cousin of another character in the play Desdemona who Iago has manipulated Othello to kill. So somehow that association makes Iago speak. And Annibale our wily inquisitor Annibale thinks well if he is speaking to this boy and he is not speaking to me and he is not speaking to anybody else maybe I should use this boy as a means of getting him to talk more and to reveal not that he did it or he did not do it but why he did what he did. You know Iago's no psychopath. He is not a mass murderer. He only kills one person. That is his wife. And he kills her because she is about to spill the beans. He gets other people to hate each other. He is I suppose what you call a sociopath. He is somebody who believes in making people destroy each other. I think that is what fascinates him and that is what fascinates me about this kind of person.  And when you work Shakespeare's words in the kind of proximity that you did when you take some of his characters and storylines and try and run them through your own imagination how does it change your appreciation for Shakespeare's genius?  Well one thing I somewhat contentiously say sometimes about Shakespeare is that he was not very good at plots. He is fantastic at creating characters. And of course his verse is matchless and his prose is matchless. But his plots - most notably the plot of Othello - are not totally watertight. That aside his characters are devastatingly profound and one treads very warily on those characters and some might say that I have been a bit cheeky to have done so. But I certainly want to emphasize that my take on Iago is just my take on Iago. And more importantly than anything I want people to read it who do not know who Iago was and do not know who Othello was and who do not know - dare I say it - who Shakespeare was. Now it is unlikely that many of those will but in some sense it is a story that I want to stand on its own. I just hope it is a jolly good story.  So what is next? As it turns out Juliet lives?  Well you see this is...  Wakes up and marries a rug salesman?  Yeah. Well anything's possible. Look a friend of mine - a very very good friend of mine - once told me I have got a franchise here. I have got Cressida I have got Juliet. But actually in truth believe it or not I am doing another villain but it is a woman and it is very different from Iago. It is in fact Goneril in King Lear who is the nasty older sister Cordelia's older sister. Goneril and Regan they are often called the ugly sisters of Shakespeare. I just think she is an absolutely fascinating character.  David Snodin joining us from London. His new novel - and clearly not his last - Iago. Thanks so much.  Thank you very much indeed. 