 Sports fans love and live by bromides. You will hear a lot of them in these days leading up to the Super Bowl Game is won or lost on the line of scrimmage. Field position that is the game. They are going to call a time-out now to ice the kicker etcetera. Now another University of Chicago economist has tried to apply some tenets of economic analysis to sports that his colleague Steve Levitt applied to the larger world with Freakonomics. Tobias Moskowitz a behavioral economist and professor of finance at the University of Chicago and Jon Wertheim senior writer for Sports Illustrated have written a new book Scorecasting The Hidden Influences Behind How Sports are Played and Games are Won. Tobias Moskowitz and Jon Wertheim join us from New York. Gentlemen thanks very much for being with us. Mr.  Thank you.  And let me begin with you first Professor Moskowitz. Your line of thinking begins with when you folks were together at summer camp. Prof.  Right. We go way back and we grew up in Indiana met at summer camp in Michigan. He was at Bloomington. I was in West Lafayette. So were obviously college basketball fans but for rival teams. We have always had a love of sports and remained friends for many years.  We are coming up to the Super Bowl of course and there is no home field advantage but I am fascinated by the section of the book where you folks suggest there is such a thing as home field advantage but not for the reasons a lot of us think. Mr.  Home teams get different calls than visiting teams. And we looked at...  From the referees... Mr.  From the referees.  ...from impartial officials. Mr.  From the impartial officials. And we looked at all sorts of data - how balls and strikes are called. We looked at replay and whether calls were being overturned in the NFL red cards in soccer. And what we saw in a variety of sports and a variety of contexts was that officials were simply calling the game differently for the home team versus the road team and when the games were closer that difference expanded. And when they knew they were being monitored when there were cameras or whether there was replay that difference ironically went down. And it just became pretty clear to us that this is where the home field advantage really resides.  But officials are flown in from all over now right? Mr.  What we think is that the root of this is social psychology that people are influenced by group opinion. In sports is when the officials are calling things in favor of the home team it is not on the obvious calls. You know a pitch right down the middle of the plate that is an obvious call it is a strike. They do not try to give that to the home team. But when the pitch is uncertain when it is on the corners when you are not sure whether it is a strike or a ball they tend to call it with the home crowd. And part of it is the home crowd of course is biased and they see it in the home team's favor and we think that influences the referees. Mr.  And nothing subversive. We do not think these refs are on the take but it is just sort of a basic human nature.  There is a bromide in football that when there is about to be a field goal attempt often the defensive team will call a timeout to so-called ice the kicker to make him nervous. You say that is useless. Mr.  The data does not suggest that that is an effective strategy. But again this goes back to a theme that sort of recurred which is basically you know risk reward and perception and coaches wanting to save their jobs. And if you make that field goal the obvious response from the fans and sports talk radio is why did not he call a timeout to ice the kicker? I mean empirically there is very little to support that but that is still guidelines that to kick the field goal and the coaches call a timeout. And the irony of that is sometimes it even gives the kicker sort of dress rehearsal that he can go ahead and kick the ball and it does not count and he can gauge the wind. Mr.  In fact what I always find funny is that now it is almost expected that you will call a timeout to ice the kicker. So kickers expect it. So you know I think the right play might actually be not to do it. It might throw the kicker off. But Jon's right we looked very hard in the data to try to find any effect from this and just could not. We actually even applied the same sort of analysis to basketball where you see people try to ice the free throw shooter.  You think teams punt too much on fourth down. Mr.  You know one way to think about it is you know what is the expected number of points you will get from any play. Another way to look at it is I got frustrated last week. I was watching the Bears game.  Oh a lot of us got frustrated watching the Bears game but I digress yeah. Mr.  And just to give you an example they were I think you know in Green Bay territory around the 40-yard line or so - cannot kick a field goal from there. Fourth I think and a couple of yards three or four yards and of course they punt. Now what happens when they punt? The most likely outcome which is exactly what did happen is it went into the end zone and the Packers got it at the 20. So they gained something like 15 yards for giving up on fourth down versus going for it. Even if they had failed they would have been only slightly worse off - 15 yards. And they had a very good chance perhaps of making it and prolonging that drive. And those are things that can be difference makers.  I was a little disappointed to read in the book that you Tobias Moskowitz big-name economist. You believe in randomness and even luck. Mr.  We as human beings have a very hard time understanding randomness and luck. And I think where we see this most evident are in streaks so-called momentum or the hot hand. The idea being that that means that they are going to keep continuing to do well. The reality is when you look at the data it is all pretty much consistent with randomness. And the great example that I like to show people is look if you flip a coin 100 times right it is a random event. But that does not mean you will not get six or seven heads in a row at some point. Does that mean that there is a streak? That there is momentum in coin flipping? No of course not. It just means that whenever you have random occurrences you can get streaks just by chance. People do not like to attribute that to sports but when you look at the data you cannot refute that it is not just random. And I know that is controversial but certainly that is the data that we found. That was true in almost every sport.  But Professor Moskowitz let me pose the question that you folks take up in your last chapter Why have not the Chicago Cubs won a World Series in 150 years? All right not 150 but 110. Mr.  That is a pretty bad streak I agree. But I think there are some other elements besides just randomness there. One thing we talk about is economic incentives. So with the Cubs in particular we looked at how attendance moves with winning and losing percentage. And for the Cubs it is perfectly stable. There seems to be no rhyme or reason to it. They are also at the 90-plus percent capacity whether the team's in first place or last place. You know fans in some sense impose an incentive on the team to produce wins by either showing up for the game or not when they are losing and that does not seem to happen at Wrigley.  Tobias Moskowitz a behavioral economist and professor of finance at the University of Chicago winner of the Fischer Black Prize for Finance Scholarship and L. Jon Wertheim senior writer for Sports Illustrated. Their new book Scorecasting The Hidden Influences behind How Sports Are Played and Games Are Won. Gentlemen thanks so much. Mr.  Thanks Scott. Mr.  Thank you.  And to read an excerpt from Scorecasting you can go to our website NPR.org. 