 It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am Steve Inskeep.  And I am Renee Montagne. U.S. and Iranian negotiators say they are making progress in nuclear negotiations. Last weekend Secretary of State John Kerry said they would worked out the details of a temporary nuclear deal.  For the first time in almost a decade Iran's nuclear program will not be able to advance. In fact parts of it will be rolled back.  In exchange the U.S.-led economic sanctions that are crippling Iran's trade with the world will ease.  But permanent nuclear deal is still to be negotiated. And the stakes are very high for Iranian President Hassan Rouhani. He is the man who won a surprise election last year on promises to improve relations with the world and expand freedoms at home. New York Times Tehran Bureau Chief Thomas Erdbrink has been following Rouhani's progress. He says Iranians are anxious for further benefits and expecting Rouhani to keep more promises.  All his promises on domestic policies are still matters that people are waiting for.  What do you mean?  Well for instance something very simple and something very normal for people here back in the States. But he promised to open up Facebook. Now you should know that Facebook is blocked in Iran. When you go online to Facebook you get a message that this website is bad for your health. And...  Bad for your health that is a quote?  That is a quote is bad for your health that is for your mental health.   That is like a threat of some kind this website is...  Yeah the quote keeps on changing.  ...bad for your health.  Exactly.  OK.  But at the same time you know young Iranians are incredibly connected. They use special software to go online. But it is just not the same thing. For instance when I - with all my resources - try and access Facebook I get the site but not the pictures and this goes for many people in Iran.  And that is a subtle reminder that even though this man is the elected president of the country he is not necessarily in charge. He cannot even get Facebook opened up to the public.  He cannot even get Facebook opened up to the public and there is a reason for that. In Iran of course the leadership tries to control basically everything from the cradle to the grave. And they also control the media. Facebook like in many other countries would open up a stage for people to have free discussions. Now Mr. Rouhani came out very clearly I want to open up these websites. But now seven months down the line nothing.  Are there other promises that he made that have also not been kept?  Of course there is also the matter of the opposition leaders. In 2009 they were protesting Iran. The two men the former presidential challengers Mr. Mir Hossein Mousavi and Mehdi Karroubi were later placed under house arrest for playing a role in those protests. They have been under house arrest for a thousand days by now. Nobody knows how these people are doing. And it is been a main demand of people to get these two men released.  So is this man in danger of being discredited?  I think he is doubling down on his foreign policy. Now let us just paint a picture of Iran. Iran has been under sanctions over the last year. Their national economy has been ravaged. The national currency has lost over two to 300 percent. People have lost track how much value it has lost. You go to the supermarket. You buy a carton of milk. It is twice the price it used to be a month ago. People do not like this kinds of things. Now Mr. Rouhani has been preaching that any real nuclear deal with the world powers - and especially of course with the United States - will herald in you know the coming of Western companies more jobs better relations with other countries and of course the ability for Iran to sell its oil again. Now people are still patient enough to wait for this. And at the same time in their opinion the deal for the nuclear case is taking too much time. They want to see things move at a faster pace is what they are saying.  OK. Suppose the deal does fall through or it just - negotiations dragged on and on. Is Iran in a position where he can last where it can sustain itself economically for months and months or years and years?  It is funny. When you talk to Iranian economists or even people within the Iranian government they admit privately that there is no money in the bank. They are out of money. They have trouble paying certain people. At the same time the Iranian government is sort of an enigma. There is a big underground economy there is a lot of trade that we do not know about. They will manage to mug along for a very long time compared in a way to the Soviet Union. The Soviet Union had a lot of issues with its ideology. Their economy had been bankrupt for decades but still they managed to survive. Well I do not see a reason why Iran is not able to survive. Will the people like such a situation? I do not know. But they have put up with it in the past so why not in the future?  Thomas Erdbrink of The New York Times always a pleasure to see you.  Thanks for having me Steve. 