 It is PR News. Good morning. I am Steve Inskeep.  And I am Renee Montagne. Let us hear now about what really seems to work for older people looking to sharpen their cognitive skills and hoping not to lose them too soon. NPR's Ina Jaffe has more on what a large-scale study found.  It is common sense that older adults have a better quality of life if they keep their minds active. That is one reason for the popularity of say crossword puzzles. Jonathan King head of the Cognitive Aging Program at the National Institute on Aging says crosswords are fine so far as they go.  The thing you best do when you do crossword puzzles is you get better at doing crossword puzzles.  On the other hand the study that King co-authored provided more than 2000 people - mostly in their 70s - with training in cognitive skills that could apply to much of everyday life. One group took memory training. One group was trained in reasoning and another in quickly processing visual data. The control group as usual got nothing. There were just 10 training sessions and King says researchers figured the impacts would dissipate over time.  But when we kept on retesting first at one year two years and up even up to five years we actually saw preservation of the training. It was therefore striking to us that when we now tested again at 10 years people really still were improved compared to the controls.  In everything but memory skills. King says that with study subjects now in their 80s there may be physiological issues like changes in the brain that memory training just cannot overcome. And as time went by all of the people who received training showed some declines  They declined but they declined less than if you had received no training.  Brain training has become a hot commodity. Millions of people have logged onto computer-based products designed to give users a mental workout. One of them Lumosity is an NPR underwriter. King says he is got nothing against the commercial sites.  Except that in most of these cases we really do not know how well they work. The question is how much emphasis you should put on spending money and time as opposed to other things you might be doing as well.  Like exercising that is one thing that science has proved does have a positive effect on cognitive ability so older adults can help themselves out by turning off the computer and taking nice long and frequent walks. Ina Jaffe NPR News. 