 And let us hear next from somebody who is a regular on The Daily Show With Jon Stewart where he wears many different hats.   I am joined by senior foreign affairs correspondent John Oliver - our senior literary correspondent John Oliver joins us - for more I am joined by senior presidential historian John Oliver. John thank you so much for joining us.   Yes John Oliver also known as the senior British correspondent.  And soon he will be known for a new show. Tomorrow night John Oliver's New York Stand-Up Show will debut on Comedy Central. John Oliver joins us to discuss his comedy but first let us hear a clip from his show.   Three and a half years I have lived here. I work hard relatively speaking for someone who does this for a living.   I pay my taxes. I try to fit in. I have learnt your rudimentary language.   I do not know what more you could reasonably expect me to do. And that is when it hit me. I know why I am so angry. I know what this is. Taxation without representation.   So you have some deep anger there about not being able to vote in America even though you have been here for a very very long time?  Yeah. I think yeah. I think anger is a very well-chosen word. Resentment. A sense of complete injustice all of that. I mean yeah I understand that people laughed when I paused during that piece of spoken word but they were wrong to do so. That was a very sincerely meant-from-the-heart sentiment.  Well do you even have a green card?  Yeah I do now. Now you sound like a U.S. immigration officer. Actually I do as of just at the end of last year I finally now have a green card so yes I do. And I still do not get to vote.  Well what do you plan to do about it?  Well I am going to get a - I am in the process of getting a very elaborate red coat stitched up and then I will get my musket dusted and polished off and then I am taking this country back. You leave me no other choice.  So you are actually going to be an anti-tea partier?  Yeah yeah yeah absolutely. Those tea-party people do not know what - they have had it too easy all the last 12 months. The British are coming. We will show you what tyranny really is.  Well why are you so eager to become an American or at least to vote or to be part of our ways?  It is not so much that I am eager to be American as I am eager for you to be British once more. I still see this as very much our land. No I love it here. That is the truth and so I want to stay so I was very anxious to get a green card because life on a visa can be perilous.  Well how did you get here in the first place because you have only been here for three years and yet here you are on The Daily Show and it is you know it is not some small tiny club in a small town. This is the big time for a comedian.  It is the big times within the terms of basic cable yes. You are right. But no I was working and writing in England and then I got offered this job. I had not been to America before so it was very strange. It was my favorite show as I was in England. So coming here the first day was very very strange.  You can watch The Daily Show in England?  Yeah I watched it online and now it is also on in England.  Really?  Yeah we have televisions there too.   Shocking. So you have been working on The Daily Show since 2006 and you do a lot of these sketches where you go out on assignment and play the straight man and ask ridiculous questions of people. Do all of them know that you are a comedian and kind of poking fun?  They know what the show is and I guess when you sit down opposite of someone you often do have something in the back of your mind thinking why are you here? Why are you doing this? If you know this show why are you doing this? The truth is they just want to be on TV.  People want to be on TV. Politicians - it might be okay a gamble or some - they know that we have a viewership who actually votes. So I guess it is a controlled gamble the whole time. They know - they know the show though.  It did not seem like that when you interviewed the Swiss U.N. ambassador recently on the show.  Okay. That is possibly true.  When you sat down with this ambassador...  Yes.  ...and you started you know making fun of Swiss neutrality and...  Yeah.  ...but then towards the end it gets really sticky and uncomfortable not only for him but for the viewers and you can hear some uncomfortable laughter in the audience. And let us hear that.   So easy to take a position on neutrality hard to take a position on Hitler.   We do - we did take strong positions on Hitler and many other things. We just did not participate in the war. That is two different things.  Would it be possible for me to keep my gold here? Oh Adolf of course lovely to see you again come back in. What have you been up to? Actually do not tell me. I want to be able to say I do not know.   At that point were you going for the humor or were you going for something else?  Yeah I am always going for the joke. It is a comedy show so that is the most - that is the priority. And yet you also want to try and get - especially with - where you have interesting opportunities like sitting down with an ambassador you want those jokes to illuminate something. And so the discussion you were referring was really about neutrality during the Second World War and whether that is appropriate whether neutral - and you have to give him credit he stands by it. You know it is an all-in process neutrality. You go for it and then  self-interest to its logical conclusion.  You probably get this question 100 times but is there a big difference between British and American humor do you think?  No not really. No. That is the quickest way to answer that. The longest way is that I guess there are similar reference points - you know your reference points have to change in a minor way but so much of comedy is cross- cultural between the UK and the US. We get each other's stand-up comedians a lot and each other's comedy shows. So it is not that much different. The only real difference in live comedy is alcohol level which is significantly higher in the UK. Significantly higher.  On the part of the performers or the audience?  Well both but especially the audience.  Yeah so is it a lot more raucous?  Yes it is. It is a lot more raucous. There is a lot more - people really have come for a dialogue when they go to a stand-up show in the UK. They say yeah I understand that you have now finished your little comedy monologue now I have something to say regarding what I have just heard.  Maybe that is why you like the U.S. better.  That could be it. The U.S. is surprisingly more polite.  Well John Oliver thank you very much.  You are welcome. It is a pleasure.   John Oliver Daily Show correspondent and host of the new show John Oliver's New York Stand-Up Show. This is a very polite MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am Madeleine Brand.  And I am Steve Inskeep.  