 In Venezuela President Hugo Chavez has been absent from the public eye for weeks. He went to Cuba a month ago for another round of cancer surgery. Since then there have been few details released about the state of his health. Chavez is supposed to be back home this Thursday to take the oath of office and start his fourth presidential term. But as NPR's Juan Forero reports from Venezuela's capital it is looking increasingly like Chavez will not show up.  In the Bolivar Plaza of downtown Caracas Chavez's passionate supporters arrive carrying photographs of their leader.   And singing songs urging Chavez on. Music blares from loudspeakers repeating over and over Chavez my commander is here to stay.   But Chavez is most definitely not here. And increasingly many Venezuelans wonder if he will ever be back. He flew to Cuba Venezuela's closest ally for an operation that took place on December 11. It was surgery that was so delicate that the president named a successor before leaving. What little has been reported about his health since has not been good.    Right after the surgery Information Minister Ernesto Villegas went on state television to say that Chavez was suffering from internal bleeding. Then at the end of December things seemed to worsen.    Nicolas Maduro the vice president read a statement from Havana saying there were complications and there were risks. Days later the word from the government was that Chavez had a severe lung infection. Never in Chavez's year and a half battle with cancer have officials said what kind of cancer he has where in his body it is located or what the prognosis is. Instead state television plays commercial after commercial showing Chavez with his followers. As in this one where he tells a group of young men to work hard for the benefit of the country.     Yet while heart-warming videos of El Comandante air government officials have offered signals that Chavez will not return by Thursday. The constitution says that the inauguration should take place that day before the Congress. But Vice President Maduro has called that a formality.    In an interview on state television Maduro said there is flexibility built into the constitution. And that because the president was reelected in October he went on there is continuity from one term to the next. He says that the constitution permits Chavez to also be sworn in by the Supreme Court and that the date can be pushed back.  That does not make sense at all.  Constitutional lawyer Carlos Ayala says the constitution is clear and does not support the government's argument.  So it is not that we elect a president for an undetermined term for an uncertain term. We elect presidents for a mandate to take place beginning one day and finishing one day. And that is what constitutional democracy is all about.  He says that if Chavez cannot show up on Thursday then the constitution says the head of the congress becomes interim leader. Chavez could later return and be sworn in. But what is vital Ayala says is that the public learn more about Chavez's health. Perhaps through a medical board commissioned to travel to Cuba.  None of that is being done. And we have just been told that he is coming that we have already enough information.   At the Plaza Bolivar in central Caracas though Chavez's red-shirted supporters say they have heard enough about the president's health. One of them is Milia Duarte who is 50 and a self-styled Chavista.    There have been reports every day she says and they have been clear. I am pleased and feel like I am informed. She also says she is going hoping for Chavez to return. Juan Forero NPR News Caracas. 