 There are a handful of historians who now advocate teaching an all-encompassing form of history known as big history. Everything about big history is outsized from its backer Microsoft founder Bill Gates to its critics who see big problems. Author Eric Weiner explains the controversy in our series The Future of History.  Sometimes one phone call can change your life. Not that long ago David Christian a history professor at San Diego State received just such a call.  I think it was a Monday morning.  Christian was in a foul mood.  Because I had to do lots of tedious administrative things and I was sort of gearing up for that.  Then the phone rings.  And I say yes what do you want? And a very nice voice at the other end says oh I am sorry is this a bad time? And I say no no no no it is not a bad time. What do you want? . And she says look I am so sorry. I can call back later. But I am calling from Mr. Bill Gates' office. And I said oh yes?  Gates was calling about big history. He would seen Christian's video course on the subject and was intrigued. Like all big ideas big history began with a what-if. What if you began teaching history not with the agricultural revolution but earlier with the Paleolithic age? What if you ventured even further back?  And then once I went down that track you can see where it is going to go . I started thinking how do you you know - we have to talk about the evolution of life. We have to talk about the evolution of the planet. And eventually we have to talk about the evolution of the universe. And so that was my first idea was could you teach a history of everything?  Yes you can.   There is a huge release of energy and - bam - we have our first stars.  Christian's TED Talk has garnered more than 5 million views and college courses on big history are extremely popular. Students like the way it weaves different disciplines from cosmology to biology into a coherent whole. A modern origin story Christian calls it told through the prism of science. Big history expands not only the scale of history but also the sort of questions historians and their students are encouraged to ask.  I remember as a kid I think there were lots of - lots of people who went to school expecting to ask the big questions about what is your place in the universe. How does everything fit together? And what your schoolteachers more or less have to tell you is shut up about the meaning of life  you know and get on with your history of the Industrial Revolution or whatever it is.  Big history can change all that Christian believes. And it was that phone call from Bill Gates and a subsequent donation of 10 million that enabled him to take the next step and bring big history into the high school classroom.  If we spent the majority of our time 13000 years ago searching for food how much time do we spend with our food today?  Not a lot.  Not a lot right? A few minutes right? You can pop Easy Mac in the microwave and have it done in a minute.  Kenwood High in Essex Md. is one of some 700 schools across the country that now offers big history. Teacher Jeffrey Malbrough readily admits this is an experiment a learning experience for all involved.  For the most part I am learning more than the kids are learning sometimes I swear.  His lectures are peppered with phrases such as Goldilocks conditions and smoothie state plucked from the lexicon of big history. It is a dizzying pace 14 billion years of history in a single semester. Humans do play a role of course but a relatively small one.  One of the first lessons that we did was taking them out and talking about scale taking them out to a football field.  Yes a football field - one goal line represented the big bang the other goal line today.  And then where do humans come in? It is between the one-yard line and the goal line. So I think getting them to understand that there is more than just us there is more than just the world that we see today. There is so much out there that they can experience.  Many of Malbrough's students struggle to maintain interest in other classes. But you would not know it watching them gobble up big history. Timothy Frey and Kamal Shah  say it is unlike any history class they have ever taken.  It changes my way of how I think of humanity . Like I used to just think that oh we - we are the top species. But really we are not.  I took AP world history. And we learned like a lot of facts like every little detail. But none of it actually connected. Like in this class everything connects. Like we connected like the Opium Wars all the way back to the big bang. And I thought that was really interesting 'ecause it actually made sense.  Big history though has raised some unexpected big questions.  My primary question is is it history?  Sam Wineburg is a professor of education and history at Stanford. He is all for making history more compelling but does not believe big history with its stratospheric perspective is the answer.  History is about human beings. History is about the decisions that people make that change the course of our time. And the kinds of questions of the big bang or did mammals evolve seem to be quite far and distant from the immediacy of the need to understand our present through the lens and the prism of the past.  Wineburg and other critics are also concerned about big history's wealthy backer Bill Gates. Philanthropists have long dipped their toes and sometimes more into the world of education. But this says Wineburg is different.  Andrew Carnegie built libraries but he did not tell people what to read.  Not so fast say supporters of big history like David Christian. Sure Bill Gates put up some money and lent his name to the project. But that is about it.  This is not his history. He is not steered it or controlled it in any way. What he is done is he is enabled it.  Enabled students who might otherwise have been turned off by musty history to actually well enjoy it and at the same time wrestle with some very big questions not only about history but about the meaning of life. Moss Arnold is a 10th grader at Kenwood High and a budding existentialist.  It made me think a lot more about just the whole universe itself because it all started from the big bang of course. And when you think about it he was saying that it would all come to an end soon. So when you really think about it what are we doing here? It just makes you think that really everything will be meaningless soon.  Big history promises big questions not necessarily happy answers. For NPR News I am Eric Weiner. 