 At this time of year midseason network television shows are coming to a small screen near you. Returning hits like American Idol premiere along with a batch of new shows launched to replace canceled titles from the fall things like Charlie's Angel The Playboy Club and Free Agents. James Hibberd who covers television for Entertainment Weekly. And he joins us from NPR West to talk about some of these midseason shows. Good morning.  Hi.  Let us start with NBC. I gather that they are going to be trying quite a few new shows. Maybe I should say what they are trying for is a comeback.  They have been trying for a combat for a while now. I mean you have to wonder how many years can NBC have the same story in the fall of these shows that do not pan out.  Well now they are launching Smash. This is about folks who are working in the theater trying to put together a Broadway musical about Marilyn Monroe. I saw the pilot which seemed to be very classy part music part drama kind of Glee grows up.  It is. It is very much Glee for grown-ups. You know I hear very wildly conflicting opinions in the industry about whether it will work. Everyone agrees it is a very well-done show.  There are some beautiful production numbers like this one which is from the play they are theoretically doing about Marilyn Monroe. This is about baseball.    Fellas.  Yeah?   Fellas.  Yeah?   Hey team.  Off the benches it is Marilyn.   I just got a date...   She is just got a date.   ...with baseball's Jolting Joe.   The lucky so-and-so...  So what do you think? Give it 50 percent better?  It is one of the toughest ones to predict. I would say it is got about a 5050 shot.  Now ABC had a surprisingly strong fall. It had a fairy story the very creepy fairy story Once Upon A Time Suburgatory. What is coming up for the midterm?  Well ABC has a really intriguing one called The River which is from Paranormal Activity director Orin Peli. And it is about a search in the Amazon to find a missing documentarian played by Bruce Greenwood. And the pilot sort of plays like a mash up of Lost Paranormal Anaconda Activity.   It is all very familiar but it is a very fast-moving mash up that definitely hooks your interest. And that will be on Tuesday nights in February.  Now on the other hand Work It which is a cross-dressing sitcom. Two guys dressing up like women to get jobs. Now there is a very peculiar concept.  Yes. Yes. Yes. Two men dressing up as women to get jobs in pharmaceutical sales. And it is drawing these protests from GLAAD and the transgender community. And you have to wonder what ABC was thinking there. Because you are going to get people riled up you want to at least do it for a show that you are proud of. And this was a show that from the moment it was announced last May that critics have been sharpening their knives to sort of tear into.  Fox does very well with its Idol of course and that starts over now. Does not it?  American Idol Season 11 it is amazing. It just keeps going.  There is another program coming from Fox. It is a see into the future plot. It is called Touch. It sounds to me kind of like something I have seen before except it does have Kiefer Sutherland in it.    Jake I did what you wanted. I followed the numbers. They were saved because of you. I do not know if you understand a single word that I am saying. I do not even know if you hear me. But I can hear you Jake. Do you understand that? I can hear you now.  Kiefer Sutherland was such a huge star for Fox for so many years with 24. And this is a moody well-done drama about a man whose silent special-needs son can predict the future. And it also marks the return of Heroes creator Tim Kring to prime time so we are all looking forward to that one.  I expect I will be tuning in. James Hibberd is a senior writer for Entertainment Weekly. Thank you very much.  Thank you. 