 From NPR News this is Weekend Edition. I am Liane Hansen. Hundreds of thousands possibly millions of people are expected in the nation's capital to witness and celebrate the transfer of power from one administration to another this Tuesday. The festivities for the inauguration of Barack Obama as the 44th president are already beginning as are the sales of inaugural doo dads. Darlene Gaye of Miami had her bit of kitsch picked out.  Unidentified Woman Did you see the bobblehead doll?  Yes. My husband loves the bobblehead. Most likely we are going to buy it.   Later today some of America's most popular musicians give a free open-air concert in front of the Lincoln Memorial. NPR's Allison Keyes is out on the Mall checking out the preparations. Allison where are you? What is going on where you are?  I am at the corner of 23rd and Constitution and just came through a pretty major security check for the media. The public is entering at several different venues along Constitution Avenue but people out here are having a really good time this morning.  Really? Are there many people out this early?  I would say there were several hundred people in line when I walked up at about a quarter to seven. I cannot see all the way down the street but the line which is broken up in parts extends past 19th street which is several blocks from where I am. There are a lot of people dressed up in layers. People have chairs. There are people out dancing. Everybody is pretty excited to be here.  Yeah. You mentioned people dressing in layers. I know it is a little warmer today but not much. It is cold. Do people seemed like they are really dressed warmly enough?  Well some of us are lucky enough to be from Chicago.   So I have got about four layers myself.   But I ran into a group of women from California who are actually singing and dancing in line I Will Survive and that kind of thing. They said they bought their first winter coats this morning but they have been out since 30 a.m they have a big thermos of coffee which actually is prohibited so they are having a good time. They say they just are exited to be a part of this whole thing.  And from where you are can you see any preparations on stage?  I cannot see the stage yet from where I am. Where I am standing is in a secure area. There is an army unit in fatigues in front me and the secret servicemen that are checking the media. There are barricades all along Constitution and along the roads leading up to the Memorial and a lot of live trucks where I am right now.  Can I ask you of the people that you have seen are they older? Are they younger? Are just an absolute mixed bag?  It is an absolute mixed bag. I think the youngest person I have met so far this morning is four. She was not pleased to be out this early.   But her dad said he was coming to see Springsteen no matter what. Of course the people next to him were all for Shakira. Then there was another group of people for Beyonce. So it looks like a pretty multi-generational thing. And people say that they are equally excited about the concert and to be part of this inaugural which everybody describes as historic.  So even though people's eyes maybe running from the cold there are big big smiles on their faces.  Yes.  And it is not that bad. They are actually one woman out here that has on a face mask that looks like Hannibal Lecter. She seems to be the warmest person I have seen.  NPR's Allison Keyes. She is on the National Mall here in Washington in preparation for the big concert later today. Allison thank you very much.  You are welcome. 