 Staying in the tech world now later today Microsoft releases its earnings for the final quarter of 2012. And no matter what the computer software giant announces it will not mask the fact that last year was a brutal one for the personal computer industry. Dell - one of the largest computer makers on the planet - is in talks to be taken over by a private equity firm. PC sales are declining globally. And as NPR's Steve Henn reports some see a technological shift in the works that could undermine the empire built by Microsoft.  Mobile devices like tablets and smartphones are now clearly stealing sales from the traditional personal computer industry. Scott Weiss is a venture capitalist at Andreessen Horowitz.  And the only problem is is that there is no you know Microsoft tablet.  Actually there is. There are lots of them. They are just not popular.  You know all the tablets are being shipped as either Apple or Android.  Personal computer companies that have not moved aggressively into mobile - companies like Dell - are suffering.  And so it puts kind of the whole WinTel thing in a pickle.  That is the technology empire Microsoft Windows and Intel created together - and now that empire is falling apart.  It is actually a fascinating story because it starts in - way back in 1975.  Jeremy Reimer is a writer and programmer who is studied technology life-cycles. He says personal computers took down main frames a generation ago - by being cheaper and getting just good enough to do some real work. Today he says mobile devices are doing the same thing.  A lot of people are finding they can get by with just...  A smartphone or a tablet.  Particularly in the developing world a lot of people are skipping PCs entirely and just going straight to a smartphone.  The smartphone is their computer and according to Bob O'Donnell an analyst at IDC these devices are now taking a bite out of traditional computer sales. BOB O' In 2012 PC sales declined by a few percentage points and it is the first time we have seen negative growth.  Outside of once during a recession. And today big American PC manufacturers - like Dell or HP - are getting crushed. IDC says Dell shipped 21 percent fewer personal computers last quarter than it did just a year ago. And even though Dell has almost 11 billion in cash and generates billions in profits each year its stock price has collapsed. Investors just do not see a bright future - and all that is made it an attractive target for a private equity takeover according to Weiss at Andreessen Horowitz.  I do not think it is necessarily a capitulation.  But turning Dell around probably will not be pretty.  I think going private it is almost like you pull a curtain up because there are some messy things that are going to have to go on.  Think restructuring layoffs.  And doing that all in the you know under the public glare is not easy.  Weiss's firm Andreessen Horowitz has done deals with Silverlake. That is the private equity firm in talks to buy Dell. Together the two firms explored buying Yahoo and a couple years before that Andreessen Horowitz and Silverlake bought Skype then later they sold it to Microsoft.  You know listen the folks that are contemplating taking Dell private are incredibly smart.  Weiss says Silverlake and other private investors clearly believe they can continue to sell PCs profitably for years even if their business is not growing.  When a platform shift happens -  like it did to Blockbuster Video - and you know kind of the writing's on the wall it still is amazing just how long it takes for a product line of for a company to go out of business.  Weiss says there still could be an upside for Dell. It does more than just sell PCs and...  Microsoft has seen the success that both Apple and Google have had in making their own tablet kind of a you know just controlling the user experience from beginning to end.  So Weiss was not surprised that Microsoft is reportedly interested in buying a piece of Dell. Helping Dell survive cannot hurt and perhaps Microsoft and Dell together could actually build a mobile product people want to buy. Steve Henn NPR News Silicon Valley. 