 Next week the NBA is putting on its big London game. The New York Knicks take on the Washington Wizards. But Enes Kanter of the Knicks will not be there. Mr. Kanter is Turkish and an outspoken critic of Turkish President Erdogan. He was playing basketball for the Oklahoma City Thunder in 2017 when he was detained at a Romanian airport when Turkey revoked his passport. Enes Kanter joins us now from New York. Thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you guys for inviting me.  And why did you decide not to go to London?  I really did not feel safe because the Turkish government is very famous for hunting down those who oppose Erdogan. So I mean I just did not want to really risk my life by going to Europe. But you know I talked to my team. I told them all like how many times I want to come because I want to be with you guys there and I want to get a win with you guys. And then later on they came back with the news and said you know what? I think the best decision is if you do not come. Let us just not risk it for one game.  Do you feel safe in New York and elsewhere in the U.S.?  I have been getting last two three days hundreds death threats but I think I feel safe in America. But anywhere else in the world I would not really feel safe.  Did you say you have gotten hundreds of death threats?  Yes I have been getting them since 2016. But especially last two three days I have been getting lots of death threats.  And we will note that your father Mehmet Kanter...  Yes.  ...Has been indicted in Turkey. He is accused of belonging to a terrorist organization. He is a follower of a cleric who is in the United States and accused of plotting a coup against the Erdogan government. Does your father say he is innocent?  Well I will tell you this first. I have no contact with my family right now and I just do not want them to get in trouble. And if they would see any little text - say hi Mom. How you guys doing? Hi Dad. And they will be all in jail. They actually took my dad in jail for seven days. And we put so much pressure from here in America to Turkey and they had to let him go.  As I do not have to tell you a former NBA star also from Turkey Hedo Turkoglu is now chief and adviser to President Erdogan. And he is been critical of you.  Yes.  Do you have anything to say about that?  I was really good friends with him. I actually play in same team 2011. We were teammates in the Turkish national team. And then after that I think till 2013 '14 we played against each other because he was playing the NBA. And then after that he retired. And then he started working with the Turkish government. And it is just very sad because he is actually a very good guy. But he picked a side and he is in a tough situation.  I have to ask Mr. Kanter have you received any pressure or advice from someone - I do not know - a sports agent commercial agent who says to you do not talk about politics? You are not going to be able to sell basketball shoes in Turkey. This makes you controversial. Just be quiet about what your feelings are.  I understand. When you talk about this kind of issues you are not going to get big contracts. But you know what? I look at it - in the end it is worth it because I am an NBA player and I have a big platform. So I am trying to use this platform to be voice of all those innocent people who do not have a voice. And people know my story because I play in the NBA. But there are thousands and thousands stories out there waiting to be heard way worse than mine. So I was like you know what? I understand you know? It is tough. My family's still back in there and they are getting lots of threats too. But I have to do this for all those innocent people.  Enes Kanter of the New York Knicks thanks very much. Good luck to you both on the court and off sir.  Thank you guys appreciate it. 