 President Trump is heading to McAllen Texas today - again trying to convince the American public that a border wall is needed and that the government shutdown is worth it. The way President Trump has described this wall over time has changed quite a bit. NPR White House correspondent Tamara Keith has more.  Back in 2014 when the businessman Donald Trump was toying with the idea of running for president he said he would build a border fence. That summer a couple of his advisers including Sam Nunberg came up with the idea of calling it a wall as a way of signaling Trump would be an immigration hard-liner.  And what better way than to have his brand incorporated by Donald Trump saying yeah I am going to build a wall. Nobody builds like Trump.  Nunberg wants to be clear. Trump rejected plenty of their ideas but he went all-in on the wall.  It was fun. It was cool. It was novel.   I would build a great wall. And nobody builds walls better than me believe me. And I will build them very inexpensively.  Trump officially launched his campaign in June 2015 with the wall as a centerpiece.    Build that wall. Build that wall. Build that wall.  That December at a rally in Virginia a little boy asked Trump for the specs on his wall.   What are the walls going to be made out of?   That might be the best question I get today. I will tell you what it is going to be made of. It is going to be made of hardened concrete. And it is going to be made out of rebar and steel.  When he described his wall he talked about concrete. He mocked those who said it would be hard or impractical but it is worth noting that even very early on he never said it would extend unbroken from sea to shining sea.   Well we have 2000 miles. We actually need 1000 - even less than that because we have a lot of natural barriers right? Big strong wonderful natural barriers.  After Trump became president though his description of the wall started to change. This was Trump on Fox News in November 2017.   One of the things that is come up pretty strongly is we want to have vision through the wall because you want to see what is on the other side of the wall. You know you think we are going to build a nice simple concrete wall but it is not that simple.  That was a dose of reality meeting the president's concrete wall. For safety reasons border agents want to be able to see what is on the other side so the wall would actually be made of tall steel bollards or posts which strictly speaking is more like a fence than a wall. Still Trump kept calling it a wall kept leading chants at his rallies all through last year.    Build that wall. Build that wall. Build that wall.  But now with Democrats refusing to fund the president's wall he is emphasizing the shift in building materials.   You can never have border security unless you have a steel barrier a concrete wall. You can call it whatever you want.  Steel slats steel barrier - it is not a concrete wall. But does that matter to the people who elected Trump to build a wall? Sam Nunberg the early campaign adviser says no.  What matters is that there is something built that has not been like anything that is built before that is bigger grander.  Now Nunberg does not claim to speak for all Trump voters but he is looked at recent polling and focus groups.  Trump supporters define success on the border as building the wall and he has to build a wall or get a wall started.  Trump's political future may well depend on it. Tamara Keith NPR News.  