 Talks between the Syrian government and the opposition have now moved to separate rooms in Geneva. The two sides met face to face this morning but so far have failed to find agreement on a humanitarian cease-fire that would allow humanitarian aid into the city of Homs. U.N. mediator Lakhdar Brahimi said today that he hopes people will be able to leave Homs in the next few days. Women and children are already beginning to depart.  Russia helped bring Assad's government into these talks. Today Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov called the situation in Geneva extremely grave adding that quote positions are polarized emotions are on the edge. To hear more about Russia's influence over Syria we reached Vladimir Pozner a journalist based in Moscow and the author of a book on U.S.-Russian relations. I started by asking him what Russia might have said or done to get the Syrian government to the negotiating table.  Well we can only guess because obviously that is not been announced. But it is clear that Russia does have a certain influence on Assad. Russia has a profound interest in preserving whatever influence it still has in that part of the world. Once upon a time as you will recall the Soviet Union had a very very strong influence out there which gradually ebbed away. And I think that the present leadership as in Putin have a real interest in trying to bring Russia back into that part of the world which is seen as being very important. And Mr. Assad looking back understands the importance of having workable relations with Russia.  Does it end there or are there real tangible points of leverage that Russia can manipulate?  You know that is hard to say. In this particular case Syria its leadership has to make a decision Which way is it going to go? On the one hand it has a certain support on the part of Russia that says you should not use force you should sit down and negotiate at the table and we do not demand Mr. Assad resign. On the other side it is got this uprising where you have a lot of very very strong Islamist groups who seem to be upheld to a certain extent by the West. So when there is that choice between the two - and clearly Mr. Assad prefers the first - then that side does have leverage.  Russia of course is a permanent member of the U.N. Security Council. The United States Europe and other allies need Russia on board to a certain degree in these talks. What is in it for Russia? Do they benefit at all from an unstable Syria?  I do not think Russia - or any other country - benefits from an unstable Syria. Clearly not. But if Russia can play a role that would lead to some kind of resolution of this situation Russia would benefit immensely because it would be seen as a kind of - not a peacemaker but a country that can play a positive role in these very very dangerous hot spots.  How much of that has to do with the Sochi Olympics? And do you think that it is legitimately an opportunity for the United States to put political pressure on Russia?  You know that is a very good question. And it is one that in my opinion has a very very clear answer. The one thing you do not want to do is to put an ultimatum to the Russian leadership. It will be totally counterproductive. So if you put pressure on it is got to be on some kind of private channels. If you know who Mr. Putin is if you have any idea of what this man is like you have to understand that he will not submit to pressure. We are all human beings and there is psychology here. You can talk to him you can explain your viewpoint - I think he is a good listener. But if you say you know if you do not do this we are going to do that it is going to be counterproductive. That is very much my feeling.  Vladimir Pozner is a journalist based in Moscow. Thank you so much for talking with us.  Thank you.  And to be clear U.N. mediator Lakhdar Brahimi says he is been told by the Syrian government women and children will - hopefully - be allowed to start leaving the besieged city of Homs starting tomorrow. 