 For the young man we will meet next 2015 promises to be very different than the year just ended. Junior Adriano is 18. He is a graduate of Anthony High School outside of El Paso Texas. We met him last year when we visited that school for Borderland our journey along the U.S.-Mexico border. In a radio and video story Junior spoke of being in the U.S. illegally brought across the border by his parents. They are now back in Mexico while Junior lives in Texas with his sister.   When I am at school I feel somewhat American 'ecause like all my friends and all that we all speak English and all that. But like when I start thinking about it like that I have nothing to feel American about really because I cannot do nothing at all. Let us say I do something bad and the cops get me like I am going to get screwed over and I am going to get sent back probably.  That was Junior last March. Now here's what is changing. Since we met he applied for temporary legal status in the United States. He did it under DACA - D-A-C-A - Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals a program started under President Obama. This week Junior told us he is about to get an ID card.  They told me I was approved 'ecause like they called me to go take my fingerprints. And then after that they told me that I should receive them by January.  Which means Junior can legally work in the United States and also show ID if asked by agents at the Border Patrol. We spoke with Junior along with his old high school principal Oscar Troncoso. It was principal Troncoso who allowed a lawyer to come to the school and talk with students.  Junior was there with his sister. And that is what kind of kicked it off. I started learning a little bit more about the process since I had some time. And I really - more than anything I saw a willingness in Junior to want to help himself. And he was asking a lot of questions and so I could see that that willingness there to get something done. So it was just Junior gathering documents and me giving him rides and sometimes asking questions over there. And - but to Junior's credit he was very persistent. He not only gathered all of the documents but he was able to raise the money himself.  How much money are we talking about here Junior?  Four-hundred-and-sixty-nine in total.  Is that a lot of money for you?  Yeah . It was pretty hard to come up with. I was just doing like yard work and like work like that like construction.  I remember when we spoke with your group of students - you were one of five we sat with at your high school - that a couple of you said you did not particularly feel American. Living here but not here with legal status or fully legal status and do not feel American. Of course you are still not a citizen.  Yes of course I am not.  Do you feel American now?  Now I really do because now I am able to be here like with no problems - like being scared of the Border Patrol now. Like now I am able to show that permit that I am able to be here go around the United States without no problems. So like now I do feel more American.  Since we met in March President Obama has taken another major step on immigration. In the face of much criticism he took an executive action that is expected to allow millions of people to claim legal status. That must include some grown-ups some adults -parents of children in your school Oscar Troncoso. How widely felt has that been in your community?  Well it is something honestly that they do not like to discuss too openly but the few people that I have talked to they seem to have mixed feelings. On one hand they feel positive about it. But on the other hand it kind of feels like it is something temporary. And so I get the sense that some of them do not quite trust it because it is nothing that is really permanent.  Do you feel you have a sense having spent years as a principal and having dealt with hundreds of kids - some of whom are here legally and some of whom are not - how their lives are different based on what side of the legal line that they are on as they graduate from your school and go on into the world?  It is at times for me as a principal because I see it every year Steve when we have a couple of kids - for whatever reason they are not documented - they get to the point where they finish high school and then it seems to me like they hit a wall. There is not a whole lot of opportunity for them. They are worried about their future because basically they can only get odd jobs.  Junior do you have a sense of what exactly you want to do once you have your card in hand?  Yeah I want to go to school. I want to go to criminal justice but then I also want to work full-time job. So like right now I am kind of stuck in between. Like I do not know if I should go to school and have a part-time job or like just get a full-time job.  Why criminal justice?  I want to do FBI.  You want to be an FBI agent?  Yes sir.  Now what gave you that idea?  I do not know. Like I have always just been like interesting of being like an agent. I always wanted to be like an undercover.  You want to be an undercover agent?  Yes sir.  I suppose you have had a little experience with that having had to spend some time without documents here in the United States.  Yeah.  Well gentlemen thanks very much to both of you and Happy New Year.  Happy New Year to you too.  Happy New Year Steve.  That is Junior Adriano and his former principal Oscar Troncoso in Texas. 