 You know when you have a decision to make the standard advice is to think everything through and weigh the pros and cons and reason your way to the right choice. But today we have a story about the limits of our rational minds to help us make decisions. It comes to us from our friends at Radio Lab.   Hey Steve.  That is Jad Abumrad of WNYC.  And this is me Robert Krulwich.  Oh sorry Robert did not mean to leave you out. Robert Krulwich as well.  Hi.  Okay now before we get started remind us what Radio Lab is.  KRULWICH And also the world all around us.  Right and today we are thinking about as you said how we make decisions. So Steve let me just get things started by asking you - how many numbers do you think you can remember at once?  I have no idea. Test me.  All right. Ready?  Sure.  Four six one seven eight two three 33...  This always a trick question with him.  Zero...  Four six seven one eight two three 33 nine one and then after that I do not know what it is.  That is good actually because you know I can do four seven.   Robert is a special case but it turns out there is a classic study in psychology that asks this very question. It happened in 1956 there was a psychologist named George Miller who asked people to memorize a bunch of different stuff - numbers letters musical notes - and what he found is that the average human being can hold about seven items in their short-term memory seven.  Like a phone number?  Exactly. Now the interesting thing is what happens to our decision- making powers when you try and get more than seven in your head.  Unidentified Man  Yes...  Well let me introduce you to someone.  I am Baba Shiv a professor here at the Stanford Graduate School of Business and Marketing. A lot of my research has to do with the brain.  And tricking people.  Oh yeah absolutely.    I want to you to tell about one particular experiment that he did.  So the experiment it is pretty straightforward.  It goes like this. He got a bunch of subjects together. He said okay I am going to give you all a number.  A number...  ...on a little card you are going to read the number and I want you to commit that number to memory.  Take as much time as you want to memorize the number.  Then he says...  You are now going to walk to the next room and recall the number. And that is what subjects think. The subjects think that they are going to be doing in that study.  They know that they are going to be in one place getting a number going to another place reciting that number.  That is right.  That is all they know.  That is all they know.  What they do not know is that not everybody is getting the same kind of number.  Some people get a seven-digit number some people get a two-digit number.  That I can do by the way. I think I can do two digits.  No I doubt it.   All the subjects have to do is they have got to memorize the number walk out of room one down the hall room two then recite their number. Now just imagine. You with me?  Mm-hmm.  Person with a two digit number in the head is walking out of room one.  One two is my number. I can definitely remember this.  Unidentified Man  1228932...  Unidentified Man  289...  Unidentified Man  Oh.  Unidentified Man  Sure.  Unidentified Woman  You can choose between either A a big fat slice of chocolate cake or B a nice bowl of fruit salad.  Unidentified Woman  ...or some healthy fruit?  The people - the people this is crazy - the people with two digits in their head...  You know I love cake but I think I will take the fruit.  Unidentified Woman  It is healthy.  Whereas the people with seven digits in their head almost always choose the cake.  You know the cake. I want the cake.  And we are talking by huge margins here.  It was significant. I mean this was like in some cases 20 25 30 point difference.  So what does...  Meaning if you have seven digits in your head you are twice as likely to choose cake than fruit twice.  So let us give them...   So the people with the seven digits get the cake. I get that part. I do not know why.  That does not interest you? As to why they would choose...  Well yeah why?  Okay good.   Now that I have got your interest I will tell you the theory.  Okay.  And this is where it gets interesting. It seems that the brain is anatomically organized into different systems.  Dual systems is what they are called.  That is Jonah Lehrer science writer who we often call when talking about brainy stuff. According to Jonah you have a rational deliberative system which is sort of more to the front of the brain and then deeper in the brain you have an emotional unconscious system. According to Jonah these two systems are often at war.  There is constant competition between the rational brain and the emotional brain. They are always competing for attention and to guide and direct your behavior.  Especially when you have a tough choice like Baba Shiv's cake versus fruit. There the competition is fierce.  The emotional automatic system is just pushing them towards the cake.  Unidentified Man  Chocolate frosting.  Unidentified Man  Give me a chocolate now.  On the other hand...  Unidentified Man  I am thinking about this choice carefully.  Unidentified Man  Calories sugar high fat content.  Unidentified Man  It is going to make you chubby.  Unidentified Man  It is not good for your health. It is not good for your self esteem.  And that acts as a check.  Unidentified man  1228936 12285 122 one a cholest - 122...  Unidentified Man  Or 2...  Unidentified Man  2...  Unidentified Man  Oh.  Which means greater likelihood that the emotions will drive their choices.  The astounding thing here says Jonah is not simply that you know sometimes emotion wins over reason. It is how easily it wins. Seven numbers is all it takes to screw up reason.  Just think about how astonishingly limited that is.  Mr. LEHRER And what we always rely on it all the advice on decision making is stop and think slow down take your time and yet when you actually look at the brain that can lead you to rely on a feeble piece of machinery.  Oh okay well I will just set aside this cake and thank Robert and Jad for stopping in. Thank you gentlemen.   Sure thing.  We kind of knew you would do the cake.  That is Jad Abumrad and Robert Krulwich from the show Radio Lab a production of WNYC in New York. You can explore Radio Lab at npr.org. 