 Yes the truth is out there. The X-Files is back. The FBI's Fox Mulder and Dana Scully are back on the TV taking on unsolved cases of the paranormal ilk.    You know this Oregon female she is the fourth person in her graduating class to die under mysterious circumstances. Now when convention and science offer us no answers might we not finally turn to the fantastic as a plausibility?  Of course Gillian Anderson is Dana Scully. David Duchovny is Fox Mulder. There are also some other familiar characters in these new episodes. And the show is still under the helm of creator Chris Carter who is writing and directing. David Duchovny and Gillian Anderson spoke with my colleague Scott Simon. And he started the conversation by asking if there was something about our times that makes this a good moment for The X-Files to return. Gillian Anderson jumped in first.  I think it is the right time in terms of political climate but I also think that people are ready for this and the only way that David and I were able to make it happen was if it was going to be in a short amount of episodes. And networks have only just in the past couple of years become willing and able to do shorter stacks.  David Duchovny do we live in a time that bristles with conspiracy theories?  Well I do not know. I think we always do. I think you know when the show was ending back in the early 2000s it was right after 911 and I do believe that even though that is still ripe for conspiracies I think it was all too real at that point. And now you know somewhat removed from that in a way we are back to a time where there is a lot of speculation over world events. But I think that is just in human nature to be drawn to conspiracies. People want answers. Sometimes things happen without a reason. Sometimes chaos happens that is not satisfying to people. People want a villain they want a cabal they want a conspiracy  That nicely sets up a clip we have from the first episode. Let us listen to it.    Like yourself I am a true believer.   No I only want to believe. Actual proof has been strangely hard to come by.   You ran the X-Files. You were the X-Files. You all but wrote the book.   I am afraid that book is closed.   As are the X-Files for better or worse. We have moved on with our lives.   Yes we have. For better or for worse.  How do you project Dana Scully right now Gillian Anderson? What do you think time has done to her?  Well I think she has refocused herself and her wants and her desires. And I think that she has seen Mulder become extremely impassioned and risk his life and risk their lives. And I think that she is decided that she cannot do that anymore. And even though she is kind of getting on with getting on there is a certain sadness there.  And David Duchovny how do you pick up a character that you have not inhabited for a few years or is it like doing Macbeth again?  It is daunting at first. But then when Gillian and I kind of started working together just on that first day it is really something that is kind of unspoken and unconscious and intuitive in many ways. We did it for so long that there is something that just kicks in as well as the fact that we are older than when we started and that we get to play with as well. That is an interesting thing for us as actors to play the same characters but in a much later part of their lives which you do not normally get to do as an actor. It is very very rare I think that an actor gets to do that.  And Gillian Anderson  have people come up to you over the years and said look Scully and Mulder are perfect for each other. Why do not they - why do not they just try and be happy together?  I mean I have had people say to me why do not you and David get together? I do not they have come up to me and said why do not you know why are not Mulder and and Scully together.  David Duchovny do you get that?  Well it is always interesting to me people get very invested in fictional characters that way. I cannot say that I have ever had that - I have ever had that experience in my life where I wanted people that did not exist to end up together . But I think it goes back to Chris's conception of the show. I think he made - he made two characters who were complementary to one another and kind of completed one another in a romantic comedy sense. And I think because it took so long for them to be physical in any way there was a certain ache to the show. And also that was not what the show was about. The show was about the cases. The shows was about the quest. And that is kind of I think the magic of the relationship in the show is that it was never the point of the show. It always happened in the spaces of the show.  Gillian Anderson David Duchovny The X-Files on Fox Mulder and Scully thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you so much Scott. It is a pleasure to be here. Thank you.  Thank you Scott. It was a pleasure to be with you. 