 Ringo Starr why is the only ring you have on a wedding ring? Mr.  Because I did not feel I needed a lot of rings on today. I do not wear a lot anymore anyway. You know I mean I am not the fully decked Ringo.  But he did sport a lobe full of earrings tinted glasses and a big white star on his T-shirt. We met the former Beatle - really can you be a former Beatle - in a cramped but opulently furnished dressing room backstage at NBC's Rockefeller Center this past week. He was about to go on Late Night with Jimmy Fallon to promote his new album Y Not. A lot of guest stars appear with Ringo Starr's band - Joss Stone Joe Walsh Dave Stewart and his Fab Four mate Sir Paul McCartney. On Y Not Ringo Starr has produced a recording full of tunes that look both forward and back.  Mr.   The other side of Liverpool is cold and damp. Only way out of it drunk guitar and amp. The other side of Liverpool where I came from my mother was a barmaid. At the age of three my father was gone.  This is the first record you have produced in your solo career with your producer. Mr.  It is. It is the first time I actually took complete control of the reins. Now with this one I had so much fun with this.  Sir George Martin once told me that producing sometimes is as much the art of subtraction as it is the art of addition. You are nodding. You agree with him. Mr.  I agree completely with him because I have always felt a space is as good as a fill you know what I mean? Gaps can be very emotional. I mean that is in my drumming. When I drum you know I do not need to drum all over the track. I play with the singer and I can back off. And it is the same - this record I think you can definitely hear not an emptiness but the sparseness you know?  You leave space. Mr.  I do yeah.  Yeah. Mr.  For a note to breathe for a crash to linger you know?  So it does not go without saying that because you are a producer and the drummer the drummers end up higher in the mix. Mr.  Well I do actually.  Mr.  No it does not. You know the drummer's always going to be there. They are the floor of the whole deal and everyone can stand up on you.  One of the things you have always said in documentaries I have seen is you love to be in a band. And this CD starts off no holds barred. This is a rock and roll band. Fill in the Blanks Joe Walsh - that is the statement you are making immediately. Mr.  Well yes. You know I mean I will say it again I love being in a band. I have never had any big ideas about being the solo you know playing this playing that. I love playing with other human beings. I have never practiced drums unless there was another human being in the room.  Really? Mr.  I have never gone to the bedroom and you know when I was starting out and practiced away. You know if you could play I will play with you all night. But if I am just playing by myself it gets boring pretty quick.  Was the drum your first instrument of choice? Mr.  The drum was the first and only instrument.  Really? Mr.  Yeah. I was 13 and I played drums. I was in hospital and they had a you know this lady would come around with percussive instruments to keep us busy. I also learned to knit in hospital. But anyway that is another story. And I played the drums and then I would not be in the band unless she gave me a drum. And I only wanted to be a drummer. That is where my soul is.  You have to tell us your side of the Pete Best story. How did you get the gig - your side of the story - as the drummer? Mr.  Well my side of the story is still the same is when it happened was that I was in Rory Storm and the Hurricanes in Liverpool. And Brian Epstein knocked on the door and he said Pete cannot make the gig could you play with the Beatles? I said sure.  Brian Epstein have to ask because you were one of the first groups -and I remember this 'ecause I was your target audience you know a 'tween girl - dressed you in suits and ties. Mr.  No Brian was great because he used to come up with these great ideas. And he says you know I think it would be a great idea if you do not drink and smoke and swear at the audience while you are onstage.  The songs on your new CD are these songs that you had written and were kind of hanging around? Mr.  No nothing was written. The tracks were made first that is why this is a crazy album. I started just playing synthesizer in the bedroom in L.A. -sound like one of those stories - and then I would put drums onto these synth tracks I would found. Then the next level we put guitars on. We had no songs. We just had tracks. And so I had Joe Walsh on I had Billy Squire. This record if you passed through L.A. and I knew you you are on the record that is how it worked. I mean let us get honest here you know what I mean?  Nothing wrong with that. Mr.  No.  Nothing wrong with that.   The one thing a lot of people are talking about this in terms of your calling up your mates is one of them was Paul McCartney. Mr.  Yeah.  And he performs with you on Walk with You. Mr.  I see you said Sir George Martin but you did not say Sir Paul McCartney.  I did not say Sir Paul 'ecause I am not used to it. Are you a sir yet? Mr.  No. And I never say Sir Paul or Sir George.   But you are an MBE right? Mr.  I am but let us not get into that. Let us get into...  Anyway Sir Paul... Mr.  Yes I called Paul because he was coming to L.A. and when he heard Walk with You he wanted to sign on it so he sang that part of it on tape.  Mr. STARR and Mr.   When I walk with you when I talk with you everything will be fine. When I walk with you when I talk with you everything will be fine. Mr.   We will be fine...  What do you think you learned from George Martin as a producer Sir George? Mr.  Sir George Martin learns a lot more from me.  He did. Tell us what he learned from you. Mr.  He learned to keep the damn tape rolling 'ecause we would do like we would do a great take and he did not have the tape on you know. And we would say George turn the - and he would - oh did you want to record that boys?  Mr.  But he was great. No George was incredibly helpful to us. And you know we are buskers. The four of us are buskers - none of us can read music we do not know anything about music. We only know how to play it. And George could write it down and he would say you know maybe if we just do this lads or that. But you know he was - George was the only person who took a chance on us to make a record 'ecause every other label turned us down.  But he heard something. He heard something there. Mr.  He did hear something. And he wanted us to record other people's songs. And we said no. And every song he picked for us to record - that we did not record - he gave to Jerry and the Pacemakers or they are Brian Epstein acts usually. And they all had hits with it. You know so it was not like he was picking bad stuff but we were determined only to do our music. You know Lennon and McCartney. So everyone was inventing because we were new at this and suddenly can we do this can we do that? And with George's help - well I do not know why not boys and you know. We went and we did the first album in 12 hours and then we started to bring in more music. It changed on Rubber Soul. It went you know and then it ended up for me The White Album. We cannot dismiss Sgt. Pepper but I loved The White Album and Abbey Road you know what I mean? You can feel we know what we are doing more.  Right. You can tell you are evolving. Mr.  Yeah. And so was George and so were we all together because we would spend time.  There are touches on this CD I feel like you are making - you are honoring particularly your band mates who have passed. The song Y Not if I am not mistaken ends in this luscious Bollywood kind of Indian ending that I thought perhaps might be some kind of nod towards George and his sitar days? Mr.  Well that is a better story than I have got.  Oh. What is your story then? Mr.  She was at LAX Tina the tabla player and Dave Stewart called me. I said tell her to come on over and she is on the record.   Mr.   Y not. Unidentified Woman  Mr.   Y not. Unidentified Woman  Mr.   Y not y not y not.  There I go looking for deep meaning right? Mr.  Yeah. But I have written a song for George and we do focus on John for Peace Dream because he did die. I have no problem mentioning my band mates you know and writing lines and using lines. And usually on every record I have used the line from Photograph or Do not Come Easy.  Right. Mr.  You know what I mean?  Act naturally . Mr.  I can use lines over and over again if it works for that song. I have no problem with that.  Right. But you do not consider yourself a songwriter do you? Mr.  I do now.  You do. Mr.  I do. I am a musician. I am a drummer. I write songs.  Was hard days not your phrase? Mr.  It was. It is been a hard day's night.  Yeah. Mr.  It is called a malapropism John used to say. And my head worked faster than my mouth so two lines would come out together.  Yeah. Mr.  Not like I planned it. It is just how it was.  Have you ever played Beatles Guitar Hero? Mr.  Yes. I tried it when they were showing it to us and I am useless at it. So next question.   Your son Zac is a drummer. Mr.  He is.  And your other son is a drummer as well right? Mr.  He is.  And he thinks that this... Mr.  And my grandson is a drummer.   You have a grandson. Mr.  I have many of them. I have seven grandchildren.  No. Mr.  All the family are doing great. And we had Christmas dinner - it was 28 of us and 12 of them were staying with us.   Favorite song on the CD? Mr.  It is hard. They are all like your babies. So...  Sure I know. The tune you do with Joss Stone Who is Your Daddy. Mr.  Well that is a rocker too.  Oh yeah. Mr.  And she just wails.  What a voice. Mr.  What a voice. And you know what a lot of fun. And how loose you know she is a young woman and she came over and we wrote it in no time and she did the vocal. You know it is - okay that is that.  Ms.   I did not contemplate I know you are probably hard . We need to set a couple things straight. I will not take you lying down. I know you like to get around. You know I hate it when you are late. I know how you look when you are telling lies. Your  no surprise. Mr.   Who is your daddy? Ms.   Not you no more. Mr.   Who is your daddy?  Ringo Starr signaled our interview time was up when he said okay what is the big question? So we floated this idea 400 years from now do you think people will still be listening Mozart Beethoven and the Beatles? Mr.  Well yeah I have to agree with that. You know I do honestly believe the Beatles will be going down still. And you know we made those records quite a while ago and we keep putting the same records out 'ecause we are not making any new ones. And the kids are interested in the music of them. They are not interested in us being moptops and Beatle boots and crazy suits. You know it is all down to the music now. That is what they hear and that is what they love. So there is a possibility that Beethoven and the Beatles hey.   I just wanted - Ringo Starr thank you so much for giving us the time to talk to you. Mr.  Well thank you. And this is very pleasant and relaxed.  Yeah. Mr.  So can I just say peace and love?  Mr.   Love is all you need. Love is all you need.  Ringo Starr's new album is called Y Not. You can hear additional cuts from this CD at NPRMusic.org. This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Liane Hansen. 