 President Lyndon Johnson went to Eastern Kentucky in 1964 to promote his war on poverty but when he did he opened a wound that remains very raw today. People in the region say they are tired of always being depicted as poor. When NPR's Pam Fessler went to Appalachia went to report on how the war on poverty is going she was warned that people would be reluctant to talk. Instead she got an earful. Here's her reporter's notebook.  Lee Mueller has lived in Martin County Kentucky for much of his life and he covered President Johnson's visit there as a young reporter. He says every few years since more reporters have arrived.  We became kind of the poster child for the war on poverty and any time somebody wanted to do a story about poor people we were the first stop.  And that is meant some very unwelcome attention over the years. News reports of kids struggling to survive among jobless drug-addicted adults trailer homes surrounded by trash. So now here I was another in a long line of unwelcome journalists. Michelle Harless a high school guidance counselor had one request when I interviewed her.  I just ask when you portray us please do not portray us as ignorant hill folk I guess because we are educated. We are poor but we are educated and everyone's pretty proud. It is not a desolate place where no hope can be found.   And indeed the county's got a lot going for it well-paved roads cheerful schools beautiful mountains albeit some have been strip mined. And yes there are trailers surrounded by trash but also tidy suburban homes. Even so more than a third of the residents here are poor. But poverty's also in the eye of the beholder. For some here it is just the way life is. Like Normie Slone who is 79 years old. She spends her days caring for her two severely disabled adult children - 58-year-old Sissy who lies on a recliner in the family's cramped living room chewing on a rubber toy and Bobby who sits in a wheelchair nearby.  He is 55 yeah.   He has to sit in that chair all the time. He cannot get up and do nothing.  She says he cannot get up and do anything on his own. Like lots of poor people Normie Slone has strung together her own safety net with some help from the government the rest from charities family and friends. She says at least life is better than it used to be.  We are not starving. We are not starving to death.  Many people here say told me they are rich in things that are not included in any official measure of poverty. Things like family and faith. So they are understandably a bit disturbed by how they are often seen from the outside.  We are probably one of the last few groups that it is still politically correct to make fun of. It is still OK to tell you know hillbilly redneck jokes or whatever.  Owen Wright is with the Christian Appalachian Project. It is one of the nonprofits that helps Normie Slone.  And I think you know it can affect the self-esteem of the people that live here in Appalachia 'ecause once that is been drilled into them for so long it is easy for them to start believing that themselves.  And he says it only holds them back more. Lee Mueller the journalist says it was not always like that especially before President Johnson came with the national media in tow.  We knew the region was poor but there was not a stigma to it to us.  In part he says because there were not any rich people around to show them otherwise. So people did not think of themselves as poor?  Uh-uh. And we were surprised when we went someplace and found out that other people thought we were.  But that was a long time ago. Today the stigma is very real and for some people almost as bad as the poverty itself. Pam Fessler NPR News.   You are listening to WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. 