 You know gig work is not just for people who deliver food or groceries or composers like BJ Leiderman who writes our theme music. Experienced executives are doing gig work too as some companies are turning to on-demand workers to be CEOs. NPR's Yuki Noguchi explains why.  Duncan Thomas  has served as CEO of a medical practice a Russian software firm and a logistics company each stint lasting a few months.  It really suits how I like to work and it suits how I like to engage people. And you know it gives me tremendous work-life flexibility.  Thomas fell into temporary executive work by way of a traumatic experience. Six years ago he was working long hours as the CEO of a vocational college.  I came back from a vacation and I was feeling unwell. And I went to the doctor that day. And that day they said you would better go down and get an ultrasound.  The doctor returned head hanging. Advanced melanoma he told Thomas left him about seven months to live.  Nine tumors in my lungs and I had three in my liver. And the biggest ones were 9 12 centimeters in size so it was pretty overwhelming.  Thomas was trained as a veterinarian and found a clinical trial. The test drug eliminated the cancer from his body.  It was almost like a rebirth.  Thomas a native Australian living in Los Angeles reevaluated what he wanted out of life and work. Working as an itinerant CEO he says leaves him time between gigs to recharge with his family. The pandemic increased the popularity of gig work for CEOs. It is left companies in turmoil and more leaders are willing to trade in a higher salary for short-term stints and greater flexibility. Jody Greenstone Miller is co-CEO of the Business Talent Group. It matches experienced executives with interim CEO jobs. Miller says she started her firm because companies in transition or crisis often need temporary expertise but they do not want the multiyear commitment of a long-term CEO.  And the notion that I could just you know need somebody for three or four months to come in and solve a problem or help me you know build a new business just did not exist in a formal way.  The fact that so many people are now no longer commuting to an office she says broadened the pool of temporary executives and the companies wanting to hire them.  And what that did is it really opened up the world of talent.  But succeeding as a gig CEO is not easy. High-end temps are often flown in to handle crises and scandals. Duncan Thomas has seen his share.  The challenges can be very real.  Thomas has taken over at firms that were cooking their books or the previous CEO sexually assaulted an employee. Righting such ships is not easy. For starters Thomas says workers often distrust leaders who parachute in. They are suspicious of their motives and know they will not stick around.  A lot of the stigma that I have come across is that you are a Chainsaw Al you are a mercenary that you are only in for the money that you really do not give a damn about people.  These days there is the added challenge of managing teams you have only met online. But Peter Wokwicz says there are also some advantages of coming in fresh.  I can really come in as an outsider an independent do not have favorites. That often helps also.  Wokwicz lives in Chicago. He is currently juggling two separate executive gigs at a robotics company and an e-commerce firm.  One of the benefits is you never get in that rut of being in one company for a long time.  So he says it never gets boring. Yuki Noguchi NPR News. 