 President Trump ordered the killing of an Iranian general and now the question is how might Iran respond? In a few minutes we will talk to a former national security adviser to Presidents Bush and Obama. But first let us learn what happened exactly. NPR national security correspondent Greg Myre is with us in the studio. Hi Greg.  Good morning Noel.  General Qassem Soleimani was killed in a U.S. strike at the Baghdad airport. We know that. What other details do we have?  So his plane had just landed. The reports are that it came from either Syria or Lebanon. It is not quite clear. And there were a couple cars waiting for him on the tarmac. So he got in one of those cars and was leaving the airport when he was hit by this airstrike apparently a drone although the Pentagon has not confirmed that. It turned his car into a fireball. And now with such a prominent figure killed in this manner we are waiting to see what happens next.  A prominent figure let us talk more about that. Who was General Soleimani and why was he so influential?  Well he is clearly the most important prominent Iranian military figure and one of the most important people in the country. He was 62 a military man all his life. And for more than 20 years he led the Quds Force. And this - think of this as like U.S. Special Forces operating throughout the region. And he would pop up on battlefields in his military fatigues. He did not say a lot but he was the face of these Iranian operations in the Middle East. And from a U.S. perspective I think what is really important is militias he worked with in Iraq have been blamed for killing hundreds of Americans often the figure is tossed around 600 Americans in Iraq since the U.S. invasion there in 2003.  OK. A man who is very popular in Iran not popular in the United States. We would assume Greg that the U.S. had him - had tracked his movements and knew where he was. Why then did this happen now and not months ago years ago?  You know we are - I think what we are seeing is sort of the outcome of President Trump's maximum pressure campaign. He pulled out of the nuclear deal. He sanctioned Iranian oil exports. And so since last summer we have seen these escalating acts. Iran has been punching back. They have either been blamed for or acknowledge attacks on oil tankers in the Gulf shooting down a U.S. drone. There is been these rocket attacks on Iraqi bases and a U.S. contractor was killed a week ago. And apparently for President Trump this was the line that was crossed and led him to act.  Do we know who will replace Soleimani?  Yes. We have already got an answer. His name is Esmail Ghaani. He was the No. 2 to Qassem Soleimani. And Iran's supreme leader put out a statement saying that he will take over and that the program for the for the Quds Force will be unchanged which means they will presumably continue operating in Iraq in Syria in Lebanon.  OK. NPR national correspondent - national security correspondent Greg Myre. Thank you Greg.  Thank you. 