 Now in this country an election is right on track although it is moved in unpredictable directions. It is our presidential election which is heading toward the first caucus in Iowa and the first primary in New Hampshire. In New Hampshire Donald Trump's political rise has really disrupted Republican politics. As New Hampshire Public Radio's Josh Rogers reports this could affect races up and down the ticket.  Little about Donald Trump's approach to courting voters in New Hampshire has been orthodox. Trump favors large rallies over retail politicking. He is never campaigned here two days in a row. And then there is the GOP front-runner's open disdain for some of the state's traditional Republican power brokers including the New Hampshire Union Leader the only statewide paper known for its blistering conservative editorials.   The famous paper right you know? Your little paper the Union Leader. No it is really a dishonest paper though. It is terrible. So this gets a rag .   I guess.  Trump's been a regular target and branded a bully by Union Leader publisher Joe McQuaid. Ever since McQuaid and his paper have become fodder when Trump campaigns here.   So this guy his name's Joe McQuaid.   Now he is a - he is a lowlife. I am telling you.   Astounding.  That is McQuaid.   In matters large and small about the Union Leader he lies through his teeth.  Whatever the case may be Trump's spat with the paper has not hurt him. And for Karl Zahn a longtime watcher of New Hampshire politics who backs Trump the whole thing - a GOP candidate taking the fight to the Union Leader and possibly winning - seems almost surreal.  We were at the thing in Nashua a couple of weeks ago and you know he spent 20 minutes excoriating Joe McQuaid. I turned to a friend of mine and just said pinch me. This is like a - in a Ambien dream I am having here. It is crazy.  And the Union Leader is just one of Trump's high-profile New Hampshire targets. There is also former Governor John Sununu a White House chief of staff to the first President Bush and top adviser to Mitt Romney in 2012. He is also the patriarch of what is probably New Hampshire's most prominent Republican family. One of Sununu's sons was a U.S. senator. Another is running for governor.   John H. Sununu has been known - he was fired by Bush. And he was fired like dog. He was fired viciously and he is such a dumb guy that he does not even know he was fired.  Sununu had criticized Trump in print and on television. During a recent appearance on Bloomberg TV Sununu warned nominating Trump would doom local Republicans in November.   Here in New Hampshire if Donald Trump's the nominee we will not get a Republican governor. We will lose the New Hampshire state Senate. And we could lose the New Hampshire state House. It is that bad. And we could lose Senator Ayotte.  If those Republicans running for office here share that view they are not letting on. Ask Senator Kelly Ayotte about Trump - she is being challenged by New Hampshire's Democratic Governor Maggie Hassan - and you get a practiced response and the sense she would rather talk about something else.  Well listen. I mean I think it is the favorite question of the press to ask all of us what we think about Trump. You know I plan to support our Republican nominee. But I think there is a long way to go until that decision is made.  Chris Sununu meanwhile - he is the Sununu hoping to be governor - claims he is not paying attention to his father's spat with Donald Trump or to what Trump's style of politics may mean for Republicans down-ballot.  Donald Trump is as far as I am concerned is just another candidate. I do not worry about it too much because I try to control things I can control.  Sensible advice perhaps even if Donald Trump is proving to be anything but just another candidate. For NPR News I am Josh Rogers in Concord. 