 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Rachel Martin. There are a few of you out there who hear this music and think oh no not this. The anagrams are not my jam. But I am here to tell you even the skeptics if you grab a pencil engage your brain in a different way and just play you will be a happier person. I promise. Let us play the puzzle.   Joining me now is Will Shortz puzzle editor of The New York Times and WEEKEND EDITION's puzzle master. Good morning Will.  Good morning Rachel.  So 2016 - off to a bang. The last of couple of weeks anything happening in your life? Year's starting out OK?  Everything is good yeah. I will tell you a cool thing happening this week. I am playing in a ping-pong tournament for charity at Grand Central Terminal on Thursday night.  Oh that is awesome. Inside the terminal?  Inside the terminal. Anybody wandering through on Thursday check us out.  Very cool. OK remind us - what was last week's puzzle?  Yes. It was a variation on the old word ladder puzzle. The object was to change whole W-H-O-L-E to heart by either adding or subtracting one letter at a time making a new common uncapitalized word at each step. Well I will not bore you with my 16-step answer which was very elegant but it could be shortened to just six steps. Starting with whole you can go to hole H-O-L-E then hoe H-O-E then hoer H-O-E-R to her to hear and finally to heart. Just six steps very nice.  OK so around 800 of you gave the puzzle a shot this week. Our randomly selected winner is Melissa Goodwin of Munster Ind. She joins us on the line now. Melissa congratulations.  Thank you.  How did you figure this one out?  Well it was sort of a group effort. Our family has been playing puzzles on the way to church since the '80s when it started. And this one our youngest son and my husband and I sat around Sunday morning and did it and thought and thought. And I worked on it a couple more days and finally about 30 I came up with hoer and that is what made the link.  Cool. OK so are you ready to play the puzzle Melissa?  I am very ready.  She sounds ready Will. Let us do it.  Melissa I think you are going to be great at this. And Rachel every answer today is the name of an article of apparel something to wear. Name the items from their anagrams. For example if I said loop L-O-O-P you would say polo as in a polo shirt.  You had to give me anagrams.  .  Anagrams here we go . Number one is pace P-A-C-E.  Cape.  Good.  That is right. Number two is wong W-O-N-G.  Wong. Gown.  Good.  Gown is right. Goat G-O-A-T.  Oh goat.  If you went to a fraternity party you might wear this.  Oh toga.  Good.  Toga there you go. Hose H-O-S-E.  Shoe.  That is it. Fibers F-I-B-E-R-S. This is something I would not see if you were wearing these.  OK. Boxers? Briefs.  Briefs. Good.  Briefs. There you go.   Boxers or briefs.   Nice. Haunts H-A-U-N-T-S. And this is sometimes spelled as two words sometimes as one.  Sun hat?  Sun hat is it.  Oh great.  How about repaid? R-E-P-A-I-D.  I know what this is.  Oh good.  Because they are in my life a lot.  Diaper?  Yeah.  Diaper yes.  You are right. I am way past those days thankfully.   Here's your last one. Ungreased U-N-G-R-E-A-S-E-D something you would wear on the lower half of your body.   I am going back to my mother's days and thinking they were called - not cropped pants.  I do not even really know what these are. I know the answer but I cannot - I could not tell you what they looked like to save my life.  They have not been in fashion for a long time.  Dungarees.  Yeah. Wow you got it.  Dungarees.  Man oh man. You really stumped me bad towards the end.  You did great.  I thought you did great.  You did excellent. For someone who is fearful of the anagram I thought you rocked it.  Oh yeah. That is always my worst.  Well done. For playing the puzzle today Melissa you know because you listen all the time that you get a WEEKEND EDITION lapel pin and puzzle books and games. You can read about your prizes at our website npr.orgpuzzle. And where do you hear us Melissa?  We are members of WBEZ in Chicago.  Melissa Goodwin of Munster Ind. Thanks so much for playing the puzzle Melissa. It was fun.  Thank you.  OK Will. What is up for next week?  Yes. The challenge comes from listener Sandy Weisz of Chicago who runs puzzle hunts there under the name The Mystery League and this challenge is not too hard. Name a unit of measurement. Remove two consecutive letters and the letters that remain can be rearranged to name what this measurement measures. What is it? So again a unit of measurement remove two consecutive letters. The letters that remain can be rearranged to name what this measurement measures. What is it?  When you have got the answer go to npr.orgpuzzle. Click on that submit your answer link - just one entry per person please. And our deadline for those entries is Thursday January 14 at 3 p.m. Eastern time. Do not forget to include a phone number where we can reach you at about that time. And it goes like this. If you are the winner then we give you a call and then you get to play on the air with the puzzle editor of The New York Times and WEEKEND EDITION's puzzle master Will Shortz. Thanks so much Will.  Thank you Rachel. 