 In his final hours in office as president Donald Trump commuted the sentence of Kwame Kilpatrick. Detroit is former mayor was doing a 28-year bid in federal prison for corruption. Kilpatrick according to the AP was released yesterday. Here's Eli Newman from WDET.  When Kwame Kilpatrick first announced his candidacy he promoted himself as the next generation of leaders for the city. In 2001 he was elected as Detroit is youngest mayor. The former Michigan state lawmaker's profile was on the rise. During the 2004 Democratic National Convention Kilpatrick told the crowd that the party needed to be clear about what it stood for.   I represent all Detroiters - Black white Arab Chaldean Hispanic Asians all Americans. I was elected mayor at age 31 years old because I dared mighty things for the citizens of my city.  But Kilpatrick's tenure was marred by controversy. By the end of his first term the city was facing major budget deficits putting Detroit on a path to bankruptcy. Even so Kilpatrick won reelection. But on the heels of a text message sex scandal and perjury charges he resigned in the middle of his second term. Multiple criminal investigations culminated with a 2013 conviction on federal corruption charges. He was sentenced to 28 years. Outstanding was an 11 million debt related to judgements restitution and unpaid taxes. The White House credits Michigan State Representative Karen Whitsett for pushing for Kilpatrick's release. She thinks the sentence was extreme and personally appealed for clemency.  I was not fond of what he did. I am not saying that the person is innocent. I am not saying that by any means. But I do believe that the sentence was excessive.  Other city leaders are praising the decision. Last May when there were false rumors of Kilpatrick's release current Mayor Mike Duggan told reporters that his connection to Kilpatrick is personal.  He is one of the most extraordinarily talented people I have ever met. I think he has a lot to contribute will be doing everything I can to help him get a fresh start.  Just south of Eight Mile Road Detroit is northern border some residents are celebrating the news. Ladonya Posey says it was time to release Kilpatrick.  Make amends. Just make amends you know whatever way he can - whatever way he can and whatever went down. You know a lot of times people get into office and they do not make right with the promises that they made to get in office.  Amire John says she hopes Kilpatrick will be reunited with his family.  Hey if they want to free a Black mayor free him. I say come on home. Give to your kids. His kids were kids like me when he went in.  Dennis Moore was also a kid when Kilpatrick was mayor. He says he is not so sure that commuting his sentence was the right thing to do.  I do not think Kilpatrick going to be able to change. He damn well saw everything that he done did and all the effects of embezzling. He knows what he did. He knows what he did was wrong.  Moore hopes that Kwame Kilpatrick reflects on what put him behind bars for the last seven years. In any case the former mayor has time to earn the public's trust. In the unlikely event he wants to hold state or local office in Michigan again he will have to wait until 2033. For NPR News I am Eli Newman in Detroit.  