 It is hard to listen to pop music today and not hear the sound of the drum machine. It began as little more than a glorified metronome but it is since worked its way into home basement studios as well as state-of-the-art recording facilities. A new book chronicles the history and influence of the drum machine in all its wood and plastic-paneled glory. Oliver Wang has the story.  About 10 years ago a disgruntled pianist in Los Angeles named John Wood began a popular bumper sticker campaign with the slogan Drum Machines Have No Soul. Not everyone was convinced including producer Eric Sadler.  Drum machines do not run themselves it is the people who put into the drum machines that give the drum machines soul to me. I have definitely given some drum machines some soul.    ...put it up on the board. Another rapper shot down from the mouth that roared...  Sadler was part of the Bomb Squad the production team behind the hip-hop group Public Enemy which used drum machines - among many other devices - to help shift the sound of pop music in the late 1980s.    I am public enemy number one. One. One. One. One. One. One. One. One. One. One. Yeah that is right...  Here's the thing the earliest drum machines were never intended to be studio recording devices. Take Wurlitzer's 1959 Sideman one of the first commercially available drum machines. It used vacuum tubes to create its percussive sound. It was marketed to organ players who perhaps did not want to pay a drummer to join their lounge act. Joe Mansfield demonstrates the Sideman.   Mansfield is the author of Beat Box A Drum Machine Obsession.  It is about two-feet and some change tall. It is maybe a foot and a half wide and it looks like something that would belong in like an old wood-paneled library to me. At first look you would not think it would be a drum machine - which I did not when I found it.  The instruments were still largely novelties throughout the '60s and '70s but musicians slowly began to play around with them says Dante Carfagna. He is the producer behind the recent CD compilation Personal Space which examines early pop experiments with drum machines and other electronics.  I think a lot of these cases perhaps the artist did not have a band so they tried to recreate that band with the electronics around them a drum machine a synthesizer maybe a guitar. So I think it might be a function of loneliness in a very strange way.   Hey I gotta out of here and get some money man.  Then in 1971 Sly Stone recorded A Riot's Going On one of the first hit albums to prominently feature a drum machine. He used the Maestro Rhythm King and Joe Mansfield grew up marveling at how Stone deployed its tinny beats.  That record used the Maestro Rhythm King in a way in a studio that I am sure it was not meant to be used and it was amazing.    The family affair. It is a family affair. It is a family affair. It is a family affair. Oh yeah a family affair. A family affair. It is a family affair.  By the early 1980s major pop acts latched onto drum machines in a big way but many just used the machines' built-in rhythms. Mansfield points to Hall and Oates' 1981 hit I Cannot Go For That.   Yeah that is pretty much pre-programmed in there. They just souled out the kick and snare and high-hat a little bit but that is it.   Easy ready willing overtime. Where does it stop? Where do you dare mean to draw the line?  Around the same time such hip-hop pioneers as Grandmaster Flash began to make beat boxes a prominent part of rap music production.    One two one two three and listen to this. Just listen to this. Just listen to this. Just listen to this. For all you MCs in a crew this is what we want you all to do...  The Bomb Squad's Eric Sadler says that by the mid 1980s newer beat boxes were sampling actual drums creating a harder punchier sound that hip-hop producers grabbed onto. One of the most popular was the Oberheim DMX.  All the rhythm machines before was kind of little tight sounds and they did not have that sort of sound that sounded like a real kick drum or a bass drum and that sort of thing. And with the DMX it was like wow you know this sounds more like real drums to me.   However when it comes to punch no drum machine has been more popular than Roland's TR-808 debuted in 1980.   For collector Joe Mansfield and other musicians the 808 stands out for a signature kick drum with a low end boom you can feel in your bones.  Just imagine the 808 bass drum pounding the speakers in a club it is definitely something that would get people's attention.   Today most producers simply recreate the sounds of an 808 using software rather than fussing with hardware that few thought would survive 30 years of use. But Dante Carfagna suggests there is still a market out there for the original machines and their unique sonic personalities.  Those sounds do have a certain character now which echo a different era.   As for Joe Mansfield his Beat Box book only includes a fraction of his collection a collection that keeps growing.  On eBay Germany today I purchased a machine called Elgam Match-12. It is a machine I have been looking for for a little bit. And I happened to find it on the German eBay site.  And so the beat box goes on. For NPR News. I am Oliver Wang.   You are listening to MORNING EDITION from NPR News. 