 It is getting harder and harder to find quality special education teachers. Forty-nine out of 50 states report that there are shortages. Why? It is a tough job. Even if you are all right with low pay a noisy classroom special education adds another challenge crushing paperwork. Lee Hale from our NPR Ed team understands this struggle firsthand. He was a special education teacher himself but got burned out after just one year.  That is right. I could not hack it. But believe me I wanted to. I chose special education for the same reason I think most teachers do to help students who struggle to learn. But I soon realized that helping children was only a part of the job. The paperwork the meetings the accountability - eventually it got to me. I could not do it all and I got tired of showing up to a job I knew I could not do. It is that simple. Part of me feels guilty for leaving especially when I think about my friends and colleagues who stayed. I often wonder how they are holding up.  And guess what? You guys are having a test next week. So we really have to practice.  This is Stephanie Johnson. She teaches eighth grade math and ninth grade English at Oak Canyon Junior High. It is about 40 miles south of Salt Lake City.  We are taking a situation or an event and we are finding the information that we need...  Stephanie and I were in the same special education program at nearby Brigham Young University three years ago. But she was not your typical college student. She is in her 40s and a mother of three. And now she is got her own special education classroom although it can hardly be called a classroom. It is like just a step up from a closet right?  Yeah it is just a step up from a closet. It is a very small room.  And there are not any windows yet she somehow managed to make it feel homey. You can tell the students like being here. I dropped in during a math lesson.  These things right here - the slope or the constant rate of change the initial value or the Y-intercept and then we are going to use that information...  She is reviewing word problems that have to do with slope you know X-axis Y-axis type stuff. The students copy some questions from the board and start sketching out their graphs. And I am surprised at how focused and quiet everyone is. Stephanie weaves through the desks kneeling beside each student and checking in with them.  Nice job.  So would that be 200?  Nope 200 is your slope. What is 100?  You can tell that she is in her element.  My joy is in the classroom. When they catch onto something and they have those aha moments and just - those are the things that bring me happiness and joy. So that has to be my focus.  And she is good at it. This is one of her eighth graders Abigail.  I struggled really a lot in math and sometimes when I do not get it in math class Mrs. Johnson teaches it and I know how to do it.  This is the kind of thing I heard from every student I talked with. Math is hard. I do not like it but it makes sense when Mrs. Johnson teaches it. I am not surprised. When I first met Stephanie I had no doubt that she would be a dynamic teacher. For starters she understands special education from a parent's perspective. One of her sons Alec was in special education classes from second through ninth grade so she knows the heartache and the worry that comes when a parent is told their child learns differently.  Now as the teacher I can say I know exactly how you feel. I have been there and it is going to be OK.  She also had experience as a teaching assistant in a special ed. classroom for five years. And on top of that she was an extremely driven student. Back in college it was obvious to me our fellow classmates and our professors that she was meant for this. We all looked to you as kind of like an example. I am sure you felt that right?  Yeah I did feel that. And I was really clear on why I was there.  But then she pauses.  I wish that was more clear now.  From the outside it looks like Stephanie has everything under control. But it is clear that is not how she feels.  I do not know how to describe it. It is just so much work. Like I just feel like I cannot do it.  She is not talking about teaching or lesson planning or even working with disruptive students. She really likes those parts of her job.  It is all the other compliance and laws and paperwork and oh my gosh it is so much.  All of that stuff can be summed up with these three letters - IEP. That stands for Individualized Education Program. Each student in special education has one. It is required by law. And each IEP requires hours and hours of upkeep. Forms have to be updated data has to be tracked and there are additional meetings with parents and other staff.  I stay after work hours typically every day  And what she does not finish she takes home.  It is just frustrating because if I could really focus on making a difference in these kids' lives then I have it man. I totally have this job. I know how to do that.  But that just is not how it is. And she does not expect it to get better anytime soon. All of this brought me to a question I had to ask. How do you feel about people like me  the fact that I just like - I was like this is too hard and I just like walked away?  I have mixed feelings about that.  Stephanie admits that she thinks about leaving all the time.  Just because I am exhausted but I am changing kids' lives. I am making a difference. So why would I want to walk away from that?  So she finds herself facing a choice between her students and well her sanity an extremely difficult decision for an extremely difficult job. Lee Hale NPR News Salt Lake City. 