 Whether it is the funerals of soldiers killed in Afghanistan or the victims of street violence here at home media images of the dead and the dying always cause discomfort. One man made his career pushing the boundaries of what is too real too uncomfortable to capture on film. Arthur Fellig better known as Weegee shot crime photos for New York tabloids in the 1930s and '40s. Fellig's work is being showcased at a new exhibit at the International Center of Photography in New York. It is called Murder Is My Business. NPR's Margot Adler reports.  When you enter the center near Times Square one of the first rooms in the Weegee exhibit re-creates his one-room studio right across from the police station. Paint is peeling on the metal bedposts thin ratty blankets newspaper pages on the wall of his photographs and articles his camera his typewriter his police radio and an entire wall of self-portraits including a series of shots where he takes the roll of criminal Weegee in handcuffs Weegee's mug shot.  One of the things that is extraordinary in the Weegee archive is the fact that there are over 1500 self-portraits of Weegee  That is David Wallis chief curator of the International Center of Photography and of this exhibition.   In this room you see a lot of pictures of him posing with evidence and posing with other criminals and styling himself as kind of a hard-boiled detective who is on the case.  The ICP has the entire Weegee archive - 16000 photographs 7000 negatives from many periods of his life including his groundbreaking book of New York life Naked City. But he started with murder following police reports freelancing for the tabloids taking pictures of dead bodies of the wounded of car crash victims. Sometimes blood is dripping although Wallis says the photographs steer away from the gory. In fact the exhibit contrasts several of Weegee's photographs with much more graphic police forensic photos of the same scene.  Often he photographed the corpse in a very stylized way.  A gun lying just so near the body - a sense of distance of the abstract. Here Weegee is talking about murder in a 1958 recording called Famous Photographers Tell How.  Now the easiest kind of a job to cover was a murder because the stiff would be laying on the ground he could not get up and walk away or get temperamental. And he was - we would be good for at least two hours.  But the most impressive photographs do not dwell on the bodies but on those who are watching. As Wallis puts it...  One thing that really sets Weegee's photographs apart from other news photographers was his interest in what he called human drama.  In one of his most famous photographs there is a body and people watching from the fire escape of a five-story tenement building. Again Weegee from 1958.  They are looking. They are having a good time. Some of the kids are even reading the funny papers. There was another photographer there and he made what they call a 10-foot shot of just the guy lying in the doorway - that was it. To me this was drama. This was like a backdrop. I stepped all the way back about 100 feet. I used flash powder and I got this whole scene the people on the fire escapes the body - everything. Of course the title for it was Balcony Seats at a Murder.  Weegee's unusual voice and accent so captivated actor Peter Sellers who met him on the set of Dr. Strangelove that apparently he put a bit of that accent into the title character. Weegee often had trouble getting his pictures in the papers. Wallis says his photos did not get into the New York Times. He appealed primarily to a tabloid audience used to more lurid photographs. But according to Wallis...  They may have dramatic headlines but the pictures themselves are rather tame.  Wallis does not think there is that much difference between attitudes in the '30s and '40s and now about how we portray the dead. Despite the gore on television dramas and in film he says in some ways attitudes toward privacy are stronger now. Would Weegee's photos get into the New York Times today? Wallis says of these issues...  It really represents a larger question about how we draw the lines between what is acceptable and unacceptable forms of representation which are really about establishing social mores - how we want to represent ourselves to ourselves.  It is something we are clearly still wrestling with. Murder is my Business is at the International Center of Photography until September. Margot Adler NPR News New York.  And you can see some of Weegee's photographs at NPR.org. 