 A setback for protesters in two western cities as judges clear the way for tear gas and federal officers.  One of those decisions could echo as far as Chicago and Albuquerque as Operation LeGend continues. I am Leila Fadel.  I am Sarah McCammon and this is UP FIRST from NPR News.  An eviction ban ends today and the last batch of 600 checks goes out this weekend. There is no plan yet for more pandemic aid. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi blames Republicans.   They are in disarray and their disarray is causing great great damage to America's working families.  We have got the latest on negotiations.  And we will go to Arizona where the number of COVID cases skyrocketed and now looks to be leveling off so stay with us. We will give you the news you need to start your weekend.  The courts are bolstering the case for a tougher response to protests in Washington and Oregon.  Last night a federal judge in Seattle blocked the city's ban on tear gas from taking effect giving police more leeway in confronting protests there. And in Portland a federal judge denied the state's request to restrict federal police tactics against protesters.  The Trump administration has been signaling plans to send more federal officers to cities with Democratic leaders where protests for racial justice continue. The administration says the move is aimed at quelling violence. NPR's Kirk Siegler is in downtown Portland where the city just marked its 59th straight night of protests protests that began after the killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis. Hi Kirk.  Good morning Leila.  So you were out at the protest last night in front of the federal courthouse which has become the flashpoint between federal agents and protesters. Tell us what you saw.  Well big crowds definitely in the thousands Leila protesters wearing helmets gas masks some of them even carrying leaf blowers I guess to try to send tear gas back toward the police - you had the now-famous wall of moms standing as a human barrier in front of the protesters and a new addition joined by another human wall of military veterans last night. A lot of chanting say his name for George Floyd and chanting specific to Portland feds get out of Portland PDX go home.   Feds go home. Feds go home. Feds go home.  So just picture the federal building. There are graffiti on the walls barricaded now with a fence around it. And like previous nights last night late things get heated - tear gas explosions some people disperse and others do not.  Speaking of tear gas we saw the mayor there get tear-gassed when he went to the protests. The administration claims violence in these cities is the reason for sending federal personnel but city and state leaders say President Trump is manufacturing it in order to help his reelection.  Well right. There is a lot of anger here. You know the inference is he is targeting this blue city and the images city leaders say play well in conservative media playing up the urban-rural divide in this country. And you know the size of the nightly protests had actually been starting to die down until reports came that President Trump had sent his Homeland Security and Border Patrol officers and things started getting big again. You know there were two setbacks yesterday for protesters. As you said the federal judge denied the state's attempt to get an injunction to stop all the federal police actions and the U.S. attorney here announced federal criminal charges against 18 people. The charges include assaulting federal officers.  These protests are about systemic racism police violence but it sounds like the attention has shifted quite a bit from those original demands right?  It has. You know the - and there is some concern about that from some of the city's Black leaders that this has sort of all turned into a spectacle you know distracting like you say from the original cause for the protests. You know Portland is also known for having anarchists here for years. You know they have stirred up trouble at protests in the past. This is also just a big activist town. There is been a lot of protests during the administration throughout the Trump era. It is also largely white and you can see that in the crowds out there. They do seem to be driven by young people though like Sara Goldstein  who I met. She is Chinese American. She was holding a sign that said Black lives over white comfort.  People are going to be distracted by anything. I do not necessarily think that the actions that are happening with the violence toward the end of the night is avoidable.  So Kirk it is been over a week now since the federal agents have been in Portland the mood tense. Is there a sense of when this standoff ends?  Not really. And you know it - to be clear the mood is tense definitely and quite explosive in some corners but it is also confined I would say to a relatively small area downtown. It is not like this whole city is under siege. In other neighborhoods you visit life is going on as much as it can under a pandemic. But you know down here it is pretty dicey quite a bit especially in the evenings. As you mentioned Portland Mayor Ted Wheeler was tear-gassed earlier this week by federal agents when he came to meet with protesters. You know he said he had heard credible threats. He is tweeted out that agents could be using live ammunition - that did not happen but he called the scene urban warfare perpetuated by President Trump. And you know I would say Leila city leaders have ordered Portland police to not cooperate with federal agents and it is a pretty weird scene. It is hard to know what is going on down here at night. You know last night they did not seem to be blocking off any streets like usual so you had the public just cars driving everywhere and there were thousands of people on the streets. It is chaotic and it is hard to say where this is headed.  That is NPR's Kirk Siegler in downtown Portland Ore. Kirk thank you so much.  You are welcome.  Senate Republicans are still working on their latest coronavirus relief bill.  But a key program providing assistance to millions of jobless Americans and expanded unemployment payment of 600 a week is set to end. The top Senate Republican Mitch McConnell made it clear the GOP bill will continue some aid but he does not want to see any more 600 checks.   We also intend to continue some temporary federal supplement to unemployment insurance while fixing the obvious craziness of paying people more to remain out of the workforce.  Democrats want to extend the current benefits through January. NPR congressional correspondent Susan Davis joins us to bring us up to date on a program millions of Americans are relying on. Good morning Sue.  Hey. Good morning.  So why do not Republicans want to extend this?  Well they say it is a disincentive and that it is keeping workers from going back into the workforce. What the White House and Senate Republicans seem to be coalescing around is a proposal that Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin outlined that would cap at 70 of your pre-pandemic wages an enhanced unemployment benefit although they are calling this in their words wage replacement.  So clearly this will lapse at least temporarily right?  Yeah. It seems that way. Senate Republicans were supposed to introduce their proposal last week and they were hoping to move fast on it. But the party's been pretty divided over what to do over this unemployment program and it is stalled progress. And McConnell said Friday back in Kentucky that he now does not expect a deal until at least another few weeks which if he is accurate there it means for certain these benefits are going to be expired for some time although I do want to note that it is possible if they are included in eventual legislation they could also be retroactive.  So tell us about what the Republicans plan to include in their bill to help unemployed Americans.  Right. It is not just about these benefits. It is a piece of a larger package that they are negotiating and some of - not all of it is as controversial. Things that are likely to be included in it is another round of those direct payments to Americans and their families. There is going to be more money for schools especially to try to get kids back into the classroom this fall more money for testing and another round of aid to small businesses through a popular loan program that was approved earlier this year. One of the big rifts that we are seeing is how big they think it should go. Democrats have already passed a bill. It is worth about 3 trillion and it just goes a lot further than many Republicans are willing to. It includes things like aid to renters to make sure that they do not lose their housing more money for people to get food stamps because there is a lot of growing rates of hungry Americans out there. And they say it is all the more necessary right now because the virus is surging and it is not better which is what Congress has hoped it would be when they last passed a bill about two months ago.  So Democrats clearly see this as a political misstep by Republicans. How much of one could it actually be?  You know it really could be one. You look at the political environment right now and neither the president nor congressional Republicans are doing well politically. The Senate is in play. The president's down in the polls. They need a win right now. They need positive things to campaign on and fighting this has opened them up to all kinds of new political attacks from Democrats. That includes allegations of racial insensitivity like this one from Democratic Congressman Danny Davis who is Black.   I am not going to mince words. A Republican failure to continue the 600 a week federal unemployment supplement would represent a racially discriminatory action period - any way you cut it any way you look at it.  Davis's argument is basically that the pandemic has disproportionately affected Black people and other people of color not just in terms of the health implications but also the economic ones.  That is NPR congressional correspondent Susan Davis. Sue thanks.  You are welcome.  And for more from Capitol Hill the White House and the campaign check out the NPR Politics Podcast.  Arizona has been a coronavirus hotspot for weeks. With its ICUs nearly full doctors warned the state's health system was being stretched thin.  But now - a steady though small decline in the number of hospitalizations. Joining us is reporter Ben Giles of KJZZ in Phoenix. Good morning Ben.  Good morning.  So sounds like some good news for Arizona. Where do things stand?  Well good news is the daily reports of new cases are on a slight decline. Friday morning for instance there were over 3300 new cases reporting - still a lot but that is less than some of the highs that we saw earlier in July. And important for the hospitals the number of patients hospitalized for COVID-19 that has dipped slightly as well. The state's former health director Will Humble he put it this way - when things have been so bad for so long no bad news is good news.  We are not seeing an absolute improvement. What we are seeing is a relative improvement. What I mean by that is they are still bad but at least they did not get worse.  So still that is really welcome relief for a state that is rushed its reopening in May and became a hotspot for the virus.  For sure. And what do health officials think is driving this decline?  Well for most of June there was no mask requirements of any kind in Arizona. The governor had restricted even local governments cities counties and towns from mandating their own masks. And in late June he relented and he decided to let those local governments come up with their own rules. Health officials say that worked. That was key. They also say the governor's orders earlier this month closing businesses like bars and gyms that helped too. Broadly Governor Ducey has said he is trying to place limits on large gatherings of people to help mitigate the spread.  And so now that some of these key numbers are going down Ben do you foresee another push to reopen?  Perhaps from some corners of the state but at least for now that is not going to come from Governor Ducey. He said on Thursday that this is still quote no time to celebrate. And there was also caution from the state's health experts. Josh LaBaer a health expert at ASU said it is simply too early to call any of the dips in the data that we are seeing a trend.  This is not a time to let up on the pressure. I think we need to keep what we are doing right now in place.  LaBaer said it is more like a plateau at a place where the coronavirus is still spreading at an unacceptable rate.  That is Ben Giles with member station KJZZ in Phoenix. Ben thanks.  Thank you.  And that is UP FIRST for Saturday July 25. I am Leila Fadel.  And I am Sarah McCammon. Our podcast on Saturdays is produced by Hiba Ahmad Sophia Boyd Danny Hensel Denise Guerra and edited by D. Parvaz Barry Hardiman Martha Ann Overland and Ed McNulty. Our supervising editor is Evie Stone. Sarah Oliver is our executive producer and Jim Kane is our deputy managing editor.  In the studio we have Ned Wharton Samantha Balaban Stu Rushfield Patrick Boyd and engineering help from Jay Siz  Dennis Nielsen and Josephine Neoni . UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your week. Follow us on social media. We are upfirst on Twitter and stay tuned to this feed for occasional special episodes.  You can also find us on the radio. Tune in to Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings. Find your NPR station at stations.npr.org or on your smart speaker. 