 The U.S. is overwhelmed by COVID-19 and hearing about COVID-19 is getting overwhelming. Listen to Dr. Anthony Fauci talking to members of Congress yesterday.   We are now having 40-plus-thousand new cases a day. I would not be surprised if we go up to 100000 a day if this does not turn around. And so I am very concerned.  That is a lot. So maybe it is more helpful to have information about your specific community. As of today there is a new tool that shows the threat level in every single county in this country. It was developed by researchers at Harvard. And NPR's Allison Aubrey knows the details. Hi Allison.  Good morning Noel.  So up until this point it has not been easy for me as an individual to figure out the level of virus spread in my community.  That is right. I mean state dashboards display a lot of COVID stats. They have number of cases number of deaths but it is hard to know how to interpret these numbers. What are the trends? Here's Danielle Allen. She is a professor at Harvard. She is working with the Harvard Global Health Institute.  A big challenge has been the absence of a unified national way of presenting data and talking about how to think about risk.  So Allen along with a big group of collaborators - top scientists and former public health officials at institutions around the country - they have stepped in. They have developed this new tool that is being released this morning.  How does it work?  Well you go to the website - globalepidemics.org. We have a link to it on our site - npr.org. You hover over the state and county where you live and you will see two important things Noel. You will see a trend line in cases over time and you will see a color - either green yellow orange or red. This is the risk level for your county. Now this level is based on how many new cases there are per 100000 people. And the value of kind of tying the alert level to this metric is that it is a standard way to measure the risk against the you know total population. You are getting apples-to-apples comparisons. Here's Ellie Graeden. She is one of the collaborators on the project. She is affiliated with Georgetown University's Center for Global Health Science and Security.  So it allows you to compare a rural area in upstate New York compared to New York City and that is the real value of this effort. We are now communicating and all agreeing on the same basic thresholds for the types of actions that need to be taken.  So what actions need to be taken depending on what color you see?  Sure. Well if you are in a green area this signals that your county or state is on track to contain the virus. I should say there are not too many places there. Orange and yellow - that is where many parts of the country are. And for policymakers it is a cue that they may need to adjust restrictions depending on the trend line if it is going up or down. And there is specific guidance from collaborators on steps to take. For us the public it is also a signal to you know maintain vigilance to keep up social distancing and masking to be very cautious. Red is a signal that a stay-at-home order or some other advisory like that is needed. That is the conclusion of these scientists.  And there are counties and states I would presume that are in the red yeah?  Yes there are. I should emphasize it is very fluid constantly changing. But many counties in Arizona and Florida are in the red. So if it were up to these scientists there would be a shelter-in-place or a stay-at-home order considered there. Also 20 counties in Texas are red. If you look at the map much of the country is in orange and yellow as I said a smattering of green. I should point out one way to think about this tool is to guide your own decision-making. If you wanted to visit relatives and you use this tool you see the county they live in is at a red alert you may want to reconsider your plans.  And people can find the tool at npr.org right?  That is right. That is right.  NPR's Allison Aubrey. Thanks Allison.  Thank you so much Noel. 