 There are a lot of surprise splashes in the Olympic pool as well. China has won five medals France has three gold - two of them at the expense of American swimming star Ryan Lochte. He and Michael Phelps were the headliners coming into the men's swim competition in London. Were is the key word here as NPR's Tom Goldman reports.  Last night's men's 200-meter freestyle race at the Olympic Aquatic Center was Ryan Lochte's shot at revenge. The day before Yannick Agnel a 20-year-old French torpedo caught and passed Lochte at the end of a relay race leaving a stunned American team in second place. Lochte and Agnel went head-to-head again last night. When it was over it was more like Lochte's head to Agnel's feet which were way in front at the finish - revenge denied. Agnel won a second gold. Lochte took the dreaded out-of-the-medals fourth place. His teammate and rival Michael Phelps did not swim the race but talked about it.  A race like that is tough to come off of but you know Ryan I know is a very good racer and he is a champion. You know he is going to be able to build off of that and put a lot of energy and focus into his races coming throughout the meet.  Soothing words for a fourth-place finisher. Now where did we hear that before?  You know what Michael still to me he is one of the world's greatest. And no matter what happens he will always go down as one of the greatest. And I know he gave it 110 percent. And honestly that is all you can really ask for.  That was Lochte Saturday night offering soothing words for fourth-place Phelps who would just gotten dusted by Lochte in the 400 individual medley. So what are the sure-thing cannot-miss swimming studs of London doing finishing races in fourth place? Well first of all Olympic hype is very dangerous because there really are not sure-thing cannot-miss athletes when the world's absolute best convene. Are you listening Usain Bolt? And second it is still early enough for them to live up to the hype - for Phelps as soon as today. In fact on a career built on memorable Olympic days this could be right up there. He is swimming the 200-meter butterfly and four-by-200-meter freestyle relay. A medal in both is likely. If it happens he passes Larisa Latynina a gymnast for the former Soviet Union who won a record 18 Olympic medals. If Phelps wins 18 and 19 tonight becoming the most decorated Olympian ever no need for any soothing words from Lochte or anyone else. Tom Goldman NPR News London. 