 Kathryn Bolkovac was a hardworking cop in Lincoln Nebraska in 1999 who would run into hard times. She would lost custody of her daughters in a divorce settlement. She was looking for a new job that would give her the means to live near them and she would heard she could earn good money in a short period of time by becoming part of the U.N. International Police Force in Bosnia which is run by DynCorp a private security agency. She signed on. Once there she became alarmed when she saw human trafficking - mobsters transporting teenage girls for sex in bars and brothels - and outrage when she found that the security firm and U.N. personnel seemed to be all caught up in that trafficking. She tried to sound the alarm and she was fired. The Whistleblower is the name of the new film starring Rachel Weisz as Kathryn Bolkovac.    You should have seen this place. There were pictures all over the walls of guys with those girls. And almost every single guy in there is ours.  Kathryn Bolkovac joins us in our studios. Thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you for having me.  And take us back to that moment when - well what did you first see that set off the alarm with you?  Yeah. The initial alarm actually started well before I ever got to Bosnia during the training session in Fort Worth Texas. And one night just before leaving for Bosnia one of the men who had done previous missions in Bosnia came bounding into the pool with a beer stating where he could find really nice 12- to 15-year-olds once we got to Bosnia. I was the only women in the group and there was about five or six of us in the pool at that time - and dead silence. And we just really tried to put this I think statement in the back of our minds. I think we must have misunderstood. But once I got to Bosnia and began my investigations began my training it was just so clear. It was not even well-hidden. These brothels were disguised as bars and hotels and strip clubs and dance clubs and they were just scattered throughout the hills of Bosnia. And the clientele were all internationals. I mean let us face it the locals did not have the money to spend on this kind of an operation. So the international money was definitely funding the flow of the trade.  And recognizing this is the story of the movie but what happened when you said boy this is serious and tragic? We ought to do something about it.  Well you know I really tried to give my fellow officers the benefit of the doubt. But when a victim came forward she reported international involvement - someone who was highly identifiable or had a name badge a description a tattoo - I forwarded these cases on to the Internal Affairs Unit. But ultimately they were just trashed.  Were you told as your character is told in the film Come on this is war?  Yeah.    I found padlocked rooms young women's passports and there was a lot of U.S. currency.   Where are we going Columbo?  I do not know but something  up's going on.  Ooh. Honey it is like I say. This is Bosnia. These people specialize in  up.  And I think that is such a great escape. These women are whores of war. They are just prostitutes. They want it. You know if they want out of this why do not they whisper in our ears when we go into these bars that they are being held captive? And yeah there is just every excuse in the book. But I mean the same reaction is always there from the U.N. to the State Department to the corporations who are involved in this. And that is simply damage control.  There would be an occasional raid of a bar right?  Yeah.  And what would result?  Well the girls would be herded out of the bars if indeed they claimed to be trafficked. I mean - and so many of these girls were obviously not free to speak and were afraid for their lives and certainly were not going to tell the very people who were perpetrating crimes against them - who came to save them - that they wanted out. The few girls that did escape or who would raise their hand basically and say yeah I want to go home were herded out like cattle put through a bunch of regulations and rules through various organizations. There were no safe homes to put them in. There was no psychological counseling. So they were ultimately sent home to their home countries - if we could prove they had a home country - and ultimately probably picked up again.  Many times there is documented cases where they were met at the airport in their home country by corrupt police on the other end or traffickers and simply you know put right back in the trade. So it was just a vicious circle. There is a - in a movie that is filled with jarring scenes there is an especially emotional one where you are able to organize a raid and a young woman with whom you especially identify Raya - well let us play that scene.    I know this girl.  I know you do.   I know this girl. I cannot leave her here. Let us go come on. Raya let us go. I cannot leave her here. I cannot leave her here.  Look at me. Kathy we cannot force them. Nothing will hold up in court. Please understand they will be brought down here punished. You want blood on your hands?  Tough scene.  Did anything like that happen?  Yeah not exactly that scene but I did go on a bar raid when I was in Zenica. A young woman had escaped and reported to me that other girls were captive there in a brothel in the hills. And ultimately I went to this bar and found seven young women locked in a room upstairs. Very similar conditions to what is portrayed in the film with condoms hanging over the trashcan their clothes stuffed in plastic bags. And scared to death stating they did not want to be found floating in the river. It was just so heartbreaking to see the tough exterior knowing that these were just such young innocent victims underneath.  What would make them not want to go with you?  Well clearly it is the psychological trauma. These girls are sometimes willingly brought from countries thinking they are obviously going to go into these you know great jobs in the West and are forced into prostitution. But in order to do that you do not just take the girl off the street and put her in a brothel and tell her to start working. You basically rape abuse and mortify these girls through horrible traumatic acts in order to get them to do that.  Did you feel as your character does in the film a tug between your own daughters and the young women?  I get asked that question a lot. And you know it is a yes and no. Because any good cop will tell you that you are trained and taught to put those emotions aside when you are dealing with victims. But also any good cop will tell you that is almost impossible to do. Whenever you work an event that involves children - whether it is a child death or a sexual assault or incest or anything else which is you know what my specialties were before I went in to Bosnia - you learn how to compartmentalize a bit. But you know I would be lying if I said there certainly were not moments when the children my own girls were going through my mind.  What do you want people to know about human trafficking?  This is not just about human trafficking. I think human trafficking needs to be looked at from all facets and how organized of a crime this is and how corrupt the entire organization are that are running this - and what is fueling human trafficking which are many of these international missions and the demand side. So until we crack down on the demand side all the theoretical and Ph.D.s that are out there writing all these ethics policies are not doing a bit of good.  Kathryn Bulkovac and she is portrayed by Rachel Weisz in the film The Whistleblower which opens in select cities beginning on August 5th. Thanks very much.  Thank you for having me.   You are listening to WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. 