 It is PR News. I am Steve Inskeep.  Good morning David.  Good morning.  So let me start there. How are the markets looking this morning?  Where we see the trouble is in all these really arcane money markets where - which depend on the U.S. Treasuries and they are definitely showing some signs of strain. Billions of dollars are leaving money market funds for instance because people are afraid of what will happen.  OK. I mean I wonder - you said if it is going to take a crash to get Washington to do something. Is this a case where you have got you know Washington watching Wall Street to see how bad things might get you know whether failure to reach a deal might really send the U.S. economy off a cliff as everyone fears? At the same time Wall Street watching Washington to see just how bad things might get here.  Yes. I think that is a pretty good description of what is going on. It looks like Wall Street for some time if at all they will work it out. There just is a lot of theater and they will come to a conclusion at the end. I think you are beginning to see in the last couple of days some second thoughts on Wall Street and saying oh my gosh. Is the unthinkable now thinkable? Are these guys nuts enough to drive the car off the cliff?  David where are we in terms of the U.S. credit rating and whether it may be downgraded amidst all this?  I think it is highly likely that at least one of the rating agencies Standard  Poor's will downgrade the U.S. from its triple-A status to double-A status.  Even if a deal is reached on the debt.  Correct. So that would put us in the company of Slovenia. What Standard  Poor's have said is they are worried not only about the debt ceiling and default which would be a real problem but they are also worried about the inability of the political system to deal with a long-run deficit issue.  I personally do not think that is such a big deal. I think the problem is the problem. The credit rating is not the problem. But some people disagree.  One other thing to ask you about which is there was some talk earlier in the week about whether the August 2nd deadline was as firm as the White House and some others have said it is. Is there any wiggle room there in terms of when the U.S. might run out of money to pay its bills?  So they have a lot of control here and no one knows what they are going to do. And they are being very coy. They are not saying what they are going to do.  And I guess the big question is you know as we head into the weekend trying - I am sure there will be tremendous pressure - there already is of course - but tremendous pressure to try to come up with some sort of deal before markets start opening Monday morning.  Yeah. So our - what we usually say before Asia opens Sunday night. I think that that is what the president was saying in his press conference where he sort of abandoned the partisan rhetoric of earlier in the week and kind of pleading with people to act like grown-ups. And there is some sign that some of the - some people on the Hill are beginning to look at it the same way.  All right. Thanks very much David.  You are welcome.  That is the Wall Street Journal's David Wessel. 