 Now we go to our sports man Howard Bryant. Howard thanks very much for being with us.  My pleasure Scott. How are you?  I am just fine thank you. And Manny Ramirez is back. Of course he returned played for the Los Angeles Dodgers last night after being suspended for 50 games for using banned drugs. He was very popular in the minors I loved reading those accounts. And what about the reaction in the Big Leagues?  So I do not think you are going to see anything but flowers and kisses and everything else for Manny Ramirez out of left field.  As you have heard the Dodgers you know certainly maintained their pace while he was gone. Does his return make them unbeatable?  No one's unbeatable. I still think the Phillies are the best team. They are the champs after all and they are the champs until someone beats them. I still think that the Dodgers I am not sure they pitch well enough or hit enough in a short series. I think they are very much good enough now to beat a very weak division even though the Giants are playing better the Giants are well over .500 right now. But I think that the Dodgers - the Dodgers can be had because everybody can be had in baseball but I still think the Phillies are the best team in the National League.  I want to ask you about Yao Ming of the Houston Rockets. Apparently that foot injury he suffered during the playoffs is serious to the point it could end his career. What happened? What is the impact of this injury?  So it is going to be very interesting to see what happens with him.  And while we are on basketball Phil Jackson said yesterday that he is good to go his health is fine he will return to coach the world champion L.A. Lakers again next year. Of course Coach Jackson with his tenth championship this year surpassing the mark that Red Auerbach set with the Boston Celtics. This raises one of the great Talmudic questions of basketball Howard. Is Phil Jackson the greatest pro coach of all time or is he just the luckiest because he inherited teams with Michael Jordan Scottie Pippen and Kobe Bryant?  Well I think he is a little bit of both. And I do not - I will leave that to the Phil Jackson partisans and the Phil Jackson detractors to make that determination. But you cannot argue the fact that Phil Jackson has had the greatest players of his era not just one of them pretty much all of them. He is got Kobe Jordan Pippen Rodman and Shaq. That is a pretty good hand I would like to be playing with over there.  Steve Kerr too okay? Steve Kerr I want to point out.  So for him for the Zen master to find a way to get players to motivate them and to get them to play I still think is - it is quite an achievement.  Howard Bryant senior writer for ESPN.com and ESPN The Magazine thanks so much.  My pleasure. 