 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Susan Stamberg. And you know what that music means. It is time for our weekly dose of puzzle.   Joining us now WEEKEND EDITION's puzzle-master Will Shortz. Well hi Will.  Welcome back Susan.  Thank you very much. We need a reminder. What was last week's challenge?  Yes. It came from listener Gary Alvstad of Tustin California. And it was to think of a three-syllable word in four letters. I said add two letters and rearrange everything into a two-syllable word in six letters. Then add two more letters and rearrange everything into a one-syllable word in eight letters.  Oh good heavens. And apparently there were many different kinds of answers that would work for this one. Just to make it even simpler right?  Well there were several answers. The intended one was idea detain strained. There were a couple of other options. There was idea diaper traipsed oleo oodles and schooled. We accepted anything that was correct. Oh we are easy. And there were more than 600 correct answers. Is not that just shows you how smart our listeners are. Randomly selected the winner is Bob Frizal Mayfield Village Ohio. Congratulations to you Bob.  Well thank you Susan.  Well Bob how did you figure this out.  Well I was actually traveling back to the United States from Bangkok. And I looked at the puzzle online in the airport in Seoul South Korea. And I got the answer before we took off.  That is amazing. And what were you doing in Bangkok?  I was there on business. My company has a factory there.  Ha. Was it a little warm?  It was quite warm. But actually during part of the time I was there Cleveland was just as warm.  You bet and Washington D.C. where I am. So how long have you been playing this puzzle Bob?  I have been playing the puzzle for about 15 years but I did not start answering until December of 2009 when my puzzle partner my friend Christine actually was a contestant and sitting in the same chair that I am sort of sitting in right now.  Oh how amazing. Well is not that nice that it is your turn to shine?  That is right.  Good. You ready to play?  I am.  OK. Will let us go.  All right. Bob and Susan today's puzzle is supersonic. Every answer is a familiar two-word phrase or name that has the consecutive letters SST. And specifically the first word will end in S-S and the second word will start with T. For example if I said situation in which people speak on top of each other you would say cross talk.   OK.  I got as far as simultaneous translation. I do not know. OK fine go.  Number one subway buses et cetera.  Mass transit.  That is it. Number two conveyance that does not make local stops.  Express train.  That is it. Basic things as in the phrase getting down to...  Brass tacks.  That is it. A measure of how one performs under pressure.  Stress test.  That is it. Pioneer's path through a forest. And...  Something trail.  Yes. What kind of trail? It is wide open uninhabited area.  Wilderness.  There you go. Wilderness trail.  Thank you Susan.  Hello. I woke up.  Popular cream-filled cakes whose manufacturer declared bankruptcy last year.  Hostess Twinkie.  That is it. Head of Tammany Hall in 19th century New York City politics.  Boss Tweed.  That is it. Piece of furniture for the so-called game of kings.  Chess table.  That is it. Conifer often found near a swamp.  Cypress tree.  That is it. In Robert Frost's The Road Not Taken like the road the poet did take.  Less traveled.  Good. Something hanging off a Serta or Sealy not to be removed except by the purchaser.  Mattress tag.  That is it.  Or the police will get you.  Do not you hate those things? You always think oh better get the scissors or somebody's going to come arrest me.  That is it. A lawn edging tool.  Grass something.  Yes. A grass what?  Grass trimmer?  Grass trimmer is it. Illegal influence on a person who is testifying at a trial. So first of all someone who testifies at a trial would be what?  A witness. Witness tampering.  Witness tampering is it. And your last one first lady before Mamie Eisenhower.  Bess Truman.  That was 100 percent.  We are so impressed we are going to give you something. For playing this puzzle you will get a WEEKEND EDITION lapel pin puzzle books games and you can read all about it at npr.orgpuzzle. And before we let you go tell us the public radio station you listen to?  WCPN in Cleveland.  Yay Cleveland. Bob Frizal of Mayfield Village Ohio. Thank you so much for playing.  Thank you both.  Will you think he will show up again here next week?  Well why not?   What is the challenge?  OK. In three words name a product sold mainly to women that has the initials NPR. And the answer is a common phrase. So again three words whose initials are NPR and it names a product sold mainly. What product is it?  When you have the answer go to our website npr.orgpuzzle and you click on the Submit Your Answer link - just one entry per person please. Our deadline for entries is Thursday the 1st of August 3 P.M. Eastern Time. And give us your phone number a place we can reach you at around that time. If you are the winner we will give you a call and you will get to play on the air with the puzzle editor of The New York Times and WEEKEND EDITION's puzzle-master Will Shortz. So great to do this again with you Will. Thanks so much.  Thanks Susan.  