 The Tokyo Olympic Games lurched into action amid coronavirus infections and controversy.  There are medal events this weekend in swimming diving fencing skateboarding weightlifting and a whole lot more.  I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro not a skateboarder.  Not yet. And I am Scott Simon. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   The Olympics are scheduled to go on until August 8 and we will hear from Tokyo about how things seem to look there.  And as the delta variant of the coronavirus causes infections to surge here in the U.S. there is a renewed focus on masks. We will tell you what masks work for this very transmissible version of the virus.  And the attorney general heads to Chicago to talk about illegal gun trafficking as shootings there spike again.  So stay with us. We have got the news you need to start your weekend.   Delayed once already because of ympics and Tokyo are finally underway.  Naomi Osaka lit the torch in a nearly empty stadium to begin more than two weeks of games and events that millions of people will watch but nearly nobody will see it in person.  NPR sports correspondent Tom Goldman is there in Tokyo and can tell us more about these very different games. Good morning.  Good morning Lulu.  So Tom normally after the opening ceremony the focus rightly turns to the sport events does not it?  It does. You know traditionally there is this big pivot. We turn away from the controversies in the weeks leading up to the start and we dive into this swirling vortex of 16 days of drama and emotion and really irresistible stories about these amazing athletes thousands of them. Most toil in obscurity for years and suddenly they are given a world stage to prove themselves. You know talk about crushing pressure but it is exciting too.  Yeah but these games are just very very different are not they?  Oh they are. Obviously the pandemic you know these games have been dubbed the Pandemic Olympics. And as I wrote in a story the question will hover over them will these be more pandemic or Olympics? Tokyo will remain under its fourth state of emergency through the games. The numbers of positive cases have been climbing both among those connected to the games and Tokyo citizens. We just heard today that a Dutch rower has become the first athlete to test positive for coronavirus in Tokyo after competing. But you know another unique aspect of these Olympics - public dissatisfaction. There is always grumbling about things like traffic jams or cost overruns. You remember Lulu you were in Rio.  I do.  But the pandemic has turned grumbling into real anger and disappointment. There have been constant street protests in Tokyo. Last night during the opening ceremony close to 500 people turned out to march. I spoke to one of the organizers the day before a university professor named Satoko Itani who voiced a common complaint about the reported 30 billion that is gone into these games while Japanese citizens are not being adequately cared for during the pandemic including less than a quarter of the population fully vaccinated at this point. Here's Itani.  And also they are not distributing money really to support the businesses that are really losing and struggling. And while that is happening we are witnessing tens of thousands of Olympic delegates coming into Japan and the athletes are tested every day. You know like there is a lot of sense of unfairness. The Olympics is prioritized over people's everyday life.  And Lulu activists like Itani vow to keep raising their voices even though the games have started. There is concern there will be a real reckoning after the games with a lot of debt. And who knows how much more serious the pandemic will be in Japan.  Yes possibly deaths. Well the games are pushing on regardless. Let us talk about the sports. What are you expecting as you cover these events?  I am expecting the unexpected drama every day. You know one thing I do expect - missing the fans. Each of these sports from the new Olympic ones like skateboarding to surfing to climbing to the more established like sailing and archery they all have their own subculture. And the fans are a huge part of that. They follow the sport. They know what they are watching. And over the years I have learned a lot about a sport I know nothing about by talking to the fans. I will miss that and just the exuberance that makes these events come alive. There are thousands of athletes here. I am ready to be amazed. Gymnastics for instance yeah Simone Biles is OK. But how about Oksana Chusovitina from Uzbekistan? She is 46 has a 22-year-old son and she is an Olympian. Just FYI Lulu...  Wow.  ...I have a 22-year-old and I am not an Olympian.  No you are not.  But most amazing about her she is a gymnast the most physical of sports great risk of injury. She is in her eighth Olympics. And that amazes me although I am sure Simone Biles will too.  That is NPR sports correspondent Tom Goldman in Tokyo. Tom thank you very much.  You are welcome.   A growing number of health experts are urging more Americans to mask up again as the delta variant fuels a dangerous new surge in the United States.  But it is not just whether someone wears a mask or not it is whether they are wearing a good mask. Joining us now to explain more about this is NPR health correspondent Rob Stein. Good morning.  Good morning Lulu.  To start off let us remind everyone what it is about the delta variant that is so dangerous and why we are having this debate about masking again.  Yeah. So you know the delta variant is the most transmissible mutant yet. It spreads incredibly easily about twice as easily as the original virus. And the first thing I should say is the best thing anyone can do to protect themselves is to get vaccinated. The vaccines look like they all still work really well at preventing people from getting really sick or dying. But it looks like one reason delta is so contagious is that it grows really fast. So infected people could be walking around with a lot of virus in their bodies like a thousand times more virus which means they could be spewing out way more virus making it way easier for someone to catch it from them. Linsey Marr is at Virginia Tech University. She studies how viruses spread through the air.  Delta transmits in the same way as the other variants that we have seen so far. It is just that people who are infected seem to release a lot more virus into the air. So masks still work but with delta we need better performing masks.  So Marr says everyone should you know take a good look at their masks to make sure it is good enough. You know a mask that filters out say you know 75 of viral particles might have been good enough before delta but with delta you really need a mask that is going to filter out something more like you know 90.  All right. So what kind of mask are we talking about here? Because obviously there is so many masks on the market. And a lot of people you see them they are using cloth masks. They may be using surgical masks. I mean do they need to sort of beef up their masks to an N95?  You know well those are the gold standard and - but so are similar masks like those KN95 masks. But Marr says cloth masks could still do the trick as long as they fit really well and they are made out of the right stuff.  The good masks are still going to be very protective. But with delta around people who are wearing the poorer quality cloth masks that are not as good you know it is time really to upgrade to a higher performing version which means something that has a dedicated filter layer and that fits really well with no leaks.  So you know that means it cannot fit loosely you know leaving gaps on your cheeks or under your chin where the virus could sneak in. And it should pinch tight over your nose. And if you are wearing a cloth mask it should have a layer made out of a special filter material not just regular cloth. If you are not sure you can hold your mask up to the light to see if you see pinpricks of light through it. If you can that is probably not good enough. Or another thing you can do is spray water through it in front of a mirror. If water gets through to the mirror not good enough. Buy a better mask or buy filters to insert between the cloth layers. And if you really want to protect yourself you could consider double masking.  But what about those CDC guidelines that say vaccinated people can basically leave their masks at home? I mean is the CDC going to change that?  So far CDC Director Rochelle Walensky is sticking to the guidance that vaccinated people do not have to wear masks even indoors. But Walensky keep stressing that unvaccinated people definitely need to mask up and even vaccinated people could take that extra step especially when they are indoors around lots of people who may not be vaccinated. But many experts want the CDC to go further and recommend vaccinated people do that you know maybe tell localities to issue mask mandates where rates of vaccination are too low or rates of infections and hospitalizations are getting dangerously high.  That is NPR health correspondent Rob Stein. Thank you very much.  You bet Lulu.   The nation's top law enforcement officer traveled to Chicago this week to unveil a new strategy to fight illegal gun trafficking. Attorney General Merrick Garland visited with police and community leaders.   I am not here from Washington to tell you what to do. I am here from Washington to find out what we can do to help you.  NPR national justice correspondent Carrie Johnson was along and joins us now. Carrie thanks so much for being with us.  Happy to be here Scott.  We have heard so much really in the past year about gun violence rising in Chicago. What is the Justice Department saying they want to do about it?  For sure homicides and shootings are up and the DOJ is launching a strike force to try to get at the source of a lot of this illegal gun trade. You know that gun laws in Chicago are strong but the problem is that guns are coming into the city from places like downstate in Indiana in Wisconsin. The Bureau of Alcohol Tobacco and Firearms says it is not big tractor-trailers full of guns. Instead these weapons are like ants marching into the city. And it can be really hard to find the source of the weapons until after they are used in very violent crimes. So now the Justice Department wants to change that. They want to use technology partner with Chicago police and they want to build strong contacts between police in Chicago and prosecutors in these other places that are the source of these weapons.  And the attorney general spent time with the community groups also in the city. And what did they tell him?  Yeah Garland spent a while at St. Agatha's Church in North Lawndale. Right near there just about 24 hours earlier there were two big shootings. A teenager died. Another man was grazed in the forehead by a bullet. That man actually participates in a group designed to help men at risk of gun violence. And Garland sat down with some of the members in that group called READI Chicago. Eddie Bocanegra directs that program. I caught up with him later that night.  I think too often there is a disconnection from the people who make policy decisions without necessarily being well-informed about what is really happening in its communities.  Bocanegra says this federal government really needs to invest in local programs that get to the root causes of some of this violence things like social services and racism.  We are talking about years years of chronic trauma. They have been exposed - you know issues with trust with institutions like law enforcement and in working and living in communities that have been broken down.  The attorney general Scott also heard from a woman who lost her son to gun violence but that part of the meeting was private.  Carrie how did the attorney general respond to hear about all of this this heartbreak happening now under his watch in what is after all his hometown?  Yeah he was pretty sober about all this. People in the room told me he asked a lot of questions seemed particularly interested in hearing from survivors of gun violence. And he wanted to know what the data showed about which social service programs and technology seem to actually work to prevent shootings. Here's what Merrick Garland told law enforcement later.   Violent crime in Chicago is a terrible tragedy. And we in the federal government have to do everything we can in cooperation with our state and local partners to bring that violence down. That is what we are all about.  Carrie we are Chicagoans so let me ask what Chicagoans often ask each other. You really took in a baseball game? .   I did Scott. But in my defense this was a work trip. It was a game played by 11- and 12-year-old boys part of the police athletic league in the city. The attorney general was there. He mingled with the players. He even put on an orange jersey at one point over his blue shirt. And you will not believe this Scott - maybe you will. We had a really joyful moment inside the ballpark.  Inside the park home run. That is what it said.  That is Senator Dick Durbin marveling at the inside-the-ballpark home run that we witnessed. The attorney general of course later went out of his way to shake that kid's hand.  Yeah that sounds like a wonderful moment. NPR national justice correspondent Carrie Johnson. Thanks so much.  Thank you.  Carrie is also a regular voice on the NPR Politics Podcast. Check it out and be sure to catch its new series on law called The Docket.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday July 24 2021. I am Scott Simon.  And I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your week. Follow us on social media. We are upfirst on Twitter.  And for more stories from all over the world - Cuba China Arkansas Minnesota and lots more just this weekend alone - you can find us on the radio.  That is right. Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings. Find your NPR station at stations.npr.org. 