 And another news for air travelers. Springtime was bargain season but airfares are sneaking up. To tell us how much and why we turn to airline analyst David Field. Good morning. Mr.  Good morning.  You know the last time we spoke with you you were telling us about all the great airfares that that could be had just a bit of hunting around on the Web. That is still sometimes true. But what is happening? What is changing? Mr.  What is changing is that the major airlines have begun to push through a series of fare increases. There were two within two weeks in the middle and end of June. So you are talking about 20 to 40 on American United Delta big airlines like that.  Well what happened to get airlines to start moving up their fares? Mr.  I think the airlines believe that the incredible decline in demand has reached its bottom and it is starting to go up. Another factor is airlines basically are having a lot of trouble selling the front of the airplane the so-called premium sections first class and business class. To makeup for that revenue drop of 44 percent worldwide in April they had to turn somewhere. And it was leisure travelers who would always had the lowest fares that are the target.  And fuel did not have anything to do with it the price of fuel? Mr.  Oh fuel's certainly a factor because fuel's about twice as much as it was at the end of 2008.  Still overall these airline prices seem pretty reasonable. Mr.  Yes. Airfares domestically generally are about 15 percent below what they were in July of 2008. They are certainly on average nowhere near enough to give the airlines much hope of a profit this summer or this year. And you got to bear in mind that summer is the time when airlines make money. Summer is sort of like the weeks right after Thanksgiving is to retailers. You lose money all year you make your money during that brief period. Even if you see profitable months this summer it is nowhere near enough to makeup for the losses they had during the winter and spring. It is nowhere near enough to makeup for the losses that they will have towards the end of the year. And bear in mind that one of the mainstays of domestic travel had been international travel. You know Delta was probably making a very small amount of breaking even on flights from Atlanta to Des Moines. But making real money on flights from Atlanta to Shanghai Atlanta to Africa the international market has fallen off dramatically. So you no longer have the cross-subsidy of overseas flights picking up the slack from domestic flights. Delta alone was looking at a 250 million hit to revenues in the third quarter.  Would you have a theory on what it would take for airlines to become profitable?   Right. If you did if you knew how right you would Mr.  Yeah yeah. No a very wealthy investor with bad judgment which I do not think is going to happen or a return to the 1998 1999 days of an absolute booming economy with the dotcom bubble. I do not think that is going to happen either. It is going  Any time soon. Mr.  Any - certainly not any time soon. It is going to be a long hard slog back toward profitability.  Airline analyst David Field thanks very much. Mr.  It is my pleasure. 