 This summer we are telling the stories behind some of the country's most popular regional candies and candy stores. Rick Howlett of member station WFPL reports now about a Louisville confection that dates back to the Victorian era and a man's infatuation with an actress.  In the back room of Muth's Candies Jonathon Skaggs and Bobby Masterson are busy.   They use forks to dip marshmallows into a copper pot. It contains a secret hot caramel mixture. They tap off the excess before placing the candy on a board. Masterson says it is a rhythm repeated hundreds of times each day.  They are good. They are a big-time seller in here in Kentucky especially right here in Louisville. There is a lot of people that come and get 'em.  The soft sticky candy is the Modjeska a name coined by Anton Busath a French confectioner who immigrated to Louisville. Busath was enamored with Polish actress Helena Modjeska who performed in theatres near his downtown shop in the 1880s.   The candy maker had spent years perfecting his caramel biscuit. He called it the Modjeska. The Shakespearean actress was hugely popular in the United States and even today has a dedicated following. This music is from a video tribute on the Helena Modjeska Society's website.   Duke University Professor Beth Holmgren published a biography of Modjeska.  There are lots of things named after her. The candy is the only thing that is still sold. It was a way of encouraging - consuming your actress.  It is a heavenly piece of candy. When you watch people for the first time put it in their mouth they just...mmm.  That is Rose Ann Stacy whose family has run Muth's Candies since 1921. After Anton Busath's shop was destroyed by fire in 1947 his son gave the Modjeska recipe to Muth's. It is the most popular treat at Muth's. They sell thousand of pounds of it each year. Guests in some Louisville hotels will find a complimentary Modjeska on their pillows. And Rose Ann is always happy to unwrap a free sample in the store.   Mmm...ah that is good. Not too sweet. You would think it would be very sweet but it is not.  If anybody has ever lived in Louisville had anyone that lived in Louisville and received these they call and get them. Because they have to have as they will say they will have to have their Modjeska fix.  A Modjeska craving brought Amy Harty into the store. She is a Louisville native who now lives in New England.  They have a very special flavor. I mean nothing of which I have ever had before. And people say the same thing in Boston they are just like wow these are so good.  So good and long enduring. For NPR news I am Rick Howlett in Louisville.   This is NPR News.  