 If you are still looking for a summer vacation destination have we got a place for you. It is a gravesite. It turns out there are several Boot Hill graveyards in the West named because many of their inhabitants are said to have died violently with their boots on. And quite a few of these Boot Hill graveyards draw live visitors. None is as famous or as visited as Boot Hill in Tombstone Ariz. In this encore presentation NPR's Ted Robbins tells us why.   Tombstone's Boot Hill is a tough-looking place - gravel mesquite trees and cactus no lawn. The graves are covered with stones to keep varmints from digging up the bones. Boot Hill was only open from 1878 to 1884. It took just six years to fill up with graves.  Many of which are unknown.  Dave Askey who manages Boot Hill points out that people back then did not carry Social Security cards or driver's licenses.  Typically what would happen when someone died the mortician would put them on a cooling board in front of his office and people customarily would walk by for about two days to see if they could identify the body.  The markers with names on them are a catalog of violent death in the Old West. Killeen 1880 shot by Frank Leslie Red River Tom shot by Ormsby Marshal Fred White 1880 shot by Curly Bill And the unfortunate George Johnson.  Here lies George Johnson hanged by mistake 1882. He was right. We was wrong but we strung him up and now he is gone. He was stopped. They thought he would stolen a horse so they strung him up and later found out that he had legally purchased it. So there is George.  The markers are wooden. They fade and decay so the town of Tombstone replaces them from time to time. It also sells T-shirts posters and mouse pads of the graveyard's most famous epitaph.  Here lies Lester Moore. Four slugs from a .44. No Les. No More.  But Les Moore he is not one of the most notorious inhabitants here.  Well there is the graves of Billy Clanton Tom and Frank McLaury that were killed at the gunfight at the O.K. Corral October 26 1881.   The gunfight at the O.K. Corral - it is been in dozens of movies and TV shows from John Ford's My Darling Clementine in 1946 through the film Tombstone in 1993. It is re-enacted daily near the actual site in town and it is what brought Steve Napolitan from California to the gunfighters' graves.  And it is kind of rewarding for me 'ecause it is kind of a fulfillment from all the stories and seeing the movies and now seeing the real place.  Boot Hill is probably the only graveyard selling souvenirs and fudge made on the premises. It also may be the only graveyard with its own Johnny Cash song.    Here lies Lester Moore. Four slugs from a .44. No Les. No More. Out in Arizona just south of Tucson.  Ted Robbins NPR News.    Where tumbleweeds tumble in search of a home. 