 The Astronaut diet differs just a little bit from the Mediterranean diet. There is not a lot of fresh fish or anything with crumbs and it has to have a long shelf life.  We have been thinking of this as the shuttle Atlantis moves through its final mission.  My name is Vickie Kloeris. I am a food scientist and I have been working with space food systems for almost 26 years.  Kloeris and her staff work at the Space Food Systems Laboratory at Johnson Space Center in Houston. There they plan prepare and package the food for astronauts.  We have grilled chicken. We have BBQ beef.  Foods you might cook up for your own dinner table. The space versions however are freeze-dried or thermostabilized - that means they are processed with heat like canned food.  The Space Food Systems lab has developed about 60 different products for space. Kloeris says one favorite among the astronauts is shrimp cocktail.  It is freeze-dried shrimp with a powdered sauce. And it has horseradish in the sauce so it has a nice little kick to it.  Okay not fresh fish but spicy. The food lab has also produced some real bombs. Some of them too disgusting even for space food.  We tried for a while to come up with a thermostabilized cheesecake in a pouch.  Why did not that work?  We finally gave up on that because when we did the processing the color that we came out with was not acceptable. It is just very very dark in color. That would not very appetizing.    Unidentified People  Wake up your day the astronauts' way. Wake up to the great new taste of Tang.   Astronauts are still consuming Tang in space.  Sadly we cannot say the same thing for space ice cream.  The ice cream does not fly. That is strictly done for the visitor centers and the museums. It flew one time during the Apollo program.  The American shuttle program may be ending but Vickie Kloeris's job is not. She will still be responsible for feeding astronauts on board the International Space Station.  Our food lab here at Johnson Space Center is going to be as busy as ever. We are going to have three crew members to feed at least through 20-20.  So they still have plenty of time to perfect say thermostabilized apple pie.   This is NPR News. 