 Here is the latest defense offered by President Trump's team of a meeting with Russians offering campaign dirt. The presidential legal team still faces questions about a 2016 meeting that included the president's oldest son Don Jr. the president's son-in-law Jared Kushner and his campaign chairman. Over the weekend presidential lawyer Jay Sekulow told CNN the meeting was not illegal. And on ABC he asked why the Secret Service allowed the Russians into Trump Tower if they were so bad. The Secret Service has responded that it was not protecting Donald Trump Jr. at that time. That is our starting point for a talk with Republican congressman Will Hurd of Texas who is on the House intelligence committee which is looking into all this. Congressman welcome back to the program.  Hey Steve thanks for having me on.  Let me begin by playing a comment by Senator Mark Warner who is the top Democrat investigating this same matter. Let us listen.   Clearly this administration has not been forthcoming about what they know and when they knew it in terms of Russian involvement in the elections.  Mark Warner on CBS. Is that accurate? The administration has not been forthcoming?  Well information keeps coming out in dribs and drabs and that is a distraction. And it is frustrating. One of the things that I would say - it is going to be Robert Mueller - is going to be responsible for figuring out whether some violation of the law took place. And we know that he is going to be doing everything he can to understand what is happening there. And both the Senate intelligence committee and the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence that I sit on will be reviewing these facts as well.  But when you say information coming out in dribs and drabs do you agree that that is because the administration has been hiding information?  I do not know if it is been hiding - I - you know to the public. I want to get everybody together that was involved in the campaign and say hey here's every single contact that we have had with the Russians just to get it out there because it becomes a distraction. And Mueller is going to get to the bottom of who met - who when and why. What was the outcome of the meeting? What happened at the meeting? I trust that his criminal investigation will do that. This also is preventing us from being able to talk about things. How do we prepare for the next election? The Russians are going to continue to use disinformation campaign. This is something they have been doing for a couple of decades in Europe. We saw what they did in our elections in '16. We do not have a counter-covert influence or a counter-disinformation strategy within the federal government. And we need to include civil society in this as well. These are some of the conversations we should be having.  Well Congressman I am glad you raised 2018. It is been on my mind because of President Trump's recent account of his meeting with Russian president Vladimir Putin. Of course we do not know every word that was said but we know the president's version of this. He told reporters on Air Force One about his meeting with Putin. And according to the president's account he did not say I know that you interfered in the 2016 election. He did not say there will be consequences if you do it again. He just said did you interfere? And Putin said no. So Trump asked again did you interfere? Were you involved in the meddling? And Putin said no absolutely not. Do you think that the president has sufficiently sent a message to Russia that there will be a price to pay if they interfere in U.S. elections?  Well I think the U.S. government is sending a message with the sanctions that happened under the last administration that are continuing now with - there are a number of pieces of legislation to put additional sanctions on the Russians. So I think with a whole of government response we are responding to them. I think there is more that can be done. You know but the Russians have learned when they do things they do not always get their hands smacked. You know they are in Eastern Ukraine and they are saying that it is a separatist movement. It is not a separatist movement. There is 920 Russian tanks in Eastern Ukraine. You know Ukraine is an ally and a partner within the broader EU and with us. There should always be a response. We should have red lines on you know if X is done then Y is going to be the response.  You mentioned these sanctions. There is been a Senate bill that would make these sanctions tougher against Russia. And it is reported that the White House is trying to get the House to weaken those sanctions your body. Will the House weaken those sanctions before they are passed?  No the House is not going to weaken the sanctions. But the House is also going to make sure we are reviewing this to ensure that it actually does not benefit some Russian companies. So that is where the negotiations are. And the House is committed to standing up - standing tall against the Russian activity in our country.  Congressman Will Hurd of South Texas always a pleasure talking with you. Thanks very much.  Thank you Steve. 