 It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am Steve Inskeep.  Twice now Rupert Murdoch's media empire has tried to contain the damage of a scandal.  Last week Murdoch's News Corporation closed the British tabloid News of the World amid a scandal over phone hacking and that was not enough.  So yesterday News Corp. abandoned its effort to buy provide full ownership in a British TV network. But of course investigations will continue.  David hi.  Good morning Steve.  People will be wondering you just marvel at how such an influential company and a politically savvy company could be taking so many hits.  Well you got to think back just eight days. You know the Murdochs oversee two of the most popular newspapers in Great Britain and there is a reason for that. The papers serve up a lot of gossip a lot of dish. But the way they came by it it turns out may have involved as we now know widespread phone-hacking and widespread illegal payments - bribes really - to police. A terrible public outcry as some of the targets of that it turned out to be you know crime victims victims of terror attacks other things. Politicians have scrambled to contain the damage. It turns out police may well have fumbled early investigations. And so there was a wall of opposition as you suggested to the Murdochs particularly taking over this major broadcaster BSkyB.  And even though it was News Corporation that announced it was dropping the bid it seems that that was going to be inevitable that they were going to have to. All three major political parties in Britain were preparing to vote against vote in opposition to that bid.  That is right a solid wall of opposition.  So what is next?  Only Rebekah Brooks who is the chief executive of British newspapers for News Corp. here in the U.K. can be compelled to testify. She is a British citizen. Rupert and James Murdoch are American citizens. But you know that is gaining some force here as well.  Wow just listening to you talk David Folkenflik about this giant company News Corporation it is had to dropped a newspaper that was a big part of the corporation's past. It is had to drop a TV deal and TV is a big part of the company's present and seen as a big part of its future. And you have named not just Rupert Murdoch but his son James which raises questions about succession and control of the company. Everything is involved here.  Well I think everything is at stake in terms of figuring out how they move forward. It is about the future of the company. As you say News of the World was very much important to the success of the British newspaper empire which led to his expansion into television and into the American markets. But they are not the future. The money is in television. You know BSkyB if they had taken full control of the company - News Corp. has about 39 percent of it now - it would have added a lot to the bottom line. And will shareholders really ultimately accept this as a dynastic company with a guy like James Murdoch at the head given all that is happened?  Because Murdoch James Murdoch could be tainted by this is what you are saying.  Oh he is seen as overseeing a very problematic chapter in the company's history.  David thanks very much.  You bet.  NPR's David Folkenflik is in London where investigations continue into Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation. 