 Coronavirus cases are on the rise. President Trump is focused on culture wars.  Last night in South Dakota the president delivered remarks that stoked divisions and mentioned the pandemic only once. I am Scott Detrow.  And I am Scott Simon. This is UP FIRST from NPR News.   In front of a mostly unmasked crowd the president railed against what he described as...   Cancel culture - driving people from their jobs shaming dissenters and demanding total submission from anyone who disagrees.  Meanwhile COVID infections are on the rise in some states.  We will have the latest from Texas which has been hit hard. Stay with us. We will give you the news you need to start your weekend.   Our nation is witnessing a merciless campaign to wipe out our history defame our heroes erase our values and indoctrinate our children.  That was President Trump last night at Mount Rushmore on the eve of the anniversary of America's founding with a dark speech that condemned cancel culture and defended his view of the nation's heritage.  We are joined now by NPR White House correspondent Tamara Keith. Tam thanks so much for being with us.  Glad to be with you.  And give us a sense please of what the president said.  You know he delivered this speech in front of Mount Rushmore setting up this current moment in our country with people protesting racism and pushing for change as an epic battle over the soul of America. He used over-the-top language reminiscent of his American carnage inaugural address. At one point he set up the left as having the goal of not making America better but trying to defeat America.   Make no mistake - this left-wing cultural revolution is designed to overthrow the American Revolution.  You know the president and his White House and his campaign have been trying for a couple of weeks now to really make this story not about the protests in the streets but about the Confederate statues and others that have been torn down trying to put attention on statues of people who are not Confederates who have been torn down. And this speech was really all about that all about trying to stoke these culture wars that the president has been trying to push. And obviously even though this was not officially a campaign speech it was a campaign speech.  Remarks of course Tam come after what is been a difficult month for the president and the country with rising coronavirus infections and continue in a discouraging economy and protests. Is the president trying to reset the agenda?  He is not trying to reset his relationship with America certainly. He is pushing his campaign narrative. And his campaign is going to a place of division. In so many ways you know presidents typically try to unite the country particularly you know on patriotic holidays. That is not what this was about.  Tam yesterday the U.S. hit another coronavirus record - not a good one. Day after day new records are set. Public health officials urge Americans to use common sense. What is the president's message on this?  Well in his speech there at Mount Rushmore he had a full half-sentence that sort of referenced the coronavirus - and the doctors nurses and scientists working tirelessly to kill the virus. That was it. His message seems to be come on out. We are having a party. Certainly at Mount Rushmore everyone was seated very close together. Very few people were wearing masks. And I should note that Kimberly Guilfoyle who is the girlfriend of Donald Trump Jr. - she is also sort of head of fundraising for the Trump campaign and is a - is part of a public - very public part of the Trump campaign. She was there for the event tested positive for the coronavirus as part of some screening that was done. And they say that she did not come into contact with the president and that she and Donald Trump Jr. are now isolating. But it is just another sign that coronavirus is not going away. It is there. It is even in the president's inner circle.  And President Trump headlines an event in Washington D.C. tonight. What kind of remarks are expected?  Well it is another chance for him to maybe say more than half a sentence about the coronavirus. The White House tells me that it will - the people who have been invited to the South Lawn are first responders and others who have helped with the coronavirus also law enforcement. So there is a chance again for him to thank doctors and nurses and others who are helping fight the coronavirus. And once again there will be fireworks. The mayor of Washington D.C. is encouraging people to stay away but the National Mall is federal property.  NPR White House correspondent Tamara Keith. Thanks so much Tam.  You are welcome.   While President Trump barely mentioned coronavirus in his speech the pandemic is raging across the United States particularly the South. Earlier this year Texas's COVID-19 cases had stayed well below other states. That is changed and changed fast.  As of Friday there were nearly 6000 more Texans in the hospital for COVID than a month earlier. To try to slow the spread Governor Greg Abbott has been reversing course.  Joining us now to talk about this is Mark Memmott managing editor of The Texas Newsroom a collaboration involving NPR member stations across Texas. Good morning Mark.  Good morning.  So what do the medical experts say is going on in Texas? Why have the case counts and hospitalizations suddenly surged?  Well let us go back to early April. Keep in mind Texas is the second-most populous state in the nation with about 30 million people. But back then the state was well down the list when it came to cases of COVID-19. Steps such as closing bars and restaurants canceling big gatherings like South by Southwest telling retailers to lock their doors - those seemed to be working. Then middle of April Republican Governor Abbott announced it is time to start phasing in the reopening of the Texas economy. He stressed the importance of getting people back to work. Many experts disagreed. They were really worried about bars being reopened and about what would come after Memorial Day when many Texans would want to get together. Here's Dr. Peter Hotez from the Baylor College of Medicine in Houston talking to our Texas Standard radio program just before that holiday.   Now that we are relaxing social distancing ahead of the time when we were supposed to do it you are - we are seeing some projections of pretty steep increases in the number of cases in places like Harris County Dallas County. So I am really worried as we head into the summer.  When you look at these trend lines - you look at these numbers - it seems like the experts had a good point.  Yeah the numbers do make it look that way. Heading into Memorial Day weekend there were just under 55000 COVID-19 cases in the state. By the end of this week there were 184000. The number of deaths has gone from about 1500 to more than 2500.  Wow. So what is it like in Texas hospitals right now?  Well many are at or near capacity and they are running low on intensive care beds. We have had doctors tell us that too many patients are having to wait in corridors for hours or longer for rooms to open up. Now big institutions such as the Texas Medical Center in Houston say they have ways to expand capacity and create more ICU space. And plans are in place in major cities to move patients into temporary hospitals if necessary. But in smaller cities some officials are alarmed. Here's Dr. Victor Trevino who heads the health authority in Laredo.  Our community's being very challenged. The hospitals and ICU are at full capacity. We are working intensively with the hospitals to free up beds because frankly we are completely full and short of staff.  Mark it is worth flagging that at one point Governor Abbott had blocked local governments from requiring masks but it seems like he is really reversing course in the last few days. Walk us through what is changed for Governor Abbott.  Yeah that is right. A week ago he basically shut down bars. Then this Thursday after weeks of being petitioned by leaders from cities and counties across the state he issued a statewide order on masks. Basically now if you are anywhere where you cannot safely socially distance yourself from others you are supposed to be wearing a mask. If you do not you could be fined. When he issued that order Abbott did not say he had been wrong about reopening but he did concede that things have not gone the way he hoped.   It is understandable that our early success - it may have led people to think that the coast was clear that it would be OK to relax a little bit. But today COVID is spreading like never before.  And according to the governor there is is no margin for error left anymore.  I mean one of the challenges here has been that it takes so long to get a sense of whether things are getting better or getting worse based on steps that were taken. Do we have any sense when we will be able to tell whether these new steps are working?  Yeah you are right. I mean just as it took several weeks for the effects of the reopening to be felt the experts tell us it could be several weeks before the closings and mask requirement had any effects. In the meantime they expect the number of cases and deaths to continue rising.  All right. Thanks Mark.  You are welcome.  Mark Memmott managing editor of The Texas Newsroom - and we should note our old friend here at NPR. He was former standards and practices editor here.   In many places besides Texas the numbers of COVID-19 cases took a sharp turn for the worse this week. NPR correspondent Yuki Noguchi joins us. Yuki thanks so much for being with us.  It is my pleasure Scott.  I am afraid I have to put it this bluntly. Where is this pandemic headed?  Well it is become clear in recent days that the U.S. is worse off than ever. We set a global record for the highest number of daily new cases on Thursday - more than 55000 in a single day. The total number of confirmed U.S. cases is rapidly approaching 3 million. So you know if you look at a map of the hot spots in the country it looks kind of like a dark band that runs along the South and then curves around the West. Florida is setting its own daily record for new cases this week. And the county of Los Angeles alone now has more confirmed cases than all of Canada. You know and these localized hot spots can broaden out and that is in fact what we are seeing. So basically we are heading rapidly in the wrong direction.  And is this because in line with what we just heard from Texas states lifted stay-at-home orders too early and even when they did not people have not behaved wisely?  Yeah that is right. Human behavior has shaped the trajectory of this virus for sure. Many of the states seeing spikes reopened early like Texas and were not requiring safety measures like wearing face masks. So many states are now trying to impose those restrictions again. The problem is once it is too widespread the virus becomes impossible to contain. You cannot trace cases meaning you cannot track down people who were exposed before they go and infect others. And we may be reaching that point in some of these areas.  Unless you take very firm steps like another stay-at-home order. Does that seem likely though?  Yeah stay-at-home orders is really the only way to deal with a runaway infection situation. Public health officials elsewhere in Europe and with the World Health Organization suggest new restrictions like that might become necessary. But in the U.S. at least right now the political will to do that does not seem to be there. In fact public health and politics here often seem at loggerheads. Politicians have not been on the same page even about the simpler measures like requiring face masks. And that is important because again the messaging influences behavior and behavior in this case is driving up infections. I spoke with Ruth Parker who is a professor at Emory and she studies public health messaging. She points to campaigns to get people to wear seat belts or to stop smoking. And she says those worked because they were consistent.  When we do not have consistent messaging that reflects the best science and evidence it is a recipe for confusion on the ground. And that translates into variable behaviors at a personal level.  All right - variable behaviors. Today's July 4 a time used to be cookouts parades get-togethers - everything we are now told to avoid. What is the public health messaging there?  Well it is still to avoid that kind of contact. You know staying at home is safest. But you know COVID is not the only thing that is going on right now. We are social creatures and we are built to live a life you know together. And there is a real tension between physical and mental health. We have seen rates of depression and anxiety double in recent months. Now half of 18- to 29-year-olds say they suffer symptoms of depression or anxiety. That is half. Suicide is the second leading killer for that age group. And for them mental health is a much bigger and potentially lethal public health risk than COVID.  Thanks so much. NPR's Yuki Noguchi.  Yeah. Thank you Scott.  And that is UP FIRST for Saturday July 4 2020. I am Scott Simon.  And I am Scott Detrow. UP FIRST is back Monday with the news you need to start your week. Follow us on social media. We are UpFirst on Twitter. And stay tuned to this feed for occasional special episodes.  And you know what? You can also find us on the radio. Tune in to Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings. Find your NPR station at stations.npr.org.  