 This is PR News. I am Don Gonyea in for Steve Inskeep.  Welcome.  Hi. Good morning.  Morning. What do you hear first of all about Tony Hayward's future?  Well it is formally being decided at a meeting of BP's board in London this afternoon but it seems pretty clear the way that is going to going to go which is that Tony Hayward will agree with the company that he is going to be stepping down as CEO. As I say it is not formally decided yet and that the company says that as of this moment right now he is still the chief executive but I think that will no longer be the case by the end of the day and it probably will be formally announced on Tuesday morning.  Now what made the board of BP take this step if it does later today at this time?  It thinks it can come back from the spill can rebuild the business in the country and if it is going to do that it cannot have a chief executive with no credibility. So they need a new CEO and it looks like it is going to be an American indeed Bob Dudley who is going to take over.  Bob Dudley who at this point and time is the face of BP in terms of organizing the oil spill.  Exactly. That is right. His formal title he is the managing director for the Americas and Asia and he is the formal head of BP's operation in Russia where he was considered to have done a very good job in very difficult circumstances and he is an American. He was born in New York. He grew up in Mississippi. You have probably seen or heard some of the interviews he is given where he is talked about how well he knows the Gulf region how he himself used to swim and fish in the Gulf when he was a boy. So he has a real understanding of the pain and the anger that people feel in that region because of the spill and he is able to make that kind of emotional connection that Tony Hayward completely failed to make.  Are there any details on such things as the pay package that he will get for stepping down?  No. There are not. And none of this is being talked about officially yet. I mean I think the question is really What is he entitled to in the terms of his contract? And I think he will get that but no more. So there is been a certain amount commentary around about oh he is taking away this huge payoff. Look at this. What about 16 17 million that he is taking away? Of course it is only what he is become entitled to through his service at the company over all those years. It is not an extra amount being paid to him as compensation for the fact that his contract is ending and so on. So I think to call it a payoff is a bit stretching the truth really - that is the money that he is taking to go or taking when he goes but it is not the money he is taking because he is going.  Let me ask you though about Tony Hayward departing. Is it just because of the oil disaster the well blowout disaster alone or is it also partly about the controversy over the return of the man convicted in the Lockerbie bombing to Libya? That came back up again during the visit of Prime Minister David Cameron because the Senate Foreign Relations Committee wants to talk to Tony Hayward about that. Could there have been any deal or any pressure on the part of BP to get this convicted bomber released?  No. I think there is absolutely no connection at all between that and Tony Hayward's departure. I think it is absolutely the spill. It is really about how BP came to be involved in this accident and in particular how BP responded to the accident that is really the reason he is got to go.  Thank you very much for joining us.  My pleasure.  Ed Crooks is the energy editor for the Financial Times. He joined us from London. 