 This year the World Cup in South Africa has soccer fans around the world cheering crying dancing.  FRESHLYGROUND and  . This time for Africa.  That is the official World Cup anthem called Waka Waka. The song is a collaboration between Shakira - who needs no introduction not here not anywhere in the world - and the South African band Freshlyground. They also have a new album out called Radio Africa. Joining us now from Milestone Studios in Cape Town is the lead vocalist for the band Zolani Mahola. Thanks very much for being with us. Ms.  Sure thing. Hi.  Hi there. And Kyla Rose-Smith who plays the violin and is also a vocalist. Thank you for being with us. Ms.  Thank you.  So how did you guys become a part of this? Ms.  Waka Waka?  Yeah. Ms.  Basically we were in New York mixing our latest album Radio Africa. And the producer of the Waka Waka track John Hill was working in a studio downstairs from our producer on the song for Shakira. He needed an African influence and mix to throw into the song. He heard that we were around. We were a band from South Africa. He asked us to try out some ideas on the track. We did. He recorded took it away and the next thing we knew it was the official World Cup song.  FRESHLYGROUND and   It is time for Africa.  from east to west.  'ecause this is Africa.  That is you Zolani Mahola is not it? Ms.  Correct. That is me. That is my voice singing in that funny language called Xhosa.  Oh. It is  I cannot - Xhosa Xhosa. Ms.  Xhosa yeah exactly. It is X-H-O-S-A.  And what does waka waka mean? Ms.  It depends on who you ask actually interestingly enough. What we know about the origins of the song which are Cameroonian from a marching band called Golden Sounds and the tune has spread all over Africa is that it is like a challenge you know it is like a marching band song challenge. Like hey you over there you know come here and watch this and we will show you kind of thing. And Waka Waka - I went and I supposed to have my hair done in Rocky Street in Johannesburg and these Congolese guys were around. You know he was singing the song and you know he knew the song from when he was a kid. And he said that waka waka means like a flame you know that is getting higher and higher. Then you say waka waka.  That is - I like that explanation. It would fit this song and this moment very very well. Ms.  Sure. Sure thing.  And tell us if you could both Zolani and Kyla Rose-Smith about Radio Africa your new album. Ms.  This is our fourth album. And this album Radio Africa we had worked with the same team of producers for our last two albums and we wanted a change. So we were connected to a guy called Fabrice Dupont. And it was really great working with him because he was very into the African elements of our music. So I think that that is what this album does more than any other of our albums is to highlight our African influences and capture the rawness of sound within the band.  What song would you recommend to our interest where maybe we can hear that? Ms.  You can listen to a song called Moto. And the chorus of it comes also from southern Africa but we here in South Africa we never sang it before and we have not heard it really. But our guitarist is from Mozambique and it is a chorus that he remembered from his childhood and from his grandmother or great-grandmother singing it. And it means - it is kind of like a warning song like in times of war you know like engines firing and things. And what we did was that we put that together with a verse that was to do with a love affair a love affair that was kind almost like shipwrecked you know and here we are. Here's the song Moto from Radio Africa.    Sadie my love you are the ruler of this sinking ship. I am just an island you have wrecked upon. I would have passed we are alone with no redemption. Will you be the last my eyes will set upon? Moto. Moto ...  That is a very haunting song. Ms.  Yeah it is kind of hey?  This is your fourth album. Ms.  Correct.  How are you evolving? Ms.  I think that you know a natural thing that happens when a band has been together for about eight years is that you are able to trust each other a lot as time goes on. You know in terms of being able to explore musically and also kind of to find more and more your voice as a band. And I think that what as Kyla was saying earlier that what we have done with this album in moving closer to the African side of the Afro-pop label that we have sometimes been kind of saddled with has been quite an interesting thing you know and quite an amazing thing. And I think that what we have - we have kind of dug a bit deeper with this album and I think that we will more and more you know kind of be calling people you know to listening to the sounds to uniquely African sounds while being quite global.  Recommend another song for us on this album. Ms.  There is a song called Big Man on the album. It is a collaboration with a group sisters who are originally from Cameroon. They are based in Paris. A great group called Les Nubians. And we were fortunate enough to meet them in New York and have them sing on this track which we are very proud of called Big Man.  Let us listen.  FRESHLYGROUND and   Everybody wanna be the walk about town. Everybody wanna be the talk about town. Drag it is a drag it is a drag oh-we-oh. Everybody wanna be the walk about town. Everybody wanna be the talk about town. Drag it is a drag it is a drag oh-we-oh. Big man you know you are thinking you are number one. And . What happened to . What is the solution the evolution...  So where did this song come from? What is it is about? Ms.  This song is kind of you know you have got this notion of the big man in society. I mean most recently we have been it is been spoken about in African society you know this man who kind of who controls a lot of the power and he kind of thinks he is he is kind of the be-all and end-all. And the idea behind the song is to kind of say to these people that you know we appreciate your role in society but it is kind of - we have all got to get along. Ms.  You know I do not know if you have heard of this book Ngugi wa Thiong'o's book The Wizard and the Crow.  No. Ms.  Which is about a leader of an imaginary African country who becomes so inflated with his power that he begins to expand like a balloon and blows up and becomes bigger and bigger and bigger. Eventually he is so big and he is floating in the air they have to tie him to his throne so he does not fly away.  Ms.  Which I think is such a brilliant like metaphor.  I think I have interviewed that man yeah. Ms.  For this big man you know. You have interviewed that man?  I have interviewed that guy yeah.  Ms.  Funny.  A real pleasure talking to both of you so thank you so much. Ms.  Thank you. Ms.  Thank you very much too.  Zolani Mahola and Kyla Rose-Smith. They are part of the group Freshlyground. Their newest album Radio Africa. 