  Another royal couple tied the knot yesterday. Prince Albert of Monaco married Charlene Wittstock a former Olympic swimmer from South Africa. The civil ceremony was broadcast on huge screens outside of the palace in which they exchanged vows.   Eleanor Beardsley joins us now from Monaco. Eleanor thanks for being with us.  Great to be with you Scott.  Tell us about Charlene Wittstock 'ecause some of us lost track of her since the 2000 Olympics.  Well you know people do not seem to know much. I mean they met in 2000 when she came here for a swim competition. He like showed her around the principality and then they sort of fell out. And then apparently she wrote him when his father Prince Rainier III died in 2005 and they sort of got back together then. And she is apparently been living here for the past four years I do not know biding her time - there is different stories. And then they just got engaged last year. So she finally got her prince.  And Prince Albert of course people look for the resemblance to Grace Kelly in his face often - he sowed his wild oats let us put it that way.  Yeah definitely. I mean he is admitted to having two illegitimate children. He is taken responsibility for that. Maybe we get to call him a playboy or a swinger. He is been around.  And Prince Albert was a bobsledder was not he?  Yes he was a bobsledder and he had a little brief foray into the Olympics. And they say that sport is the big thing that he and his princess share. So yeah sport binds them together.  Is the new couple under some pressure to produce an heir?  You know I do not think it is pressure. I think that is what they want to do. I mean he is 53 he has two illegitimate children. Everybody wants a prince or a princess a legitimate heir. And she needs a connection to this place. I mean she is barely apparently speaking French and you know she is a little bit shaky. So I think she needs a connection. So she probably really wants to have an heir. And they have even said we want to have a baby soon. So I do not think it is a pressure put on them. I think that that is what they both really want.  And do we say Monacan Monocian ?  No we say Monegasques the Monegasques.  So everyone in the country as I understand it is invited to the wedding reception.  Yeah absolutely. That is hilarious. There is apparently 30000 residents here but only people say seven or eight thousand Monegasques. All of them were invited to the ceremony and there was even a drinks party on the port tonight and all of the Monegasques were invited to that too. So you could say the whole country was invited for drinks.  Eleanor thanks very much for seeing this assignment through. We are all very grateful.  It was great to be with you Scott.  Eleanor Beardsley talking to us about the royal wedding in Monaco.   This is NPR News. 