 NPR has learned about a change in how the Trump administration is preparing for the upcoming 2020 census. Unlike for the national head counts in 2000 and 2010 the U.S. Census Bureau has decided not to create a committee of advisers for the 2020 count. NPR's Hansi Lo Wang explains why that matters. HANSI LO WANG  The 2020 Census Advisory Committee was supposed to be a group of up to 25 volunteers with experience in research business marketing or community-based groups.  What I wanted to do is try to get a committee set up to give us advice on the census and also to help us get the word out you know about the importance of the census.  That was former Census Bureau Director John Thompson. Before he left the bureau last June he helped start the plans to create this committee. Now NPR has obtained a letter from the bureau that confirms those plans have been stopped. Instead the agency is going to rely on advisers from two existing committees that focus on scientific issues and on racial ethnic and other populations.  And I do not want to knock the current committees because I think they are really good. But I do not think that you would get the full breadth of potential users and stakeholders.  The stakes facing the 2020 census are high. The count determines how many congressional seats and Electoral College votes each state gets. That is why Marc Morial president of the National Urban League and chair of the 2010 Census Advisory Committee thinks that not creating a committee for 2020...  Well that is - I really think that is a mistake.  Morial says he is especially concerned that the upcoming census will be the first one in the U.S. to be conducted online. Plus there is a new citizenship question added by Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross who oversees the census. That question has sparked six lawsuits from dozens of states cities and other groups that want it removed because Census Bureau research suggests it could discourage noncitizens and harm the head count's accuracy. Morial says a new advisory committee could help the Census Bureau meet the constitutional requirement to count every person living in the country every 10 years.  What this all feeds into is whether there is a intentionality to prevent a complete count or that the department does not want transparency does not want accountability.  In a written statement a Census Bureau spokesperson described the agency's current group of advisers as well-versed. The bureau is trying to fill open spots on its Committee on Racial Ethnic and Other Populations. Nominations are due by August 3. Hansi Lo Wang NPR News New York.   