 Slow season for sports? Not one bit. It is the season for that favorite activity of couch potatoes - yacht racing. Also in another elegant sporting arena some unexpected lessons at this year's Dallas Cowboys training camp. Our teacher on all this NPR's Mike Pesca. Hiya Mike.  Hi. Yachts and the Cowboys. That goes so well together.  Yeah. So the America's Cup right now - that is the prestigious yacht sail-off -and it seems that some of the racing boats are making some very serious waves yes?  Yeah - or not as the case may be. It is kind of a disaster. In fact there you know were supposed to be or they had hoped - organizers had hoped - eight to 10 yachts would be involved and different countries would be able to field teams. But we have to understand why there are only four yachts racing. And in fact one of these the Swedish team is not even up to speed. And so far all the preliminaries in what is called the Louis Vuitton races have not raced against each other. They just race against the wind.  Well what is going on?  Well the winner of the America's Cup gets to set the rules for the next year. So America won it in 2010 and Larry Ellison who is the billionaire from Oracle who runs the America's Cup team says here is what the rules are going to be. And he decreed that the boats that would sail in this race would be these space-aged metal fix-sail things. He said they would not foil. They foiled. To get one of these things - and the technology's really hard to come by only a few people know how to make them - costs like 100 million. This precludes a lot of countries from being in the race. They had hoped China would be in. They had hoped Latin America would be in - emerging countries. No. It is only Sweden whose boat has suffered a disaster when a crew member died in May and Italy and New Zealand and the United States is waiting to see among those who will be able to face it in what to a lot of purists or even casual race watchers say does not really look like sailing.  Wow wow. It actually sounds a little like boat doping. The foiling that comes from hydro-foiling. Is that what that is?  Yeah yeah. And then they achieve air. If you look at them they look - one of the Star Trek sequels - I think it was number four - was about whales in San Francisco. And the Enterprise would come in and out of the water and that is what it looks like a little bit a spaceship. They are going so fast. I actually spoke with an editor of VSail a magazine named Pierre Orphanidis. And I talked to him in Lisbon because there were more yachtsmen there than there are in San Francisco - like I said only four teams competing - and he said people are just so depressed and so down on what the America's Cup has become just because yachting is not exactly an un-elitist sport but it has gone the realm of only billionaires need apply.  And it is making the sport less safe did you say?  Yeah. There was a death and deaths happen all the time. So perhaps we cannot directly correlate it to the speed of the boat but a lot of structural engineers say at those speeds there is so much tension on the hull that they can come apart. And you know when you are going that fast and you are going in water it can be dangerous.  So your curveball this week please. Something about football geometry?  Yeah. At the Dallas Cowboys training camp their head coach disclosed that he was discussing the Pythagorean Theorem with his receivers.  If you are doing it from 10 yards inside and running to that same six yards that is the hypotenuse of that right triangle. It is longer.  Give me a break.  Yeah. He was telling - he told for instance Miles Austin listen if you line up a few yards past where you are supposed to be you are going to be running the hypotenuse instead of the leg of the triangle. So we all know that A-squared plus B-squared equals C-squared. You are running a longer distance.  It is wonderful. Thank you. NPR's Mike Pesca. Thanks a lot.  You are welcome. 