 One year ago today New Orleans lost one of its most-beloved bakeries and signature brands when the Hubig's Pie factory burned to the ground. Since then pie fans have come out in droves to support the company. But it takes more than T-shirts and fan testimonials to rebuild a business from scratch. From member station WWNO Eve Troeh reports.  Behold the Hubig's Pie a fruit-filled crescent fried golden brown and delivered fresh to more than a thousand local stores each morning - at least until a year ago when a pie cooker in the nearly century-old bakery caught fire.   As news of the early morning blaze spread locals flocked to the scene - but many flocked to the pies.  Some trucks were actually on the road delivering to convenience stores and grocery stores.  Drew Ramsey is the third generation of his family to run Hubig's Pies.  They did not make their whole route. People stopped them and they never even made it in the front door. They were out of pies by the time the sun came up.  Even a year later the rumor mill churns on Twitter Who has the stockpiled last Hubig's pie? Today fans still mourn their favorite flavor.  Cherry was the best but they did not have them all the time.  I happen to think apple was the best. I am an apple girl.  Dale Stainbrook and Ann Martin ate a Hubig's almost every morning with coffee.  Lost weight cannot sleep.  He has PTSD from missing his pies.  It is been like a year-long jazz funeral to cope with pie withdrawal complete with musical tributes.   That is Dave Jordan from the album Bring Back Red Raspberry - his flavor. Even the New Orleans City Council roots for pies. A meeting on permits for the new Hubig's factory prompted this.  Colleagues do you have any comments or questions before we go to public comment?  We are wondering where our pies are.  We do not vote without Hubig pies I can tell you.  Two lemons and a coconut.  Our preferences up here so far are two lemons and a coconut.  Fans have done more than cheer. They have bought merchandise. Hubig's T-shirts ties Christmas ornaments - even full-body pie costumes. Without actual pies Drew Ramsay says the company logo is the only product. It shows a triple-chinned baker in a fluffy white cap named Savory Simon.  Well that is all we have left you know our little fat man holding the pie.  Trinket sales make up a fraction of lost pie revenue. But community image is key to the comeback says Tulane University geographer Richard Campanella.  Hubig's is one of those things that had not yet been co-opted by the tourism industry they way beignets have. And it had that deep-rooted localism that endeared it.  Even Hubig's factory was endearing. On a block of carefully restored pink and green Creole cottages it was the lone industrial holdout.  You know it produced something. It kept the neighborhood real.  Authenticity gets expensive. The historic neighborhood means a long list of regulations. And 1920s factory gear is hard to replicate. Drew Ramsey has custom machinists and a metallurgist crafting a special wheel to cut the pie dough. How will he know the new product stacks up?  We got a stash in the freezer that are going to be the prototypes. It will have the same amount of little ridges that crimped the dough. It will be the exact same size. It will be the same.  To get that first pie off the line - hopefully next year - Hubig's will have to do something it is never done borrow money likely more than a million dollars. But fans like Dale Stainbrook and Ann Miller pledge they will buy plenty of pies.  Yeah but I will be waiting in line the first time the door opens.  We will be camping out.  And in a city as die-hard about local food as New Orleans Hubig's Pies might just be able to take those testimonials to the bank. For NPR News I am Eve Troeh pre-ordering a peach Hubig's pie in New Orleans.   You are listening to WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. 