 This month marks the 75th anniversary of the original Los Angeles Farmers Market and every weekday morning anywhere from six to 12 guys and an occasional woman meet there for breakfast. They have been getting together for 25 years. Paul Mazursky the director sits at the head of the table wearing the kind of beret that movie directors used to wear in old movies. He is become the group's informal organizer.  I am from New York and I miss New York terribly and this is kind of a substitute but now I find that I cannot find this in New York. New York's more intense. No one can sit for an hour for breakfast. They got to keep - a cup of coffee and they are gone. Here it is an hour maybe an hour and a half since none of us work. Could be four hours.   We do not want to come but we have to come. I think we would all prefer to be doing something else.  If we do not come the stuff that will be said about us while we are not here is like just too painful. You know you come the next time and you know you are looking at everyone who are all sort of giggling at you.  That is Greg Pritikin the director and Leonard Platti a film writer. David Freeman the novelist and screenwriter and Charles Bragg an artist were also at the table this morning. As was a French woman who is in the film industry but she did not want to talk. What goes on is mostly shoptalk about the shop in which they work Hollywood.  Basically reviewing the movies we have seen. Right now we probably would be talking about Iran. And we put people down a lot. Scott if I were you I would leave much later than we do.   Because we will go on your shirt for about an hour.   I want to hear what you say about my shirt.  What about - what do you guys think seriously?  Yours might actually be older than mine.  Do you think this thing in Iran is like the beginning of maybe the end of that guy?  No.  Well you know quit pretending to be interested because this is NPR.   Come on talking about Iran. We would not be talking about Iran.  I think the amazing thing is something as preposterous as Twitter...  That is David Freeman.  ...that is really the province of addled teenage girls has now become a significant factor in a huge world event.  One thing that is certain about Iran is that there are a lot of Iranian Persian men right now wearing a shirt just like that. In Tehran. There is no question.  Enough with the shirt. It is white linen by Alexander Julian with a subtle washed paisley print. Paul Mazursky says they just do not talk about world events.  Now we also look at girls.  I was going to ask which one you were looking at. You have to ask nowadays.  We look at girls. We say things that - we call out as if we know their names. Hi Jessica Helen. And once in a while they turn around and give us the finger.   Oh boy here you go. Hi Carol. Wanda.  Charmaine. Kathy Butterfly.  Pretty good.  It sounds like they have all recently been told by their doctors to cut out most everything. So they sit like frogs on lily pads and sip at thick mugs of coffee.  What I have been doing is I have been going on Netflix getting movies that I saw 25 years ago. Billy Wilder you know the true great ones. Double Indemnity Sunset Boulevard. They seem to be better than the movies now. Leaving mine out of it. No they really do. They have more story.  Why is it? More story?  I am not sure I know. I think...  But it is really storytelling. What is kind of...  I think it is something else. They made them for adults. And most of the movies now are made for kids.  There is another technical difference. The older ones are all done on sets which makes it naturally more theatrical and a little slower. And now everything is made in the street which almost demands car crashes and lots of noise and those - that dictates the form.  David reviews books as well as writes. I do not want to be the host here but are you reviewing a book now David?  Mr. MAZURSKY If you wanted to know a lot about the Nazis take a look at a movie called Valkyrie. See I did not know that they spoke five languages.   Tom Cruise said in an accent like this we gotta kill Hitler.   And then someone answered him in a Cockney accent I think we do have to kill him since I have been with the Luftwaffe now for nine years.  That was Eddie Izzard.  They had five accents. Nobody spoke with a German accent. I never saw anything like it. It was well made though physically but that was bizarre.  What would it take to get you to erase this tape?   How much money?  What kind of pledge would we have to make?  I do not think you are going to have to pay him . He will take care of that on his own.  All of which is not a bad way to remember on the 4th of July weekend that Los Angeles and America is a place built by the people from all over the world who were looking for a place to work and talk freely. David Foster says over the encouragement of his friends...  Shut up! People come to things like this all over the country. You see in Utah at the local coffee shop guys with hunting gear sitting around starting their day talking to one another. It happens here. I think it happens all over the world actually.  We have had over the years a lot of other people who drop in here. Some of them are not with us anymore. They passed away. Some of them - Mike Figgis the director has moved to Italy. Pat McCormick died. Jeff Garland is usually here. Sometimes we got 15 people here and some funny comedians friends of this one and that one. It is been a lot of fun all jokes aside. And it is almost like it is a habit. It is like I feel I have to make it.  Me too.  This is the hottest ticket in town. People come up to me and they say You are that table? Can I get into that table? Can I just come one day?  I wrote a book called Show Me the Magic and at the end of the book I talk about the table and I say we sit at the eastern end of the Farmers Market and if you happen to pass by someday and you see us come on over and say hello. Over the years about 10 or 15 people have come over. My name is - I am from so and so and I just read you know and I just wanted - we say hello to them. It is kind of touching.  It is directly proportional to the number of people who bought the book.   Paul Mazursky and friends having breakfast at the Los Angeles original Farmer's Market. To see photos of the group and the market's 75-year history you can come to our Web site npr.org.  Stephanie Loren.  Cathy.  Stephanie's the only time you ever hit.  No Jessica.  Jessica.  This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. 