 We knew that President Trump's former lawyer Michael Cohen had secretly made a recording of a conversation he had with then-candidate Trump. Now we are getting to hear that recording. Cohen's lawyer Lanny Davis gave CNN a nearly three-minute-long recording. It is muffled and at times it is hard to hear but Davis says this recording shows Trump asked Michael Cohen to make payments in cash to the American Media company. This is the parent company of the National Enquirer. They were making this payment to buy a story from a former Playmate who alleges that she had an affair with Donald Trump. We are going to play a clip from the very end of the tape obtained by CNN.   When it comes time for the financing which will be...  Listen  what financing?  Well I will have to pay you something...  No we will pay with cash.  No no no no no no no. I got - no no no.  .  The president's lawyer Rudy Giuliani takes issue with the tape's abrupt ending and says the president was actually saying do not pay with cash. Here he is on Fox News.   The transcript makes it quite clear at the end that President Trump says quote do not pay with cash. Cohen then interrupts and says no no no I got it. And then you hear distinctly if you are careful and you slow it down check. And then Cohen follows with no no no and then quickly cut off the tape which indicates exactly what professor Dershowitz was saying - that Cohen does not want the rest recorded.  To sort through all this I am joined now by former federal prosecutor Renato Mariotti. Renato this is not just about cash or no cash right? This is about who knew what and when they knew it.  Absolutely. Here you have the president speaking to a man who as we know now is under criminal investigation by federal prosecutors in New York about a subject that he is under investigation for - these payments to women and then to media companies in order to you know ensure the news does not come out before the election. Earlier on the tape there is discussion of timing and how important timing is. On the portion that you just played we see a discussion of how to make payment. I disagree with Mr. Giuliani regarding the clarity of the tape. I think it is pretty unclear but it appears to me at least as I listen to it that the president is talking about a payment in cash. That is a very unusual thing to do for a transaction of this size.  And we should say Rudy Giuliani also alleges that that in this conversation the tape demonstrates that this is the first time that the president is hearing about this possible payoff scheme. Is that your read of the tape or is it more ambiguous than that?  I would say the opposite. I would say that it appears that he is very familiar with this type of subject. They speak in the tape - and folks can listen to it and decide for themselves - but they speak in the tape as if there are multiple people that they are trying to make payments to that this is a - these are sort of situations that come up at a more regular basis. You know to me that is the more problematic part of the tape for the president because it is harder to spin. I mean Mr. Giuliani could say what you can hear or not hear about cash but it seems fairly clear that the president's familiar with the situation and situations like this and this is how they deal with them.  Is there any smoking gun though? I mean does this tape - being able to hear it - does it change anything legally?  Well what it certainly means is that the president cannot deny that he was aware of the situation or aware of the payment. And that really is important only in the context of other evidence that - the issue - the potential crimes that Cohen is under investigation for - one is campaign finance violations - you cannot make payments or receive payments without reporting them - and then also fraud more broadly. And so at this point we do not know exactly what evidence the federal prosecutors in Manhattan have although after they executed a search warrant at the home and office of Michael Cohen you have to imagine that they have quite a bit of evidence.  Why would Michael Cohen's lawyer want this out there? Clearly they must think it helps him in some way.  Very unusual strategy. Typically if you are trying to get a plea deal or cooperate in some way you would do that in private. You would not want to show your cards publicly. You would not want to comment on the evidence publicly. And you know you would also not - want to seem a little less eager for a deal. So to me this seems like a way of trying to angle for a pardon to threaten that you are going to go the other way in order to get brought back into the president's camp or it is simply a nonsensical strategy. I do have enough faith in Cohen's lawyers to think that there must be some strategy here but it is very unconventional.  Former federal prosecutor Renato Mariotti. Thanks so much. We appreciate it.  Thanks Rachel. 