 Secretary of State Mike Pompeo is headed to North Korea today. It is his first trip there since North Korean leader Kim Jong Un committed to working toward denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula. NPR's David Welna has the story.  As she announced Secretary Pompeo's trip to Pyongyang White House press secretary Sarah Sanders got a barrage of questions about reports that North Korea is expanding sites tied to its nuclear weapons program and that U.S. intelligence officials do not think Kim Jong Un intends to relinquish his nuclear arsenal. Sanders said while she could neither confirm nor deny those reports great progress continues to be made.   There is great momentum right now for positive change and we are moving together for further negotiations.  Others are a bit less upbeat about this next round of talks.  Pompeo's going into Pyongyang with a very difficult task.  That is Abraham Denmark. He directs the Asia Program at the Wilson Center. Denmark was a senior Pentagon official in the Obama administration. And he worries that with President Trump's suspension of a major military exercise with South Korea next month North Korea has already gotten a lot and given up very little.  Kim Jong Un did not make any new commitments in Singapore. And so the secretary of state is now forced to go into Pyongyang trying to secure something that the president was not able to. The real question is whether Kim Jong Un is genuinely interested in denuclearization.  Trump for one apparently thinks he is. Here's what the president said on Sunday when Fox News asked if he believes Kim Jong Un.   I made a deal with him. I shook hands with him. I really believe he means it.  The same day White House national security adviser John Bolton insisted on CBS that the Trump administration harbors no illusions about North Korea.   There is not any starry-eyed feeling among the group doing this. We are well well aware of what the North Koreans have done in the past.  Bolton essentially gave North Korea a year to get rid of its nuclear weapons.   If they have the strategic decision already made to do that and they are cooperative we can move very quickly.  Kim Jong Un has not yet made the strategic decision to give up nuclear weapons.  That is Kelsey Davenport. She directs non-proliferation policy at the Arms Control Association. Davenport says Kim Jong Un declared early this year that North Korea would shift from testing nuclear warheads to mass producing them.  That requires continued production of fissile material. So continued activities there demonstrates that North Korea's continuing to proceed towards this goal. And the United States has yet to tempt North Korea away from continuing to build up its nuclear weapons program.  The Wilson Center's Denmark says what North Korea really wants is to be recognized as a de facto nuclear state.  We have a potential situation where the United States thinks its entering into denuclearization negotiations whereas North Korea is trying to enter into arms control negotiations in which their nuclear program their missile program is limited but still able to exist and even to some degree recognized by the United States by the international community.  Still at a Senate hearing last week Secretary Pompeo insisted North Korea understands very well what the U.S. means by complete denuclearization. That prompted a question from Montana Republican Steve Daines.   Should North Korea not commit to a complete verifiable and irreversible denuclearization process would you commit to walking away from the negotiating table?  Yes. The president has made that very clear.  The same president who is tweeted that North Korea is no longer a nuclear threat. David Welna NPR News Washington. 