 Sometimes all you have to do is ask. Julian Bass a 20-year-old theater major at Georgia State University has been posting special effects videos on TikTok for a while now.    Watermelon sugar high watermelon sugar high...  But this time he added a message to his tweet of the TikTok video showing him wielding a lightsaber and morphing into both Ben 10 and Spider-Man - if you all can retweet this enough times that Disney calls that would be greatly appreciated. Twenty million views later yeah Disney called. NPR called too and Julian Bass is on the line. So how is it going?  It is going absolutely amazing. I am kind of overflowing with emotions here.  So not only did Disney call. Disney's chairman Bob Iger was one of the many high-profile people from show business to tweet at you. How did you feel when this started to blow up?  I had just gotten Twitter in April. And so it was very small for me nothing more than maybe five likes per post. And to see it start to just gain some small traction with my immediate circle and then the verified profiles start commenting - the first one for me was The Lonely Island.  Yeah.  Then I started seeing Josh Gad Matthew Cherry. I saw Mark Hamill liked it. I mean if Mark Hamill likes it I am a Jedi now. I mean it is just true.  I think so. I think that is a rule yeah. So you are a theater major but it is clear you are really good at special effects like in this earlier video.   Grab your lightsabers your blasters and your best editing skills and help me fight the Sith.  You are wielding a lightsaber. You are dodging blaster bolts. Do you want to be in front or behind the camera?  Well yeah the skills that I have as a visual effects artist kind of were born out of me wanting to be in front of the camera and looking good while I am doing it. My parents you know are fantastic for doing this but they told me that yeah Julian you can do this. You know use this program this little free thing here. Yeah you can use a green screen and learn how to do that. And so I was like if I can why do not I you know? If I want to act like Spider-Man why not make it look like Spider-Man?  Has it mostly been self-taught just practicing learning things posting videos on your own or have you been taking classes as well?  I have not taken a single class...  Really?  ...For this stuff no.   Wow.  Yeah. I - you know YouTube is probably the classroom. And there is of course a lot of free resources online. And even for this video that I just did I watched tutorials for other effects because I know that there is a technique in there that I can apply to my own effect that I am thinking about.  So you have gotten retweets and mentions from a lot of these high-profile people. Have you had any specific conversations yet about what this could lead to?  A lot of people that you see retweet are people who actually reached out and I heard from Louis D'Esposito from Marvel its like bigwig HBO Max. Everyone you can think of has just been blowing up my phone recently and I just need to sort of mitigate you know how to respond to everybody and make sure I can get these opportunities and seize these opportunities in the best way possible.  So I want to ask you about one specific idea that a lot of people who saw this video seem to have and seem to share - an Ultimate Spider-Man movie starring Julian Bass as Miles Morales. How did that feel when you saw that suggestion coming in over and over?  It is unreal for me. I am a super fan of Spider-Man. My parents tell the story all the time that the first movie they took me to see as a baby was Spider-Man with Tobey Maguire. It came out in 2002. They were like Julian you were dead silent throughout the whole movie. You were super attentive for some reason. We do not know why. I just think Spider-Man's so fun. It is so inspiring to me. Everything every little aspect that you could possibly think of about Spider-Man is something that I am aware of and I know of. And as for Miles Morales it was a big deal for me to kind of see him come into the spotlight and...  And for listeners who may be more familiar with Peter Parker Miles Morales is the new Spider-Man. He is an Afro-Latino Spider-Man who is been in the comics the last few years and had an amazing movie Into The Spider-Verse a couple years ago as well.  Yeah. To be a fan of something and then see people want you to be a part of it - man that is a chance that I will not ruin for myself whatsoever. You know if they pass on it look. That is OK. There is plenty more opportunities but I feel like I am ready to take my shot. And that is really what it is all about right now.  That is Julian Bass maybe Spider-Man one day definitely something one day talking to us a couple days into his life as a viral social media star. Thank you Julian.  Thank you so much.  