 In the new movie Palm Springs on Hulu Andy Samberg plays Niles who is stuck in the wedding from hell with the girlfriend from hell reliving the same day over and over because - time loop duh.    The second you fall asleep it all just goes back to the start.   Well then what is the point of living?   We kind of have no choice but to live.   No I am going to get out of this.   Suit yourself. See you tomorrow.  You may know Samberg from his work on Saturday Night Live or as Detective Jake Peralta on the hit show Brooklyn Nine-Nine. And of course while his new film is grounded in comedy it also explores something that resonates deeply right now - when the days can indeed feel like an endless repetitive cycle. How do you find connection and care when nothing seems to really matter anymore? Andy Samberg joins me now from Los Angeles. Welcome.  Hi. Thank you.  Congratulations. This set a streaming record on Hulu.  Yes. I have no idea what that means but anytime we set a record we will take it .  Yeah. I think it means a lot of people liked it. Why do you think the film is resonating so much?  I cannot really say. I mean my suspicion is A there is not a lot out in general you know because production has stopped on so many things and also so many...  Dude you are selling yourself short here.  .  That is the first thing you are going to go with? There is no competition ?  ...Well - I mean normally in the dead of summer we would be you know in the shadow of giant blockbusters. And I also think that the themes are very relevant to what is happening right now - you know the idea of being stuck in the same day and feeling like you cannot really escape yourself or the people that you are with is obviously something that we are all experiencing in quarantine.  Even if you really really want to yep.   Even if you really really want to yeah.  So someone gets stuck in the time loop with you - that is the sister of the bride played by Cristin Milioti. And this is a love story that is dark and that - there are secrets but in a way these characters like being in the time loop because actions do not have consequences right?  Correct yes. That was definitely part of what we found funny about it premise-wise. It allowed us to get really creative in my opinion and taking it even further of sort of the bits that we could try and pull off.  So there are a lot of fun ways that you try to die in this film and things that you do just for the hell of it. I want to hear some of your favorites.  Yes. There is like a scene where they just commandeer a plane and start flying with you know like a basic instruction manual which is something that you might do one day if you knew that if it crashed you would not really have anything to worry about. You know there is a whole sequence that I added where the two of them sort of take the wedding by storm and pull a bomb out of the cake and sort of play out a strange play of like spy and villain. And  Cristin insisted on wearing an eye patch and a hook hand for that which was - it really added to the whole dinner theater aspect which was really fun. But you know turning everything into a slumber party vibe basically.  I have seen interviews with physicists on the ending of this film - and I am not going to again spoil it. But you had a science adviser by the name of Clifford Johnson who...  Yes.  ...Teaches at the University of Southern California.  Yeah.  He gave a very interesting interview on this subject. And I read the whole thing let me tell you...  Yes.  ...And he says he was pushing the idea that the time loop was a natural phenomenon which I thought was really fascinating because I had not really thought of it. You know the way that we understand time loops in Back To The Future - there is always like some kind of like vehicle or some way to get you back in time. But this - he wanted to have it be sort of some naturally occurring phenomenon.  Yes. And it was interesting because I was the one who spoke with him and it was just a delight. You know he is worked on like Avengers and stuff so he is - this is his bread and butter. And he is a brilliant and very wonderful person. But you know it was already kind of built into the script. There is this earthquake that happens once every day of the day that we continue to live in and he was really encouraging of that. He said lean in to the idea that the earthquake is maybe a result of some other cosmic event that we do not know what it is you know? Like the more you try and explain that the more trouble you are going to get into because you can unravel any theory in science.  So...  And that is not what the film is about ultimately so you do not want to go too far down that road.  ...Exactly. It is a means to an end.  How is your pandemic going? What are you doing like to get through the days?  Well I have a 3-year-old daughter so that alone is very time-consuming obviously.  Yes.  And in a wonderful way most of the time .  Threenagers - I do not know.  The threenagers exactly. So that is been a big part of it and in many ways has been incredible for me because I am someone who works a lot. So to have this much time no matter what I would prefer with my family and with my kiddo is - has been really great. And then outside of that you know we have been doing a lot of developing in terms of my work. You know there is a lot of meetings about how things would go if it was safe and when it is safe. And then you talk in circles for a couple hours. And then at the end of it you go OK well I guess we will see.  Yeah. Let us see when things can happen.  Exactly.  Just to end I guess back at the movie if there is like a single day that you could relive over and over again - did you think about that - like what that day would look like? Because the day that you have in the film is not - like it is not the day you would want to relive necessarily.  No it is true. It is - that is a really tricky question because the days that I think the most fondly of - the fact that they were finite is what makes them so special you know? Like the birth of my child or my wedding day or like the day I got hired at SNL - like the pivot moments in my life that I could point to and say you know wow that is when my life really became what it is. I would not want to relive it over and over again because it might devalue it in some way so it honestly might just be like a perfect day at the beach you know where nothing really eventful happened but it was all just easy and nice and no stress and I was with people I loved. And the food was good .  And there were drinks.  And there were drinks of course. Goes without saying.  That is actor Andy Samberg. And his new movie is Palm Springs and it is streaming on Hulu. Thank you very much.  Thank you.  