 Barring some kind of shake-up on the Billboard charts this will probably not be the song of the summer.    Quick with the sideways glance armed with a ledger pad. She is big on accounting everything that goes wrong...  But it is not for lack of trying. Little Mistakes is the lead single off the latest album from a band called Watershed. You may never have heard of the Columbus Ohio band. But they have been playing in dingy bars tiny clubs and even the occasional arena for the last 27 years. And that long career has inspired a new memoir called Hitless Wonder A Life in Minor League Rock and Roll.    No matter what I do it as not enough I made little mistakes do not add 'em up no matter what I do it as not enough just little mistakes. Do not add 'em up do not add 'em up no...  The book is proof that life in a rock band does involve beer seedy motels and long nights of praying that the van does not break down on the interstate. It is also proof that life as a rocker is hard but kind of addictive.   The book was written by one of Watershed's founders Joe Oestreich.   We met up Joe and the band outside DC9. That is a bar in Washington D.C. where they had a gig. Six guys - the musicians their manager Biggie and their friend Ricky rolled up in a white Ford van. And they were getting set to unload their gear.   No one is under 30 and the two founding members of Watershed are in their 40s. Most of the guys have kids and day jobs back at home. Joe Oestreich who wrote the new memoir plays bass and sings - oh and parks the van.  We are hoping to get a meter because we would only have to pay for the meter for the next 10 minutes. If that does not work we are going to have to pay 20 to park in a lot.  As you can probably tell the band runs on a tight budget so they have to keep an eye on their parking costs and their vehicle.  These are the chains that we are going to use to chain all the doors together in the front seat with the steering wheel so that if somebody gets in they will not be able to get the steering wheel to move or the two front doors to open.  After securing the van the guys lug their drums guitars and amps up to the stage on the second floor and then it was time for sound check.  Check check check.  The band was born back in 1985 when Joe and his fellow singer and friend Colin Gawel were just teenagers. And their power-pop sound had a brief run at success in the early '90s. At one point they had a record deal with Epic. It fell apart when their album tanked. But the band kept going kept touring and kept releasing albums long after it stopped being profitable.   Their dedication through all these years has not earned them big paychecks or fame. But they do have their superfans.  Reverend Todd Baker from Columbus Ohio. Go Bucks.  Todd Baker drove two and a half hours from Harrisburg Pennsylvania to see the show. And no he is not really a reverend.  Well it is not really official. It is more for comedy purposes you know.  Todd is an aspiring comedian. He is unemployed right now. But still he put on his Watershed concert T-shirt from 1994 spent the gas money and got himself to D.C. to see the band at least one more time. And on nights like this when there are barely 20 people out in the crowd Todd's voice is important.  Watershed Watershed Watershed.   After the late night show wrapped up the band went to tour the monuments on the National Mall until 3 A.M. That was actually an earlier than usual bedtime for them. Joe and Colin the two founding members looked a little weary when they came into our studios the morning after the show. We asked them if they made any money the night before.  It was a success by every measure except the one that is most commonly used to measure success. I mean there were probably 25 people there and they really seemed to like our songs. And there were superfans singing along with every word and the band played great and the sound man had us sounding good. And it was really fun. And we made 37.  Between all of you.  Not each total.  That is total 37.  That is a little disheartening I can imagine.  Yeah. We know going on tour we are not going to make money but we have a responsibility to go out and give it our best.   You talk about the band coming together and it was you and Colin who is sitting beside you on a bus as kids in Columbus Ohio. I wondered if you guys could just both take me on that bus as kids and sort of how does this play out? How did this idea come about?  I will start. We were already friends growing up and we would do a paper route together and we would fold the papers in Colin's garage and listen to Bob Seger and Aerosmith and Bad Company and all these bands on the radio. And one day we found out that Cheap Trick was coming to town. And Colin said we have got to go see Cheap Trick. I would never been to a rock concert before. I was probably 13 years old. And so we went to the Cheap Trick show on the city bus. And on the way home from the concert Colin said we have got to start a band. And I said well yeah that sounds good to me. Colin was kind of my friend and my hero anyway. And so if my hero says let us start a band I was ready to follow him into battle. I am still following him into battle 27 years later.  Did you review the book and is this the story you would have told if you had been writing it?  I - probably would not be as good but yeah no Joe I think he nailed it. I think this is how 99.99 percent of bands work and it does not end up with a pot of gold. I think Joe did a really good job of capturing what it is really like to be in a rock band and the sacrifices it puts on your family and everyone else. Because everybody loves you 'ecause you are in a band to a certain age and then everybody hates you 'ecause you in a band at a certain age. Like why do not you stop? But if you know you love what you are doing and you still feel passionate about it you know why would you stop?  You bring up the sacrifices for your family. And I wanted to ask you about that. I mean you both are parents now. People who are listening to this some might say God guys come on. It is time to mature. Stop leaving your kids stop leaving your families and going out on the road. Get a real job quote-unquote. I mean what is your answer when you hear that?  That is a valid argument.  Yeah.  That is very valid. I can absolutely understand why anybody would think that and there are times out on the road when we think what are we doing out there? I have got a two-and-a-half-year-old son and a three-month-old daughter and my wife is at home with both of them single-parenting right now. And so on the one hand everybody says follow your dream and we are doing that. But is that in fact admirable or some days it seems kind of pathetic you know? Maybe we should just pack it in and go home.  But yeah at this point I think it is too late.   Play Freedom.  I am not gonna play Freedom Todd.   In a sense you guys say you are capturing the reality that 99.9 percent of rock bands sort of live. But the majority sort of stop at some point and become the kind of washed-up rockers that talk about the olden days. You are scared of that which makes your sort of story very unique in a way.  Yeah that is my greatest fear is being used-to-play-in-a-band guy. And let me buy a minivan so I can relive the glory days. Maybe we will get the band back together for one more show. There is something about that that...  Oh God yeah nightmare.  ...seems tragic. I almost want to avoid being that more than I want to have actual success.  You know everybody wants more and wants better things but if you would have told us when we were you know in the floor of my garage we were going to have all these experiences and do all these neat things and have all this time with our friends and make all this good music that is going to - you know it may just be a handful of people - you saw them last night - but I know we have touched people by being creative and doing what we love to do. And that matters. All right. This is called Broken Radio. We will see you next time. We are Watershed. Thank you so much for coming out.   After their D.C. performance Watershed was heading to Pittsburgh then Ohio and finally Chicago. That is where they will play the final show of their tour tonight. And then they will leave the van behind return to their families and start dreaming of their next tour.   Joe Oestreich's new book is Hitless Wonder A Life in Minor League Rock and Roll. Watershed's new album is called Brick and Mortar. This is Weekend Edition from NPR News. I am David Greene. 