 American rock star Jon Bon Jovi wanted to show his support for Iranians who are protesting the results of the June 12th presidential election. He did what he does best sing.  Mr.    That is from a YouTube video Stand By Me in which Bon Jovi and his guitarist Richie Sambora perform with Iranian pop star Andy Madadian. His music is banned in Iran but he still has fans there. Madadian has lived in the United States for the past 30 years and he joins us from Los Angeles. Welcome to the program. Mr.  Hello everybody.  How did you end up working with Bon Jovi on this song? Mr.  By faith and good luck.  Tell me about the fate part.  Mr.  Well for many years I have been trying to work with Don Ward who to me is one of the best producers in the world. And out of the blue Don called and said hey because of the situation in Iran do you want to sing a song of solidarity with some American rock stars? And I said is the Pope Christian? And so we went down to the studio and we just started recording. In a few hours we had a song finished and the video made. And that is why I call it fate because we could have planned for months and it would not have been this perfect.  So the message you are sending to the people of Iran with the release of this video is what freedom of expression? Mr.  The message we are sending actually is a message of peace and solidarity. Both Bon Jovi and I are not really political people. We are humanitarians and we want to see people living in peace. We are not taking sides. We are not politicians but we wish for a peaceful and quick resolution.  How is Jon Bon Jovi's Farsi? Mr.  Phenomenal. He was born a Persian-speaking person. You know he has a cute accent in Persian. I believe girls are going crazy over him now.  Have you seen Joan Baez's video? She is singing We Shall Overcome and part of it is in Farsi? Mr.  I know about it and it is very brave on her part. And so I appreciate Joan Baez's effort and I congratulate her.  Iranian pop star Andy Madadian. To see a video of his performance of Stand By Me with Jon Bon Jovi and the Joan Baez video go to npr.orgsoapbox. Andy thank you very much. Mr.  My pleasure.  Mr.   Darling darling stand by me. Oh stand by me. 