 John Lewis has died a hero who stood on the front lines of the battle to end Jim Crow laws in this country.  The civil rights leader was known by his colleagues as the conscience of the Congress. I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Scott Simon. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   When you see something that is not right not fair not just say something do something. Get in trouble good trouble necessary trouble.  John Lewis has died as this country faces another reckoning on race and justice.  Also do stronger sales equal economic recovery? Not quite. We will tell you what the numbers mean.  And a new rule on how COVID data should be reported as hospitals scrambling. So stay with us. We will give you the news you need to start your weekend.   Representative John Lewis a civil rights legend whom colleagues described as the conscience of the United States Congress has died.  Mr. Lewis was 80 years old and he suffered from pancreatic cancer.  House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said last night that Lewis' goodness faith and bravery transformed the nation. And NPR congressional reporter Claudia Grisales is with us now for more. Good morning.  Hi Lulu.  So Representative Lewis spent six decades in public service. There is so much to say about a life as important as his. Let us start with you telling us a little bit about who he was and the mark he made in the fight against racial inequality.  He always had what he described as a moral obligation to stand up for his beliefs. He started out leading these sit-ins at segregated lunch counters in the Jim Crow-era South and he was inspired by Dr. Martin Luther King joining him as a speaker on the March on Washington in 1963.   Those who have said be patient and wait - we must say that we cannot be patient. We do not want our freedom gradually but we want to be free now.   In 1965 he and other peaceful protesters were violently beaten while crossing the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma Ala. This came to be known as Bloody Sunday and those images fueled a national outrage. And a few months later then-President Lyndon B. Johnson signed the Voting Rights Act into law. His drive for service motivated him to run for Congress where he served for more than 30 years. And he was known for his commitment to equality and social justice and as a moving speaker.  And even in his later years he remained very engaged - right? - in recent events on the Hill and in the country at large.  Yes he was seen as a senior leader on the Hill. And he was passionately supportive of health care reform immigration and LGBTQ rights. In 2016 shortly after the Pulse nightclub shooting in Orlando Fla. he led a sit-in on the House floor and pled for gun control legislation. Let us take a listen.   The time for silence and patience is long gone. We are calling on the leadership of the House to bring common-sense gun control legislation to the House floor. Give us a vote.  That effort and others is part of what he called quote good trouble. And this became one of his marquee statements that he used to urge these sort of protests when we saw this recent wave of national protest marches triggered by the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis. He said it was so moving to see this large response. And he also called that good trouble. He joined in in these protests. In fact more than 40 arrests over the course of his life in doing so. And in one of his last public appearances he traveled to the Black Lives Matter Plaza in Washington D.C. And he also had clashes with President Trump. He called him an illegitimate president and played a key role in the House impeachment investigation.  Congressman Lewis's death comes of course at yet another moment of reckoning with racism across the country and certainly in the halls of power. What has the reaction in Washington been?  Yes his life really spanned the civil rights movement as it weaved its way through political parties and generations. Mitch McConnell the top Republican in the Senate said quote our great nation's history has only bent towards justice because great men like John Lewis took it upon themselves to help bend it. And former President Obama who awarded Lewis the Presidential Medal of Freedom said quote not many of us get to live to see our own legacy play out in such a meaningful remarkable way. John Lewis did and thanks to him we now have our marching orders to keep leaving and the possibility of remaking the country we love until it lives up to its full promise.  That is NPR congressional reporter Claudia Grisales. Thank you very much.  Thanks for having me.   There was some encouraging news about the U.S. economy this week.  Retail sales are bouncing back after a deep drop early in the pandemic and homebuilders are starting to pick up steam.  But at the same time new unemployment claims are very high week after week. And tens of millions of jobless Americans are in danger of losing critical parts of their safety net unless Congress acts to extend it. NPR's chief economics correspondent Scott Horsley joins us. Scott thanks for being with us. Good morning.  Good to be with you.  Let us start with consumer spending - drives the economy in so many ways. But in the context of everything else that is going on around us how important really is that rebound in retail?  It is a good sign. Overall sales in June were just above where they were a year ago so that tells us the huge hole we saw in March and April has now been filled in. But it does not mean things are back to normal. You know what people are spending money on has shifted. Spending is still way down at bars and restaurants. Also gas stations - people are not driving that much while spending at grocery stores and home improvement stores is way up. So the big picture is still one of a country where a lot of people are kind of hunkered down. They are also buying a lot of stuff online for home delivery. Online sales are up nearly 24 from a year ago.  Of course we have to note at the same time coronavirus infections are rising in most of the country and that has to still have an impact on the economy.  It is certainly not helping. In some of the hardest-hit states we have now seen new restrictions imposed on bars and indoor dining for example. A number of states have hit the brakes or even backtracked on reopening in the face of rising infections. What is more we know even when the government does not dictate it consumers tend to stay closer to home and spend less money when the news about the pandemic gets worse. If consumers spend less businesses do not need as many workers. We are already seeing some signs that hiring has slowed. As we have said all along Scott we are not going to have a sustainable economic recovery unless and until we get control of this virus.  Congress is back in session next week and lawmakers are talking about new measures to prop up or stimulate the economy. What is on the table?  There are a lot of ideas floating around. Republicans want to shield businesses from lawsuits if their workers get sick. Democrats want money to help state and local governments. The president wants a payroll tax cut although that does not seem to be getting any traction. There is also some talk about another broad round of relief payments like the 1200 that went out during the spring. One urgent question though is what to do about the 600 a week in supplemental unemployment benefits that are due to run out in less than two weeks. Those payments have been a critical safety net for some 30 million people who have lost jobs. Indi Dutta-Gupta who is with the Georgetown Center on Poverty and Inequality told All Things Considered if that money goes away it is going to cause a lot of individual hardship and also be a drain on the broader economy.   Families are going to face high rates of eviction homelessness food insecurity hunger going into debt a number of other challenges and the economy overall is going to see much slower progress into recovery than otherwise.  Without those extra unemployment benefits we probably would not have seen those strong retail sales last month. We would have seen more defaults on car loans and credit cards more people falling behind on their rent. There is some concern in the business community that the relatively generous unemployment benefits are discouraging people from going back to work but that is not a really big concern when there just are not a lot of jobs out there and when the threat of getting sick from going back to work appears to be on the rise.  NPR's chief economics correspondent Scott Horsley thanks so much for being with us.  You are welcome.   So hospitals around the country are scrambling to figure out a new data reporting requirement from the Trump administration.  They were told this week to send critical information about COVID-19 directly to the Department of Health and Human Services which bypasses the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  The move created confusion at hospitals and alarmed public health experts who worry about public access to this important data.  We are joined now to talk about this with NPR's Pien Huang. Thanks so much for being with us.  Morning Scott. Great to be here.  This new reporting change has been in effect since Wednesday. Can we tell how it is going?  Yeah. So it is been a mixed bag. I have heard from a few hospitals around the country. Some say it is been really hard some say it is been really confusing and others say it is been OK but they are still sorting out the details of the change. But according to HHS more hospitals have been reporting this week than have in the recent past. And they say that was one of the reasons they wanted to implement this new system.  Step back Pien. What is changed for a hospital?  OK. Well for a couple of months since the beginning of the pandemic hospitals have been reporting this daily data about the number of COVID patients they have the number of beds and ventilators they have available to the CDC and the CDC has been gathering this data. They have been analyzing it. They have been putting it up on their website to give updates on hospital capacity which is you know whether hospitals have enough resources and protective gear to take care of the COVID-19 patients that are coming in. But under this new rule hospitals are now supposed to report this data either to their state health departments or to a different system called TeleTracking which has been set up by a private company and which provides that data directly to HHS.  So hospitals still report the data just somewhere else. What has some experts and officials so concerned?  Yeah. So hospitals are still required to report the data but they say it is been a big burden to change things up right now especially for those facing surging coronavirus cases. And doctors have also pointed out that the administration seems to be saying hospitals have to use this new reporting system to gain access to the federal supply of remdesivir which is one of the only drugs known to work against COVID-19. A top scientist at the CDC says these new reporting methods ignore valuable experience that the CDC has in gathering this data. Here's Dr. Daniel Pollock.   We have a long-standing working relationship with the hospitals. We have means of being able to do quality checks over the incoming data.  He is not sure that the information coming in from these other methods will be as good as the data CDC was collecting and public health experts have also been raising concerns. They see this in the context of the administration fighting federal scientists over coronavirus advice and they say this could be part of a pattern in which the administration is trying to sideline the CDC the nation's public health agency in the middle of a pandemic.  And this week a CDC website that shared that hospital data with the public went dark for a day or two. Do we know what happened?  Yeah. So this is a website that was getting updated three times a week and it went down briefly. And then it came online again but it is using old data. And reporting from Alex Smith at member station KCUR in Missouri says hospitals there are currently without access to critical data they have been using for their daily and weekly reports. They hope the issues will be sorted out in the next days or even weeks but in the meantime the Missouri Hospital Association says they will be very much in the dark.  NPR's Pien Huang thanks so much for being with us.  Thanks for having me.  And that is UP FIRST for Saturday July 18 2020. I am Scott Simon.  And I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. UP FIRST is back on Monday with news to start your week. Follow us on social media. We are upfirst on Twitter and keep an eye on this feed for the occasional special episode.  And for even more news and interviews try us on something called the radio.  Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings - find your station at stations.npr.org. 