 If you have seen photos of friends or celebrities posting selfies with silver hair and wrinkles lately it is not the relentless news cycle. They probably used FaceApp. The app can make your face look older younger even style your hair. It can be fun but lawmakers warn users to take precaution. The Democratic National Committee warned presidential campaigns against using it and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer has called on the FBI to investigate. He posted this on social media about FaceApp.   It allows quote perpetual irrevocable and worldwide license to your photos name or likeness. So this is a breathtaking and possibly dangerous level of access.  Louise Matsakis is a staff writer at Wired magazine and joins us from New York. Thanks so much for being with us.  Thanks for having me.  In your judgment is FaceApp really more compromising than Facebook or Instagram who have billions of users already?  Absolutely not. I think that one thing to consider here is that this is a much smaller company and Facebook has argued in the past that they are better at protecting your data because they you know inherently have more resources. But I do not think that this FaceApp is necessarily more controversial or troubling because it happens to be made by developers who are Russian. I think that is where kind of the anxiety from lawmakers comes from here. FaceApp like a lot of these free apps their business model's around advertising. You know they are sending some of your data to the Google ad networks. That is what they want here. That does not mean it is not troubling for other reasons but I think lawmakers here are maybe fixating on the wrong issue.  Why is it troubling for other reasons?  I think we should be really careful about who we want to share our faces with. This information is really sensitive. It is not something like Schumer pointed out that they are going to get back to you. You know they maintain the rights to these images and they can do what they want with them. But the reality is we are sharing our facial recognition data with so many companies. And a lot of time we do not have a lot of control over that. So it is really not just this app even though it is you know called FaceApp so it seems really literal. But when you upload pictures to dating sites to Facebook to you know photo-sharing sites like Flickr or Instagram you are probably in a facial recognition database and you do not know it already.  I got to tell you. I have been taking pictures of our 16-year-old since she came into our lives. Is it already too late for her?  Probably. And it is too late for what Georgetown University estimates is probably over half of Americans who are already in a facial recognition database as it stands. You know that includes when you get a license right? You know that license database might be used by the government to create a facial recognition algorithm that includes maybe a dating profile that might be used to identify your gender or something. You know researchers from Stanford in 2017 actually took photos from a dating network and they used it to build a very controversial tool that claimed to identify people's sexuality just based on their photo. So you know the people who are on that dating site had no idea something like that was going to happen.  Do companies ever lose control of the data? I mean that happens with credit card information all the time does not it?  Sure. And it is not even just losing control. A lot of time these databases are widely available or they are made public to academic researchers and to corporations in order to foster more scholarship. So a lot of these photos are just out there even if there is not a data breach to begin with. These big training sets are already available to a you know wide array of different actors who want to use them to build tools that they can use to do whatever they want.  Is there any way to stop this any way to take steps even if it is too late to protect your images?  Definitely. I think making sure that your profiles are not public is a good way of doing that. That is really hard because dating profiles for instance are inherently public right? You want other people to see them. But I think really thinking about do I need to upload this picture right now is this worth the risk that it poses by uploading it do I really need to post a lot of pictures of me maybe publicly on Twitter or something like that or would I rather just have kind of a private Facebook group where I share pictures of my daughter?  Even if FaceApp is not as dangerous as some political figures caution is it good that this conversation - if you please - has been set off?  Definitely. I think this is really great that this conversation is centering on your face which is such a valuable piece of data for these companies that are building these algorithms often for troubling purposes like law enforcement or that sort of thing or identifying people and perhaps identifying you. And I think that is really an important part of this conversation even though maybe this app is a little silly.  When you say it is troubling that law enforcement could use it I mean if you are looking for someone who committed a violent crime against someone you love you are glad to have that technology. On the other hand if you are a dissident in Hong Kong you are not glad to have that technology.  Exactly. I think these conversations always involve a trade-off between privacy and security. And we kind of have not really figured out that balance with facial recognition data yet. And I think another concern is that a lot of these algorithms have been proven to be inaccurate. You know people have been arrested for crimes...  Yeah.  ...They did not commit because the algorithm you know mistakenly identified them. So I think that is another piece that is really important here.  Louise Matsakis of Wired thanks so much for being with us.  Thanks again. 