 When a musician gets famous for one kind of music they sometimes have a hard time doing new things. In 2007 Nikki Jean became known when she helped write and sing on Lupe Fiasco's hip-hop album The Cool. But her musical breadth extends well beyond rap. Her varying tastes can be heard in her solo debut album Pennies in a Jar. She joins us in our studios. Thanks so much for being with.  Hello Scott. Thank you for having me.  And I want to get right into - let us hear a bit of Million Star Motel if we could.    Lord knows I have been lower. Locked underneath the cellar door. I have been bent till I broke but never poor. You might ask why I am smiling with empty pockets cannot you tell? Diamond shine in the midnight sky and the world is my million star motel.   L-u-p I am back where the beat at. Love always shines every time I see that. Hugging the track if you are under...  By the way it features Lupe Fiasco. So what was it like to for him to return the favor for you?  Oh It was amazing you know because he does not work with a tremendous amount of people having them on his album and but then to lend his talent and certainly notoriety to my record was a gift and I am very grateful.  Now you have also worked with Carly Simon.  Yes.  And with Carole King.  Indeed.  What is it like to work with what I think it is safe to say between Carole King and Lupe Fiasco a real range of talent?   Well it is been amazing. You do see a through line of brilliant people and characteristics that they possess and the creativity and the work ethic you see that kind of across the board. Great writers are huge fans of other great writers regardless of genre.  Speaking of great writers whatever the genre let us listen a bit to the title track Pennies in a Jar. I am really going to tip our hand as to who you are collaborating with.    All I recall the fireworks and the fireflies that lit the sky. It seem to imply if skies could catch them why could not I...  You were collaborating with...  Mr. Burt Bacharach.  How did that come about?  Well he was he was called.   He was called and asked very nicely. I went to his house and he played some melodies for me and he said you know why do not you try writing some lyrics and we will see what happens. And so Pennies in a Jar is what happened.    Something that I could tell my dreams to. What did I do? Filling up the stars with pennies in a jar.  Is it intimidating to work with someone like Burt Bacharach who has had about a thousand hits?  Oh my goodness. That writing with him was the first time that I was really exposed as a writer because up until that point I had been collaborating with people and we would write the melody together and we would write the lyric together.  Mm-hmm.  When I wrote with Mr. Bacharach it was the first time he is like okay I wrote the melody you write the lyrics and we will see what you have by yourself.  Boy.  And I was just pacing the floor in my apartment like how am I going to write something that could even compare? And I just stopped thinking of it like that and was like you know just write from your heart but really good though.   Well that is how he began right writing from the heart. He just got really good at it.  Yeah. And there was a point in the process where I had written these verses and I sent it back to him and he was like you know I like the verses. Here's the melody for the bridge because he did not give it to me all at once and I was stuck. And it took me four months. Ultimately he was like what is the holdup? And I said you know I just I am scared that it is not going to be good enough. And he is like I have got tons of songs like that. You just have to finish it. It is OK. And just having that kind of encouragement was a really big deal for me.    I was playing with you. I was playing with you.  How did you get to love music?  I think I always attribute it to Irving Berlin. We saw his 100th birthday celebration on TV.  Yeah.  You know it was amazing. There was Jerry Orbach and Willie Nelson and Ray Charles and Bea Arthur and all these wonderful entertainers. And some of the songs even being five like I already knew White Christmas I would already heard God Bless America. He was immortal like he was 100 but these songs were so fresh and alive and it was so important to be a songwriter obviously because they had this big event. And that is when I decided I wanted to be one.  It sounds like you are interested in every genre of music.  I just love good songs that stick with you that touch something in you that become your friends like a good book. I was born in St. Paul and moved around a lot as a kid. But Minnesota has a huge melting pot of music. Like...  Yeah.  Prince is from there but Bob Dylan is from there.    I still see the best in humankind. In war you make this broken world all shiny and new.  I want to listen to a little bit now of Steel and Feathers. Different for you.   Do not ever take yourself to a place where I cannot find you.  So you can hear the trace of Bob Dylan.   I was given the song to finish. And when they sent it to me it had verses. And I sent it back. I was like I am not changing a single word not a note.   Yeah.    Take a cab to that little old diner and take a stab at feeling together the feel of the feathers that they .  Is it hard to sing a Dylan song and not sound like Dylan? You sound like yourself?  I do not know. I think for me we I wanted to find that place where me and Mr. Dylan intersect. You know where I could sing it like myself and still honor the character of the song.    Take my pail and water the flower garden. Take my  from bloom. But do not ever take yourself away. Do not ever take away...  Do you think about what is next?  Every day.   Every day. I really want an opportunity to go out and perform the record and take it to people.  And do you like touring? What is that like for you?  I love touring. I was born to tour.   I really was. You know it is not even that it is the road.  Yeah.  It is being out in the - me and my mom had driven from Washington D.C. to Minnesota four times by the time I was five years old. So I have had all this experience being in a car and I like it. I love little towns and their quirks. And I love big towns and their energy. And it is great for me. It is very exciting. It is very rejuvenating.  Nikki Jean. Her debut album Pennies in a Jar. Good luck.  Thank you so much for having me. I have had a really wonderful time.    ...feels like milk when it spills like a baby when it is born. Each day I could dream like a rose in the ground but today I feel so fun.  You can hear songs from Pennies in a Jar and we hope you will at NPRMusic.org. And this is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. 