 Construction workers in Times Square are hustling to finish a restaurant set to open later this summer.  Cut me a four-by-four of PVC rod.  Bond 45 is designed by someone better known in that neighborhood for his stage sets. David Korins did four musicals now running on Broadway including a little one you might have heard of called Hamilton. He is also designed concerts for pop stars like Lady Gaga. For our summer series that takes us behind the scenes NPR's Neda Ulaby asks Korins what tricks he uses to make eating a theatrical experience.  I do not know that there are any tricks needed. Eating is one of the most theatrical experiences there is.  That is David Korins in his Midtown Manhattan studio. The designer vividly remembers the drama of visiting a steakhouse as a little kid with his family.  There were big steel chandeliers that had fake little candles flickering in them. And it really felt transporting and glamorous.  Like going to the theater eating out can make you feel different - viscerally emotionally. Designers like Korins take that into account.  The effort in putting together a show is the exact same effort as putting together a restaurant which is that you are casting it. You are creating a design - an environment lighting sound choreography. You are thinking about pace.    Alexander Hamilton...  You are also thinking about how best to frame your stars whether they are a delicious meal or Tony-winning actors. For Hamilton Korins created an understated set little more than a stack of bricks and a rickety wooden catwalk. But it was filled he says with subtle little choices - the color of the bricks the length of the walls - that help to evoke a story spanning 30 years in countless locations.  In the restaurant we have done a lot of things like that. We have aged it. We have created a story.  How do you want them to look like?  The new restaurant under construction is right across the street from the Richard Rodgers Theatre Hamilton's Broadway home. It will be clubby with dark red mahogany walls and low-hanging copper chandeliers. Right now Korins is consulting with a guy doing the finishing Emerson Mereca.  When you look into the wall with plaster it might look too new. You want to age it down a little bit?  I think we should age it all down yeah.  I usually use some calcimine on it.  The story of this restaurant Bond 45 will be as if it is a landmark hundreds of years old even though everything in it is actually brand-new. Like with the set for Hamilton Korins wants to leave room for your imagination to fill in the gaps and make up stories about it.  There are windows downstairs that have been bricked up that are actual to the building that I have left. People will wonder did I do that. Did that exist?  Those people could be Broadway stars decompressing after a show or tourists from Topeka. But Korins says all of them should feel the essence of the story as soon as they walk in the door. That is what he did with his four other shows now on Broadway including the one playing across the street with its 51 songs and 25000-word script.  And that is what kind of what I am hoping will happen here except instead of 51 songs and 25000 words hopefully it will be millions of words and millions of songs that will happen inside this restaurant.    I remember that night.  Theater and dining out - both he says are a kind of cultural sustenance. Neda Ulaby NPR News.   I remember that night. I just might regret that night for the rest of my days. I remember those soldier boys tripping over themselves to win our praise. I remember that dream-like candlelight like a dream that you cannot quite place. But Alexander I will never forget the first time I saw your face. 