 For Afghanistan it can be the small victories that count. And let us hear about one now. For the first time since America sent troops there in 2001 Afghanistan is sending back food available throughout the U.S. The fledgling company Rumi Spice announced this week that its saffron will be on the shelves of Whole Foods this fall. That is the rich red spice that creates golden dishes. It flourishes in the fields of Afghanistan - fields that the combat veterans who founded Rumi Spice know well. Kimberly Jung is one. Joining us are the other two founders Keith Alaniz in Chicago and Emily Miller here in our D.C. studio. Good morning.  Good morning.  Thank you for having us.  Why do not you tell us how you came up with this idea. Obviously you were both in Afghanistan at one point.  Yes that is correct. Our story really starts with a farmer named Haji Yosef. When I was serving in Afghanistan Haji Yosef came up to me. And he was growing this incredible saffron. And as Haji Yosef explained you know he would grow more saffron except that he can only sell it in his local market. So I talked to my partners Emily and Kim who at the time were in Harvard Business School. And we thought what if we can connect Afghan farmers with the international market? And by doing so we can create a demand for their products which would create jobs in Afghanistan and lead to stability and peace.  So why did you pick saffron?  Saffron is the world's most expensive spice. We also realized it is an economic alternative to opium. It is a beautiful spice that is hand-picked by thousands of laborers in just a few weeks during the harvest - in October November. And we realized it presented a really phenomenal opportunity for the farmers and for the women of Afghanistan.  It was a very opportune product for us to use because its price-to-weight ratio is such that we can ship it profitably by air. So that made starting out you know very easy. We were able to just airship saffron from Afghanistan to the U.S. But the utility of growing saffron is much better for the farmers in that they do not have the risk of running into the government confiscating their crops or the DEA burning down their fields. And most importantly they do not have to work with nefarious forces like the Taliban.  We should also mention USAID did a great job of laying the foundation - you know really spreading the idea of growing the saffron. The gap that we saw was that these farmers did not have a marketplace to sell it to. And that is really where we came in and realized that we could sell this incredibly high-quality premium product to U.S. consumers.  You know move back a little bit for just a quick moment. The both of you and also Kim Jung your - the other founder you really were on some tough assignments in Afghanistan when you were there.  I was on a team called Cultural Support Teams supporting special operations on night raids. Kimberly was a route clearance platoon leader looking for roadside bombs. And Keith was serving as an AfPak Hands so essentially a cultural specialist who spoke the language and worked with the local farmers in Afghanistan.  You know why did you develop this attachment at least strong enough to get you involved in this business venture?  Well one the people and the culture are just something that will continue to draw you back to the country. It is a beautiful country. The people have so much hope after 30 years of war. In fact most of the populace of Afghanistan has only known war their entire life. Yet they still have this undying spirit that you know there is better days to come.  You know Keith also made a great point the other day. He said Afghanistan and veterans share something in common and that is our narrative often gets written for us. And that really resonates with me because I think most Americans have a skewed perspective of what Afghanistan is actually like. They just see war and terror on the news. But it is a beautiful country and a resilient people.  That gets us to - actually to something because I think there is an interesting story in that. Why call it Rumi Spice?  What we are trying to do is brand Afghanistan with things other than war and terrorism. Not many people realize that one of the most famous poets in the world is from Afghanistan or spent a good portion of his life in Afghanistan.  Do you have a line from the poet that sticks with you?  There is a few of them. I think...  So many of them.  Yeah. One of my favorite lines from Rumi is where there is ruin there is hope for treasure. And that is what we believe in Afghanistan.  That is how we end all of our presentations on Afghanistan is with that quote.  There is a good...  Go ahead.  Oh. Not a Rumi quote but one of my favorite Afghan proverbs - it says  which means a river is made drop by drop. And you know how we started our company - it was really just a crazy audacious idea that started with 10 farmers thinking we would sell saffron to a handful of restaurants. And now we are about to be distributed nationally by Whole Foods. And we are really creating this river of change in Afghanistan.  Keith Alaniz and Emily Miller are two of the founders of Rumi Spice. Thanks both of you for joining us.  Thank you for having us.  Thank you Renee. 