 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Lynn Neary. In Mexico the government has been locked in a battle with striking teachers for two months now. It is a fight that is caused angry protests and clashes with police claiming at least eight lives and disrupting commerce around the country. NPR's Carrie Kahn has the latest from the front lines of this fight Oaxaca state.  .  Outside Oaxaca City hundreds of striking teachers surround this busy intersection.  .  Teacher Jose Angel Diaz orders trailer trucks off to the side.  .  .  .  He lets through cars but not trucks hauling goods for major corporations like Wal-Mart and Coca-Cola. Diaz a rural middle school teacher says we are sending the government a message.  .  It is not just about our bad pay or lack of resources for our schools but he says this is about the sad situations our students are in trying to get a decent education. The dismal state of Mexico's education system is not new. Among the world's big democracies Mexico consistently ranks near the bottom in per-student spending and achievement. The government recently embarked on an ambitious plan to improve the schools. It wants to wrestle power from the teachers union long accused of cronyism corruption and padding payrolls. Key to the new reforms is mandatory teacher testing.  .  Italiti Vasquez Flores a middle school teacher in one of the poorest regions of the country walked off the job two months ago. She says she has to teach nine subjects and makes less than 700 a month. And now she says the government is going to test her performance.  .  They have not told us what is in this test she says. Obviously anyone going in blind is going to fail. Vasquez and the other teachers here in Oaxaca are part of a faction that broke away from Mexico's larger pro-government union. They have refused to take the exam. Hundreds now camp out in the capital's colonial town square. They regularly bust into Mexico City where they clog traffic and they have a strong presence in other poor southern states.   Parent Abelardo Istmus watches his son line up for the end-of-the-year class picture. His school is one of the few still open in Oaxaca. Istmus sympathizes with the teachers cause just not their tactics.  .  Their methods are a bit radical says Istmus. But he adds unfortunately in this country if you do not disrupt business as usual the government will not listen. The protests have hurt Oaxaca. The tourist industry reports many cancelations. Supplies in the state ran so low recently the government airlifted in basic foodstuffs. Tensions peaked late last month when federal forces moved in on teachers blocking a highway. A confrontation ensued and police fatally shot eight people. Hundreds were injured.   This past week a large group of union members gathered at a wake for a teacher who they say died of injuries sustained during an earlier skirmish with federal police.  .  Surrounding the simple wooden coffin activists raised their fists and sang defiant revolutionary songs. Speakers talked of not only stopping the government's education reforms but also defending a host of other social causes. The killings of protestors seem to have hardened their stance and moved public opinion a bit in their favor. The teachers and the government have agreed to sit down and talk Monday. Union leaders say they will take this weekend to map out their strategy. Carrie Kahn NPR News Oaxaca. 