 There is new effort in Illinois to try to reduce the number of women who are in prison by half over the next seven years. This week a group of a hundred women experts in criminal justice - prison officials attorneys judges and former prisoners - announced their plans. Justice Anne Burke sits on the Illinois Supreme Court and is a member of that group. She joins us from WBEZ in Chicago. Justice Burke thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you Scott for inviting me.  There are about 2500 women in prison in Illinois but over 40000 men. Why do you feel it is important to bring special attention to women?  Well it is not that we are just bringing special attention. We are just highlighting some of the things. There is a lot of reform going on but there is unintended consequences with women in prison. They are generally the caregivers and the children end up in foster care when a mother is incarcerated.  Are - recognizing generalizations are difficult sometimes are men and women often imprisoned for different reasons?  Absolutely. For instance a domestic violence situation - oftentimes the woman who is the victim is arrested as well. She is also charged with domestic violence so she has a felony. And she really was not the abuser in this situation but it is on her record.  To try and be clear are you are you saying that a lot of women now in prison have been wrongfully convicted or that prison may not be the best way of serving a sentence?  Well I am not generalizing about wrongly convicted. But at bond court they do not ask about - well who is the victim here? Who was not the victim? That is for a later day for a court hearing. So many women are incarcerated immediately. And so if they do have a job they lose their job they lose their kids the child goes into foster care if they have no family support. It just is a cycle.  When you talk Justice Burke about trying to prevent recidivism and crime can you give us a couple of examples of things you would like to see done that might be a step toward that?  So I would say that we need more mental health services for our people before they commit some sort of a crime. Generally you know even homeless people you can - who might have some mental health issues - they become incarcerated because they have stolen a Snickers bar. And they do that five or six times and they end up with felonies. That is ridiculous. It costs a 143 a day in Cook County Jail to keep an inmate. If they cannot make a 500 bond we have got them in jail for maybe two years waiting for trial at 143 a day. It is counterproductive.  When you announced the ambition of reducing the women prison population by half - have not many of those women been lawfully convicted by a court? How do you change their sentences or how they serve time without subverting the rule of law?  No it is not about that. Lawful convictions are absolutely going to be abided by. But if we can work with them before they get incarcerated by having services in the neighborhood in the community then we can avoid incarceration. And while they are in jail let us try to help them be on a path to learning some skills and then of course the path to outside. We should have some sort of a plan for them to help them. And we just do not have that now.  Justice Burke you know politics. Nobody wants to spend more money.  I know. But if we do not it is going to cost more - like I said 143 a day for somebody who stole a Snickers bar for you know a year - year and a half awaiting trial. And that is why judges are part of this task force. We are there to listen to observe and to help people make sure that this is going to be fair to those who are being detained and incarcerated.  Justice Anne Burke of the Illinois Supreme Court thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you Scott very much. 