 In a 1988 interview Webb demonstrated what that would sound like.   By the time I get to Phoenix she will be rising she will find the note that I left hanging on her door. And she will cry and think that I would really leave her and that I have left that girl so many times before. And I am going to Phoenix...   You understand? This is the Motown approach.  Well Webb avoided that because it was a ballad a soap opera of sorts and it became a big hit for singer Glen Campbell.    By the time I get to Phoenix she will be rising...  Jimmy Webb has just released an album of many of his hit songs. It is called Just Across the River. By the Time I Get to Phoenix is cut six. Jimmy Webb sings it with Glen Campbell.    'ecause I left that girl so many times before. By the time I make Albuquerque she will be working...  Hall of Fame songwriter Jimmy Webb is in our New York bureau. Welcome back. It is nice to talk to you again first of all.  Well it is nice to hear your voice again.  Well tell me is this really the first time you and Glen Campbell have sung together?  It is. We were doing a big concert at the Schermerhorn in Nashville. After the concert everyone was so excited - it was a good show - and my producer Freddie Mollin came running up to me and he said do you realize that this is maybe our only chance to get Glen and you on the same record together? We are not as young as we used to be. And so the next morning Glen came in and for the first time in our careers we actually appeared on the same record together.  Could you have imagined it happening when you first met Glen Campbell many years ago and the first thing he said to you is when are you going to cut your hair?  I love you. You really do your homework. You know I was in such awe of him at that point that I do not think I would have imagined singing with him no. You know something that I think is a little tale worth telling is that the very first record I ever bought I got a dollar from my father and I said dad there is a record I have to have. It was a record being played constantly called Turn Around Look at Me.    Turn around look at me...  And it was by a young singer named Glen Campbell. And I took that record home and I wore it out. And I would get down on my little Baptist knees at night beside the bed and I would say dear Lord when I grow up can I be a songwriter and work with Glen Campbell? And so I think it is prima facie evidence for the existence of God because for me to grow up and to actually end up working with Glen Campbell it is just almost unbelievable.    She just did not know I would...  You invited Mark Knopfler in who plays guitar at the end of By the Time to Get to Phoenix but he is also featured with you on a tune called The Highwayman. And you credit him with helping you to change your singing style.  And one of our rituals was that as we drove to the studio each morning we listened to Mark Knopfler. And Freddie would say now this is what you want to do. You want to sound like this. You know you want to just be natural. You know do not try to sing just communicate you know. And I am listening to Mark and I got it I really got it.    The bastards hung me in the spring of 25 but I am still alive. I was a sailor. I was born upon the tide...  While you were advised not to be Billy Joel but you did invite Billy Joel to appear and he does one of your greatest hits Wichita Linemen. How did that happen?  And I am as red as a beet you know and so we kind of have this history of a mutual respect but a kind of - the British have an expression I will not use it but taking the you-know-what out of each other.  Um-hum. The Mickey.  Yeah. And you know it just I tell you I was at that session in New York. And Billy started singing and he worked so hard he worked like it was his very first recording session. It was just so moving when he comes in on that second verse - I sing the first verse - when he comes on that second verse it was just a thrill. I will never forget it.    And I want you for all time and the Wichita lineman is still on the line.  I can understand your discomfort at having Wichita Lineman deconstructed 'ecause you once said that that lyric but I need you more than want you and want you for all time and the Wichita lineman is still on the line. It was the dumbest thing you would ever written. I have to question cake left out in the rain. But no you say this was because it was a false rhyme.  Well it was a false rhyme which I did not realize until I was writing a book on songwriting and I started scrutinizing my lyrics. I do however continue rewriting my songs into infinity which drives people crazy. Because I will go on stage and I will sing it the way I want to - I will correct it. And then some irate punter will come around after the show and say why did you do that like that? That is not the way the record went and you know they get very upset.  see her how she flies golden sails across the sky. It bothered me for years and years and years. It is a beautiful image and the record by Judy Collins was - and Arif Martin producing - was an absolute masterpiece.    See her how she flies golden sails across the sky...  But I am listening to it one day and all of the sudden something went click. I mean this is 20 years later. And I thought now I know what the line is. The line is see her how she flies golden sail across the skies. It was just simply adjusting the pluralities to get the correct rhyme.  You know The Moon is a Harsh Mistress is not on your new CD so that tells me you are not finished with it.  Well it tells me it is going to be on my next CD maybe with Judy Collins.  Oh nice.  My favorite by the way just so you know is Where Words End with Michael McDonald. That is my own personal favorite.  And why is that?  It is a hopeful statement. It is a positive thing to say in a world that is increasingly edgy. And I just wanted to put that you know one strong positive statement on the album.  And a new song.  And a new song.    Just across the river just across the river where all the words end where all...  Jimmy Webb wrote that song and all the others on his new recording Just Across the River. He joined us from our bureau in New York. Thanks a lot.  Thank you again for another wonderful interview.   This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Liane Hansen. 