 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Susan Stamberg in for Rachel Martin.   From the debt-laden city of Detroit comes the surprising sound of celebration.   The family of Henry Ford marked the 150th anniversary of his birth yesterday with music and dancing. More about that in a moment but first long after Henry Ford the auto powerhouse Detroit began to decline. Over the years there have been countless plans to revive the city. In many ways Detroit has been an incubator for new strategies in urban revitalization. The list includes large downtown developments casinos urban farms artist colonies large-scale downsizing and on and on. Many of those ideas have failed or ended in mixed results. Over the years Detroit has never lacked for bold grand plans. In the wake of the city's bankruptcy though many in the community are thinking small. NPR's Sonari Glinton reports from Detroit.  Just outside of downtown Detroit is a neighborhood called Midtown. It is like many hip urban neighborhoods the Short North in Columbus Ukrainian Village in Chicago Silver Lake in Los Angeles. It is got hipsters on fixed geared bikes yoga studios boutiques for dogs. And while the neighborhoods I have named have been redeveloping for a decade or more things here are just now starting to take off. And part of the reason is because of a woman who is often called the Mayor of Midtown.  My name is Sue Mosey and I am president of Midtown Detroit Inc. And we are a non-profit planning and economic development agency that does a lot of different kinds of work in the neighborhood here. That is the neighborhood just north of the downtown.  The neighborhood North works in has a large public university an arts college. It has two major health care systems the big cultural institutions in Detroit. It is much of what any neighborhood needs to work.  It is been an area that is experienced a lot of disinvestment over the last 60 years. But over the last 10 to 20 years there is been a lot of reinvestment coming back into the neighborhood.  As I was driving here you can see most of it. If we just go outside.  OK. So basically this block is a good example of what is going on in the neighborhood.  Sue Mosey talks fast and walks faster.  Those buses will run you over.  Which she needed to do in Midtown because the thing you realize when you walk in Detroit is that by square miles it is one of the largest cities.  In Detroit because you had this very very large footprint where all these assets were built that really is something that has worked against us today when you are trying to really create dense urban fabric.  But as you walk around you see many parts of Midtown are showing signs of life.  This is just getting ready to launch. And then we have a whole set of small businesses over here you know everything from small women's boutiques to organic small locally owned markets and our big organic bakery is there for the neighborhood.  Mosey says 26 more new businesses will open in Midtown within the year. This is a key to Detroit is economic survival - or the survival of any city Commercial real estate taxes can make up as much as 70 percent of the revenues for a city. With Detroit when all the people left - and nearly a million have left the city - the businesses followed them. Mosey has been working in this neighborhood for 26 years and now finally things are turning around. Mosey says the success that is been had here is because her organization has had to work block by block. That strategy even though it takes a long long time is one that could work in Detroit.  Regardless of the bankruptcy and the finance thing - it is not like that is really new news to people here - I mean we have had a city that we have known has not been able to fund basic services for years. I mean I do not think anybody - like that is not new news. But I do think that for parts of the city certain neighborhoods and certainly this corridor and downtown that there is definitely more optimism than ever.  When you talk to people in Detroit they say things are different today than they were 10 or 20 years ago. There is not this idea that one big plan or one big development is going to save the day.  How can we just create a smaller more efficient better run more interesting city and bring back you know basic services for the residents who are here and want to be here?  That is a tall order.  It is a tall order but I mean it is the only order. I mean what other order are you going to have?  Sonari Glinton NPR News Detroit. 