 All week the astronauts of space shuttle Atlantis have been serenaded with music amid the stars set up from Earth.   R.E.M.  If you believed they put a man on the moon.    Good morning guys. Wake up and good luck on this your last mission. Well done.  We are in Houston and thank you for that message...  Elton John Michael Stipe and Paul McCartney recorded messages for the crew. Musical wakeup calls have been part of the shuttle program since it began 30 years ago. As NPR's Joel Rose reports they are not the only way music has helped keep the shuttle aloft.  According to NASA the tradition of waking astronauts up with music dates back at least as far as the Apollo program in the 1970s. For example the crew of the capsule America woke up to this...    Singing good morning America how are you? Saying do not you know me I am your native son?  The choice of what to play on the space shuttle belongs to the sule communicator an astronaut on the ground in Houston.  A long time ago we realized that if you could give the crew some great familiar energetic rev-you-up kind of music in the morning that is a good way to get going.  Astronaut Chris Hadfield says he and other CAPCOMs take that responsibility very seriously.  Sometimes we just choose it ourselves. Sometimes we ask the spouses the husbands and wives of the astronauts. You try and choose something that is specific for that person.  Music has also played an important role in the space program back on Earth. Former astronaut Brewster Shaw remembers when the shuttle fleet was grounded after the Challenger disaster in 1986.  Morale in the office as you can imagine was pretty low. We were not flying. And we would killed seven of our buddies. And people were struggling with the future. So somebody came up with an idea Let us have a sock hop.  Shaw had played guitar in a band in college and he knew a few other astronauts could play. So in June of 1987 the world's first and only all-astronaut band Max Q took the stage for the first time.   Max Q has been performing ever since whenever its astronaut members can find the time to rehearse. Founding members all retired years ago but new astronauts stepped in to take their places. Brewster Shaw says he is not surprised that so many astronauts are also passable musicians.  You have people that are able to quickly pick up and accomplish tasks in areas totally outside their field of training. And those kinds of people are very likely to have enjoyed music and been able to play something musical - and so you just recruit them into the band. There is not a lot of pressure in this band. It is pretty much you just have fun and do it. Nobody gives a damn whether you are any good or not because you know you are just a bunch of astronauts.     What I like about you you hold me tight. Tell I am the only one want to come on over tonight. Yeah.  Not many people are likely to mistake Max Q for a touring rock band - the pleated pants are a dead giveaway. But there are some dedicated musicians in the bunch. A few have even brought their instruments with them into orbit. Guitarist and current Max Q member Chris Hadfield is one of them. He is looking forward to playing during his trip to the International Space Station next year.  It is busy but there is some downtime. And there is evenings and mornings and I am definitely going to be taking that time to play the music to sit and try to write. It is just such an inspirational and rare place for a human being to be in this early stage of space exploration. And I want to do my best to try and not just record it in pictures and words but in music as well.    Yeah we fired our main engines and the boosters just to get off the ground now. Then we heard it so loud we really could have a definite sound now...  And then we made it to orbit and we are going just as fast as we can now. And we will have fun fun fun till we got to put the shuttle away. Fun fun fun till we got to put the shuttle away. Yeah we are moving so fast we are hardly...  Good morning Endeavor. That song was played for the entire crew and was performed by Max Q. It was selected by the COM techs in Mission Control.  You know you can wake up to a news show too. Good morning Atlantis. You are listening to WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. 