 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. Coming up memories of a marriage that was for the books. But first the voice of Rod Blagojevich from government wiretaps has been heard in the Chicago courtroom in which he is been on trial for the past two weeks. He is accused of fraud bribery extortion racketeering conspiracy and political corruption generally. Carol Marin joins us the eminent political reporter for o Sun-Times columnist and Chicago Public Television. Carol thanks for being with us. Ms.   Good morning Scott.  Tell us a little bit about what you have been in a position to hear there in that courtroom particularly as these audiotapes which became so famous last year have been played finally. Ms.  This week largely focused on Rod Blagojevich beginning the day after Barack Obama wins the presidency stewing and thinking and planning about how he is going to take Barack Obama's Senate seat which he alone has the power to appoint a replacement for and what he can get for it.  Now we read some of the boldface headlines about this. He thought he could be ambassador to India. He mused maybe he could be United Nations ambassador. Maybe he could get a cabinet post but  and then maybe he thought George Soros or someone might fund a foundation that he could run that someone would recommend to President Obama be established. Ms.  He is tormented about the fact it is no longer fun being governor. He is got big money problems. He has 200000 in credit debt and that does not include his mortgages. He has impeachment maybe breathing down his neck. And so he wants to get out of there. And one of the things he thinks he can do is get out of there by trading this Senate seat. And maybe with Barack Obama's influential friends he might be able to be the head of what is called a 501. It is a not-for-profit but with the ability to do some political kinds of things.  We should say allegedly at some point here right? Ms.  No you hear him thinking about them. What is allegedly - the defense would argue  is whether any of this is criminal. SEIU the Service Employees International Union which has been a big funder to Blagojevich is also a big funder to Obama and Tom Balanoff who heads the union here in Illinois was seen sort of as the honest broker who went to Blagojevich and who clearly though - the sort of revelation here is the White House was much more involved than we have been led to believe and Balanoff's had two conversations with Barack Obama.  Yeah Barack Obama called him personally right? Ms.  Yes.  Yeah. Ms.  And tries to finesse Valerie Jarrett Barack Obama's first pick among picks for this U.S. Senate seat how they can persuade Blagojevich to put her in that slot. But he is not so sure unless he thinks he can get something big for it.  Now it does raise the question as to how much of this is just  makes you cringe and how much of it might wind up violating the law. Ms.  To some degree if we were all audiotaped we would all be in a position of slinking down in our chair and covering our faces. Rod Blagojevich however is on tape. And the real question is whether something was traded. Going back to Mr. Balanoff for a second Scott he was asked on direct examination whether or not there was the understanding that if Valerie Jarrett was put in that Blagojevich was hoping for a position say as secretary of Health and Human Services. He said yes that was the understanding. What the defense objected to was did that get said out loud I will trade you Valerie Jarrett for the slot at HHS. And of course there was no direct conversation of that nature. And so in federal court part of this case is whether it was simply understood. You did not have to say it as literally as that.  You heard your own name come up in court this week I gather. Ms.  Yes. I am sitting in court. It is Tuesday. He says to his advisor confidante Doug Scofield that he was on television the night before. Well the night before was the election and in fact Rod Blagojevich was on my news set at NBC election night and I was talking to him asking him Governor how do you sometimes get up in the morning given all of the federal squads that seem to surround you? They are talking the next day and Doug Scofield says You know of all of them I like her the least.  Ms.  To which Rod Blagojevich responds I hate her I hate her. I must say that after that tape was played I looked over at the governor in the courtroom and he sort of raised his hands in kind of an apologetic shrug. And then later down in the lobby he said look I am really sorry. I was frustrated. And you know I hope they play the tape where I said I have a crush on you. I am not so sure that tape exists Scott.  Ms.  But the governor did reaffirm that apology just Thursday in the cafeteria of the federal building where he was also shaking hands and signing autographs.  He is still doing that? Ms.  He is still hand-to-hand campaigning every opportunity. And in some way you have to wonder if these people who come and say you know Governor I have got you to thank for my free senior citizen pass on the bus - if there is not some comfort from these people who he believes are the real people of Illinois who really get who he is.  Well Carol we will look forward to talking to you again. Ms.  All right Scott take care.  That is Carol Marin of WMAQ and WTTW-TV and the Chicago Sun-Times. 