 It is not just politicians who have their every act and utterance run through a ringer of polls pundits analysis and ratings. Public Policy Polling a Democratic polling firm asked 928 people If God exists do you approve or disapprove of its performance? Holding your breath? Fifty-two percent say they approved 9 percent disapproved. Now if you take this poll seriously that would put God's approval rating slightly above that of President Obama who has a 47 percent approval rating in the last Gallup poll and well ahead of the 33 percent approval rating both Republicans and Democrats in the U.S. Congress received in the latest Associated Press poll. But God lags eight points behind Oprah Winfrey. She had a 60 percent favorable rating in a Fox News poll this spring. Of course Oprah hands out cars popcorn and cruises. God metes out blights hurricanes and floods in addition to sunrise spring flowers and puppies. God earns his or her - I cannot bring myself to say it as the poll does - highest scores for creating the universe. So the universe was not created by an iPhone app although as of this morning Apple reportedly has more cash on hand than the U.S. Treasury. Seventy-two percent say they approve of God creating the universe 24 percent say they are not sure. Did Woody Allen account for 24 percent? The poll says that 50 percent approve of God's handling of natural disasters 13 percent disapprove and 37 percent say not sure - which is what I would say until the pollster made it clear if natural disasters include the Chicago Cubs. I am not sure what the purpose of this poll is except to snag a little publicity - which it obviously has here. I cannot imagine pollsters believe in a God who will read their data like a politician and say those numbers are a little soft. How can we spin the Sodom and Gomorrah story? Believers and atheists might agree if there is a God the almighty should carve commandments in stone not spin. But this poll reminded me about part of what I often distrust about polls They rarely reflect how people really think. Many of us can hold subtle tangled and contradictory views especially about God faith and life. People lose find and question faith all the time. Real life can put a dent in your deepest beliefs and convictions. It is part of what keeps us growing and changing even as we grow older. Asking people to check a box - approve or disapprove - just narrows our thinking when it gets truly interesting. I think I would be a little more impressed by a poll that could discover not if people approve or disapprove of God's performance but the other way around.   But it is still Saturday and you are listening to NPR News. 