 Those who spend much time on the Carolina beaches know that many shark species and even whales are frequent visitors during the summer. And though it is extremely rare sometimes those sharks do attack humans. But seven shark attacks off the North Carolina coast alone since June has surprised even the most seasoned shark watchers. We reached out to George Burgess the director of the International Shark Attack File at the Florida Museum of Natural History. Thanks so much for joining us Mr. Burgess.  I am glad to be with you.  So just for starters do we know what is causing this increase in shark attacks?  We have sort of a perfect storm going there with the - a series of things some that we know and some that we do not going on. There is environmental factors such as an early summer or warm temperatures. And of course it is sea turtle nesting season when the sea turtles leave the water to go lay their eggs on the shoreline and coming and going they are pretty vulnerable to big sharks. Of course it is summertime school is out family vacations - never been more people in the water. Now...  But is - does not happen every summer? What is the difference this summer?  Precisely I was going to say now does that explain the seven we have had in three weeks and the answer is no. There is some other stuff going on here that we do not know about - we will call it an x-factor - probably oceanographic factors are involved.  Is there anything in particular that would make a shark attack?  All shark attacks are of course fundamentally motivated by feeding and probably 90 percent of all shark bites - they are quick grabs and let-go's by small sharks. But a small percentage of those are done by the big boys and girls - the larger sharks that when they bite - whether it is intentional or unintentional - results in major injuries and unfortunately that is what we are seeing the North Carolina. We have had several of these bites that are the real thing.  I believe I read about one man who sort of punched the shark away from him. I mean is that an appropriate response? Should you try to do that?  Oh absolutely yes. There is nothing to be gained by playing dead here. If a shark is actually coming to grab you if you can give it a pop on its nose more than likely it will veer off take advantage of that time of course to get out of the water.  Do you have any concern that these recent attacks will cause more people to hunt sharks - to try and kill sharks?  Anytime a community has its first Jaws-like scare the first thing that occurs is there is fear in the community the second there is denial and then the third is retribution. Let us hope we do not get to the revenge stage. The chance of catching the actual shark that was involved in this are slim to none.  You know with all this news people might have the idea that the waters are infested with sharks but what is the shark population really like?  The shark population in the United States and around the world are at perhaps all-time lows. On the other hand the human population continues to rise every year and we have no curbing of that. And fundamentally shark attack that is driven by the number of humans in the water more than the number of sharks. And when areas such as the Carolinas become popular tourist destinations as they have there is more people entering the water. You are going to end up having more shark bites.  George Burgess is the director of the International Shark Attack File at the Florida Museum of Natural History. Thank you so much Mr. Burgess.  So nice to be with you. 