 We are going to get a perspective on the debt and deficit debate from a member of the House Republican caucus now. Congressman Bill Huizenga of Michigan joins us from his office on Capitol Hill. Welcome back Congressman. Thanks for being with us.  Oh good to be with you again Scott.  You told the Muskegon Michigan Lakeshore Chamber of Commerce that it is critical for the debt ceiling to be raised but that does not mean that you would vote for it. Explain that reasoning to us if you could please.  I think it is pretty universally understood that having us go into default is not what should happen. None of us wants that. None of us are pursuing that. We are pursuing real change. We are pursuing real solutions. I am just frustrated because I am not convinced yet I have not seen it yet out of the administration or out of the Senate that we have got a plan. Now I think that is changing with the House Republicans coming forward with plans and so I think we can do that. But I want to make sure that this whatever the solution is is something that fundamentally changes the trajectory of our spending as a country and changes the bad habits that got us into where we are.  So when the president calls for a large scale package to cut the deficit by 4 trillion over 10 years is that a framework you can work with?  Well quite honestly I do not believe that that is large scale. When we break down the 4 trillion a trillion of that is in interest savings a trillion of that is in tax increases so it is really 2 trillion that he is been talking about in actually cuts. And when you look at the amount of overspending that we are doing that it really is not going to cut it.  What would be enough?  It forces a different conversation. If you are making a conscious decision to spend something that you do not have you either have one or two ways to address that either raise taxes to get the money to spend it or you do not spend it.  The debt ceiling was raised - we have all learned in recent weeks - 17 times under President Reagan four times under President Clinton and seven times under President George W. Bush. Why is this time different?  Well I was actually working for my predecessor Pete Hoekstra for six of those years from 1997 through until 2003. And everybody sort of has this recollection that it was all peaches and cream and no questions were asked and oh sure let us just you know raise the debt ceiling. And I remember it very differently.   I remember people being very upset and not understanding why we were going into this kind of debt. And have no doubt whether it was Republican administrations or Democrat administrations we have been overspending for too long. Now in the last couple of years it has been absolutely kicked into overdrive and I think it has just forced its way to the front and has a prominence now that it never had before.  Congressman unlike some other House freshmen you know the terrain pretty well. When people talk about the good ol' days when the parties got along and they did not draw lines in the sand...   ...are we romancing those days?  So you know when we talk about how it was all Kumbaya and roasting marshmallows around the fire it is not exactly accurate.  Congressman Bill Huizenga of Michigan thanks so much for being with us.  Hey my pleasure. Thanks again Scott. 