 Turbulent hardly gets to the head-spinning events in British politics these past weeks since the U.K. voted to leave the European Union. Prime Minister David Cameron resigned the day after that vote. Those eyeing his seat began to trade accusations of lies and backstabbing. And in the latest twist one of the candidates unexpectedly quit the race leaving Home Secretary Theresa May the last woman standing for the top job. To help us unpack this political melodrama - soap opera you might say - we are joined by David Rennie of The Economist. Good morning.  Good morning.  Tell us the story first of all the latest moment which is Theresa May now say - set to become prime minister. How did that happen?  Well soap opera does not sort of capture the bloodiness of it really. It is a bit like - so Britain can only cope with a certain amount of high drama for a certain amount of time. And so yesterday was - calm had to be restored. We needed someone sensible to come in and kind of soak up the mess that all these men - these big ego-driven men with their backstabbing plans had sorted out. And it is a bit like if people watch the James Bond films. If you imagine kind of Bond and all the other villains dead and covered in blood all over the floor and then in comes Judi Dench's M just kind of no nonsense - clip clip clip you know? Enough trouble you know honestly men you know enough. We have to clean this up...  M for May how about that ?  Exactly and that is kind of what happened. And it happened unbelievably fast. So fast that in a very British - very London kind of middle-class way David Cameron was looking for somewhere to live last night because he was moving so fast he does not have somewhere to stay. So he needed to borrow a house because his kids have a couple more days of school. It is a very London obsession not knowing where to live.  Right not something that would happen in the White House.  No no. And then there was also an obsession about who would look after the No. 10 cat. So you could feel kind of Britain reasserting itself after a bit of sort of Shakespearean drama - people worrying about where are they going to live tomorrow and what will happen to the cat?  Well  let us talk seriously a bit about May herself. I have actually heard her described as steely which of course evokes a former female prime minister.  It is interesting. So people obviously - that is the obvious comparison with Margaret Thatcher the Iron Lady. But actually much more often you will see her compared to the German chancellor Angela Merkel. And that is not just about being a woman who is steely. There is some fascinating biographical kind of parallels. Her father was a Protestant minister. And she has this kind of no nonsense - she is called herself a kind of goody-two-shoes as a student at school. But the other cool thing about her that makes her quite Merkelish  apart from the fact that she is just beaten all these foolish men and got to the top is that she is not really an idealogue. Her - if she believes in anything it is order and competence and getting the job done right. And also a sense - if she believes in anything political it is the Tory party needs to be broader. And sometimes that pushes her to interesting things like supporting gay marriage and saying the Tory party should not be the nasty party. Sometimes when she thinks that - for example the kind of the white working classes are very upset about immigration. In her current job which has been in charge of immigration it is led her to be really really hardline. But the basic message is about pragmatic competence and trying to kind of broaden the policy. So she is quite Merkelish I think.  And Tory party by the way just Conservatives. Another - is like GOP Republican - the Conservatives in charge. Now she has said in recent days Brexit means Brexit. She is taking a tough stand on that - no backing off no hesitation. Now she is in charge. What is she going to do?  So that is right. And I think it is important because occasionally you see people here in America thinking goodness Britain has taken this decision which looks so mad surely they are going to reverse this and they will not actually do it. They are not going to leave. And it is true that Theresa May officially was campaigning with the old prime minister David Cameron to stay in the EU. But she is made very clear that the British people have spoken. She is going to have to deliver a deal. Now whether she is more of a pragmatist - and that will help - could be very relevant because we are going to spend a couple of years at least arguing about how far away from the European Union Britain will end up. And that will involve trade-offs because if she wants to be at all close to the European Union - have access for British goods into those markets - then she is going to have to do some trade-offs when it comes to freedom of movement. Basically the big immigration question - should Europeans be allowed to come to Britain freely? Who knows where she will end up on that but we have got a tough steely pragmatist in charge.  And facing a very tough challenge ahead.  And if she backs down her party will tear her apart.  Well David Rennie is Washington bureau chief for The Economist. Thank you for joining us.  Thank you. 