 Europe and the U.S. are in the midst of negotiating a trade deal that would create the world's largest consumer market and reach 800 million people. The deal promises thousands of jobs. Many Europeans feel that may threaten a way of life especially when it comes to food. NPR's Eleanor Beardsley reports on how the opposition is playing out in one Paris neighborhood.  .  Beautiful cherries and melons shouts a vendor on Paris' rue Montorgueil. This street and the area around it is still known as the belly of Paris. That is because for eight centuries there was a massive food market here that fed the entire city. Tour guide Olivier Chaveren says the neighborhood where Julia Child once shopped means something.  The soul of gastronomy for the French. Remember for 800 years there was this market this covered market. It left so many traces in terms of food habit food shops that you see all along this street.  Though the Les Halles market moved out in the 1960s residents say its legacy lives on in the small butchers bakers fishmongers and restaurants - some more than 200 years old - that line the streets here. And today some locals say their way of life is threatened by an American fast food giant.  People living here do not want McDonald's. Small business people on the street do not want McDonald's. Nobody wants McDonald's.  That is Olivia Hicks a local elected official and head of the committee that is been fighting McDonald's attempts to set up on the rue Montorgueil for the last four years. Hicks says a giant McDonald's would irreversibly change a street that even holds a place in French literature.  Stendhal and Balzac used to come here and they talk about these restaurants of this street in their books. And once you have a McDonald it becomes like every other street in the rest of the world. Whereas for the time being this street stays very typical very Parisian.  This month the anti-McDonald's camp won a decisive victory when Paris city officials refused the permit in an attempt to preserve the area's traditional identity. But Hicks and other committee members say the war is not over. They believe McDonald's will appeal this decision and indeed in a statement McDonald's said they do not comment on active permit applications. Officials from the Paris Chamber of Commerce criticize the city's decision pointing out that McDonald's employs 72000 French people. McDonald's is very popular in France and there are plenty of other McDonald's around Paris. In fact France is the fast food giant's second-most profitable market after the U.S. But all is not black and white even on rue Montorgeuil. Daniel Rigattier has been selling cheese in his fromage shop here for 40 years. He has more than 250 different cheeses.  .  That is France he says. Rigattier says he has nothing against McDonald's coming here and it is certainly better than another clothing store.  .  At least its food he says. And it would draw a lot of young people. Besides says Rigattier it is not McDonald's that threatens us cheesemakers. It is people going on diets. Eleanor Beardsley NPR News Paris.  BJ Leiderman writes our theme music. Maybe one day we will write a jingle for McDonald's that'ill really pay off. You are listening to WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. 