 We turn now to a story about military interrogations and the way they were conducted in the first days and weeks after the 911 attacks. What happened later - things like the torture memos and waterboarding - has been well documented. What happened before is less well-known. NPR's Dina Temple-Raston has this story of one early interrogator's experience and how his team decided to test the limits.  Christopher Mackey is the pseudonym for a highly trained Army interrogator. He arrived in Afghanistan in December 2001 - just three months after the September 11th attacks.  I remember very clearly you could smell burning plastic everywhere. It smelled as though some kind of a toy factory had melted down. It was just really kind of otherworldly.  Mackey's experience is important because he was there at the beginning. He was not just a witness but a participant in tinkering with interrogation techniques that could work against a new kind of enemy. When Mackey attended advanced interrogation schools he was taught methods more suitable for the Cold War. For example it was typical to offer resettlement in the West as a trade for information. Now that ploy worked in the Eastern bloc but did not really work with religiously motivated al-Qaida detainees.  We felt a lot of the skills that we had been taught although very useful when they were adapted did not in the first instance apply very well.  That is why Mackey and the interrogators working with him ended up having to in his words adapt. And while the intention was always to follow the Army Field Manual and the Geneva Conventions to the letter that is not exactly what happened.  We noticed that in the course of our interrogations the longer the interrogation went and the more fatigue that could be induced in the prisoner during those talks the more likely he was to be able to share information.  The interrogators in Mackey's unit knew they could not subject detainees to full-scale sleep deprivation. That was against the rules. So they came up with something they thought was as far as they could go.  That idea was that if you kept a prisoner up and then fastidiously insisted that the interrogator likewise be kept up it would be hard for a critic to come in and say that we were being harder on the prisoners than we were our own soldiers.  They called the technique monstering. And it was essentially sleep deprivation with a loophole. They called it that because at the time they could not imagine doing anything worse to a prisoner without violating the Army Field Manual and ending up in trouble themselves. Mackey said the technique worked.  We certainly had the best results when we had to get immediate actionable intelligence for the battlefield commander when we engaged in this concept of monstering. Although we used it only on a handful of occasions there was no doubt that the information that we had had a value that was unique to that approach.  After about eight months in Afghanistan Mackey's team was replaced by other soldiers in their reserve unit. The new interrogators were given a list of techniques - a history of what worked and what did not. Included in that list was monstering. Mackey says that for his unit the technique was the ceiling - as far as they would go. But for the next group it became their starting point.  As the situation in Afghanistan became more and more difficult they used that approach more frequently than we did in then sort of making it a special thing for special circumstances rolled it into just one of the approaches that they would take where they thought it was it was necessary.  Mackey says he is torn about his unit is brand of sleep deprivation. He says it helped get key intelligence for the battlefield. But he says he cannot help feeling that it contributed to the escalation of increasingly harsh interrogation techniques.  I would hate to say that I would want to undo the advantages that we gave to the combat troops we supported by taking back monstering as an approach. If we look at it in the context of monstering having started some sort of downward spiral then I would say I think that its usefulness would have to be questioned and I suppose if I had to do it again I would not.  Dina Temple-Raston NPR News. 