 Let us go next to Libya where the war has affected every part of life. Libya was a country where many foreigners came to work from American engineers to North Korean doctors to Egyptian laborers. Most foreigners have fled Libya if they can. But one Chinese family is trying to hang on. They run a restaurant in Tripoli. They once served Moammar Gadhafis son Seif al-Islam. Today NATO air strikes and gun-toting thugs tend to cut down on the number of people eating out. NPRs Soraya Sarhaddi Nelson sent us this item from her reporter's notebook.  It takes a week of nudging Libyan officials for NPR and The Washington Post to get permission to go to Al-Maida Restaurant. A government minder and driver are assigned to tag along.   They arent keen on Chinese food or the Asian pop music playing in the restaurant so after a quick look around to make sure we arent secretly meeting anyone for an interview they head back to the van. Washington Post reporter Ernesto Londono orders carry-out for a couple of hungry colleagues stuck back at the Rixos Hotel. Mr.  So one sweet and sour. Unidentified Man Yes. Mr.  One cashew chicken. Unidentified Man Yes Mr.  Can it be spicy? Unidentified Man Yes spicy. Mr.  Okay. And steamed rice Unidentified Man Steamed rice. Mr.  and spring rolls. Unidentified Man Sorry. Excuse me. How many please? How many please? Mr.  Two people.  Restaurant owner Dai Songxian beams as her son jots down the order. One or two customers are all she can count on these days. They are usually journalists seeking to escape the lackluster cuisine of the hotel they are confined to by the Libyan government.   Dai is proud of her waterfront restaurant which is decorated with red lanterns. A statue of the Chinese god of wealth and fortune and a much larger picture of Moammar Gadhafi adorn the front hall. Ms.    The 55-year-old says she first came to Tripoli in 2004 to open a clothing store for women. But she says she found Libyan women too big for Chinese fashions so she decided to go into the restaurant business. Her dishes reflect the cuisine of her native Zhejiang Province along China's eastern coast. She serves no pork or alcohol in keeping with Libyas Islamic laws. Dai had high hopes for this place. Her family spent hundreds of thousands of dollars to rent and renovate it earlier this year. A month later the war broke out. Ms.   If I left I would lose everything I have here. So I gritted my teeth and decided to wait and see what would happen. I didnt know it would drag on for so long. The uprisings in Tunisia and Egypt were over in a couple of months.  Three other Chinese restaurants in Tripoli have since closed. Even Dais spotless kitchen is shuttered until the journalists call. Then the cooks spring into action.   The food is surprisingly good considering that ingredients are hard to come by with a growing food and fuel shortage in Libya. One of the restaurants fans is Wang Yuguo a correspondent for China Central Television who is on assignment in Tripoli. Mr.  Comparing with the food in China I think its in the middle but upper - a little bit upper. So Im very interested and satisfied.  Wang notes that Chinese people often operate in restaurants in war zones. He says the owner of the Golden Key Chinese Restaurant in Kabul told him its because he can make a lot of money when there is no competition. Ms.    Still Tripoli restaurant owner Dai says she doesnt know how much longer she can hold on if business doesnt pick up. She says shes already had to lay off six of her 15 staff members. Soraya Sarhaddi Nelson NPR News.  It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. 