 The Philbrook Museum of Art is known for its formal gardens - 28 acres of them. This year though the budget did not include flowers for the south garden. And faced with a summer of empty beds garden manager Melinda McMillan had an idea and she is on the phone with us now to talk about that. Good morning.  Good morning. How are you?  So what are you doing with all that dirt there?  Well with all of our empty garden space we did not want it to remain empty for the rest of the growing season. And so we decided to collaborate with the community food bank of eastern Oklahoma and grow this garden space into a vegetable garden.  So I gather you are outside in the heat...  I am.   ...of Tulsa.  I am outside in the heat amongst the cucumbers and okra as I speak.  What all have you planted?  We have planted a great variety of material. Everything from fruit - from cantaloupe watermelon - to cucumbers tomatoes peppers red and green okra sweet corn different types of green beans squash zucchini eggplant Brussels sprout lettuce.  That sounds fantastic. So were all the seeds donated?  They were yes. That was one of the conditions that I wanted to present to the community as support of this project was to have all of the seeds the tomato cages poles fertilizer mulch that type of material all donated for the project.  So how many people are you going to need to harvest all of this over what period of time?  We will begin our harvest on Wednesday July 1. Our volunteers will harvest anything from the beans and the okra that are ready to go and also scoping out the vegetables that are ready for the next day's harvest. And then about four to six people each harvest day will be in attendance.  And take the food to the food bank?  Food bank yes exactly. And then the food bank takes it in and they distribute it out to all of the people in the communities that they serve.  You know before we let you go I would like to ask you a little bit about the Philbrook Museum. What does the garden that you are now standing in amongst as you say you know cucumbers and...   ...then you know okra and whatnot what has that garden has it traditionally looked like because these were formal gardens.  That is right. The property was built in 1928 by Wade and Genevieve Philips. The formal gardens are very much Italian renaissance in style and architecture with a lot of English and French influence a lot of perennials and annuals beautiful majestic native trees. It is a massive beautiful property but it is all tucked away right-centered in the city of Tulsa.  And Wade Philips was a rather wealthy oilman right?  Yes he was. He was an oilman businessman philanthropist. He was just a really incredible person.  Do you think he would be pleased to know that some of the flowers are gone and the people will be fed?   I think that he would be amazed and I think proud. He was constantly a very generous man. And so I think that he would view this project the vegetable garden project as a continuation of this legacy of helping fellow Oklahomans during economic downturns in their own times of need.  Talking with us from the middle of the new vegetable garden at the Philbrook Museum of Art is garden manager Melinda McMillan. Thanks very much.  Thank you.   This is NPR News. 