 It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. Good morning I am Steve Inskeep.  We are going to check up now on a claim that prosperity could be around the corner. The claim comes from General Motors. It matters to your pocketbook because your government is keeping GM afloat.  After General Motors filed for bankruptcy this week top executive Ray Young told MORNING EDITION that the company would not be losing money too much longer.  Our estimates would bring down the cost structure and we execute a product plan there is no reason why we cannot become profitable over the next two to three years.  Two to three years he said. And the people who heard the GM executive include NPR's Frank Langfitt who covers the auto industry and joins us both in the studio. Frank good morning.  Good morning guys.  What do auto analysts say about GM's prediction there?  Well they say it is possible Steve but a number of them say it sounds pretty rosy which is not unusual. Over the years the auto companies Detroit auto companies have often had more optimistic predictions. GM is as Ray Young says they are slashing a lot of debt more than half in bankruptcy. And that is going to help a lot. And people generally think GM can become profitable...  Someday...  ...someday. It is going to take longer. A lot of them think it is going to be a longer and harder road than Ray told you yesterday. And analysts estimate it might be more like four or five years.  And why that distance that amount of time?  You know Renee there are a lot of risk factors here and a lot of unknowns. And most of them have to break GM's way for the company to turnaround pretty quickly. For instance you know when does the car market really turn around? We saw May sales numbers yesterday. It suggests things are stabilizing. But we do not know when things are really going to start growing again. The other question What is the future price of gasoline? That is definitely going to affect General Motor's sales. And biggest and frankly probably most important issue is for GM it is got to stop losing sales to other companies.  Well now Frank you are talking about losing sales. GM is eliminating some of its brands. The Hummer brand if I am not mistaken could be going to a company in China. Saab could go away. Saturn could go away - which raises a question If GM stops selling those brands of cars are those customers going to go and pick up other GM cars?  Analysts say most will not actually. You know take Saturn. GM sold more than 200000 Saturns last year. But most Saturn buyers are not typical GM customers. They are more white collared. They are more focused on things like fuel efficiency. Some frankly do not even know that Saturn's a GM brand.   No they do not. I mean they do not. Which you know with sight of a - let us face it. It was a bit of a marketing strategy. So these are not people who are likely to go for Chevys. And analysts think they are more likely to go for Toyotas and Hondas.  I want to ask about another thing the GM executives said. He said GM will not try to be the biggest anymore but will try to be quote the best carmaker. Can they create that image for themselves at this point in time?  Well you know that is a really big question. And frankly on image they have a long way to go. It is a big big problem. Bankruptcy's not going to help. And even when GM builds a successful car many customers just will not look at it. Let us take the Malibu. It is 2008 North American Car of the Year. Consumer Reports rates it pretty close to the Toyota Camry. But GM actually has to sell the Malibu for less than the Camry because people just will not pay that much for a GM car. Camry still outsells the Malibu by more than two to one. So it is going to take more time for this company to change minds and win new customers.  Is there a product coming GM's way that could change that?  Well there are some products in the pipeline. One thing you could look at is the Chevy Cruz. And unlike some earlier small cars it does not frankly look like a tin can. It is nicely styled. It is going to be coming out pretty soon. And it gets pretty good mileage. Something to look for also next year end of next year is the Volt. They have been really promoting this car a lot.  This is the electric car.  Yes. And I think that while they are going to lose a lot of money up front on that because the batteries cost a ton this is something that if it works it could actually help change the company's image from like gas-guzzlers to something that is high-tech and a lot more green.  We are listening to NPR's Frank Langfitt who covers the auto industry. And Frank if you would stay with us for a moment because we are going to talk about another part of this story that I know you have covered a lot. 