 There is a biker rally this week in South Dakota's Black Hills. It is not the one with all the Harleys that overwhelms the town of Sturgis every August. As Jim Kent reports the big boys are facing a little competition this year.  I am standing on Main Street in Sturgis. If it was August the town would be packed with motorcyclists from all over. It is a bit too early for that organized chaos but something of a smaller biker nature is happening here right now. Mr.  In 1936 they started building the Cushman scooters and they were basically a milk stool on wheels. Over the years as they evolved it was always said that one of the disgruntled designers from Harley Davidson went to work for the Cushman Company and that is how their design come - because they look like an old '50 Harley.  That is Jeff Bartheld who is been a fan of the unusual-looking Cushman scooter for years. The Cushman scooter looks like a cross between a mini-bike and a motorcycle. The last one was built in 1965. Fans like Bartheld a burly 50-year-old salesman have gathered for nearly three decades to reminisce about the quirky bikes. Mr.  You know if you were into motorcycles at all you cut your teeth on a Cushman. And after the Cushman you either got a Harley or a Honda.   This year the bankers doctors and lawyers - and all sorts of riders - are meeting where the big boys play the small town of Sturgis which is considered the Holy Grail of motorcycle rallies. Matt Triese has been riding a Cushman scooter for years. With long blond hair and a goatee he sports the look of a biker not that of a scooter rider. He rode his Cushman the 700 miles from St. Louis. While he admits it was a bit of a haul he says it was actually better than riding his Harley. Mr.  Having Harley Davidsons as well as the scooters and such like that I find the scooter's actually more comfortable. You do not go as fast but they seem to have a little bit softer ride.  When you say you do not go as fast what does that mean? Mr.  You can put modern technology to those vintage engines and we rolled up here at about 60 65. So...  That is a bit faster than the 50 miles an hour you would likely hit without tweaking the engine. But Triese says it is not just about speed. Cushman scooters can get up to 70 miles per gallon. And Triese says you even get begrudging respect when you pull up next to a really bad dude riding a Harley. Mr.  You get a look they kind of smile. But most of them give you the thumbs up and they think they are pretty cool you know.  Marge Haefner thinks they are cool too. The retired grandmother rode her Cushman all the way from Kansas. Ms.  Because the guys do it all the time. And if guys can do it we can do it. The looks on people's faces when you walk in with all this bike gear on and you are not actually a biker chick.  Most of the more than 1000 people expected this week are riding through rain in western South Dakota that has not let up for weeks. But few are complaining. And Sturgis Chamber of Commerce spokesman Randy Bender says the town is so happy with the group they have been asked to come back a few years down the road.   While bikers rule Sturgis in August this week it is all about scooters. For NPR News I am Jim Kent. 