 In the film Beatriz At Dinner Salma Hayek plays a masseuse who is invited to a dinner party after her car breaks down at her wealthy client's house. There she meets a powerful real estate developer played by John Lithgow who hunts big game in Africa for fun and has little time for political correctness.    When I first came to the United States a long time ago...   Did you come legally?   Yes.   And how did that work?   I had family here on my mother's side. And my grandmother died...   And they are all citizens? Or...   God Doug what? You work for the INS? You are grilling her.   I am curious. A lot of people come here illegally. I was interested in how she did it.  Over the hours that follow the conflict escalates revealing the true nature of the guests. Hayek's performance has won rave reviews. She joined us to discuss the project and her career.  It is the first time I can tell you it really did land in my laptop . I was always a fan Miguel Arteta and Mike White. They did Chuck  Buck The Good Girl Enlightened. And one good day two weeks before my 49th birthday they said we have a project that we have you in mind for. Mike has not written yet but we would would like for you to be a part of it. And I said oh that is great. What is it about? And Mike said it is a dinner. I go OK. And you know Lulu I thought for sure I am going to be cooking.   I am just going to be a small role. And I said what do I play? And he said you know a masseuse. And I said all right all right. Who else is in it you know? And he said so far only you. Two weeks later the day of my birthday I get an email from him that said happy birthday with a script.  You have just mentioned two things - first of all that this is the first thing that is really ever landed in your lap and secondly that you expected to be cooking. Even now you feel that - that you would probably be cast as a cook Salma Hayek?  I have had to fight very very hard for every little mediocre part I ever got. But now it is very different Lulu. I do not know why. You know they told me you will never work. I got the work. Then they said it is going to be over at 35. And I am 50. Never have I had so many opportunities before. And I take so much pleasure in proving wrong . It is a great satisfaction. And you know I have a friend - an Italian friend who is a brilliant actress - Valeria Golina. She is working a lot too. And we are looking at each other one day and said why are we working so much? And then she said you know why? We do not have the Botox.   You do not have Botox.  We do not have it. We do not look as hot like some other ones. But we are working on stuff because we can look like real people.  I saw you quoted that when you first arrived to act in America they told you to go back to Mexico. You will never be more than a maid in this country. Have you had to sort of pave your own way?  Yes. And also there is all the battles I fought behind doors.  Tell me about those.  I do not know how much I want to talk about that. But I can tell you that I have threatened people - to sue them if they do not see me for a part because they are specifically saying that a Latino could never have the profession that the part had. And they said even if you are brilliant and the best in the world you will never get the part. And I said that is OK. I know that. I still have to come because there was one time when confusion where they were offering me a part. And they said it is not written Latina but we will change it for her. And then when I was coming in they said oh no no that is not the part. Are you crazy? She would never play - I would - we would never think about her for that part because she is Mexican. And I said you said that you would change it. Yeah the bimbo not this professional. So I said no they have to see me now or I will sue because they were very very racist. And so I went in. And they made me wait five hours. It was a long table with maybe six people. They said why would you humiliate yourself and waste our time and your time? Well you already know you are not wanted. And then I said but you know what? I am here. And I did such a brilliant audition. They were laughing and smirking at the beginning. When I finished I was so proud because they looked at me completely different. And he said that was smart. I had no idea you were that good. I still want what I want. And it is Caucasian. But I have to give it to you. You surprised me. Years later that lovely man came back to me and said I apologize. I made a mistake. You would have been better in that movie. And I thank you for exposing me to it. And so I have done a lot of battling that nobody knows. But you have to know your battles. I did not sue them. I did not scream at them. I did my best work. The way to shine the light on ignorance - it is not by violence or aggression. It is just by putting a light in the right place.  Do you think more generally from being a Hispanic that also being an attractive woman makes it harder? When they used the word bimbo like what you just said I mean is that also a stereotype that is difficult to shake?  All stereotypes are difficult to shake. But I used it. I used it. I turned the tortilla around on them .  Explain.  Because at the time it was either a drug dealer wife or the maid or an extra in the supermarket. And they could not have accepted a lawyer. But they could accept a hot Latina. That was not who I am. But that is what at this time they could feel safe with. And then I did my own movie. That was Frida. And it took me eight years to get it off the ground. And I did it myself. And then I get little by little they start changing their mind. If I had come here with everything landing on my lap then you do not develop as far and as strongly as you can. Because of that I know how to produce film television. I know how to write. I know how to direct. I can do many things. And I can do them well.  But it is a hard road to have to battle that continually.  Oh it is a hard road. I rather have a hard road into excellence than the easy road into mediocracy. And it is important that I say this if we have any Latinos or any immigrants listening to this. This is an invitation for us to wake up and be excellent at anything that we do.  Salma Hayek thank you so much for joining us.  Bye-bye Lulu.  