 Hippocrates the father of medicine is said to have used it on wounds. Cleopatra supposedly bathed in it. We are talking about donkey milk. Of course we are. This elixir is now the base for everything from skin creams to chocolate to baby milk in Europe. Joanna Kakissis went to one of its sources in Serbia.  Slobodan Simic is 62 a retired Serbian lawmaker in dark glasses and a leather jacket chomping on a tobacco pipe.   Hello I am Joanna. Nice to meet you. We meet at the Zasavica wetlands where he says he runs the largest donkey farm in Eastern Europe.  .  Jesus rode to Jerusalem on a donkey he proclaims. Ours is the Balkan donkey and I want to preserve it. About 20 years ago Simic began taking in underfed Balkan donkeys that industrialization had made obsolete. He now has 200.   Zasavica manager Jovan Vukadinovic opens a gate to a stall where female donkeys snuggled with their foals are quietly eating hay.  If we separate the babies from mothers no milk no lactation.  The farmers only milk the mothers after the foals have nursed. And since the female donkeys only produce about two quarts a day there is not much left. So it is really expensive. Vukadinovic wanted to cash in.  We started to milk them and sell the milk because that is medicine - 60 times more C vitamin than is in a lemon for example. And that is almost similar with a mother's milk.  It is not an easy sell. Translator Julkica Djurdjevic said she told herself...  You can spill it out if you do not like it. But for me it was tasting good.  She talks me and Serbian journalist Darko Jevtic into sharing a glass. It is like sweet. It tastes a little bit like almond milk.  Like  it is sweet.  Yes it is really nice. You want to try it Darko?  It is really sweet. It is not like cow's milk.  It is much pricier. A cup costs about 9. Still a Swiss-Italian donkey milk company called Eurolactis is finding customers. Its founder Pierluigi Christophe Orunesu spoke to NPR on Skype. He mainly sells freeze-dried donkey milk powder.  We are the first in Switzerland to have made donkey milk chocolate bar. And we have also launched a kind of Nutella with donkey milk without palm oil.  What Eurolactis does not sell is donkey milk cheese. That is a little too high end at more than 560 a pound. That has not stopped Slobodan Simic the Serbian donkey farmer from producing it. But if you want to taste this crumbly lightly salty cheese you have to traipse to the Serbian bog. Serbia's agriculture ministry will not allow its export. For NPR News I am Joanna Kakissis at the Zasavica wetlands in Serbia. 