 And another health problem on the rise - allergies especially in children. Nearly half of all children are now allergic to something whether it is food animals or plants. NPR's Patti Neighmond has that story.  Dr. Andy Nish is in private practice in Gainesville Georgia. Today he is seeing 16-year-old Casey who is here for a routine check-up. DR.  So ears look good. Open mouth real big say ahh.  Ahh.  OK. Good.  Nish is looking for telltale signs of allergy - runny nose itchy watery eyes sneezing. Casey's nose is a bit congested but it is not too bad.  All righty. Do not feel any lymph nodes in your neck. That is good. Take a listen to your breathing - big breaths.   Casey's allergic to dust mites cats certain grasses and certain weeds.  He definitely has the three main what we call atopic diseases which would be allergic rhinitis or hay fever asthma. And then he had more eczema when he was younger. And now he has more dry skin and these little bumps called keratosis pilaris. So yes he is definitely an example of somebody who is allergic.  If you are allergic to one thing chances are you are allergic to a number of things. Federal health officials say the rate of allergies among children in the U.S. today is two to five times higher than it was 30 years ago. Researchers are trying to understand why. The leading theory the hygiene hypothesis.  It looks like with our modern living conditions and cleanliness that we have fewer and fewer germs to fight off.  Which means our immune system does not get trained to recognize and fight foreign invaders whether they are harmless or not. The theory is bolstered by evidence from farms. Studies show children who live on farms have low rates of allergies. Dr. Mark Holbreich is an allergist in Indianapolis and a fellow of the American Academy of Allergy Asthma and Immunology. DR.  The farm effect is the fact that children seem to live on traditional farms have a lower prevalence of allergic diseases such as asthma and allergies.  Holbreich recently did a study which found very low rates of allergies among Amish children living on farms in Indiana. He says the children may be protected because they get exposed early on to dirty environments and variety of dust and germs.  Actually when the mother's pregnant with the child and living working on the farm working in the barn drinking raw milk and then once the child is born on Amish farms the children are very often at barn at young age and when they are weaned from the breast then they start drinking raw milk. And we think that there is something about unpasteurized and un-homogenized milk that is the key along with exposure to large animals particularly cows.  Scientists do not know exactly what it is in raw milk or in the barn or on the cows that may boost the immune system. They are researching that now. But Holbreich cautions against drinking raw milk or serving it to your child. He says it contains far too many disease-causing bacteria. There are other theories about why allergies are on the rise. Taking antibiotics early in life may be a factor. Tightly constructed homes with little ventilation may foster allergies. And today people stay inside for longer periods of time not exposing themselves to the great outdoors. But if you have allergies Dr. Andy Nish says you should not despair.  There is good treatment out there and there is no need to suffer.  There are lots of medications to treat symptoms of effectively. Antibiotics are commonly prescribed. There are over-the-counter anti-histamines and decongestants. And there is a nasal steroid sprays.  They help to decrease inflammation in your nose and they work over time so should be taken daily.  But the closest thing to a cure says Nish allergy shots injections of the actual allergic substance.  And so the allergy shots are to specifically to what that person is allergic and they are given in very small doses to - if you will - sneak it past the immune system.  And slowly build up the body's tolerance. After a few months allergies are usually under control. And after a few years patients can usually stop the shots altogether. Patti Neighmond NPR News.   You are listening to MORNING EDITION from NPR News. 