 The new movie Dream Horse features a racehorse Hope and a small town in Wales that I cannot even begin to pronounce. Jan Vokes works at a big box store during the day tends bar at night cares for her husband who is grown too arthritic for farm work. One night at the bar she overhears a tax adviser talk about buying into a racehorse syndicate and her dreams take shape.    So you got a name? Dream Alliance. What do you think?  The film earned raves at Sundance. Damian Lewis plays the tax guy. And the barkeep who becomes a notable figure in the racing world is played by Toni Collette one of the leading stars in Australian British and American films. Toni Collette joins us now from Australia. Thanks so much for being with us today.  Total pleasure to talk to you. Thanks for having me.  This is a rare example of bar talk actually leading to something is not it?   Yep. And it is actually kind of legal you know? A lot of things that go down at the bar are not.  And this is a true story we are talking about.  Oh yes. It is very much based on a true story. Yeah yeah. I play a woman - well she is kind of dissatisfied with her life and looking for some purpose. And she decides that she will have a crack at breeding a racehorse which honestly it is such an elitist place to try and get one foot in. And most people have hundreds of horses and this is one woman without a clue as to how to do it without any money and she manages with her dream and her passion and her determination to bring other people into it and become successful. And I find it so moving the way this horse brings this small community together.  Yeah. It is a community that is been through a lot too right?  Yeah. It is a small village in Wales and their industries there had been shut down. It is - they lived very humble lives do not have much. And they give all that they can which is not much. You know it just shows I think that you know money is not everything. And the fact that these people had this passion and were the complete underdogs and end up on top is - I just find it so beautiful.  Did you get a feeling for Wales while you were there?  Absolutely. You know it was never like the top of my list. I had not really thought about Wales much to be honest. And it was shockingly beautiful. I will always go back there. It is the most spirited of places. It has the biggest heart. The people are so grounded and have such a sense of poetry. They break out into song at the drop of a hat. Yeah the sense of community and just the landscape - my God it is jaw droppingly beautiful. I absolutely loved it.  Yeah. Well tell us about working with the horse although I think I read you had to use two or three horses as happens in the movie business.  Yeah a small slew of horses that play Dream Alliance but there was only one that I did my acting with. The others specialized in different kinds of shots.  Running.  Yeah running. Exactly. So my acting partner was a horse called Beau and Beau was beautiful. I wanted to bring Beau home to Australia. I actually looked into shipping him here. This horse was so special and really really listened. It was very sad to leave him in the end. And I mean it is not dissimilar to the film. Jan breeds this horse but then it is almost like another child. And there is such care and such a bond that she develops with Dream.  The horse racing and the steeplechase scenes are amazing. Do you have any idea how they were shot?  We had an incredible cinematographer Erik Wilson. He is just so clever. I remember Euros our director just calling him a visual poet. And yeah they are. They are really super-exciting to watch. You cannot help but kind of get drawn into the anxiety of it and the intensity of it. Interestingly when we were shooting all the things where we are watching the races obviously we are not watching anything so it was kind of...  Well that is another question I had on - I mean here we have got two great actors - more than that but I am thinking of you and Damian Lewis. And you have to pretend you are watching a race.  Yeah cheering on and getting emotional and you know getting involved. I mean that is what you do as an actor I suppose. But it was strange watching just like a quad bike wander around the field with a flag on the back of it.  .  But I think having had all the time with Beau it kind of you know was somehow infused into those scenes.  Yeah. I have got to tell you my favorite line I think - because you talked about you know how difficult it is for regular folk to crack that hierarchy you know of racing - and it is when somebody in the small town of Wales comes back from the loo and says I just had a pee next to Sir Andrew Lloyd Webber.   Yep. Takes all kinds .  The way I read about your life you have been a professional - Sydney Theatre Company - since you were 16.  Yeah. I think the first time I worked there - I do not know - I think a 17 to be honest. But yeah I started in theater. I did a few shows for the Sydney Theatre Company. Then I did decide to go to drama school for a little while. It is a three-year course and I left in the second year because I was offered to do another play with the Sydney Theatre Company. I shot Muriel's Wedding when I was 20. And since then it is just really flowed. I have been so lucky. I really have.  Yeah.  I mean I work very hard but  because of Muriel when I first got to LA I was being offered films kind of with similar characters and I just somehow knew that would not take me far. The diversity of the scripts and characters that I have been offered has been ridiculous.  Dream Horse made me cry more than once.  Me too. You are not alone.  Well it makes you wonder what is - and I wonder if you have some insight into this after inhabiting the world. Actors are performers and so are great horses. Did you feel a kind of sense of affiliation after inhabiting that world for a while?  Whichever character or whichever world I am steeped in for a certain period of time if I am filming you are obviously more curious about it and think about it much more than you would generally. I mean I am not particularly into race horsing. But for me it was more about the relationship that she had with that horse. And I absolutely believe in equality not just between humans but all creatures. And it really - I say it surprised me but it kind of in a way did not that I was able to connect so deeply with that horse Beau. I just think they are incredibly perceptive and sensitive and aware. They are also incredibly powerful so you do not want to muck around .  Yeah. It sounds like you were just the right person to try and bring that story to the screen. Thank you.  Thanks for saying that. Yeah. Well I mean I knew from reading it that I had to do it. I just - I mean I am a sucker for stories about underdogs but it is just - it has as I said so much heart. It is absolutely hilarious. I could not have had a better experience making it. It was pretty great.  Toni Collette who stars with Damian Lewis in Dream Horse thank you so much for being with us.  Thanks for having me. So nice to talk to you.  