 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Rachel Martin. If it is the first day of the month it is time to say rabbit rabbit. And if it is also a Sunday well then it really is your lucky day because it is time to play the puzzle. Joining me now is Will Shortz. He is the puzzle editor of the New York Times and WEEKEND EDITION's puzzle master. Good morning Will.  Good morning Rachel.  Do you say rabbit rabbit on the first day of the month?  You know I am not aware of that. No.  Rabbit rabbit - it brings you good luck. But you have - the problem is you have to remember. This is - it gets me every time.  And do you have to do that every month?  Every month yeah.  OK.  What was last week's challenge Will?  Yes. Last week's challenge came from Ed Peg Jr. who runs the website mathpuzzle.com. I said the word sort has an unusual property. The first letter S is found inside the word first. The second letter O is found inside the word second. Third letter R is found inside third and the fourth letter T is found inside forth. And I said think of a familiar three-word phrase in 10 letters that has the same property - in which every letter in the phrase is found inside its corresponding ordinal. And as a hint I said it is something most people have lose and regain. What is it? And the answer is set of teeth.  OK. So over 650 of you all got it right. And our randomly selected winner is Daniel Heist from Brookline Massachusetts. He joins us on the line now. Hey Daniel. Congratulations.  Thank you.  So did this come pretty quickly to you?  It did. As soon as I set it down on paper - just got out a tablet and it came within about 15 minutes.  Well good for you. And you live in Brookline Massachusetts. What do you do for a living Daniel?  Right now I am working part-time at Trader Joe's.  I love Trader Joe's. How long have you playing the puzzle Daniel?  I assume it is been over 10 years but I remember the first time I listened it was a spoonerism on Buster Keaton and Custer Beaten.  That sounds like maybe it was a long time ago. Will?  That is going back.   And of course Will Shortz is on the line. Daniel do you have a question for the puzzle master?  Will are you a big fan of cryptograms like I am?  Yeah I love cryptograms. Yeah. Every time I go on...  What is a cryptogram?  A cryptogam is when you have - say a sentence or something - and every letter is encrypted to a different letter. So all the A's become X maybe. And all the B's become L and you have to work backward to figure out what the original phrase is.  Oh very cool. I learned something. So I am not sure if there are any cryptograms involved but Daniel are you ready to play the puzzle?  As ready as I will ever be.  OK. Let us do it Will.  All right Daniel. I have a question for you. If I make this puzzle easy can I get an employee discount? Can I get a discount at Trader Joe's?   At Trader Joe's?  I will see to it. Yes.  That is an incentive Will.  OK. Here we go. Every answer that follows is a made-up two-word phrase in which you add in I-N to the front of the first word to get the second word. For example if I said only shoe insert you would say sole insole.  OK. Daniel you have it?  I think so.  All right. Let us give it a go.  Number one - physical harm to a court panel.  Junction injunction?  No. Think of a - not sure that is a court's panel - what would a panel in a court - 12 people who would hear a case?  Oh. Jury and injury.  Jury - that would be a jury injury is right. Number two - more confident company that protects against financial loss.  Surance and insurance.  Almost. So more confident would be...  Sure and insure.  Yeah.  Yeah. So you would say surer insurer. It is a two-word phrase. Here's your next one - previous person who rats. Well if a person who rats on you - what are they? Starting with I-N. Or what is a...  Oh former informer.  Former informer is right. Now in the following answers they work the opposite way. The word starting with in comes first. Drop the IN to get the second word.  Oh man I just got - I just figured out the first way Will. All right.  Here you go. Creates openings for air.  Invents vents.  That is it. Invents vents is it. Adds to the number of lines made by folding.  Increases creases.  That is it. Establishes compartments in a barn for horses and cows.  Installs stalls.  That is it. A religious offshoot of ants and bees. What are ants and bee?  Insects sects.  Insect sect is it. And your last one is a large geographical area where the people keep going to the bathroom.  Whoa. Oh. A large - oh incontinent continent.  Incontinent continent. Nice job.  Daniel that was excellent.  Thank you.  For playing the puzzle today you get a WEEKEND EDITION lapel pin all kinds of puzzle books and games. You can read all about it at npr.orgpuzzle. And before we let you go Daniel where do you hear us? What is your public radio station?  That is WBUR Boston.  WBUR in Boston. Daniel Heist of Brookline Massachusetts. Thanks so much for playing the puzzle Daniel.  Oh thank you. It is been fun.  OK. Will what is up for next week?  Yes. The challenge comes from listener Dan Pitt of Palo Alto California. Take the name of the well-known American businessmen - first and last names. Put the last name first insert an M between the two names. And the result will name a food item. What is it? So again a well-known American businessmen - first and last names. Switch the order of those names put an M as in Mary between those two names. And the result will be a food item. What is it?  All right. When you have figured this one out go to our website. It is npr.orgpuzzle and click on that submit your answer link. Just one entry per-person please and our deadline for those entries is Thursday June 5 at 3 p.m. Eastern time. Do not forget a phone number where we can reach you at about that time because if you win we give you a call. And then you get to play on the air with the puzzle editor of the New York Times. And he is WEEKEND EDITION's puzzle master Will Shortz. Thanks so much Will.  Thanks Rachel. 