   Sometimes I am all right. And sometimes I get you off my mind.  Luke Bell's music sounds a little like denim cowboy boots and dancing on a floor that is covered with sawdust. He is just released a new self-titled album with a vintage sound. A fiddle and a piano and a steel guitar take you to Nashville where the album was recorded then to Wyoming which is where Luke Bell grew up. At the moment though Luke Bell joins us from our studios in New York. Thanks so much for being with us.  Thanks for having me.  Let us listen to the track Glory And The Grace.    I like the grasslands and the mountains and the prairies and the badlands and the canes  and the caverns and the desert sands and the birds and the bees and the bushes and the trees snow and the wind and the rain and the sea all underneath my feet.  Now is this song about the way you grew up the home you knew or the one you want?  I would say a little bit of both. I wrote that song while I was in Wyoming but I had just gotten back right around that time I think from New Orleans. It is kind of the juxtaposition of you know enjoying both the country and the city.  Yeah. Let us listen to another one of your songs if we can. This is The Great Pretender.    Does she know? Is it so? Is she on to my old show? If anything I should have told her long ago.  Where is this song come from in you in your heart?  I wrote that in about five minutes in the evening after we were in the studio. I was looking for stuff to kind of fill in this record.  I have never heard a singer-songwriter be quite so frank.   Yeah.  It is like a little bit like the artist that said well you know I needed to fill this canvas so .  Yeah that was - you know what? - making that record was - that was what was so interesting is it was really fun because it went that way. That song in particular is just kind of about the time you know in your youth that you spend going out to bars and then sort of that thing you do that masculine thing you do where you are trying to get laid or whatever and you are traveling around and basically a shallow-based interaction which - I do not know am I getting into too much detail here?  We do not need any names if that is what you mean.  Right  OK OK.    It may hurt when you realize that I am the great pretender.  Have you kind of like gone to school on some other artists and tried to be inspired by them?  Oh absolutely. I started playing at this bar called Santa's Pub in Nashville. We would play every Sunday from 7 to 9. My buddy Carter Brauer  runs a honky-tonk night. When I first moved to town I went and just thought it was really cool. I needed to learn a list of songs so I could sing and front the band. And so anyways that is kind of how I started studying. I would listen to an artist sing it and try to figure out different vocal techniques. You know you have got all these different singers like Lefty Frizzell who has this real smooth...   Always late...    Late with your kisses.  And then Hank Williams.    I have never seen...  He is got real sharp...    ...A night so long.  ...Kind of nasally singing voice. And also the melodies are surprisingly hard to  follow.    The moon just went behind the clouds to hide its face and cry.  You cite a lot of people as inspirations which is nice and humble. Do you want people to hear that in your music or are you sort of just lifting the curtain for us?  I do want people to hear that in music. I think - I think you can be lazy about it and just copy someone. But I think referencing things in a subtle way is sort of a tip of the hat. And it is also what country music is about. I would not go try to build a house without any blueprints or having seen how anybody else builds a house or I am sure I could get it done but...  But the kitchen sink might be in the bedroom.   Right right.    I get loud when I get mad. And I get tough when I get sad.  Luke Bell - that is his name and the name of his new album. Thanks so much for joining us.  Thanks for having me. I appreciate it Scott.    I am here to play for blood boys. And I will be here 'til the end for I am the bravest bullfighter that ever dared to pen. Yes I am the bravest bullfighter that ever dared to pen. I have tied one on the night and I am mean enough to fight. I am looking for the world. 