 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon.   Sofia Coppola's new film The Bling Ring follows a group - a gang really - of L.A. teenagers from wealthy families who live for shopping parties drugs and getting close to celebrities or at least where they live.   They break into Paris Hilton's house then Lindsay Lohan's and other TV stars stealing three million dollars worth of jewelry designer shoes and clothes cash and almost Paris Hilton's chihuahua. Eventually they are caught and they are sent to jail. The Bling Ring is based on a true story. It opens in theaters this weekend. Sofia Coppola who wrote and directed the film stopped by our studios along with Emma Watson of Harry Potter fame. She plays one of the teenagers and as Coppola says she vaguely remembers hearing about this group of kids who rob celebrities' houses.  From the plane I am looking at Vanity Fair's article called The Suspects Wore Louboutins and it was about these teen burglars. And just thought somebody has to be making a movie of this. It just had all these elements of  and exciting and also disturbing. And I thought it is so contemporary. It is really a story that could only happen today.  When you said had all the elements what if they would been half a dozen kids from Watts?  Sure. So that would be an exciting story too - a whole different story - but the fact that these kids did not - were not robbing because they needed anything - they were middle-class kids that were doing it for other reasons I thought was an interesting element.  Sofia Coppola I gather you had the actors who portrayed the kids keep journals as their characters.  Oh when we were rehearsing together I asked them to do some journals of the character and just get into what the characters were into because you know the real kids were so different than the characters they were playing.  I actually did a blog as Nicki because I thought that is what she would do. I made a Tumblr page. And it had like pink leopard skin background and it had like tons of shoes and clothes and...  I forgot about that. It was really good.  Yeah and it was . It was really fun.  Emma Watson I have to ask where did you get that Southern California accent?  I watched hours and hours of the Kardashians and The Simple Life and The Hills. And then I worked with a dialect coach too. But that was part of what was so fun for me was not just the accent but also the way of speaking is so different. It is much more nasal and much more kind of pronounced. And...  OK. Can you do it for us who those who have not seen the film yet?  What do you want me to say?  I do not know. Something like...  Oh my God. You sound so hot. You sound really awesome.    Why do none of these kids look at each other at one point when they are adorning themselves with high-end stuff why do not any of the kids look at each other and say should we be doing this?  It is such a game mentality. I think I mean if you remember anything about peer pressure being that age you want to be part of the group and go along and you do things you would never do now or on your own. So I think that you know they were caught up in the excitement that they all wanted to - no one wanted to be the drag.  Yeah. Particularly what I loved about Sofia's script is that Nicki the character that can come home at 4 in the morning and the biggest reprimand that she would get would be the next morning for her mother to say oh well you know try better next time kind of thing. For Nicki there is never any real consequences in her life to anything that she does. And if you do not experience that in your home then in the larger world if you steal something I just think they genuinely believed there were not going to be any real consequences.  Sofia Coppola did you grow up with kids like this or did we all grow up with kids like this?  No. When I grew up nobody talked about designer handbags. I did not know about that. It was really a different time.  I definitely remember being at school and a friend of mine bringing into class Paris Hilton's book which is like a guide to being an heiress. And...  Oh useful for all of us is not it?  Very useful. I mean who does not - so I definitely grew up around it. And I do not know my dad - I mean my dad would not even my brother and I watch television at all until we were you know much much older. And he would not let me have Barbie dolls. He was like I do not know. I guess he wanted me to use my imagination more so.  But is it - I mean when you were growing up - that was all of just a few years ago - is that harder now?  What do you mean?  Harder I mean unless you throw your kid in a root cellar.  Yeah. I mean I guess it is. And I guess you know as well you also have to trust that they will figure it out themselves. And I think it is really just tempering that culture with other ideas too so that you know getting fed one kind of idea and one kind of image you know I think as long as there is a balance then you can usually figure it out for yourselves. I do not think anyone's  in the basement.  Sofia Coppola are you drawn to teenagers? And by the way this is your second if not your third if you count the French Revolution picture - film you have made with teenagers.  Am I drawn to teenagers? I like the tradition of teen films and when I was growing up and I loved the John Hughes movies. But other than that I did not relate so much to the characters of young people. There were usually actors in their 30s playing teenagers. So I like the idea of trying to make something sensitive and artful for young audiences.  I think as well I think what is so interesting about - is actually this story and about you know kind of coming-of-age films is that they are people trying to find themselves. And so they go on such a journey their characters have such arcs they are kind of experiencing life for the first time. So you see the story through new eyes.  You know I always liked the actor. I always liked stories where the struggle or the transition is more internal on the character as opposed to outside forces. So I think that is the age where that is the most exaggerated. And I think that is something interesting to look at.  Well I want to thank you both very much. Sofia Coppola who is the director and writer Emma Watson who is one of the stars of The Bling Ring which opens this weekend. Thanks very much for being with us.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you. 