 Welcome to the world of ball culture.   The category is Bring It Like Royalty.  High fashion makeup voguing competitions. In the 1980s balls were cultural events in New York City for the LGBTQ community most of them black and Latino. But balls have largely been hidden from mainstream America. Now a new show on FX is taking it front and center. It is called Pose. The program features the largest cast of transgender actors in series-regular roles which includes my next guest singer and actress Mj Rodriguez. She joins us from member station WBGO in New Jersey. Mj welcome to the program.  Thank you so much Lulu. I am happy to be here.  This must be so exciting for you having this show out and sort of taking this into mainstream America.  It is extremely exciting. I am like - right now I am even smiling from ear to ear. It is great that finally our stories are getting to be told you know from the lenses of our eyes on a broad spectrum.  Can you introduce us to how balls work? It is more than just a fashion competition obviously.  One it is a refuge. It is a place of refuge for anyone of the LGBT community of color. And we go there just to find solace to find family and just to find comfort. And there are also just other categories - many categories which are like walking face walking wellness voguing voguing fem and also one way. One way is one of the things that I walk and that is when you literally walk down the runway in the ballroom culture and you just serve as much as you can.  You mean by serve just like bring it.  Bring it honey. You have to bring it.   You know I think for many Americans the only brush that they might have had with this was with Madonna and voguing right? The famous song that she did. Why do you think it is important to go back now and revisit this?  I think it is very important because I mean there is a specific group of people that have cultivated this. If you notice there is one man that is in her video. And he - his name is Willi Ninja and he was one of the main founding fathers of the ballroom scene. And I think it is time that our stories get to be told and also the trans stories that need to be told because we were also the liberators of that movement as well.  Yeah. I want to talk about your character in Pose Blanca.  Sure thing.  Yeah. Tell me about her.  So Blanca - she is like this rambunctious very very nurturing compassionate - a little bit hardheaded but ambitious spirit. And she is trying to leave a legacy with the news that she is received as far as her diagnosis - as far as HIV - and she is trying to leave something behind so her children can carry on her legacy.  What do you and Blanca have in common?  Me and her have a lot in common. There are some small differences obviously but these are also very very true stories. And I have been ostracized from specific part of my community. And I decided that I was not going to let that be the thing that brought me down. I was going to move forward and uplift.  When you say that you were ostracized what happened?  There were moments where I was called many derogatory names. I have gotten into a couple of fights. People have jumped me. You know I have had a lot of things that have happened to me but I look past those things now. And now I am moving forward. And I always believe that the experiences that you go through are what make you stronger and what help you push forward through life.  You played Angel in the off-Broadway revival of Rent and...  Yes I did.  ...Yes you did. And that character of course was memorable as a street musician living with AIDS.  So Rent was one of the main defining moments and it was like the precipice of my transition. I had always known I was female since I was 7 years old but at that time there were no words that I could express at the age of 7. But when I got to a certain age which was 14 I knew. And then I carried that on through my career. When I played that character I was just like finally I can have people see me for the woman I am and not have any doubts or thoughts or anything just simply be and simply live and pour my soul out onstage.  So what is it like to be in a cast of transgender actors?  I think it is beautiful. One I am glad because most of these women I have met or have worked with before so that is the best part about it. We have already a connection. But most importantly these are telling different stories and different spectrums of each of these trans women's lives - and that we are living authentically just like anyone else who is walking this Earth and that we just literally need to come together and stop the B.S. honestly.  That was Mj Rodriguez star of the new show Pose on FX. Thank you so much for being here.  Thank you so much Lulu. 