 It is PR News. I am Renee Montagne.  NPR's Tovia Smith has more.  As a former ambassador Huntsman may be used to barreling through time zones but it could not have prepared him for his time-warping trip from quiet diplomat to presidential contender.  I feel a little bit like I have just gone bungee jumping for the first time. It is pretty intimidating. You tie that knot under your ankle you stand on edge of the bridge and then you leap.  Huntsman jumped into the race yesterday echoing the promise to make America great again made by former President Ronald Reagan who Huntsman used to work for though Huntsman put it more bluntly saying he is wants to help the nation quote avert disaster.  For the first time in our history we are passing on to the next generation a country that is less powerful less compassionate less competitive and less confident than the one we got. And all I am here to say is that this is totally totally unacceptable and this is totally un-American.   Huntsman took a shot - indirectly - at his most recent boss President Obama saying the nation needs more than just hope though Huntsman also insisted his campaign would take the high road.  I do not think you need to run down reputation in order to run for presidency.  We will disagree Huntsman said but I respect my fellow Republicans.  And I respect the president.   The polite applause notwithstanding giving the president props may hurt Huntsman at least in the eyes of some GOP faithful like Judy Scott. She applauds Huntsman's conservative stands on abortion and guns for example but has trouble getting past his last job as an ambassador appointed by President Obama.  Anybody that is with Obama bothers me yes. You have to believe with the administration or you should not be working with them.  Huntsman is trying to distinguish himself as the more genuine of the two. He was introduced yesterday as a no-flip no-flop motorcycle-riding rocker who dropped out of high school to play in his band.  I think he has a bigger cool factor than most of the other candidates do in the field.  Eighteen-year-old college student Jake Wagoner left yesterday's event absolutely gushing not only about Huntsman's image but also his more moderate stand on some issues like his support for civil unions and belief in climate change.  He is bold. He is very charismatic. And I think maybe we very much do have a John F. Kennedy for the Republican side you know. He certainly has the potential to be.  But even if he does Huntsman's got a ways to go in convincing other voters.  We do not really know who he is.  Across the street from his event Huntsman has zero name recognition with GOP voters like Sylvia and Nathan Ireland.  First time I have heard of him.  But Huntsman says expect his campaign - and his support - to grow exponentially now. His website launched yesterday and the campaign has just begun distributing signs and bumper stickers. Huntsman could not hide his delight yesterday when he spotted one.  Cool. First one I have seen.  Tovia Smith NPR News. 