 It has been a very rough year for Uber.  To say the least - and here's how we got to this point. In February a former Uber engineer blogged about how the company mishandled her sexual harassment complaints. That prompted other people to come forward. And that led to investigations which found widespread sexual harassment and discrimination throughout the company. Last week the CEO Travis Kalanick announced he was going on a leave of absence for personal reasons. And then late last night the company announced he is stepping down.  OK and let us talk about that with Kara Swisher. She is executive editor of Recode which covers tech companies here in California. Hey Kara.  Hey how you doing?  I am good thank you. So I was reading your story about the Uber workplace culture. And you described it as something resembling real - a really toxic goat rodeo.  Yeah something like that.  I have never been to a goat rodeo. What exactly do you mean?  It stinks. I can tell you it stinks and it is quite messy. And that was what was going on at Uber - not just around sexual harassment but - and sexism - but you know retaliatory behavior lack of HR lack of any kind of accountability of executives. And there is so many things that we uncovered and others such as Mike Isaac at The New York Times uncovered about various practices that were going on at the company under the leadership of Travis Kalanick.  Well so Kalanick leaves now. Is this departure damaging for the company? Or is this actually helpful as they move forward now?  Well a lot of people have different opinions. At Recode we wrote yesterday - in fact yesterday morning I wrote that I thought he should step down. I was having sort of a debate with Arianna Huffington who is on the board of Uber who felt that he could be redeemed and that was to the good of Uber because he was innovative and had pushed the company forward. I felt it was like using poison to fix a patient who was poisoned. And to me he was - you know he was the reason Uber was the way it is. And it is also the reason why Uber was as successful as it is. But I think the issue is that had he - had the situation gotten just so bad and so toxic that he was not the one to solve the next problems that Uber faces of which there are many.  Well so you cover companies like Uber. You cover the problems that can exist. Are these problems unique to Uber in the workplace or are we looking at something that is more widespread?  Well I wish I could say they were not uncommon - I mean that they - that this was unusual. Maybe - I think Uber's the quintessence of this sort of the concentration of it of arrogance of bro culture of lack of gender equality lack of racial equality at all these companies. But I think you know it is an unusual case but every one of these things exists at every one every big tech company in Silicon Valley. And I just think most companies have systems in place to deal with them with these issues - you know a sexual harassment issue. And Susan - let me just say Susan deserves huge kudos for bringing this to light.  Susan...  Susan Fowler who was the engineer at Uber who wrote the first blog chat - post...  Right.  ...Which was - which was called My Very Strange Year At Uber . And she deserves a lot of credit. But it is not unusual unfortunately.  You really point to her blog post as as uncovering and sort of starting this process.  Absolutely 100 percent. She deserves - it was a very brave thing to do. And it turned out - it is caused a lot of repercussions for sure.  And this is a reminder this is a company that overtly tried to disrupt the rules for taxi services around the country. But clearly it is not going to be disrupting the rules for workplace harassment.  In fact no.  Yeah. All right Kara Swisher is the executive editor of Recode talking to us about Uber's CEO leaving the company. Kara thanks a lot.  Thanks a lot.  All right a special election in Georgia last night decided only one of 435 seats in the House of Representatives. But judging by the tens of millions of dollars spent it meant a lot to both parties.  Yeah and Republican Karen Handel is the winner beating Jon Ossoff the Democrat last night and winning a seat from northern Georgia. She addressed her supporters last night.   To the Jon Ossoff supporters know that my commitments they extend to every one of you as well. We may have some different beliefs but we are part of one community the community of the 6th District.   Which was a very particular community of interest to the political world. This was a special election widely seen as a referendum on President Trump. And the Republican candidate of course won. Although we should note it was a narrow win in a conservative district that Republicans would normally win very easily.  And our colleague NPR's Don Gonyea is in Georgia. He was covering this race. And Don it must have felt like you were covering a presidential campaign. There was so much interest here.  It sure did. I mean there were thousands of people at the Ossoff watch party last night. Handel had a huge crowd as well. It felt like - it felt presidential in terms of its size and the money spent - the money especially.  Well what helped the Republican Karen Handel win? And what hurt the Democrat Jon Ossoff?  Well she did it with turnout. She mobilized her base built margins where she needed to build margins around the district. And remember this was a runoff after April's election. Back then Ossoff just missed the 50 percent threshold that would have put him in Congress right then and there.  Amazing.  Handle only got 20 percent in that election. But the GOP took that as a wakeup call it seems. They got out the vote and they took advantages of the advantages you get in a really red district. Even though they were outspent Ossoff last night told his supporters to take some consolation. He said they fought a fight in a place that nobody thought that they could fight. But again ultimately it is a missed opportunity.  Well so I mean was this just a case where you have a lot of people who are addicted to politics and want to spend money and this was the only race out there that they could pay attention to? Or are there some real conclusions that can be drawn in terms of a referendum on President Trump and his party?  Somebody said to me if you are a football fan in the summertime you watch arena football because that is the only game there is. So that is...  . Right you do not want to. But if it is the only thing there is...  .  That is great.  This is the only place to spend the money. So the money all found its way here.  Yeah.  But let us talk about President Trump. He jumped in here and he got rewarded. And there was not a backlash against his presidency as some had predicted and as Democrats needed. So even though he is not popular here - remember he only barely carried this district back in November - he got involved. He tweeted. He fundraised. He tweeted some more and it was ultimately a good thing for Karen Handel even though she would embrace him one day and seemed to keep him at arm's length the next.  That is interesting.  You know Democrats who lost can say well it was a red district. It was an uphill climb. We got close. But in the end they did lose. And this is what Democrats will need to do if they want to win the House in 2018 is win some red districts they have not yet.  That is right. This is exactly the kind of district they need if they hope to take over a majority of the U.S. House next year. Lots of suburban highly educated you know voters lots of moderate Republicans. And they were not able to do it here.  NPR's Don Gonyea in the state of Georgia. Thanks Don.  My pleasure.   All right we are looking at two congressional hearings today on Russia. And it sounds like lawmakers are turning back to their original focus Russia.  Russia rather than the subsidiary issues. There is been so much focus on what President Trump and his aides did or did not do. But these hearings today focus on underlying questions. How exactly did Russia interfere in the 2016 election? And what can be done to prevent it happening again? Former Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson will testify before the House intelligence committee today. He already met with the Senate intelligence committee last week behind closed doors.  NPR national security correspondent Mary Louise Kelly is going to - what Mary Louise? - have like two TVs on at the same time watching these two hearings or...   Dueling hearings on Capitol Hill.  Yeah exactly.  It is going to be a good day.  Well so what - is there like a central question about what Russia did or did not do that lawmakers are trying to answer today?  Well the banner development today is as you all just noted is that these Russia hearings are actually going to be about Russia for a change and not about politics here in Washington. So on the Senate side for example no marquee name is testifying today. Instead it is this roster of FBI Homeland Security officials state officials all answering questions about Russia's ambitions - past present and future. And I am particularly interested to hear today about the present and future side of this what we know about what Russia may be doing now at this moment. There is a lot of focus on what is happening in Europe and interference in European elections - but this sense that Russia is not going away on the U.S. political landscape.  Well former FBI Director James Comey testified. And he sort of seemed to suggest that this kind of Russian meddling is not just still going on but that it is probably not going to stop.   They will be back. And they will be back in 2020. They may be back in 2018. And one of the lessons they may draw from this is that they were successful because they introduced chaos and division and discord and so doubt about the nature of this amazing country of ours and our democratic process. It is possible they are misreading that as it worked and so we will come back and hit them again in 2020.  Mary Louise this is kind of extraordinary. I mean is that just the future that we are accepting that adversaries are going to meddle in one another's elections?  It likely is the future. It certainly is the past between the U.S. and Russia. I mean one former U.S. official I was speaking to yesterday said the only problem with those statements like we just heard there from Comey is that it suggests Russia ever went away in the U.S. political landscape. So that is something to watch for today this effort to deter foreign interference going forward.  All right. NPR's Mary Louise Kelly is going to be covering those two Russia hearings on Capitol Hill today. Mary Louise thanks as always.  You are welcome. 