 One of the hottest new musical stars in Europe is crossing the Atlantic to try his luck here in America. 29-year-old Paul Van Haver goes by the stage name Stromae. That is the word maestro rearranged. His songs are booming out in dance clubs across Europe. NPR's Eleanor Beardsley even heard his music in a pizzeria in the conflict zone of eastern Ukraine. But she reports while his music has a very danceable sound his lyrics may come as a surprise.   Stromae's current hit Papaoutai went to the top of the iTunes singles charts in more than a dozen countries and its video has been seen more than 150 million times.   .  Not bad for a cheery little song whose title translates as Papa where are you? It is about a boy's emptiness growing up without his father.   .  I did not know him very well. My suffering is to know that I will never know who he was. It was difficult to know - OK he is dead but what is a father because I do not know what is a father.  His father was a Rwandan architect who was not around much. In 1994 he was killed in that country's genocide.   .  Stromae and his four siblings were raised by their Belgian mother in a working-class Brussels neighborhood. He says he grew up listening to American rappers. He was inspired by their rhymes and flow but not their vision of life.  I am a big fan of them but I did not understand this kind of fake dreamlike - OK life is like big swimming pools limousines girl - naked and stuff. And I was just - no. My mother told me that happiness is not that you know?  Stromae's mother sent him to a Jesuit school after he failed out of the public system at age 16. He says that was when he decided to get serious about his life and his music. Stromae sings about the world he grew up in.  Yeah I prefer to talk about our problems in place of hide it because you cannot hide it. And I prefer to dance - to smile on it to laugh on it.   .  Stromae began composing on his computer. His first hit Alors On Danse So We Dance took Europe by storm in 2009. It is about unemployment divorce and debt and it makes you want to dance.   .  I decided to tell a story about the problems and the stuff and the reason why we dance actually because I was in clubs and - OK I love clubs but there is so much melancholy in clubs.   .  His follow-up hit with its guttural R's and raw emotion has earned Stromae comparisons to iconic Belgian singer Jacques Brel.   .  Formidable is a bitter breakup ballad. In the video Stromae emerges from a Brussels subway station in morning rush-hour. He staggers through the streets as if drunk.   .  In the clip some people help Stromae others ignore him. It was inspired by a homeless man who once yelled at him and his girlfriend so you think you are beautiful?   .  I will never forget this sentence and I put it in my song actually. Tu te crois beaux actually because for me it was like even if this guy is drunk or whatever  or aggressive this guy is just alone and he needs - that you listen to him.  Despite his superstar status Stromae meets me for an interview in a cafe - no entourage just him and his manager. As he walks in several young people agog ask for autographs.  .  .  .  Van Haver is soft-spoken with a shy smile and stunning pale green eyes. His fans come in all ages and colors.   At a sold-out concert in Brussels 45-year-old Philip Parius says Stromae's music even bridges the country's divide between French and Flemish.  Most  hates Belgium. And he is representing Belgium. And so that is great. That is the most important. Not the language - but Belgium attitude.  Stromae says he never aspired to sing for non-French audiences but when his first song became a hit in Germany he realized it did not matter if people understood all his words.  If we can listen to English music without understanding no - nothing and dance on it and feel the groove in the feelings I am sure everybody can do exactly the same for each languages.  All right so you want to go to America and you want to sing in French?  Yes. When I listen to an American singer I want to listen to his music in his language because he is more spontaneous. He is more natural and I need his point of view. And our point of view here in Brussels is French and Flemish. And it is important to keep this patchwork because sometimes it is a trend that everybody wants to sing in English and - because it is more musical or more international. But I think it is about just a patchwork - different visions.  Belgium's Prime Minister recently gave President Obama a Stromae CD. The Brussels star will bring his music and message to New York City this Friday and will play a host of American cities this Fall. Eleanor Beardsley NPR News.   .  You are listening to MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am Linda Wertheimer.  And I am Renee Montagne. 