 Imagine you are on a tropical island in the Caribbean - coconut trees rocky cliffs blue-green waters and hundreds of monkeys that have a disease that could kill you. What you are picturing is a real-life island off the coast of Puerto Rico. NPR's Anders Kelto went there.  It is sunrise and a group of scientists are climbing into a boat. They are wearing khaki shorts and boots. Some have backpacks. Someone fires up the engine and the boat begins to cross a calm channel of water. Up ahead I can see the island - steep cliffs lush green trees. The boat docks and as we get out we scrub the soles of our shoes with a brush - dip them in this pink disinfecting liquid. We step onto the island and right away I hear this sort of spooky grunting noise.   I cannot tell where it is coming from and then up in a tree I see two beige monkeys looking down.  Just be careful they do not pee on you.  That is Angie Ruiz. She is part of a team of researchers from the University of Puerto Rico who manage this island called Cayo Santiago. Ruiz actually has one of the best job titles ever - monkey island census taker. But her warning about not getting peed on is serious. These monkeys naturally carry Herpes B a virus that can be deadly to humans. So rule number one on Cayo Santiago do not get peed on by the monkeys.  We walk along a dirt path toward a large metal cage. It is where the scientists eat lunch.  So we have our resting areas our eating areas. We are the ones in the cages and the monkeys are free.  It is like a zoo where the monkeys come to see the humans.  Exactly and they can see us eating.   Rule number two the monkeys are the free ones. But it is not time for the humans to eat just yet so we keep walking up a steep hill. Ruiz spots a small monkey off the side of the trail and suddenly she veers way to the left and she gestures at me to follow.  If you see a baby running around on the road stay away from it 'ecause chances are mom's around and...  And she is protective.  Oh yeah and they come out of nowhere.  But she says if you see a male monkey do not be intimidated because the males like to mess with people. Recently she says there was a researcher - a college student - who let a monkey bully her.  The monkey would actually chase her. Eventually she like - I told her grab a rock show them the rock and they will know what happens after you show them the rock. And they will stop picking on you. And eventually then they all stopped picking on her.  And that is rule number three of Cayo Santiago stay from the babies but show the males who is boss. We get to the top of the hill and the view is spectacular. The mainland of Puerto Rico is behind us open ocean in front. A white pickup truck drives past and some men get out and unload big white bags of monkey chow. It looks like dog food. And suddenly there are monkeys everywhere.   They are coming down from the trees and walking right by our legs to get to the food and monkey fights are breaking out all around me. My heart is totally pounding. And in this chaos a researcher named Sean Coyne is just calmly walking among the primates. Hey can I walk with you while you work?  Sure.  It is not too distracting?  Not at all.  OK. So can you tell me what you are doing?  Right now I am just looking to collect fecal samples to analyze for hormones. The morning's the best time. When they first wake up they all tend to go to the bathroom when they first move.  Coyne is a grad student at the University of Chicago and spends a lot of time on the island. He is studying how hormone levels affect monkeys' sexual development. He says that translates into a lot of time scooping up monkey poo.  Yeah my mom's so proud. But all in the name of science.  The work here is not glorious and it can be dangerous but a lot of important science on primate behavior has happened here over the years. And coming here is sort of a rite of passage for many biologists. The island is the oldest wild primate research center in the world. It was created in the 1930s. Back then biologists were spending a lot of time chasing monkeys around the jungles of Asia and Africa. The idea was to make things easier by putting the monkeys on a small island closer to the U.S.  Where the animals were always there could easily be accessed and large amounts of data could be collected within a short amount of time.  That is Richard Rawlins the former director of research on Cayo Santiago. He says about 500 rhesus macaques were brought here from India in 1938. It was a mission with a lot of challenges. About 50 monkeys he says died at sea during a 47-day voyage. And the scientists did not really know how to set up the island before the monkeys arrived.  They planted fruit trees with the naive idea that these trees would be sufficient to sustain the monkeys and they would not have to buy food for them.  But he says that did not work out well.  The monkeys once on the island had been eating this hulled rice for 47 days instantly went over and vaporized all the stuff that had been planted .  So scientists had to feed the monkeys. But for long stretches of time there was no money. Many animals died of starvation and malnutrition. But Rawlins says a few dedicated researchers helped the colony survive. Angie Ruiz the monkey census taker says today the colony faces a different threat.  People coming on the island without permission and having tuberculosis or having any illnesses that they can transmit to the monkeys.  She says people sometimes sneak tourists onto the island. And fishermen come here to catch hermit crabs. Ruiz says if any of those visitors transmit a disease to the monkeys it would move incredibly quickly through the whole colony. And on top of the risks to the monkeys she says these people are putting their own lives at risk.  It is dangerous to come out here and if you do not know the protocol if you do not know what to do if you get an exposure you could get sick.  Or you could die she says. But there is a problem. The researchers cannot legally prevent people from coming on shore.  The problem we have is that anything the water touches is public property.  The government has proposed a bill that would make the island a private research facility open only to scientists. But the bill has not yet passed. So the researchers just keep hoping that everyone - monkeys and humans - stay healthy. Anders Kelto NPR News Cayo Santiago Puerto Rico. 