 Iran airstrike - canceled. Raids on immigrants here in the United States without authorization - canceled. President Trump has promised and then gone back on a number of signature actions this past week. And here to illuminate us as she does almost every week is NPR's national political correspondent Mara Liasson. Good morning Mara.  Good morning Lulu.  All right let us start with Iran. That is a very dangerous situation. Where does the president's policy stand after calling off the airstrikes?  Well it stands where it always has been. There is been a lot of whiplash on this. Some Democrats and Republicans say that in the end the president did the right thing in the wrong way by calling off that strike. Others say that his policymaking on Iran has been totally incoherent that he talks loudly and carries a little stick. Remember he pulled out of the nuclear deal with Iran because he thought he could force the Iranians into something better. He imposed harsh economic sanctions on them. But instead of forcing the Iranians to come to the table they have become more aggressive. And then on Saturday he says he wants to start all over again with Iran. He says his goal is to make Iran great again and that if they will come back to the table he says I am going to be their best friend. But he also said he is going to put additional sanctions on Iran. We are not clear what those are. So again what are the incentives for Iran to come back and negotiate if the president is not willing to lift sanctions?  Some people might say that this is a chaotic policy right? But is not that what the president says he likes when it comes to deals - chaos to keep your opposition off-balance?  He says that. But the question is is this chaotic approach getting any results? He does not have a better deal with Iran. He does not have any deal with North Korea. And you have to wonder what other countries are thinking. Even Mexico after approving a free trade deal a no tariff deal all of a sudden he turned around and threatened tariffs on Mexico for an unrelated issue. So it makes it unclear for other countries who want to deal with the United States whether they are our allies or our enemies. And then at least with Iran the situation is unchanged. What happens next time there is a conflict in the Gulf?  All right. Let us look at another policy turnaround. As we have mentioned the president has as you know talked tough on immigration for a very long time. It is his signature issue. Earlier in the week he said he would deport a million immigrants starting today but now he has postponed those raids and he says he will resume them if the Democrats do not agree to change the asylum laws. What is going on?  Well it is more whiplash as - on his way to his first big rally of his reelection campaign that is when he said he was going to deport millions. Immigration has always been the go-to issue to energize his base. On the other hand he has competing political imperatives because his immigration policies are costing him with independent voters with suburban women. And it turns out that Nancy Pelosi did call him over the weekend asked him to delay these raids which were going to deport thousands not millions. And our reporters say that if he had gone ahead with the raids it could have endangered the humanitarian border aid package that had not been finalized on the Hill. So we are back to square one on the deportations too.  All right. That is NPR's national political correspondent Mara Liasson. Mara thank you so much.  Thank you. 