 The street address of the White House is 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW. It is the most famous address in Washington and lately the address of protests. To learn what people in the nation's capital think of those protests we tried some other addresses on that same street. Here's the sign for the exit - Pennsylvania Avenue East one-quarter mile. The avenue reaches into the eastern part of the city - hilly neighborhoods some of them poor others middle class with curving streets of single-family homes. We are at a suburban-type strip mall talking with people coming and going from the stores a few which are open. A woman who gave her name as Shae  works in one of those stores. Are the protesters saying something that you think is relevant to you and relevant to your life around here?  I mean everything - everything that is relevant to my life. I have to worry for my life every day because I do not know if somebody is going to try and kill me just because of the color of my skin. And it is not everybody but it is a lot of people.  She followed the news of George Floyd's death in police custody in Minneapolis. She also followed news of protests that have included looting and fires.  So when you have people who are protesting and you start seeing that you are getting pepper-sprayed you are getting plastic bullets you know it is going to cause you know people to get really upset. People are going to start to react.  An apparent sign of reaction was just a few feet away. A T-Mobile phone shop was boarded up.  I cannot see. But it does look like the glass is out of that door right?  A woman asked our producer Emma Talkoff if it was a break-in.  They broke into the T-Mobile?  We are trying to find out.  Oh.  The employees would not say. Though the police inside made the story pretty clear. Two women rolled down the windows of their car and told us they would heard of more shops hit.  They started looting not too far from here down Minnesota Avenue.  Down Minnesota Avenue?  Yeah  The Safeway.  Yeah.  The CVS.  Yep  Minnesota Avenue - so I go this way?  If you were to go down Branch Avenue which is this road right here if you take that straight...  We followed their directions to a shopping plaza. A mural overlooked that plaza the faces of famous Americans on a brick wall which means that Martin Luther King and Malcolm X and Rosa Parks were all looking on as someone ransacked the CVS. It is boarded up now but still open. People lined up outside for social distancing.  We going to just move the line from where he is working at back. So everybody move it back.  Security guard Sholonda Myers  was managing the line. People had to maneuver around two workers who were replacing a broken board on a window.   Looters they came and burglarized twice.  Twice?  Yes.  Last night?  Last night and then the night before that.  Two nights in a row OK.  Yes. If you do not need the pharmacy you are able to go right in.  So did they break the glass one night?  They broke the glass the first day. They came and put this up. And then they broke that the second day.  They broke through the plywood the second day?  Yes. Yes sir.  Man. Is this normal for this area this kind of thing?  No no. Even though this the hood they do not usually be breaking in. What is up sweetie?  Can I ask you a question?  Yeah. Back up baby. Put your mask on - social distancing.  I notice it is not that people are like breaking down every single thing. They are going after pharmacies. They are going after phone shops electronics stores. And they are taking stuff?  They just hit the shoe store this morning. So...  They hit the shoe store this morning OK.  Yes sir.  And when they went into the pharmacy here did they take a lot of stuff?  Mostly pharmacy.  Oh they wanted the drugs the prescription drugs OK.  Yes sir.  And here's the guy working in front of us. He is taking down the...  Which is going to do no good because they are going to come and break it again.  He is taking the broken board away...  Yes sir.  ...Replacing it with a new board.  Yes sir.  You think they might come back a third time?  Definitely. It is easy pickings.  One shopper told us the violence made no sense. On our trip along Pennsylvania Avenue she said if people want change they should vote. At this point Pennsylvania Avenue goes over this bridge and onward toward the White House. We have stopped here in a waterfront park Anacostia Park.  .  Kids climbed on a playground set that looked like a pirate ship. Nearby stood Jeanine Francis  who has followed years of police killings of African Americans.  And this is why I teach my African American 9-year-old to always show face and always be kind and always be pleasant and always make sure that you are talking clearly so they can understand you. Walk with your head up.  Just then her son rode up on a bike.  Come here baby.  Oh is this your young man?  This is my son Quadir . Slow down.  She said I could ask him a few questions. What do you want to do when you grow up?  I think I want to be a police officer.  Why would you want to be a police officer do you think?  So like I could be trained and ready for anything.  Which did not surprise his mom.  I do not have an issue with that. His thing is now I have to be on their side so I do not get killed.   Two college students in a vehicle in Atlanta being dragged out of their vehicle and pepper-sprayed...  I could not watch it.  ...And maced.  People in the park listened to the radio which carried talk of police violence. At two picnic tables several people had a pile of supplies as if to make a meal. They were really making care packages for protesters. They got cold packs here. They got goggles. They got water bottles snack packs. They got Gatorade. A woman who gave her name as Aisha  had bought dozens of small plastic spray bottles. She meant to fill them with a homemade solution to help battle tear gas.  Ninety percent water 10 baking soda and a droplet of baby shampoo.  Baby shampoo? Does that...  Just to help kind of - because you know it is the gentle on the eyes Johnson  Johnson...  No more tears. Aisha brought in friends from work to help her pack. She says she was outside the White House protesting on Monday night when police pushed back demonstrators to make space for the president to pose for TV cameras. When the president said I want to be a law-and-order president what did you hear?  I want to kill and murder other little brown children. I did not hear anything else. It does not - he does not have any type of views or any type of - there is no balance. There is no peace. There is just use whatever force and violence you can. And that sounds horrible because children are out there. And I just heard hurt children. Hurt people.  One of her friends gave his name as Leland. He says he was not protesting until after Monday night.  Right when I got the news that the president was deploying the military to D.C. I think something clicked. And it was like it is time to just get out and do whatever you can. I do not want to look back you know 10 years later and say yeah I stayed inside. And I reposted a couple of posts on my Instagram. I did not want to have to be limited to say that. I want to be able to speak on the things that I did and to say that you know I was a part of what happened.  Now this man in the park along Pennsylvania Avenue is mixing tear gas solution and preparing to protest for many nights to come.  