 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. The Supreme Court ruled unanimously on Thursday that patenting natural human genetic material must stop. But the court also ruled that synthetically produced DNA is fair. The decision was prompted by patents on a gene test for breast cancer which was issued to Myriad Genetics of Salt Lake City. We are joined now in our studio by Arthur Caplan who is head of the Division of Medical Ethics at NYU's Langone Medical Center. Thanks very much for being with us.  Thanks for having me.  What do you think this ruling means for Myriad Genetics and other biotech companies?  Well for Myriad it means less than you might think because their patent was going to run out in another year. For other genetic testing companies that have sort of presumed we own the intellectual property we see a gene sequence we know that it associates with a disease the decision is not good news. They are going to lose their monopoly practice prices will drop competition will enter the genetic testing market. So I think that is good for patients not so good for the industry.  So what is your general reaction to the Supreme Court's decision?  I think it is way way way overdue. It is the correct decision. You know to make a metaphor it is as if Galileo Galilee had a telescope and looked up and saw the moons of Jupiter and said I am patenting those. I discovered them. You do not get patents for discovery. You get publications. In my world you get tenure. You might even get a Nobel Prize if it is a really interesting discovery but you do not get a patent. And what the Supreme Court basically did was it said look these genes just exist. You are finding their function you are understanding their correlation in terms of what a misprint causes a disease. But you did not do anything. You just found what is out there. So I think the decision is sound.  Even if it is philosophically sound did - if I might put it this way - monetizing discoveries provide incentive for new and better discoveries?  It did. There is no doubt that people said look it is kind of like the Oklahoma land rush. We are going to rush out over the human genome stake our claims have patent protection. It gives us an incentive to go out there and look through the vast number of genes that make up us and figure out whether we can find disease correlations and so on. That said that was kind of the old model Scott. The newer way to go at this is to change those genes - try to insert a gene alter a gene.  This is the synthetic material.  That is the synthetic side. And that is where the action is now. It is not you know the companies that were out there doing what I am calling the turf grabs across the genome in a way I think their work is over and the action is going to be on the synthetic side.  Which I think to repeat - what we said when introducing you - that is legally fine right?  That is legally fine. The court made a point of saying if you change genes alter genes insert genes or put chemicals around genes to make them do something different or even thaw out certain genes so that you can get a cleaner understanding of what the key genetic components are - all patentable all fine. And I would agree with that.  I guess I did not understand until I read about the decision as we read about it this week the degree to which I guess it is been called patent trolling has been going on.  It is a big problem because people will do two things they will claim the patent not really understanding fully what those genes do and just try to fend off anybody else from coming into that territory. And then there are people who sort of go around and say you know I am going to buy that patent and block anybody from being able to enter research in this area unless you pay me a pretty good size fee. Not good for patients not good for genetic testing - pretty good for entrepreneurs who get - and lawyers who get involved in that kind of trolling business.  If you foresee - and a lot of people do - that synthetically produced DNA is going to be maybe in a better position to take off now surely there are ethical implications for that too.  Oh there are huge ones. One interesting angle here is you know we love our own genes. We are humans we think our genes must be the best we are at the top of the food chain of evolution. But synthetic biology has been working at the microbe level. There are simpler systems. They are easier to alter. This court decision is not restricted to human genes. That is patents have been taken out on the plants on microbes on animals. All of that moves into flex a little bit too. In the synthetic field I think what we are seeing is a lot of activity of people trying to insert genes into a virus to say make proteins that would be useful medically alter a virus to see whether it could act like a vaccine and attack say Ebola or something that got into us or the flu. And in other areas you are seeing people engineer viruses and bacteria to try and do things like suck pollution out of the ocean waters and so on. So a big area of activity but probably not where you might think. It is not the humans that are the target so much as the microbes.  Arthur Caplan. Head of the Division of Medical Ethics at NYU's Langone Medical Center. Thanks very much for joining us Art.  Thanks very much for having me. 