 It is Father's Day. And if you forgot to get something for your dad do not worry because we have got the gift that keeps on giving. It is The Puzzle.   Joining me as always is Will Shortz. He is puzzle editor of The New York Times and WEEKEND EDITION's puzzlemaster. Will good morning.  Good morning Lulu.  Remind us of last week's challenge.  Yeah I said consider the sentence - Benjamin the Greenpeace ombudsman in the panorama was charmed by the chinchilla fragrance. And this sentence contains seven words of seven or more letters. And they all have something very unusual in common. I asked what is it and can you give me an eighth word with the same property? Well in each case you can - each of those words you can delete some of the interior letters to leave the name of a country. So Benjamin leaves Benin. Greenpeace leaves Greece et cetera. And of the words that people gave us I think the most common ones were Latinos leaving Laos and turnkey leaving Turkey. My favorite alternative word was bestialize which leaves Belize.  OK we got 500 responses. And our winner this week is Mike Strong of Mechanicsburg Ps. Hey Mike congratulations.  Thank you very much Lulu.  So you have won the puzzle before?  Yeah. I won one of Will's very interesting creative challenges about three years ago.  Well what do you do in Mechanicsburg?  I am a software engineer. I write software. It is called C software. It is software that engineers use to predict how their designs will work on a computer before they are actually made.  So that sounds like it would lend itself to being good at puzzles.  Well it definitely lends itself to being interested in puzzles.   All right we will see now if you are indeed good at puzzles.  All right Mike every answer today is a word that contains part of the human body in the exact middle. For example if I said a group of Native Americans starting with T and ending with E you would say tribe because between the T and the E is rib.  OK.  All right number one is word starts with E and ends in Y. And it means a mournful poem.  An elegy.  Elegy with leg in the middle is right. W is at the start. And Y is at the end. And it means tired.  It means tired? Weary.  That is it with ear. Starting with A and ending in G. And it means very sore.  OK.  Very sore starting with A and ending in G.  Aching.  Aching with chin good. Starting with E-L and ending in S-E. And it is a geometrical shape.  Elipse.  With Lip. Starting with L-E and ending in E-S. And it means beans and peas.  Legumes legumes.  That is it with gum inside.  .  Starting with R-E and A-L. And it means an opposing argument in a debate.  Rebuttal.  Rebuttal with a butt. That is right.  Butt.  Starting with...   This reduces me to being a teenager. But we said butt on air all of us.   Here's your next one. Starting with O-B and ending in T-E. It means out of date.  Obsolete.  That is it with sole. R-A and ending S-S. And it is quality of a harsh voice.  Raspiness.  That is it with spine inside. And here's your last one starting F-L-A and ending E-S-S. And it means showy display.  Flemboy .  It is four letters a four-letter body part. And it is part of your leg.  Flakiness?  Something that lightning does. Or it - or light does this too when it goes on and off.  I am drawing a blank.  That would be the verb form of the answer.  Right.  Yeah yeah. All right Mike I want you to get this last one. So what is the - what do you call the lower part of the leg?  Shin.  There you go.  Flashiness.  Flashiness is it good job.  OK.  All right you did a really good job Mike.  Well thanks Lulu. Thanks for the help.  Yeah congratulations. You are my favorite kind of puzzle guest - the one that does not require me to give bad hints . For playing our puzzle today you will get a WEEKEND EDITION lapel pin as well as puzzle books and games. You can read all about it at npr.orgpuzzle. And Mike what member station do you listen to?  My wife and I are members of WITF in Harrisburg.  Wonderful. Mike Strong of Mechanicsburg Ps. Thank you for playing The Puzzle.  Thank you.  All right Will what is next week's challenge?  Yeah. It is a spin off of my on-air puzzle. Think of a familiar two-word phrase starting with T and ending with S in which the interior letters name part of the human body. Remove the first and last letters of that word and what remains will name another part of the human body. So what is the phrase and what are the body parts? So again a familiar two-word phrase starting with T ending with S in which the interior letters name part of the human body. Then you remove the first and last letters of that word and what remains will name another part of the human body. What is the phrase and what are the body parts?  Lots of body parts lately. All right when you have the answer go to our website npr.orgpuzzle and click on the Submit Your Answer link. Just one entry per person please. Our deadline for entries is Thursday June 22 at 3 p.m. Eastern. Include a phone number where we can reach you at about that time. And if you are the winner we will give you a call. And you will get to play on the air with the puzzle editor of The New York Times and WEEKEND EDITION's puzzlemaster Will Shortz. Thanks so much Will.  Thank you Lulu.  