 This weekend at the Belmont Stakes I will Have Another is trying to capture horse racing's coveted Triple Crown. And many people will be cheering for the 3-year-old chestnut thoroughbred to win. Commentator Frank Deford will not be one of them.  To be perverse I would suggest that for the horse racing industry it would be best that I will Have Another does not - yes does not - win the Triple Crown this Saturday. Oh certainly absolutely every year you want a horse to win the first two races - the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness - so that suspense builds and a horse has a chance to win the Belmont and take the Triple Crown. But is not it better to have the potential winner barely get beat so that the losing streak continues building interest? It is now been 34 years since we had a winner. And someday soon someone will start to call it the curse of the Triple Crown. Terrific! Curses are even more attention-getting than streaks. I mean suppose I will Have Another does win Saturday. Next year if another horse heads into the Belmont going for the crown everybody will just say ho-hum they did that last year what is the big deal? OK that is perversity. Now specificity. I do not want I will Have Another to win the Belmont. Oh he is a terrific little horse and his jockey Mario Gutierrez provides us with a wonderfully uplifting story. To horse and rider I say good luck godspeed and if you win every race but the Belmont good for you. But the people in charge of I will Have Another do not deserve the honor. The trainer is Doug O'Neill - a charming enough character but a drug cheat nonetheless. In fact he must start a 45-day suspension on July 1st in California. Illinois has already suspended him. He is been fined nine times for horses testing over the regulatory threshold. Perhaps most grievous horses he trains break down at twice the normal rate. I will Have Another's owner is J. Paul Reddam who is invariably described as a former philosophy professor - which he was - as if he still strolls the hills and dales alone contemplating his favorite philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein. More recently though Reddam is president of CashCall which refinances dubious mortgages. Three states have challenged him over violations of consumer protection laws. West Virginia has charged him with breaking usury laws assessing annual interest as high as - yes - 99 percent. All right no official against judgment has yet been rendered against Reddam. But when the ethical standards of both men are taken together cannot we simply say After 34 years should not a Triple Crown champion possess a better human pedigree? Wittgenstein opined once I sit astride life like a bad rider on a horse. I only owe it to the horse's good nature that I am not thrown off at this very moment. I am sorry but I hope both O'Neil and Reddam get bucked at the Belmont. There is so much drug abuse in the sport so many shady shenanigans that when it comes to that next horse who finally wins the Triple Crown I will take another.   And if you want another chance to hear Frank Deford listen on Wednesdays. Frank Deford joins us each Wednesday here on MORNING EDITION. His latest book is a memoir Over Time My Life as a Sportswriter. This is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am David Greene.  And I am Renee Montagne. 