 Time to check in with StoryCorps and another chapter from the Military Voices Initiative honoring veterans who served in Iraq and Afghanistan and also their families.   On this Father's Day weekend we bring you the story of one dad's journey. Robert Stokely's son Mike served in the Georgia Army National Guard and deployed to Iraq in 2005. Robert came to StoryCorps to talk about waiting for his son's deployment to end.  While he was in Iraq at night I could not sleep. I used to look at the moon a lot and I told Mike when you see the moon know that eight hours later I will see it too and I will think about you. August 8 2005 he called me. I remember telling him are you still coming home in two weeks? I cannot take this anymore. He said I love you and I will see you soon. And those were the last words I heard from him. Mike was struck by a roadside bomb and died there on the side of the road. I felt guilty I was not there to hold him when he died and comfort him. I felt guilty I was not able to protect him. So I just had to go there and see what this place looked like. I just wanted to see where my son died. And I could not live if I did not go. Our security team picked us up in Amman Jordan and we flew into Baghdad the next day. That night we stayed at a safe-house. I sat on the roof for hours and I just looked at the moon overhead. I thought I am 16 miles away. I am so close. I had an engraved piece of marble that weighed about 45 pounds. I just wanted to set it beside the road where my son breathed his last breath. And the next morning we got up very early and we cleared four Iraqi army checkpoints. And we got to the fifth one and it was just so dangerous they would not let us through and they turned us back. So we were unable to get there. I wanted to kneel where Mike fell and touch that spot. I did not get to do that. Maybe God had a reason why I did not go that last mile and a half but I did get to ride some of the same roads Mike rode. So rather than feeling sorry that I did not get there I am going to be happy that I got that close. I got close enough.   Robert Stokely remembering his 2011 journey to Iraq to visit the place where his son Sergeant Michael Stokely was killed. His story was recorded in Atlanta as part of the Military Voices Initiative. Like all StoryCorps interviews it is archived at the Library of Congress. You can download the StoryCorps podcast at npr.org.   You are listening to WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. 