 Ninety-five-year-old Virginia Chandler was leading a pretty active life in her assisted-living facility in Albany Ore. until the coronavirus shut everything down. Three months on restrictions are beginning to loosen and Ms. Chandler can now have visitors. She can even leave to run errands. She has to get permission first. That annoys her. But as a former nurse Virginia Chandler understands why the lockdown was necessary. She told us about the restrictions under which she lives.  We can see almost anyone as long as we stay 6 feet away from them. We cannot go to another area. For instance my friend is very ill. They do not believe that she will live much longer. I would love to go visit her but I cannot. And this is not just from my Mennonite home. This is true by the state. I mean the state has laid down the rules and then we are to follow what they want done. And by the way every governor has a different idea and a different way of handling it. Some are opening their doors to everything and anything and that is not wise either.  Yeah. So do take your meals with friends?  Yes but we can only one at a table.  One at a table.  So we say hello to each other.  Yeah. As you may have heard about more than 25 of the people who have died from coronavirus are in nursing homes and assisted-care facilities.  Yes.  Do you feel safe?  I feel safe as far as people here. They are very good.  So you are not worried about the coronavirus.  I am concerned from different standpoints. I am 95 in December and so I am ready for the end of my life and prepared for it. I am concerned that people are treated well. And I hope that our country begins to look at what is happening economically medically emotionally. Emotions is the big problem right now because we have been locked up and down for such a long time. And if we want to go like say to a picnic - for instance one of my great-granddaughters is graduating from high school. I would love to go to her graduation. I would love to go to her home for a party afterwards but I am not going to be able to.  Yeah. Well you know the experts say those restrictions are for your own safety.  Oh yes of course. Yeah but that is for your physical. And we are not made up of just the physical. We are made up of emotional psychological ways of expressing ourselves so we are not an animal of physical side alone.  Yeah. It sounds like a tough way to live but that you are very tough in your mind too.  Well yes it is pretty hard to get up at the beginning of the day and know that you are not going to do anything except to eat or watch something on TV. And so it makes for a long day. And once you have gone through months like we have and continue to look like we will it looks like a never-ending plague. It is not pleasant.  I wish I could say something of comfort but you would not be fooled by that would you?   No. Nobody can fool somebody who is 95 years old no .  Virginia Chandler a retired nurse who is an assisted-living resident in Albany Ore. thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you. 