 In the United States there is this fierce debate over the detention of thousands of migrants and the separation of migrant children from their parents. In Mexico there is condemnation. That nation is set to elect a new leader on July 1 and all the candidates have expressed outrage and members of Mexico's congress are calling to stop immigration and security coordination with the United States. Joining us now is Lulu Garcia-Navarro. She is the host of NPR's Weekend Edition Sunday and she is been reporting from Mexico City this week. Hi Lulu.  Hi.  All right. So Mexican politicians are speaking out. What is the reaction in that country in general with everything we have been reporting on here?  You know David there is an enormous amount of outrage. They take it very personally here. In editorials in newspapers commentary on the radio it is garnered a huge amount of attention as well. We went to a protest outside the U.S. Embassy yesterday. Take a listen to what they were chanting.   .  You know they are chanting no to children in cages children need to be in classrooms stop kidnapping our children let our people go.  And they use the term kidnapping. That is...  They use the term kidnapping. And here's protester Gabriela Contreras who was crying when she spoke to us.   A baby does not deserve to suffer what they are suffering in a cage as if they are an animal. A dog does not deserve that cage much less a baby without their parents. It hurts a lot. That is why we are here.  Wow. Well Lulu let me just ask. I mean the Trump administration obviously had a lot of different messages about the zero tolerance policy. But at times officials said it was in part to be a deterrent that the hope was that migrants might change their mind about coming to the U.S. illegally. Is that happening?  You know President Trump's zero tolerance policy is having real blowback here David. Migrants with children especially feel trapped in Mexico because of course this is where they transit towards the United States coming from Central America. And they are afraid of going to the border and losing their kids or being prosecuted. We visited a shelter yesterday and it is more than doubled its capacity and they expect even more migrants to sort of wait it out here. But you have to remember Mexico's in the midst of its own crisis of violence and officials say it does not have the capacity to take people fleeing from Central America in. And you know we interviewed a woman yesterday. She is got two kids. She is pregnant. She fled Honduras because her ex-partner beat her and threatened her and he basically tracked her down to Mexico she told us. And she says she is not safe here and she is terrified but she does not want to go to the United States right now and have her kids taken away so she does not know what to do.  How much is the United States playing in terms of being a factor in this presidential election that you are covering?  You know this election is not about the United States and Trump. It is about violence and corruption. But Mexico's relationship with the United States looms large. Mexicans are extremely unhappy about how the current Mexican government has dealt with President Trump and it feels that it is been doing a lot. It already stops half of all Central American migrants from getting to the United States.  Lula Garcia-Navarro is the host of Weekend Edition Sunday. She is in Mexico City covering the run-up to the presidential election there. Lulu thanks.  You are welcome. 