 Don Gonyea is NPR's political correspondent but for many years he was based in Detroit and that is where he first met and interviewed Jack Kevorkian. Don Gonyea good morning.  Good morning.  So tell me about - do you remember the very first time you met Dr. Kevorkian?  She sought him out. He helped her to die in a state park in Michigan. I talked to him early that morning after getting the word. And let us just hear a little bit when I asked him about what he had done and the controversy that it stirred up.   I do not crave publicity you know. I just want to be able to work. Leave me alone. Let me do 10 20 cases 100 cases. Let me establish the thing. That is all I want. But you cannot do it I guess you know. Emotionalism causes all this.  And as you said he did ultimately admit to 130 but none of us has an exact count. We do not know if there were others.  Those 130 now - of those assisted suicides he was never actually convicted of assisting in a suicide.  Again not because he had not admitted violating the law but because they would play the videotape that he would make kind of the exit interview that he would do with this patient explaining their excruciating pain or how Lou Gehrig's disease was affecting their life or how the bone cancer was making it impossible for them to have any quality of life. He was always acquitted. He in effect had license to continue to do as many assisted suicides as he wanted.  He did finally go to jail. He was convicted as we said of second degree murder. What happened?  He was interviewing a patient and in the middle of the interview which he videotaped he said why do not you just have me do the injection. The patient said fine. He videotaped himself doing the injection. He sent the tape to 60 Minutes. It says he was not satisfied with being able to carry out this practice that he would started. He wanted to push the limits further. He found out what the jury's limits were. He was convicted of second degree murder.  And just quickly you covered all his trials. What do you think his legacy will be?  It is interesting because he certainly put this issue on the map in a very big way. But his critics also say he put a very scary face on it. And I think those two things compete.  Okay. Don thanks so much.  Pleasure.  That is NPR's Don Gonyea talking about Jack Kevorkian who died today age 83. This is NPR News. 