 The Greek debt crisis took a dramatic turn this weekend. The country abruptly broke off talks with its eurozone creditors who had insisted on more austerity in exchange for bailout loans. In an almost desperate move the government turned to the people. Parliament voted late last night to hold a public referendum on the country's economic future on July 5. But Greece's current bailout program ends Tuesday and that is setting Greece up for default. That stake in all this - whether Greece can remain part of the 19-nation eurozone. Joanna Kakissis has our story from Athens.  The line outside the ATM was long full of nervous people wondering if it had cash. Yiannis Trouptsios an 87-year-old widower was in the middle asking people if they knew how to use the machine. He usually goes to the bank but he worried banks would not open on Monday.   Our politicians were saying do not panic. Do not take your money out of the bank. Then I see them on TV taking money out of the cash machines in Parliament. I do not know what to say.  Trouptsios is a retired accountant and he is lost half his pension in the last five years. He is confused about the referendum and what would happen if he voted no to the bailout and austerity.   I hope we do not get kicked out of the euro. And it is just about economics. We will be isolated. We are surrounded by countries like Turkey and Albania - not friendly countries. If we are cut off from Europe what is going to happen?  Dimitris Kostoulas a 35-year-old civil engineer waits in his car as his wife waits in the ATM line. You have been to many ATMs today?  Yeah this is the sixth or seventh. In the previous ATMs there were not any money.  Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras in calling the referendum is passing on the hard choices he should make to voters Kostoulas says.  The political cost is something that he did not want to take. I think that is obvious.  Kostoulas' wife - she is a lawyer named Cleopatra Pappas - gets in the back seat with their son cash in hand.   To tell you the truth I am tired of being stressed. Five years now we have been anxious that we are going to go bankrupt. It has not happened but we keep waiting for it.  The couple make half what they did five years ago. Pappas says she is bracing herself for a Greek default and a return to the previous currency - the drachma.   I do not want it to happen because I want the drachma. Quite simply I cannot continue to live in a Eurozone that is essentially offering us nothing.   .  As Greeks worry their politicians screamed at each other in Parliament. The Conservative Party walked out after fighting with the Parliament speaker who is from the Leftist Party now running Greece. The Prime Minister Tsipras told voters to reject any pension cuts and tax hikes imposed by lenders.   .  Many are asking what happens after this referendum he told Parliament. With a clear know we will have a much stronger negotiating position. But that may backfire with the eurozone. Some leaders have said Greece has closed the door on talks. In his empty patisserie Dimitris Zografos says he is avoiding the news. It is just too depressing. He wants to stay in the Eurozone but does not see how Greece can do so now.  .  The only thing that I understand is that Greece in the Eurozone cannot talk to each other he says. We are right and they are right too but each side lives in its own world. For NPR News I am Joanna Kakissis in Athens. 