 NPR's Sylvia Poggioli begins our coverage.  Taxi driver Nikos Pappas heard on TV that every day 1000 people lose their jobs. Like them he says he cannot make ends meet.  For example now I take for my job 1200 euros per month. And you say to me now you must take only 1000. And after six months - he told me again - now 800. Yes but the taxes is up and everything is up. The gasoline is up. Okay? How I pay?  Andreas Leonidis is a young researcher who works only part-time.  Everybody here what brought them together here that you had a climate which escalated mostly due to harsh economic restrictions imposed on the Greek people cutbacks on pensions salaries and so on. People are you know their reaction - which was quite primal at the beginning - has grown and has matured quite substantially through the past weeks.  But the villain is not just the government. Protestors are also angry with Europe.  Right now what is being done is that most powerful economy within the E.U. Germany is imposing very strict economic policy which in terms of economic crisis it is really absurd. We sometimes feel like guinea pigs you know like we are part of an experiment in which pretty soon other nations other people will take part Portugal Spain Ireland Italy Belgium.  And it is not just protestors in the square who single out Germans. Lycas Constantin runs a tourist agency. He says the bailout crisis has inspired new prejudices against Greeks.  They have their opinion. They have an established idea that we robbed them their money. They work for us. And this is very very very catastrophic - very bad.  Economic journalist Antonis Papagiannidis says that as the crisis spiraled Europeans held many emergency meetings but remained divided and unable to take action.  European leaders fudged the question and tried to evade the answers. Now with the Greek situation we see that Europe's leaders such as they are work through hysteria through fear and through panics.  More and more people are asking themselves - Papagiannidis says - who exactly is deciding that Greeks have to make big sacrifices.  Faceless entities at the rating agencies. Or the system the banking system which have no democratic accountability nor physical presence. And this is not a good thing for a democratic society to happen.  Sylvia Poggioli NPR News Athens. 