 There is a little something missing when the music septet Naturally 7 gets together. Now listen to this see if you can guess.   Gentlemen thanks so much.  Thank you thank you.  Really honored to have you having seen you perform on the Paris subways.   At least on that famous YouTube clip. Could I get each of you to introduce yourselves in turn and also with the instrument that you mimic?  All right. I am Hops and I mimic the bass guitar.   And beautifully tuned. Yes.  I am Warren most of the time I am doing drums something like...   I am Rod and I am the...    I am Garfield and I am the harmonica harmonica.   Mr. DWIGHT STEWART  I am Dwight your baritone.    And I am Roger. Can like the romp in the group but instrument played and wall sound is the...   This is amazing. Armand Hops Hutton...  Hey.  Where did you get that voice?   I mean does everybody in your family have a voice like that?  Nah not really. I have been this way ever since I was born. I kind of came out the womb mama.   That was your voice mama.  Kind of scared people yeah. Growing up it was difficult because whenever I would try to talk to a girl on the phone and the father would answer they would say wait a second this cannot be the fifth grader in my daughter's class.   So it was a little difficult getting a girlfriend in that respect. But other than that it is been a blessing.  I first saw you what I guess is now a famous YouTube clip of you folks singing on the Paris subway. Gradually people are just sitting there in their own worlds and they turn away but eventually they all get together. How did that come about?  We wish we could say it was our idea but while we were in France one of the executives from the record label had said after we sang probably at a restaurant we just sang kind of for her and she was like wow. She said I have got an idea. Would you tomorrow during rush hour go and sing on the Metro and let us just see what happens? And that is exactly what we did.  Could we get you then to do what you did from the Paris Metro to Studio 4A?  Here it is.   I can feel it in air tonight. Can you feel it in the air tonight? Oh oh oh oh. 'ecause if you feel in the air tonight. Right because I keep it cue. I can feel it coming...  Gosh that is a wonderful song. And I predict that Miley Cyrus will not be able to cover it.   Our producers had suggested that you might teach me how to do a little vocal play. You know and look this is a cheap theatrical showbiz gimmick that I would ordinarily reject but I am the father of a six-year-old and a two-year- old and my wife is all about theatrical gimmicks at this point.   If you can teach me to do something to amuse them...  All right. Well...  ...I would be very grateful.  I think we have the perfect thing for to amuse the six year-old for sure.  Yeah. Okay.  You could be the DJ right?  Okay. Yeah.  It is pretty simple.  Yeah. For you.   They are all looking in the control room at me like now he is really going to fall on his face yes?  You are just going just repeat after me.  Okay.  Okay?  Mm-hmm.  Say hear it.  Hear it.  Say ho-what?  Ho-what?  Hear it.  Hear it.  Ho-what?  Ho-what?  Hear it.  Hear it.  Ho-what?  Ho-what?  Hear it. Hear it. Hear it. Ho-what? Ho-what? Ho-what?  Hear it. Hear it. Hear it. Ho-what? Ho-what...   Sounds like Bugs Bunny.  That was getting there.   Oh yeah. I know if she is listening now my wife however wants to crawl under a table.   Tell me about touring. There was this little matter of a fire on your tour bus right?  Yeah.  A little matter.  What happened?  We were all sleeping in the bus. The next thing I know we hear the bus driver saying get off the bus get off the bus. The bus is on fire.  Gosh.  Within minutes the whole inner part of the cabin was you know engulfed in flames. It did not take very long at all. It was pretty hair- raising.  Fortunately none of our instruments were destroyed in the fire.   But now Roger I understand your instrument escaped in his pajamas.  Boy that sounds dreadful. Take two. Roger?  It was one of those things where as Hops just said it I felt like this was probably just a little smoke thing. It is not till we got off the bus that you look back at the bus and you say only what we have.  You have a last song you are going to perform for us which I am very eager to hear.  Yes. And this one is just a little ode to Simon and Garfunkel. Our father was like listen to lyrics. Listen to these lyrics. These guys are great writers. So here it is.    April come she will. When streams are ripe and swelled with rain May she will stay resting in my arms again. Uh-huh. August die she must yeah. The autumn winds blow chilly and cold September I will remember a love once new has now now now grown old. Ooh.  And there is more from Naturally 7 on our Web site nprmusic.org.    Bless this house. Oh Lord we pray. Make it safe by night and day. Bless be...  This WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. 