  The Fourth of July is just around the corner so take cover.     Tchaikovsky's 1812 Overture will be heard from coast to coast complete with fireworks and cannons. But how did a Russian composition depicting the rout of Napoleon's army end up as the unofficial soundtrack for our most American holiday? NPR's Scott Simon got the answer from two experts.  Keith Lockhart the famed music director of the Boston Pops. Maestro thanks for being with us.  Scott it is a pleasure.  And David Mugar who is executive producer of the Boston Pops Fireworks Spectacular. Thank you for speaking with us.  Thank you Scott.  So Mr. Mugar this all traces back to you and the great Arthur Fiedler?  Yes it does back to the year of 1973. The concerts that were being held by Esplanade were declining in popularity and they needed something to jumpstart their interest to the public. And for some reason I just thought of the idea of having the 1812 Overture played the next July 4th of 1974 and suggested the idea to Arthur and he thought that would sound great.  I mean most people want to put a little pop in their concert you know they are thinking of balloon animals or you know something like that for the kids. What made you think of cannons?  Well actually I believe their score. Keith you would know that. I am not sure whether Tchaikovsky has it in the musical score or not. I think he does.  Yes. Yes. The piece was originally intended - as you probably know Scott to celebrate the Russian victory over the French in their war of 1812 not even our war of 1812.   It is a kind of unusual piece for its time. It was never Tchaikovsky's favorite piece of his own - far from it actually. But it was meant for big outdoor festivals and includes parts for cannons and for church bells. And since we were in a big outdoor space where it was possible to fire off cannons and to ring live church bells up and down the Back Bay area of Boston I think they thought well if there is any peace that is going to draw some outdoor interest it is the 1812 Overture.  It just occurs to me as we are sitting here Maestro have you ever conducted this piece in Russia?  No. That is a very interesting question and I will tell you a little bit of the story that has nothing to do with that. And my score I have done the piece - as you can imagine for 19 straight here in Boston done it several other times of course it is a signature piece for the Pops. But the original score that I learned from as an eager young conductor the first time I had to cover this work is missing the Czarist Hymn. I had to have it put back in. When I found out about this did a little digging and figured out it was a Soviet edition from the kind of late Stalinist era and they had purged the Czarist Hymn. Now La Marseillaise was still in there. The French music was still in there but they had just conveniently left it out and that was such a strange transposition of politics in music.     You do not hear a good czarist anthem as much as you used to do you?   No. No. They have kind of gone out of favor. But there is at least one that people know and that is the opening choral to 1812.  Who gets to fire the cannons?  Well it is done by the Massachusetts National Guard and as a throwback to a lot of memories on the Esplanade. We have been friendly with Peter Fiedler an official with Boston University. And we...  And Arthur Fieldler's son.  Yes. I am sorry. Thank you Keith.  And he also looks with every passing year more like his father.  He does.  Sometimes we are just going to put them on the stage and pretend that Arthur Fiedler has joined us again.   So I asked Peter to help conduct the cannons and he loves to do it and plays a major role there in the 16 cannon shots for choir at the end of the 1812 Overture.  Nineteen times. Maestro you never get tired of this piece?  Well it is a great tradition. It is very funny that because of Boston doing this it has become ubiquitous. And really if you go to any small town orchestra in the country it is considered de rigueur that you perform the 1812 Overture during a July 4th concert. And most people do not know of course where that comes from. The fact is though it is become an expected part - along with the great patriotic songs in the Sousa march The Stars and Stripes Forever- of what we do and it is wonderful to get a half-million people so excited about a celebration with an orchestra that is center in heart.  Let me ask you both a question. Without putting you on the spot are you both Red Sox fans?  Oh very much so.  Yes.  Are you ever tempted to turn the cannons toward Yankee Stadium?   I do not think they have that kind of a range. And there are blanks. And besides that would be a you know an unsportsmanlike thing to do.   Keith Lockhart the famed music director of the Boston Pops and David Mugar executive producer of the Boston Fireworks Spectacular joining us from WBUR. Gentlemen thank you. Have a wonderful Fourth of July.  Thanks Scott. You as well.  Thank you. You too.     And this is NPR's WEEKEND EDITION. I am Lynn Neary.  