 We may have observed it yesterday. But today is the day - Juneteenth America's newest national holiday.  It commemorates an end to slavery in the U.S. two years after the Emancipation Proclamation.  I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Scott Simon. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   This day does not just celebrate the past. It calls for action today.  Juneteenth is the first new federal holiday to be designated by Congress in nearly four decades. Could its bipartisan approval mean cooperation on things like infrastructure?  There is a lawsuit that could tangle up elections across the U.S. We will tell you why it could affect your vote.  And we are watching Iran's presidential vote so we will take you to Tehran.  Please stay with us. We will give you the news you need to start your weekend.   Abraham Lincoln's signature on the Emancipation Proclamation declared slavery in the Confederacy to be over in January of 1863. And Robert E. Lee's signature on his surrender at Appomattox in April of 1865 meant the end of the Civil War was near.  But it was not until June 19 of that year when the Union Army arrived in Galveston Texas that enslaved people there learned they were free.  The date has been remembered as Freedom Day America's second Independence Day and Juneteenth which is how it seems Americans will most often refer to their newest federal holiday.  It is officially Juneteenth National Independence Day just like Ayesha Rascoe is officially NPR White House correspondent Ayesha Rascoe. But we will just call her Ayesha. Thanks for being with us. Happy Juneteenth.  Thanks for having me.  And let us start please with that Juneteenth legislation. It just seemed like that rare thing at the Capitol. It happened so quickly. The president signed the bill into law under general consensus and it took effect really within hours. How is the creation of this new federal holiday being received?  In many places there is been celebration. Let us not forget that this holiday was something that Black lawmakers had been pushing for for decades and many activists as well including 94-year-old Opal Lee who is known as the grandmother of Juneteenth. And for the most part this was extremely bipartisan which we know is unusual for Congress at this point. It was unanimous in the Senate. Only 14 Republicans voted against it in the House. But I do have to note there are some civil rights activists who have raised concerns. They point out that this is happening you know even as voting rights are being curtailed in their view around the country. They do not want federal action addressing the effects of slavery and Jim Crow and institutionalized racism to end at making Juneteenth a federal holiday.  Look. I have been using the word infrastructure every week for years now. There does seem...   Yes.  There does seem to be some movement in Congress right? And is that in any way connected to the kind of unusual amity we saw on the Juneteenth vote?  Not exactly. It does not seem that way. It seems that you know President Biden had been trying to work out something with Republicans and that had fallen apart. Now you do have this bipartisan group of 10 senators working on a more narrow package that would fund physical infrastructure like roads and bridges. But even then you have this alternative track where you have some Democrats who are working on a backup plan that would be extremely expansive - reportedly as much as 6 trillion dollars - including lowering the age for Medicare to 60 and expanding benefits for all Medicare beneficiaries to cover dental hearing and vision care.  The Supreme Court third ruling upheld the Affordable Care Act. The vote was not even close. It was seven to two. Is this the last gasp to try to overturn Obamacare?  Not exactly. There are other pending challenges to the act. Some of them target key provisions like requiring health insurance companies to cover certain preventative services. So it does not stop these other challenges from going forward. And the fact that you did have two justices who dissented - Neil Gorsuch and Samuel Alito - shows that there are some conservatives who would be open and amenable to some of these arguments. Politically though the idea of undoing Obamacare is very different than what it was in the past. And you had Republicans during the last Supreme Court fight to get Amy Coney Barrett on the bench saying nobody's trying to get rid of Obamacare  you know trying to say that to the public. So it is a very different political atmosphere than it was in the past.  NPR White House correspondent Ayesha Rascoe thanks so much.  Thank you.  And for more information and the whole NPR politics crew check out the NPR Politics Podcast.   Federal court in Alabama is expected to rule soon on a lawsuit that could cause major delays to upcoming elections around the U.S.  The legal fight is over the 2020 census data used for redrawing voting districts.  The pandemic and last-minute schedule changes by the Trump administration have already delayed the release of that data for months.  And this lawsuit by the state of Alabama over the Census Bureau's data privacy protection plans is threatening to pile on more complications. NPR's census correspondent Hansi Lo Wang joins us now from New York. Hello. HANSI LO WANG  Good morning Lulu.  All right. The Census Bureau is supposed to release new redistricting data soon. What exactly is Alabama asking the courts to do about that?  Well we are talking about the second major set of 2020 census results that at the moment are expected out by August 16. And that is about five months later than originally planned. And what Alabama is asking a three-judge court to do is put out an emergency order that would force the Census Bureau to release this data by the end of July and stop the bureau from putting in place new protections for keeping people anonymous in this detailed demographic data about people's race ethnicity and other characteristics. They are used to redraw voting maps including four congressional districts and all the way down to city council districts.  So Alabama wants this data earlier. Why is the state also challenging the Census Bureau's data privacy protection plans then?  Alabama is arguing that the Bureau's new way of keeping people's information confidential will make the redistricting data unusable for the redrawing of voting maps. This is based on early analysis of some preliminary test data. Now Alabama filed this lawsuit back in March and the Bureau has been adjusting its plans since then. In fact last week the Bureau finalized its privacy plans for redistricting data. And it says this final plan quote ensures the accuracy of data necessary for redistricting and Voting Rights Act enforcement. I should also point out that federal law prohibits the Bureau from releasing personally identifiable census information until 72 years after it is collected. And the Bureau says it is built this new privacy protection system based on a mathematical concept known as differential privacy to try to keep up with advances in computing and the growing amount of data from commercial sources which have made it easier to trace statistics back to an individual. But you know this has been a very contentious process. A lot of researchers and other census data users are worried about how this new system may blur census results about small geographic areas and minority groups and communities. And because of Alabama's lawsuits the courts will have to weigh in. And whatever the three-judge court rules it likely will not be the final word. Federal law allows this court's rulings to be appealed directly to the Supreme Court.  So we have got this legal fight going on with no certain end date and elections on the calendar. I mean that seems like there is going to be a collision.  Yeah. Depending on how this lawsuit turns out we could see a lot of state and local governments push back election dates. Some are already doing that. And that is because to prepare for these elections many redistricting officials are waiting for new 2020 census data to redraw voting districts. And you know here's the big complication. If the courts block the Bureau's current privacy protection plans the Bureau estimates it will take at least half a year to develop new plans. So at this point it is possible that new redistricting data from the 2020 census may not be out until early next year 2022.  That is NPR's Hansi Lo Wang covering the census. Thank you so much.  You are welcome Lulu.   Officials in Iran say that voters there have given an insurmountable lead to a hard-line cleric and judge in the race to be the country's next president.  He is Ebrahim Raisi who also had a past as a prosecutor. The turnout was a big question going into the election. And it was low by Iranian standards with Iranians fatigued by years of sanctions the ongoing pandemic and frustrated - let us say it - by their political leaders.  NPR's Peter Kenyon is in Tehran and joins us. Peter thanks so much for being with us.  Hi Scott.  And what are you able to hear about the vote?  Well state television announced Raisi's all but certain victory. And then the returns came in showing quite a big gap with Raisi far outpacing his nearest rival. There were a few voting glitches some towns had but they were resolved fairly quickly. The supreme leader congratulated everyone on a successful vote. So after the pragmatic Hassan Rouhani it looks like Iran will be turning to a hard-line president one who will serve alongside the hard-line heads of the legislature and the judiciary. So a definite consolidation of power on the right here.  What was the turnout like?  Well according to state television more than 28 million Iranians cast ballots. There were 59 million eligible so well under 50. Some who did not vote said they are protesting the decision by authorities to disqualify some very prominent candidates. Others pointed to the sour economy they have all been living under in recent years. And though basically while in the past authorities have pointed to high turnout rates as proof of the legitimacy of the Iranian regime this election was notable for the relative indifference of the voters.  What is the reaction been like in the country or elsewhere for that matter?  Well here in Iran the reaction from other candidates was quite swift. Along with their congratulations they added OK now do something about the economy. This is the major problem partly due to American sanctions. It was an unavoidable issue with virtually everyone I talked with. They all said getting out from under U.S. sanctions and putting the economy back on track is the most important issue the next president could tackle which is one thing. But how he is going to do that of course is another matter.  Peter what can you tell us about the man who is going to be Iran's next president?  Well Ebrahim Raisi is a hard-line cleric. He is the head of Iran's judiciary. As a judge he was sharply criticized in some quarters for his role in the controversial executions of thousands of political prisoners in the late 1980s. He sometimes referred to as a protege of Supreme Leader Ayatollah Khamenei. He shares many of his hard-line views and he is made no secret of the fact that he would love to be the next supreme leader of Iran.  Peter how are decisions really made though in Iran? Is it by the supreme leader? Can you explain a bit how power is divided in this and whether this really marks any shift in how the country might for example handle relations with the U.S. and the rest of the West?  Well that is a good point Scott. The president in Iran tends to carry out policies shaped and driven by the supreme leader. Now how a Raisi presidency might change engagement with the West - now to some extent that remains to be seen. Some have speculated the foreign ministry could become a little more cautious about negotiating international agreements although so far Raisi's raised no objections to reviving the 2015 nuclear deal for example. Analysts say if those talks in Vienna on restoring the deal do wrap up before August when Rouhani leaves and Raisi will take power then Raisi could just say well that happened on Rouhani's watch and then he could reap the credit for any benefits that Iran sees.  NPR's Peter Kenyon in Tehran. Thanks so much.  Thanks Scott.   And that is UP FIRST for Juneteenth - Saturday June 19. I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Scott Simon. UP FIRST is back on Monday with news to start your week. You can follow us on social media. We are upfirst on Twitter.  And tune in to Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings. This weekend we have got more of the stories you just heard and a pioneering maestra's farewell why critical race theory is suddenly a thing and a world exclusive on Sunday with Megan the Duchess of Sussex. Find your NPR station at stations.npr.org.  And while you are there help us make this podcast even better. You can go to npr.orgpodcastsurvey and tell us what you like and what you do not.  We would love to hear from you. Again the website is npr.orgpodcastsurvey. 