 In Poland voting is underway in the first round of presidential elections after the president Lech Kaczynski died in a plane crash in April. Only two candidates stand a chance of winning. One is Lech Kaczynski's identical twin and former prime minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski. From Warsaw Dave McGuire has the story.  The most remarkable aspect of this presidential campaign is that there really hasnt been much of one. Instead Poland has been preoccupied with what caused the late president's plane to crash. And the country has experienced its deadliest flooding in years. So an already subdued campaign has been almost silenced. Journalist and author Anjay Stankievich says even when the candidates are campaigning they are not saying much. Mr.  It is more about the feelings. Feelings are important in politics but in this campaign there are just feelings and nothing else.  It is the feelings that Poles have about Jaroslaw Kaczynski that matter. Politics in the last decade in Poland have been largely defined by the twins Jaroslaw while he was prime minister and his late brother Lech as president. Lech was the family man the romantic. Jaroslaw was the strategist the one who didnt have a bank account and lived in his mother's house with his cats. But many Poles eventually tired of the twin's leadership finding it divisive and vitriolic. Jaroslaw has to change his image according to his close advisor Jadwiga Staniszkis. Professor  He has to change everything his image because he was seen as a very brutal player and very aggressive.  But now Jaroslaw's story of grief has taken over. Staniszkis says he didnt just lose his identical twin he lost half of his identity. Prof.  Its not just brother who was killed. It was such a unique division of personality emotions located with Lech intelligence and will located with Jaroslaw Kaczynski. And in a sense now he has to rebuild.  Since beginning his campaign in earnest Kaczynski has been notably polite and quiet. He made a personal appeal to the people of Russia asking for friendship. And he is talked a lot about cooperation with his archrivals in the Civic Platform government. But the effort to revamp his image has hit some rough sports.   Mr.    The music of national hero Frederic Chopin plays underneath the first Kaczynski television ad. In it Jaroslaw plants oak saplings and talks about the importance of Poland throughout history. But as journalist Anjay Stankievich explains the appeal to Polish traditions did not ring true. Mr.  To be a real man you have to plant a tree to build a house and to have a son. The problem is that he hasnt built a house cause he still lives with his mother. And he has no family so no son.  Unidentified Man   It is likely that a second round will be necessary between Kaczynski and his main opponent Bronislaw Komorowski meaning Poland will not have a new president until July. For NPR News Im Dave McGuire in Warsaw. 