 But as Jennifer Guerra of Michigan Radio reports when the last place to grab a bite in town closed residents came up with a novel plan.  I am standing at the corner of Main Street and Center Street. It is pretty much considered downtown Ellsworth. If you look around there are vacant storefronts everywhere. There is the old bait shop that closed up a few months ago. Down the street is the Ellsworth grocery and deli that shut down about a year ago. Even the used car lot is pretty empty. It is only got only four cars for sale. So it is pretty quiet here in Ellsworth. That is until you step inside a place called The Front Porch cafe.   Unidentified Woman What would you like?  Unidentified Woman Okay.  Unidentified Woman Hmm. Sure can.  Unidentified Woman We have coconut peanut butter chocolate cream lemon meringue.  And a group of old-timers in the back.   Now ever since the cafe opened last fall they have been here every single morning for coffee. Larry Isenberg admits they have not always had it this good.  I mean the bait shop served just coffee and pretty main stuff I guess as you would call it.   You heard right. The bait shop - that is where they used to meet for coffee after the Ellsworth Diner closed early last year and the Ellsworth Grocery and deli a couple of weeks after that.  It was just kind of depressing.  That is Bob Felton. He is in charge of outreach at the local Christian Reform Church. He said the town desperately needed a place where neighbors could catch up with one another preferably over a decent cup of coffee and a cheap meal. So he decided it was time for the church to get into the restaurant business.  We kind of have this joke at church that if you want to get people together bring food. And early on as we presented the vision to people there were some who said I would never start a restaurant anytime. Let alone in this kind of an economic climate. And from our perspective that was the perfect time to do it.  The Front Porch cafe is a nonprofit and nondenominational restaurant. Aside from the cooked staff everyone who works here is a volunteer the waiters busboys hosts. Bob Vollmer volunteers on Thursdays. He owns the used car lot across the street and says ever since the cafe opened people from all over Michigan has come through town.  Two people from Charlevoix came over and had breakfast here. None of them had intended to buy a car that day. It was not the reason to come to Ellsworth. But by the end of the day they had come back and bought each of them bought a car.   Nobody thinks one small non-profit cafe and a couple of used car sales can resuscitate a town like Ellsworth. Some say it could just be postponing the inevitable. But John Hastings says the cafe can make a difference. He is the town's undertaker and volunteers at the cafe.  When this place is closed the town is absolutely - you could shoot a cannon down the street.  For NPR News I am Jennifer Guerra.  And to see this you should make the drive to Ellsworth for some Front Porch pie. Head first through our Web site at npr.org. 