 Tens of thousands of people are gathering in Belgium for the 200th anniversary of the Battle of Waterloo. That bloody conflict was the final defeat for Napoleon by a coalition of his enemies. The re-enactment is drawing fans of history want-to-be-soldiers and tourists and though he may have lost Napoleon is still a big draw. NPR's Eleanor Beardsley was there and sent this report.  With 6000 people dressed in period costumes wandering around the countryside near Waterloo there were bound to be a few interesting situations...   .  .  ...Like when Napoleon jumped out of a car at an intersection where the police had blocked a road. A crowd begins to gather as the spunky 19th century French Emperor takes on modern-day Belgian traffic cops. We have got Napoleon here says one policeman into his walkie-talkie.   The fervor for Waterloo is huge and the re-enactors take it very seriously. For the last week they have been living in camps or bivouacs and holding drills cooking in cast-iron pots over campfires and soaking in the atmosphere. Matthias Kretchmar has been dressing as a Prussian officer and participating in mock battles for the past 25 years. He says playing this role especially at Waterloo is intoxicating.  This is a history you can touch you can feel and you can live inside. It is not only a book you can read. You can have the taste you can have the feeling.  Emilio Multari from Bordeaux says re-enacting a battle is like stepping into another life. The adrenaline and stress of the battle transport you and it is sometimes hard not to want to rewrite history.   Especially because we know their mistakes. We know how close this battle was. For instance if Napoleon could have stopped the Prussians from linking up with the British in Wellington the outcome would have been completely different.   .  Re-enactors in Napoleon's Imperial Guard sing songs from the time about the hardships they endure. Soldiers from all sides were exhausted and famished. The only thing there was plenty of was wine. Napoleon may have lost the battle of Waterloo and spent the remainder of his life in exile but people of every nationality here are fascinated by the emperor's image of self-made man and military genius. Historian Howard Brown who is written about Napoleon says the French general inspired complete loyalty from his troops because he promoted him on merit and got down in the dirt with them.  Napoleon does not work like Wellington did strictly through the officers and distain the men. He was quick to get onto the field of battle after the carnage and find heroes and decorate them in front of others at all ranks.  .  .  Many women are playing male soldiers in the re-enactment. They are also playing women of the day. Uta Grab and Nicole Mayer who describe themselves as Prussians are pulling children in a wagon with baskets of bread on their backs. You are a wife of a soldier?  Yeah.  Is this how it worked? The wives came?  Yeah  And gave water and a little bit of food and everything.  But when it was very violent did they run away? Or...  No they stayed there.  Yeah.   But they did not bring their children.  Sometimes sure.  Sometimes yes because they could not stay alone.  The whole family.   The re-enactment is glorious. Colorful soldiers on horseback sweep across the green wheat fields as cannons fire and 100000 spectators look on from grandstands. The real battle of Waterloo was one of Europe's bloodiest. In one day in a small area of farmland some 50000 men and 10000 horses lay dead and dying. Eleanor Beardsley NPR News Waterloo Belgium. 