 There is something Republicans and Democrats agree on. America's roads and bridges are a mess.  But who should pay to fix them? What we know about the trillion-dollar negotiations as they stretch on. I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Scott Simon. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   President Biden and Republican lead negotiator Senator Shelley Moore Capito meet again Monday. Will this be known as infrastructure weekend?  Meanwhile Facebook says Donald Trump will not be allowed on its platform until 2023.  At the earliest - they say the former president is a risk to public safety. We have got the details.  And our reporter in East Africa on Ethiopian elections overshadowed by horrific violence.  Stay with us. We have got the news you need to start your weekend.   President Biden and West Virginia's Republican senator Shelley Moore Capito have been trading proposals on an infrastructure package that would promote jobs and boost the economy.  But - and this is no surprise - they disagree on the numbers. President Biden initially proposed a more-than-2-trillion investment into roads bridges broadband the electric grid and other things. Republicans would like a smaller more targeted proposal.  And once both sides agree on what should be in the bill they will have to decide how to pay for it. NPR congressional correspondent Kelsey Snell is following the talks and joins us now. Good morning.  Good morning.  All right. President Biden and Senator Capito are spending a lot of time together but are they getting anywhere?  You know they each did make some concessions this week. And you know that is generally a marker of an actual negotiation not just the veneer of trying to get a deal. So they are to some degree making progress. Earlier in the week Biden offered to drop his plan to increase the top corporate tax rate to pay for the plan. Instead he offered to add a 15 minimum tax on corporations. Republicans took that back and considered it and returned to the table Friday for a phone call. At the time Shelley Moore Capito offered to add about 50 billion to the existing GOP offer which is a little over 900 billion. Though I should say only about 250 billion of that is new spending which is just a small fraction of it. And that has been kind of a hurdle for the negotiations so far. It sounds like Biden was not too moved by that. The statement from the White House said that Biden indicated the current offer did not meet his objectives to grow the economy tackle the climate crisis and create new jobs.  You know initially the White House was saying they could come to some agreement by Monday. How is that deadline looking considering what you said?  Well if they are going to start talking again Monday it does not quite seem like they are going to be getting a deal then. You know it is extremely common to see soft deadlines come and go as negotiations are kind of happening. And this one feels like a soft deadline. That said there will eventually be real deadlines and probably pretty soon. Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer plans to move forward on an infrastructure bill in July. And that means they really need to get an agreement pretty soon if they want to meet that goal. It takes time to turn a general agreement the kind of thing you would agree to in a White House meeting into actual legislation. And you know this also applies if Democrats decide to abandon the talks with Republicans and totally negotiate on their own because most Democrats would admit that they do not have unanimous agreement amongst themselves that they would need to get a bill through the Senate. So even if they abandoned talks with Republicans they got to talk amongst themselves before they can write a bill.  And then of course you have the issue of how to pay for it all whatever it ends up being.  Yeah. You know I would say that issue right there is quickly becoming the biggest problem perhaps even bigger than the difference in the size of the package which one will remember is hundreds of billions of dollars between Republicans and Democrats on this. You know Biden keeps offering tax-related changes and Republicans keep saying they do not want to raise taxes. They want to use unspent COVID relief funds. And that divide is really intense. Republicans are generally not willing to increase taxes. That is kind of a bedrock value for them. And tapping COVID funds for infrastructure really sets off alarm bells for Democrats who say the pandemic is not over and the funds are virtually already all assigned to be spent. It also drags these bipartisan talks over infrastructure into some really big political divides around the nation about COVID response and in particular money for state and local governments and federal unemployment benefits that Republicans have specifically said they would target to pay for infrastructure.  So as Biden continues talking to Republicans what are his caucus saying? What are the Democrats saying?  You know a growing number of them are getting frustrated. You know more and more are saying they are ready to move on from talking to Republicans. And that is important because Biden does not exactly have a lot of wiggle room particularly in the House. It is a single-digit majority there. I know we focus a lot on the Senate and what it would take to get the bill through the Senate but Biden cannot alienate a lot of Democrats just to get a deal in the Senate. He needs a bill to pass both chambers in order to make it into law.  That is NPR congressional correspondent Kelsey Snell. Thank you so much.  Thanks for having me.  And for more on governance politics and more subscribe to the NPR Politics Podcast.   After Donald Trump's supporters attacked the U.S. Capitol on January 6 Facebook suspended him from the platform. Now Facebook is rolling out new rules for all politicians and it says under those rules Trump cannot come back for at least two years.   We are imposing the most serious penalty because of the gravity of what happened in early January.  That is Nick Clegg Facebook's head of global affairs explaining the decision on a Brookings Institution podcast. NPR correspondent Shannon Bond joins us now. And we will note Facebook is among NPR's financial reporters. Shannon thanks for being with us.  Good morning Scott.  Help us understand the timing here. Why are we hearing once again from Facebook about Donald Trump?  Well back in January when Facebook and other social networks kicked Trump off Facebook said it was an indefinite suspension. But then it asked its new oversight board to weigh in. So this is a group of outside experts that Facebook has created to review its toughest decisions. And last month the board said you know indefinite suspension that is just not a fair penalty. It is not in Facebook's rulebook. It is not something the company has ever done before with a political leader. The board said Facebook needs to set clear rules and a timeframe for a suspension like this. So now Facebook has rolled out this new set of rules and it is applying them for the first time to Trump.  And two years - what is the logic of two years?  Well that is the maximum penalty laid out under these new rules although Facebook has not explained why it landed on two years precisely as that upper limit. Now these new rules they are specifically about what Facebook should do when public figures you know people who have lots of followers lots of influence violate its policies during times of civil unrest and violence really sort of extraordinary circumstances like we saw on January 6. Now in Trump's case Facebook starts counting that two-year penalty from January when he was first suspended. When we get to January 2023 it is not just going to automatically let him back on. Facebook says it will consider whether there is still a serious risk to public safety. And then if he does come back he will face stricter penalties up to the possibility of a permanent ban if he keeps breaking the rules.  Does this decision also have I guess some implied meaning for other political leaders and public figures who are on Facebook?  Yeah. I mean just creating these new rules that is a big change in how Facebook treats political leaders. Mark Zuckerberg the CEO has long said political speech is already highly scrutinized. Now Facebook has announced another big change. It is not going to presume political speech is newsworthy and therefore exempt from its rules. That was a policy it had in place since 2019. So it will be holding all politicians to largely the same rules as any other user on Facebook.  What kind of reaction so far?  Well we have heard from Trump. He is criticized Facebook saying this is an insult to his supporters. But others including civil rights and watchdog groups are not happy either. They want to see Trump permanently banned like he was from Twitter. And they say these new policies they create more questions than they answer like how Facebook will handle other political leaders people like Narendra Modi in India Jair Bolsonaro in Brazil. They have really pushed the boundaries on social media on Facebook. But unlike Trump they are still allowed on Facebook.  NPR tech correspondent Shannon Bond. Shannon thanks so much for being with us.  Thanks Scott.   And to Ethiopia now and what the government there claims will be the first truly democratic elections in that ancient country's history.  The vote later this month is one of the central promises of Ethiopia's reformist prime minister but it is happening not just in a period of political turmoil but violence and war.  Our East Africa correspondent Eyder Peralta joins us now. Hello.  Hey Lulu.  Eyder what indications are there that these elections will fulfill the government's promise of being truly democratic?  Yeah actually there are many indications that this will be a flawed election. And this is heartbreaking because just a few years ago Ethiopia was a fairy tale country that has been ruled by monarchs and dictators for centuries - had finally opened up. They released political prisoners and welcomed back all of their critics people who had been branded terrorists by the previous authoritarian regime. They were out in public talking on TV and on stages. There was so much change that Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed was given the Nobel Peace Prize in 2009. But today pretty much all of his critics are in jail. So these elections are happening with no credible opposition in the war zone. There will be no elections at all. The government says that all elections are imperfect. And that is true. But in Ethiopia right now some basics for truly democratic elections that they are missing.  You know the prime minister of Ethiopia won the Nobel Peace Prize. I mean he did have quite a bit of international support at a certain moment. Where does that stand now?  Our relations are not great. The U.S. has imposed sanctions. And this week there was a concerted effort by a bunch of Western countries to try and pressure Ethiopia into peace talks and into letting humanitarian aid flow into the Tigray region. Right now lots of people are going hungry in Ethiopia. And the international community the U.N. - they are worried that if nothing is done quickly hundreds of thousands of people are at risk of starving to death. On Thursday the Ethiopian government said that they were committed to allowing in aid and that Eritrean troops which have been accused of some of the most horrific acts against civilians had agreed to return to their country. But Ethiopia has made these promises before and very little has changed. So we will see.  You know what are the hopes then for peace?  There are no negotiations happening. And I think that that is complicated by the fact that the damage that has been done during this conflict - it is so personal. Homes have been burnt. Mothers grandmothers daughters have been gang raped. Families have been destroyed. Human Rights Watch released a report that found that a quarter of all schools in the Tigray region have been damaged. Many of them are being used as barracks for soldiers. When I was in Tigray we saw Ethiopian troops at a huge high school in the city of Mekelle. And when they left we went into the school. Teachers and administrators went with us. And we found windows broken computers smashed books ripped apart. Almost all the walls were tagged with hateful graffiti. Let us listen in.  I am very sorry. I do not have any words to explain.  And here we have . Now what we are left with is to destroy all Tigrayans.  So the graffiti that we were looking at on that wall said all what is left to do is destroy all Tigrayans. This war has become ethnic in nature. So healing will be tough. Pretty much everyone I spoke to while I was there said that they felt that they could no longer be a part of Ethiopia. And many of them were talking about picking up weapons and joining the rebellion.  That is NPR's East Africa correspondent Eyder Peralta. Thank you very much.  Thank you Lulu.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday June 5 2021. I am Scott Simon.  And I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your week. Follow us on social media. We are upfirst on Twitter.  And for more news and interviews books and music entertainment all kinds of fun you can find us on the radio.  Indeed. It is called Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings. Find your NPR station at stations.npr.org.  