 And a lot more goods are rolling along the nation's highways these days. That is good news for the economy and also for truckers. Frank Morris of member station KCUR in Kansas City hit the road to see how the rebound in freight traffic is helping truckers.   I am on Highway 71 going toward Kansas City and I am trying to get over a lane but I got this big truck blocking my way. There is a truck ahead of me and there is a truck behind me.  It seems like there are more trucks on the road these days. Turns out there are. Mr.  Well what we are seeing is a definite pickup in overall freight activity.  Tavio Headley an economist with the American Trucking Associations says freight traffic has risen pretty steadily since late last year. This April was almost 10 percent better than the one before. The broad gauge ATA uses to monitor the trucking industry has climbed back to where it was just before the recession. Mr.  So that is very positive news.  Cause for celebration even.   The Truckers Jubilee held at a truck stop in Oak Grove Missouri is part-barn dance part-job fair. And at this one job seekers have the upper hand. Sundy Muse-Morton is here with OS Trucking.   She is got a roulette wheel doling out trucker's swag to entice would-be employees. Ms.  Because we are having to turn down freight because we do not have enough drivers. I mean for all the freight shortage last year it is coming back now stronger than ever and we literally cannot keep up. Ronnie what is your last name? Mr.  Travis.  Over on the other side of the tent Mark Welch is working for Landstar a company that employs drivers who have their own trucks so-called owner-operators. Mr.  Capacity right now is tight to say the least and we are anticipating it getting worse because a lot of owner-operators just left the industry in the last couple of years.  Some 1700 small trucking companies folded just last year. Yet even as the freight market improves trucking businesses continue to go under. Semi trucks lost a lot of value in the downturn. There was a glut. Now that freight is moving briskly again the trucks are in demand. Since they are worth more banks are more inclined to repossess them. Seven hundred thirty companies went under just in the first few months this year. It could easily have been 731. Mr.  January I thought I was going to have to quit. I was going to go ahead and file bankruptcy and be done with it.  Robert Manley got his banker in Marshal Missouri to give him a break even though he would fallen behind on the payments on his old truck. Mr.  Well since the new motor I put in it it is got 400000 miles on it - on the motor - but the whole truck itself has got over a million 250000.  With a strong increase in freight traffic early this spring Manley was able to march into his bank to settle up. Mr.  No I went in person and handed them the money.  Mr.  Sign the title over to me. Took the title and went into the bank vault and put it right there.  You do not get rich driving a truck. Many drivers make less than 40000 a year some less than 30 for their long hours and weeks away from home. And as truckers say if the wheels do not roll they do not get paid. For now Robert Manley and others like him are grateful they are rolling often enough and long enough to cover the bills. For NPR News I am Frank Morris in Kansas City. 