 Jack Lemmon never played a James Bond-kind of character. Typically he played what the critic Judith Crist called the harassed man  outflanked outranked and outmaneuvered. But Jack Lemmon who died 10 years ago this month also had another great talent that was not quite as heralded in the same way as his acting. Fred Wasser tells us what it was.  As it turns out Jack Lemmon was quite a devoted piano player and singer. Every so often a movie made use of his musical skills however briefly. His first film as a leading man in 1954 was It Should Happen to You! And in it he sat at a piano in a bar and sang with Judy Holliday.  Mr. JACK LEMMON  and Ms.   We might have been meant for each other. If I only had the money. It is not a question of money. Believe me kid.  It Should Happen To you! was the movie that catapulted Jack Lemmon to stardom. He once said that there were two things he could do well and get attention for - acting and music. And music came first. He started playing piano when he was a kid. As he told reporter James Carter in a 1993 interview his first job in New York after deciding to pursue an acting career was playing piano in a club run by another Harvard grad.  Mr.  I played at a joint called the Old Knick the Old Knick Music Hall on what was it second or third Second Avenue in New York way back in the '40s when I first started. And some weeks we did not get paid 'ecause there would not be enough people in there to give us anything. Sometimes you would get maybe five bucks. We would split whatever was left on Saturday night. But you got a piece of chicken and some French fries every night. You got a meal.  It helped sustain him while waiting for acting jobs. And later the piano helped him survive Hollywood. Mr.  Hollywood is an enormously invasive thing especially when you reach a level of stardom that my father did.  Actor writer and son Chris Lemmon. Mr. C.  Hollywood owns you basically puts you in a headlock and is a very jealous mistress when you reach that kind of stardom and especially back then - it is a little less now. And so that was his escape. And it remained that.  Chris Lemmon's memoir of Hollywood life and life with his dad is called A Twist of Lemmon. That is Lemmon with two Ms just like the family name. It is a borrowed title from his dad's 1959 album of pop standards and jazz.   Behind the scenes even between takes on the movie soundstages Chris Lemmon says his father was forever noodling on any piano he could find even when the movie did not involve music. Sometimes the studio provided the piano. After all a happy actor gives a happy performance. Mr. C.  Pop was the kind of guy who could take his coat off after every take. You know he was one of those people that effortlessly  and everybody has their own technique and God bless them  but he kind of effortlessly slip in and slip out of character and scenes. And in-between scenes he was him. And him loved to play the piano.  Mr. J.   Let us fall in love. Why should not we fall in love? Our hearts met let us take a chance why be afraid? Oh let us close our eyes and make our own paradise. Little we notice still we can try to make a go of it...  Throughout his life Jack Lemmon said he was never far from a piano. Mr. J.  I played the piano every day. I could sit and play for an hour for instance and then Felicia would come in and say how long are we going to hold dinner? And I will say well I have only been here five minutes. She will say five minutes? It is been an hour and a half.  Yet Jack Lemmon knew from the beginning what he needed to do to make a living says his son Chris. Mr. C.  Pop had very good instincts. And I think he knew what it was he was really good at. As much as he adored music  and the fact was that he really is a pleasure to listen to  and he got a couple of albums made. Hey I mean that is pretty good.  Still his father was always modest about his musical abilities. Mr. J.  I think a lot of actors and other people if there is a talent there is at least a half another talent be going on. A lot of actors are good writers painters especially. A lot of actors will paint too. It is an outlet.  And music was Jack Lemmon's outlet. And perhaps a kind of soulful cleansing as his son puts it from the rigors of Hollywood. For NPR News I am Fred Wasser.   This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. 