 From member station WCPN David C. Barnett has the story of a performer who survived by constantly reinventing himself.  The man who came to be known as Big Bill Broonzy arrived in Chicago sometime in the early 1920s playing acoustic country blues.   Musician Billy Boy Arnold was a teenager when he first saw Broonzy at a club two decades later.  This big giant of a guy came in the doorway with a guitar in his hand.   And he was muscular - he was not fat. Black as midnight you know and drank and you know and seemed to be a very jolly guy.    I love my whiskey and I got a quarter right here in my hand...  Broonzy became the king of the Chicago blues scene but the king was about to lose his crown.   A younger generation of blues performers was starting to pack audiences into South Side clubs. Billy Arnold says everything changed in 1950 with the release of Muddy Waters' Rollin' Stone.    I went to my baby's house and I sit down oh on her steps...  It was real powerful and as lowdown as you could get. And the people really liked that 'ecause that is what they feel in they heart see?  So Big Bill Broonzy changed his musical direction. Chicago was home to a growing folk scene fueled by young white intellectuals. It was a time when performers were using music as a tool for social change and Broonzy was inspired to write what would become one of his most memorable songs.    This little song that I am singing about people you all know it is true. If you are black and gotta work for a living now this is what they will say to you. They says if you's white you are alright. If you's brown stick around. But if you's black oh brother get back get back get back.  Billy Arnold was not very fond of his old friend's new direction.  I did not like the folk stuff he was doing. And he did not play that Jimmy Crack Corn in no black clubs 'ecause that would not have went over no kind of way.  Broonzy biographer Bob Riesman thinks that the singer's new focus was just a demonstration of his versatility and his instinct for survival.  I do not think he would have seen that as compromising his integrity in any way. He was a working musician.  But Broonzy changed more than his musical style. Throughout his life the singer also altered parts of his personal history.   During a lengthy recording session in 1957 he told some compelling stories about his childhood in rural Mississippi and about the roots of his music.   My mother was a slave my father was a slave and I am just going by what I got from them about different songs.  But Bob Riesman says the singer did not really come from Mississippi his parents were not slaves and his name was not Broonzy.  It turned out that he was Lee Bradley of Jefferson County Arkansas about 60 miles or so southeast of Little Rock.  After 10 years of research Riesman says he is come to reconcile the facts of Broonzy's life with the stories he told.  He treated his life story as a set of fluid possibilities as opposed to fixed events. And his imaginative powers were formidable. As Studs Terkel said Bill is telling the truth - his truth.  By the mid-1950s Bill Broonzy was captivating audiences across the U.S. and Europe with his songs and stories.   But his newfound success would not last much longer. The singer's health started to deteriorate...   ...due to a cancer that was spreading through his lungs.  Bill you want to hear how this sounds?  Yeah I did yeah if it as not too horrible.  Chicago radio personality Studs Terkel oversaw Broonzy's final recording session which had been set up by a Cleveland disc jockey. Bill Randle was nationally famous as a pop music hit-maker having boosted the careers of the Crew Cuts and Pat Boone. In a 1999 interview the late Randle said financing the Broonzy sessions was partially an act of penitence.  In the course of it I guess I developed what you would call a cultural guilt complex. And also I had the money. So I decided that I would just do some things that I thought should be done and one of them was to record Big Bill Broonzy. I did not know that he was sick.    I have got the key to the highway yes I am billed out and bound to go. I am gonna leave leave here runnin' 'ecause walk is most too slow...  The morning after the final session Broonzy went into the hospital. He died about a year later. His funeral was an event. Gospel great Mahalia Jackson sang a hymn. His pall bearers included Muddy Waters Tampa Red Studs Terkel and Chicago folk legend Win Stracke. Stracke's daughter Jane recalls that this image of racial harmony was deliberately designed.  My father made sure that there would be three white pall bearers and three black pallbearers. And he did it very consciously. He wanted it to be kind of a lesson.  As the crowd at the Metropolitan Funeral Parlor sat in quiet reflection the room filled with the sound of Broonzy himself singing a spiritual taken from the Randle recording session.    Swing low sweet chariot coming for to carry me home...  Standing at Broonzy's grave in Chicago's Lincoln Cemetery biographer Bob Riesman says the singer's final encore did not go unnoticed.  The reporters for both of the Chicago newspapers used exactly the same phrase which was Big Bill Broonzy sang at his own funeral.     ...of angels calling to me coming for to carry me home.  For NPR News I am David C. Barnett.    Oh you...  This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. 