 After George Floyd died in Minneapolis his family hired independent medical examiners to determine his cause of death. Yesterday afternoon they released what they would found. At the time I was sitting in a hotel lobby with two retired Minneapolis police officers.  At the time there was only like five of us on the department so Gwen was probably the sixth.  Lieutenant Gwen Gunter left the force in 2012. Sergeant Alisa Clemons  left in 2001. I read them the message that had come across my phone. The autopsy report just came out and it says that George Floyd was killed. George Floyd died from asphyxiation by pressure. It said it was a homicide. Alisa Clemons fell back in her chair and clapped. You clapped your hands.  Absolutely.  Why?  Because that seals it in cement for me.  Because you know it is going to cement the case.  It cements the case against him and it cements the conviction that we should get from that case.  When Gunter did not get excited...  For me it confirmed what we already knew. So to me I - it just - that is what it did. It just confirmed what we already knew.  I have been talking to protesters here since Saturday. Many of them have had bad or even terrible experiences with the police. Some of them even said George Floyd's death was not an aberration. I wanted to know what police officers thought but they cannot really talk. Retired police officers can. Clemons and Gunter did not want to see the brutal video of Mr. Floyd being killed but they did. What struck them as former cops was that Derek Chauvin did not look in any way agitated.  There obviously was not an adrenaline dump or we were past that because he had his hand in his pocket.  Absolutely.  And anyone using force appropriately or necessary would not have their hand in their pocket. That is your - you have reached - your adrenaline has dropped. You are in what we call code yellow maybe in code white. I mean he is got his hand in his pocket. There are levels for force - or there are levels that we operate on.  Right.  And code white is where there is no threat there is no sign of a threat you are not anticipating any threats. He was clearly code white because his hand was in his pocket so there was no threat.  Clearly code white.  So you try to be in what we call code yellow.  Meaning you are not...  Getting ready kind of.  ...Completely chill but you are aware. You are alert.  You are aware of your surroundings you know?  They know all this stuff because they were on the job for so long. They are proud to have been Minneapolis police officers. That does not mean they go easy on the force. Alisa sued the department twice for discrimination harassment and retaliation. She won twice. They know there are bad cops but they have not seen anything like this video.  We have always rendered aid and I did not see that. I did not even see that they were concerned. You know when the ambulance came and put him in the ambulance you know I am looking at the cops and there is just no - it was like there was something missing. There was no connection that this man was in need of help. As a matter of fact sarge and I both heard on the video the dispatcher say ambulance is coming. Code two which means there are two ways the ambulance is going to come - code two and code three. Code three you are running lights and siren and you are getting there as fast as you can. Code two means you are you know take your time. You know it is not as serious.  Gunter says there is really only one of two conclusions you can reach after watching that video.  This person either was not trained properly or was not adhering to their training properly.  But...  But that did not enter my mind when I saw this. I was like he is intentionally not you know applying it properly. Like there is no...  Because he kept digging his knee in.  There was no adjustment. There was no...  But when there is - this is different and it needs to be said this is different so that people do not think that we condone other shootings. It needs to be said that this is different.  You watched him die. You watched him take his last breath. And I do not think there has been anything like this video that we have seen. And I think because of that it is touched a visceral part of you that just responded. And immediately following that I felt this uncontrollable rage to the point where I did not want any comfort. I did not want to hear comforting words. I wanted to put my fist through the wall.  So they have joined the demonstrators. They want all four police officers to be prosecuted. They have put themselves in those officers' shoes. They have asked themselves could that have been me? They each decided no. It could never have been. 