 President Trump is in Great Britain today for his first official state visit and it could be in a word awkward. He is set to meet with the prime minister Theresa May. She is preparing to leave her job amid Britain's Brexit chaos. London's mayor is already looking forward to President Trump leaving his job. Sadiq Khan has been a vocal critic of the president and the president has wielded his own insults in Khan's direction. The mayor spoke with Sky News.   This president will not be there forever. And one of the things that people will look back on about our approach to this president is that though I think they will regret that our government this prime minister did not stand up more to him.  And before Air Force One even touched down at Stansted Airport the president was already stirring things up. NPR's Frank Langfitt is covering it all from London. Frank let us start off with what the president has been saying as he gets ready to begin this very important state visit.  Well he fired off from Twitter a criticism of Khan. He said Khan had done a terrible job as mayor of London called him a stone-cold loser compared him to in the opinion of the president the very dumb and incompetent mayor of New York City Bill de Blasio. One difference Trump said between the two mayors he said that Khan is only half the height of de Blasio. That is not true Mayor Khan here is 5-foot-6.  And this is not a new...  No.  ...Battle of wills.   No they have been battling now for close to two years. And this started I think when Mayor Khan criticized President Trump's majority - ban on people from seven majority Muslim nations. Mayor Khan is also a Muslim.  So has the mayor weighed in on the president's latest remarks?  He has not but his spokesman has. And he said that these comments should be beneath the president of the United States and that the mayor is representing the progressive values of London and the United Kingdom and warned this - that President Trump is quote the most egregious example of a growing far-right threat around the globe.  So what is the point of this state visit? I mean what is the president going to do?  Well I think the first thing is - today it is going to be pomp and circumstance. President Trump has brought his family. There is going to be a state dinner with the queen in Buckingham Palace and tomorrow will meet with the prime minister who as you point out is a lame duck. Not expecting a lot on the policy front but I am sure there'ill be discussion about Huawei the very successful but controversial Chinese telecom company that the U.K. has said it would like to include in development of its 5G network. On Wednesday the president will then go to Portsmouth and onto Normandy to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the D-Day invasion. Of course that is when the U.S. and the U.K. fought side by side to defeat the Nazis.  I mean this is not the - this is the president's first state visit but he has been to the U.K. before and he did not get a lot of love from Londoners. Are we expecting the same thing this go-round?  I think it will not be a warm welcome at all and I think that this - the reignition of the Khan-Trump Twitter war will probably drive just more people into the streets here. Khan is a popular mayor. He is had his ups and downs. There has been a problem with knife crime in the city and other cities in the United Kingdom recently. But I think as Khan was alluding to in that - his spokesman was in that statement this is a very diverse cosmopolitan city and I think you are going to see a lot of people come out because they do not like President Trump's policies and manner. We are expecting some big protests probably this afternoon or sizable ones I should say - people banging pots and pans outside of Buckingham Palace during the dinner tonight. And tomorrow there'ill be a return of the baby blimp the Trump baby blimp - it was an effigy of President Trump crying as a baby in diapers. Now a couple of weeks ago I was actually down around Parliament and I was talking to David Lammy. He is a member of parliament with the Labour Party. And he said as Khan is saying that he feels that Trump is undermining not just U.K. but U.S. values.  I have opposed this visit. I think it is wrong. People will be taking to the streets not because they are standing against America - on the contrary - it is because they are standing with the best traditions of America.  OK the state visit is expected to last three days and we will be watching as will Frank Langfitt. Thanks so much Frank.  Happy to do it Rachel. 