 And those with newly minted accounting degrees have one of the best chances of getting a job offer this year. Even then it will not be easy. Imagine what it is like for a music grad hitting the job market. In the latest story in our series Setting Out Rachel Ward of member station WXXI in Rochester New York meets a young man who wants to be a full-time percussionist.  In the middle of finals 26-year-old Ivan Trevino has a gig in New York City coming up - graduation just around the corner and now he is gotten himself involved in this. Mr.  I mean there is another thing I have to practice. You know I should have written a .   Ivan is a percussionist just finishing up his master's degree at the prestigious Eastman School of Music in Rochester New York. He wrote this piece for cello and marimba for two friends who are getting married and he is only got two days before the wedding to get it down. Mr.  So basically the idea is that the marimba part and cello part are very different from each other. One's in a different meter. The phrasing is all different. But somehow when they play together it seems to make more sense than it does when they are apart. And that is kind of the same idea with my two friends who are getting married.   Ivan's used to pulling all the pieces together and making them work. He plays percussion in a cello rock band called Break of Reality. On top of touring and recording they played South by Southwest this year and they are in the running to do a film score. Ivan did have time for conversation in the student lounge at the Eastman School. He says juggling all of this stuff is just how life is if you want to be a full-time musician and pay off your student loans. Mr.  You know you got to be able to do a lot of things play and do the music business thing too. So you have to make yourself as well-rounded as possible. I think that is the way to go.  It sounds like you have to be an entrepreneur. Mr.  Definitely. Without a doubt.  But Ivan does not have the luxury of going without making money for two years like most entrepreneurs do. Bills for 60000 worth of student loans will start showing up in November. So stability is attractive to Ivan. He even briefly considered joining the National Guard band before deciding he did not really want to go through basic training. Mr.  Hopefully I am not spreading myself too thin but I do not think I am.  But it is not freaking you out. Mr.  No I do not think so.  Mr.  I am a percussionist so we tend to be pretty laid back. I mean if all else fails and I cannot find a job I will just you know I will have to get a normal job for the first time in my life.  Ms.  We want people to be as productive and happy and interested in what they are doing as possible.  That is Heidi Shierholz an economist with the left-leaning Economic Policy Institute in Washington D.C. She says when people like Ivan - someone who started drumming in his family's touring gospel band as a little kid - when someone like that follows their dreams it is better for the economy. Ms.  There is no crystal ball. We do not know what is going to be the winner industry going forward. But what we do know is that as an economy if young people are going into things that they enjoy and that they are good at that is how the economy will work best.  Shierholz acknowledges that some sectors like health care and education are more stable during recessions and musicians might have to find refuge there during hard times. But for Ivan who is already done the whole move to New York with the band after college that is not actually a bad thing. He does not mind settling down in Rochester. Mr.  I love to teach probably even more than playing. And I think what I need to do is let people know almost annoy people with the fact that I am going to be here and that I really want to help. So yeah I think by September you know I got to know what I am doing for sure.  But if he does not know by the fall he figures he will find some gig even if it is just a normal job. After all musicians are used to improvising. For NPR News I am Rachel Ward in Rochester.  Tomorrow we talk to an expert about who is got the best chance of finding a job and who will need the most patience. Unidentified Man For teachers education majors this was the weakest year we have seen in a long time. They actually fall at the very bottom of the majors list in terms of getting job offers.  That is tomorrow on MORNING EDITION. 