 And now it is time for sports.   The NBA Finals are underway. The Golden State Warriors did a job on the Cleveland Cavaliers in the first game. But hey there are four five six seven games to come maybe. We are joined now by ESPN's Howard Bryant. Good morning Howard.  Good morning Scott. How are you?  Fine thank you. Warriors Cavs Warriors Cavs blah blah blah same championship...  Warriors Cavs.  Warriors Cavs to you my friend - these two teams have been utterly dominant for a couple of years now. What do you make of the kvetching we hear from some commentators that dominant teams are bad for basketball?  I think people like to complain. And I think that people do not really have a great grasp of NBA history. I think one if you remember how fantastic the playoffs were last season...  Yeah.  ...When you had the Oklahoma City Thunder up 3 games to 1 and Golden State came back and won that series. And then Golden State was up 3 games to 1 and then Cleveland came back and won that series. Everybody at the end of that series at the end of Game 7 said let us do it again and let us just start these two teams playing right now. And so then both teams did what they were supposed to do and we get here. And now people are saying oh this is boring. It makes no sense. I do not know Scott. I watch sports all the time. I think I would like to see the two best teams play for a championship. I do not think it is that controversial. And also I think when you watch the NBA - anybody who is ever watched the NBA throughout its history it is always been dominated by a few teams. The Celtics and the Lakers have combined for 33 championships and the league's only been around since 1946.  Let us not forget the Bulls. Listen...   Oh you mean the Bulls that have won with Michael Jordan and dominated the entire decade of the '90s?  Yes.  Absolutely.  Those are guys I mean.  Those guys.  And I think it makes a championship mean more.  Well absolutely it does. And I think - and I do not like diluted leagues. I do not like forced parity through salary caps and these other things. Build an organization give me the best teams let me watch them win. That is all I care about.  LeBron James had to contend with something off the court this week. Somebody spray-painted a racial slur across the entrance to his Los Angeles home. Here's what he had to say.   No matter how much money you have no matter how famous you are no matter how many people admire you being black in America is tough. And we have got a long way to go for us as a society and for us as African-Americans until we feel equal in America.  I am so impressed by how compelling and outspoken LeBron James is. What do you make of his response?  Well I thought it was pretty unremarkable to be honest. I thought that everything that he said - as much as he is getting all kinds of accolades for it - it is basic. And I think I was very obviously impressed with LeBron. Me personally I do not like when we have to - when these players go through this - when Adam Jones went through what he went through in Boston - and we end up asking the black guy what he felt about what happened to him. I would much much much rather have interviews with people from his neighborhood where this happened. Why are we asking him as if he did it to himself? I would be - I am much more interested in hearing from his neighbors and his residents that - in that Brentwood neighborhood because I think it defines them far more than it defines him. He did not do anything.  We have half a minute left for the Stanley Cup  playoffs...  .  ...The Penguins are up over the Predators two games nothing. Great country stars have been singing the national anthem in Nashville but do they have a chance?  And as usual Scott you are slighting the Nashville Predators just because they swept your Chicago Blackhawks in the first round...  Oh I forgot that.   Oh yes yes. I think it is going to be still a great series. You have got two games at home for Nashville. It is not over but once again these are the defending champion Penguins and they are the signature team. It is going to be a tough climb for the Predators.  Yeah. Howard Bryant of ESPN and ESPN the Magazine. Thanks so much for being with us Howard.  My pleasure.  