 There is a war of ideas happening on college campuses these days. A university has an obligation to protect students from sexual assault. Professors have a right to free speech. A recent case at Northwestern University has illustrated how high the stakes are when the two ideas clash. It started when Northwestern professor Laura Kipnis published an essay in the Chronicle of Higher Education back in February. In it she pushes back against rules at the school regulating romantic relationships between teachers and students. The response to the essay was intense. Two graduate students filed complaints against her. And the school opened a Title IX investigation. Laura Kipnis was cleared in that investigation a couple of weeks ago and spoke to us about the experience. I asked her to tell us about the original essay which took issue with Northwestern's restrictions on student-teacher relationships.  I am a feminist and I think women have been fighting to be treated as consenting adults for you know God knows how long - 150 years at least. And this seemed to take consent away from people who are consenting adults and place it in the hands of university administrators. You know I came of age after the sexual revolution and before  did not think of sex as so much of an injury as maybe like a form of freedom as a type of experimentation. And I see a really different attitude in my students. I think the kind of sex education they get or maybe it is part of the cultural climate - I think they see sex much more as a potential harm as a potential injury. I mean it is not as though they are not out there experimenting. But there is a climate of I think a kind of panic. And it seems to also have something to do with this problem or question of intergenerational relations. You know it is as if almost all relations are potentially incestuous. So I was just curious about that. And I talked about the use of this word survivor in this new climate of sexual assault. And you know it is a term that got appropriated from you know Holocaust survivors to talk about incest - survivors of people who had experienced incest. And so the transmission of this language you know as a cultural critic. That was something that interested me.  So the piece stirred up a whole lot of response. Students at Northwestern staged a protest started a petition calling for the school president to publicly denounce your essay. Two graduate students then took another step actually filed complaints with Northwestern's Title IX coordinator. Title IX being that provision of federal law dealing with gender discrimination on campus. So this really elevated it to a completely different level.  It was a crazy thing to get this letter from the Title IX officer because you know I was befuddled. I had no idea Title IX could cover such things as a publication. And in fact I do not think it does. I think it was an attempt to stretch Title IX past the issues it is meant to deal with.  We should clarify that the Title IX complaint was not levied against you because of the gist of your argument or that you put this idea out there about professor-student relationships. It was that you used a specific example - a case of a couple of students who had alleged sexual misconduct against them. And so it was that characterization of that case that they cited in the Title IX complaint. I guess the point people are pushing you on though is that the essay may have implied that there is not a problem with sexual misconduct on campus. Are you arguing that that debate in our culture the problem in general has been overblown?  Well I disagree with you that the complaints against me did not have to do with the point of view of the article. It is true I did talk about a case that had been ongoing on campus. But I actually did not talk about the substance of the case in the article. But to say that I am not concerned about harassment and assault is - I do not know - it is a complete mischaracterization. I mean of course I do care about it. But I also think one of the things that is happened in the current climate is that what is defined as assault or rape the boundaries have really stretched and so that sexual episodes that might once have been considered ambivalent sex are now getting re-construed as assault. And these very murky situations are being presented to Title IX officers to deal with like mutual drunkenness or someone having later you know re-characterized something that was you know a murky situation into something that was clear-cut assault. And they are making these judgments in these secret sorts of tribunals where the rules of evidence are in question there is no procedure. People who are accused of far worse things than I was - you know students accused of sexual assault do not have lawyers. They do not know what the rules of evidence are. And so I think the whole process just has to be more transparent than it is.  I know you are arguing there is excessive regulation of sexual behavior. And you do not think that is a good idea. But is there no roll for some governance of conduct? I mean between professors and students you can argue that it is sexual liberation. You have to give women agency. But is that really worth the risk of creating a kind of instability that romantic relationships in school settings - like in work settings - can trigger?  Well again I think you are overstating what my position is or what the argument was. I mean I am certainly not arguing against any form of regulation. And I think there is a real role for Title IX. And you know anything to do with say quid pro quo harassment you know professors saying I will give you a better grade if you sleep with me - I mean that kind of thing I think those people should be fired. But you know the situation I was in was writing about these codes and I might have been taking somewhat contrarian position. But you know we still are supposed to have free speech and academic freedom to talk about ideas that might be controversial.  Do you think that that is changing? I mean has this whole episode made you rethink how you talk about these tough issues publicly or whether you engage in this kind of debate at all?  I think it has not so much on me but I have tenure. I think for the 50 percent of academics who now do not have tenure or are in tenure-stream jobs I think it definitely has a censoring or self-censoring effect on what is going to be said particularly on this kind of subject.  Laura Kipnis professor at Northwestern University. She joined us on the line from Chicago. Thank you so much.  Thank you Rachel. 