 Tiny bags of pretzels followed by some kind of rubber mystery meat - for those who fly you know exactly what I am talking about the joys of airplane food. Well some airlines are now trying to shake things up. They are showcasing some new cuisine in hopes of luring more passengers. But producing food that actually tastes great at cruising altitude is not easy as NPR's Wendy Kaufman reports.  Every month managers at Alaska Airlines gather at their catering company's giant kitchen to taste and critique new menu items. Forty-one-year-old Clifton Lyles is ready for them. He is the airline's corporate chef responsible for creating lovely-to-look-at wonderful-tasting food that can be served in a flying tube at 35000 feet.  For me it is really challenging. Coming from you know a traditional classically trained chef background to come into an environment where I was going to have to make good leftovers was kind of ego-bruising at the beginning.  But that feeling did not last long. Indeed he likes pushing the envelope of what is possible onboard.  It is basically kind of a competition. You know I have got this opponent who is logistically challenging me with lack of flavor because I am at an altitude. I have got to reheat it so I cannot cook it fresh. And for me it is to kind of figure out OK what can I do to overcome each of those challenges?  So this is a brand new asparagus and wild Alaskan smoked salmon quiche.  Kirsten Robinett a product manager at Alaska Airlines takes a tiny piece of the first-class breakfast entree. She passes it around the giant table for others to sample. Over the next hour or so the group will taste more than a dozen items. The first-class offerings are more elegant and served on a plate. The coach fare that passengers can buy comes in a foil tin. Most of the items sampled get a big thumbs-up but a few need changes. Airlines actually cook their food on the ground and then reheat it in flight. And Robinett has discovered that one of the chicken dishes is too big for the container used for reheating.  A lot of times the leg's not sticking up like that but this - it is not going to fit in there unless you would mash it down. So I do not know. I do not know what we are going to do.  Logistical challenges like this pop up all the time and says the airline's Lisa Luchau...  Even flight attendants that come to our menu reviews have no idea the amount of thought that goes behind every little entree from folding the cheese to how do you wrap something. All of those details have to be considered.  But perhaps the most vexing problem facing Chef Lyles and his team is this At cruising altitude you lose about 20-30 percent of your sense of taste.  Most people do not realize that but it definitely shows itself when you are eating in an airline.  He explains that as the cabin is pressurized and the humidity inside the plane falls some of your taste buds go numb and your sense of smell is diminished too. Things that tasted great on the ground are now bland and boring.  You have to use your eyes. You have to use your nose. You have to use your ears. Every other sense that I can involve in the meal itself in order to translate what it is that you are missing by your sense of taste is what makes it successful. If I was to just go by OK it is 20-30 percent less flavor I will add 20-30 percent more it is not going to work.  Few people pick an airline for its culinary offerings. Indeed one of the most popular and profitable airlines Southwest typically offers only peanuts and pretzels. Still passengers say food is a part of the customer experience and in a highly competitive environment many airlines are trying to do whatever they can to get more people onto their planes. As for Chef Lyles he has his own ambition. He wants to change the perception of airline food and wants people to stop wrinkling their noses when he tells them he is an airline chef. Wendy Kaufman NPR News Seattle. 