 In West Virginia people are cleaning up after historic floods swept through the state. At least 25 people died. And hundreds of people lost their homes. This weekend President Obama declared three counties federal disaster areas. NPR's Rebecca Hersher spent the weekend in one of the hardest hit towns. In Rainelle people are wondering whether it makes sense to rebuild in a neighborhood that was almost completely wiped out.  The neighborhood is right next to the Meadow River. And everyone there is still talking about how fast the water rose on Friday. Daniel McClung and his wife were rescued by boat early on Saturday morning.  We was actually hanging on the banister over there. I could not get on the roof. It was too high.  How long were you waiting?  Five hours. Into the night - they got us at 30 in the morning.  There was a moment he said when he thought they might not make it. According to state police at least one person did die in that neighborhood that night. Now McClung's front yard is buried under a mountain of soggy stinking stuff - a brand-new paisley couch a flat-screen TV an upholstered photo album covered in mud.  Everything that we were actually able to save is in one little room out of a three-bedroom house .  Can you show me that?  Yes .  McClung is a carpenter. So when he looks around his ruined living room he automatically starts racking up the cost of fixing everything.  And it is all so expensive. Insulation will kill you. Then you have got to either put paneling or drywall up. That is not cheap. So there you go. You are up to around 30000 or more just to repair it.  He is hoping that FEMA the Federal Emergency Management Agency will cover those costs or better yet declare the house a loss and pay for a new place on higher ground.  Take my stuff and leave - anywhere that the water do not get.  Margaret Tincher lives two blocks over. Or she did.  I lost everything.  She is still shocked. She and her neighbors are fumbling through a pile of free clothes at an aid station in a parking lot of a tobacco shop in town.  I do not care how pretty or how ugly.  Yeah. We just need...  I just need clothes...  ...Shirts and shorts.  ...On my back.  Tincher says she does not want to move. She is going to apply for FEMA aid to rebuild but probably not for a couple days. She is still trying to figure out how to get food and clothing for her six-person family. She is just one of many people who are feeling overwhelmed by the disaster. On Sunday with churches in town still flooded Pastor Aaron Trigga and other church leaders set up an impromptu pulpit in the parking lot of a Kroger grocery store.  Well I am going to try to hold my composure. But I do not know if I can.  He lives in that neighborhood next to the river. His home was destroyed.  I wanted to get up here and sound all together. But I cannot 'ecause my heart's broke.  As the pastor spoke a crowd of more than 50 people gathered around most of the men in muck boots and muddy jeans.  You know ladies - especially us as men we think we have to be strong. But sometimes the strongest we can be is to learn to lean on somebody stronger than us.   Lord prepare me...  After a couple days of sunshine the National Weather Service is forecasting rain and flash floods for West Virginia today. For NPR News I am Rebecca Hersher in Rainelle W.Va. 