 As you heard in Claudio's story Juan Carlos was first introduced to the notion of the American dream through literature - Arthur Miller's Death of a Salesman. That notion - of a better tomorrow for those who work hard enough - is pervasive in American literature art and music. And so is the opposite idea - that the American dream is just a fantasy.   I am Merrill Garbus. I started a band called tUnE-yArDs. And I wrote a song called My Country out of frustration with the current state of the United States.   We cannot all have it. You know that is the whole idea of the American dream - is we can all have it as long as we work hard. And that is untrue. There are so many ways in our country where we are not giving the same opportunities to everybody.  tUnE-yArDs  The worst thing about living a lie is just wondering when they will find out.  My Country first of all does do this thing of playing with the original patriotic melody.   It lands on this really weird unexpected note. And that is something that musically says there is something suspect here let us investigate this more.  tUnE-yArDs  We cannot all have it - well now what do you want me to say to those others? Oh yes there is a place for you but that place is underneath the cushion of my behind. And you cannot have it. Well then why did you say so? With my eyes open how can I be happy? With my eyes open if nothing of this is ours how will I ever know when something's mine?  Because of the structures of power and of money in our country the American people are often excluded from what is really making the policy. If we are being excluded from our government how are we included then in this idea of the American dream?   The ability to speak my feelings about my experience as an American is absolutely part of my American dream.   Merrill Garbus of tUnE-yArDs talking her song My Country. And you can see the music video for the song at our website NPRMusic.org. And as part of our series we want to know what the American dream means to you. So surprise us with your words and pictures. Go to NPR.orgDream.  tUnE-yArDs  The worst thing about living a lie is just wondering when they will find out.  This is NPR News. 