 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Rachel Martin. In rain sleet or snow - we are like the U.S. Postal Service - the puzzle must go on.   Joining me now from Anchorage Alaska - where it is very snowy I imagine or not - who knows? It is summer - WEEKEND EDITION's puzzle-master Will Shortz. Good morning Will.  Morning Rachel. No snow no snow in June.  No snow in June. I do not know. I have been to the mountains in Wyoming and there was snow so I was wondering. You never know.  Well that is true. There is snow in the peaks here. And right now I am lucky - the weather is gorgeous.  And what is going on? Are you there just because it is a fun place to visit?  Well it is. A friend and I are doing a seven-day table tennis road trip through the state.  Sounds like an amazing trip. Are you going to get to do any other kind of Alaska touristy stuff?  Yeah. We are doing fishing tonight on the Kenai Peninsula. We are stopping at Mt. McKinley. And we are having lunch with the chancellor of the University of Alaska at Fairbanks.  Very cool. Well you have time to play a puzzle?  Love to.  OK. Remind us what was last week's challenge?  Yes. It came from our old pal Merl Reagle. And I said name three common three-letter words that are all synonyms and which together consists of nine different letters of the alphabet. And I said do not use the letters A and O. Well Merl's answers were bug irk and vex which I think is the best answer. But we got a number of alternates that I think also work. For example there is fly hie run and zip - use any three of those.  OK. Well this week about 400 listeners got the answer right. And our randomly selected winner is Joanne Joyce. She joins us on the line. Congratulations Joanne.  Thank you very much.  How did you figure this one out?  Well I have this dumb method. I just sit down and start writing down three-letter words.  Well done. And Joanne you are from Aurora Colorado I understand. What do you do for a living there?  I am retired.  Great. And you play a lot of puzzles?  I do. I love crossword puzzles. I am not quite up to Will's but that is my brain you know to get my brain...  Brain exercise.  ...every morning.  Yeah. I think that is good. That is a good part of a regimen. Well Joanne are you ready to play the puzzle?  Nervously yes.  It will be OK. We will do it together.  OK.  All right Will. What is the puzzle?  All right Joanne and Rachel. This is a good two-person puzzle. I brought a game of categories based on the name Homer which is one of the Alaska towns that I am visiting on this trip. I am going to name some categories. For each one name something in the category beginning with each of the letters H-O-M-E and R. For example if the category were chemical elements you might say helium oxygen magnesium einsteinium and radon. And you can give the answers in any order.  Great. You got it Joanne?  I do.  Let us give it a shot.  All right. Your first category is trees.  Let us see. Well oak for O...  Oak good.  ...maple...  Maple.  ...elm...  Elm yes. H and R.  H and R. H...hazelnut.  Hazelnut excellent. Hickory and hemlock also work. And now you need an R.  What about those big old trees in California?  Oh redwood.  Redwood. Rubber tree also works. How about makes of automobiles that are no longer made?  Oh my goodness. OK. The O - Oldsmobile?  Oldsmobile - they do not make those anymore. Good. It is always sad to learn or get your news through the puzzle.  Mercury. I do not know if they make a Mercury any more or not.  That is right. They stopped Mercury around the time they stopped Oldsmobile.  The E is the one by Ford - Edsel.  Edsel excellent. H and R.  R is - well no they still make Rolls. R...Reo?  The Reo good. You know that through crosswords. R-E-O - that is very common in crosswords. And now you need an H.  H - we are missing the H.  I have three but there is...  Oh Hummer. They do not make the Hummer anymore.  The Hummer nice. Hupmobile and Hudson also work.  Great Joanne.  All right. Here's your last category things commonly found in a refrigerator.  Hamburgers...  Hamburger meat would be good. OK.  O would be olives.  Olives - orange oleo good. And M?  M - let us see mayonnaise.  Mayonnaise milk and mustard good.  Eggs.  Eggs yes. And all you need an R.  R - that should ...  R is the toughest one but there is something in a jar that you put on hamburgers.  Relish.  Relish. Nice job.  Wow. Joanne it was very well done. Those were hard. But for playing the puzzle today you will get a WEEKEND EDITION lapel pin and puzzle books and games. You can read all about it at npr.orgpuzzle. And Joanne before we let you go what public radio station do you listen to?  I listen to KUNC out of Fort Collins.  Great Joanne Joyce of Aurora Colorado. Joanne thanks so much for playing the puzzle.  Thank you very much. Bye-bye.  OK Will. What is the challenge for next week?  Yes name a movie in two words five letters in each word. Both words start with vowels. Take one letter in the first word move it two spaces later in the alphabet and rearrange the result you will get the second word in the movie's title. What movie is it? So again a movie in two words - fivefive both words start with vowels. Take one letter in the first word move it two spaces later in the alphabet rearrange the result you will get the second word in the movie's title. What movie is it?  When you have got the answer go to our website npr.orgpuzzle and click on the Submit Your Answer link - just one entry per person please. And our deadline for entries is Thursday June 13th at 3 P.M. Eastern. Please include a phone number where we can reach you at about that time. And if you are the winner we will give you a call and you will get to play on the air with the puzzle editor of The New York Times and WEEKEND EDITION's puzzle-master Will Shortz. Thanks so much Will.  Thanks Rachel.  