 You may not remember the milk man. Chances are your parents and grandparents do. Well he or she is back part of a fast-expanding trend of food deliveries. WEEKEND EDITION's food commentator Bonny Wolf explains.  You do not even have to get out of your PJs to go to the farmers market now. All over the country trucks are delivering fresh milk organic vegetables and humanely raised chickens to your door. Though in New York the deliveries come by bike. Fifty years ago about 30 percent of milk still came from the milkman. By 2005 - the last year for which USDA has numbers - only .4 percent was home-delivered. While we do not yet have the official government numbers on this trend there is no doubt that bottled milk is once again showing up on stoops in the predawn hours. South Mountain Creamery in Maryland began home delivery in 2001 with 13 local customers. Today they have 8500 home delivery accounts in five states. They promise there will be no more than 48 hours between the time the cow was milked and the bottle arrives at your door. It is happening all over the country. Louisville has a dairy that delivers milk three times a week. Vegetables and meats are delivered to homes in Michigan Kansas and Colorado. What are the reasons behind this trend? Well processed foods E. coli scares and factory farms mean we want to know where our food comes from and who is growing it. These services tend to be by subscription but also flexible. Once a week once a month. They are on demand. It is usually all-organic or all-local or some of each. And it is more than just produce and milk. Farmers and dairymen have tapped into regional networks of food producers. And they now offer grass-fed meats hand-churned butter and pesticide-free lavender gluten-free bread and unprocessed honey. The source may be a sixth-generation farmer but it could also be a newcomer to farming - say a lawyer-turned-beekeeper. The websites tend to use the same vocabulary. Words like authentic simple community and connection. Farmhouse delivery in Texas for example refers rather nostalgically to a quote return to the family table. It is just one of many producers who wax lyrical about a time when local food was a matter of course and everyone had a milkman and an ice man. We are still not very likely to see the ice man again but the milkman indeed cometh.    Milkman keep those bottles quiet.  Bonny Wolf managing editor of americanfoodroots.com. This is NPR News. 