 The U.S. Women's National Soccer Team is ranked second in the world. The journey to first place in the World Cup starts tonight as the U.S. plays Australia. It is been 16 years since the U.S. women won the World Cup. As they begin another quest for glory NPR's Shereen Marisol Meraji introduces us to a player to watch.  Let us kick this off with the sound of victory.   Goal.  That is 90000 hysterical fans losing it after Brandi Chastain scored the winning goal to beat China in 1999. The last time the U.S. won a World Cup U.S. defender Julie Johnston was 7 years old. At 23 Johnston's the second-youngest player on the U.S. national team. And if the sendoff series was any indication of what the starting lineup is like she will be there in a hotspot - center-back. Some people call it the beating heart of the defensive line.  I would say it is very similar to a quarterback in football.  Rory Dames coaches the Chicago Red Stars the professional soccer team Johnston plays with in the National Women's Soccer League.  You know it is the last line of defense before the goalkeeper. It has to do the most organizing has to be able to read the game the best. And for somebody as young as Julie to be able to do as well as she does speaks volumes of the kind of person she is and the kind of ability she possesses.  In 2012 Johnston captained the youth team that won the U-20 World Cup and was U.S. Soccer's Young Athlete of the Year.   Johnson Julie Johnson she is the best you are ever going to see.  Members of the American Outlaws fan club are perfecting their anthem for tonight. It is Johnston guys with a T.  Needless to say she is got fans. They are holding up larger-than-life photos of her head at games chanting her name with and without the T.   Julie Johnston she is the best you are ever going to...  But this breakout star did not even make the qualifying team back in October.  Well you know I knew that she was in a position of being on the brink of not making the team and I think it was hard for her not making the qualifying team.  Midfielder Carli Lloyd who is played in two World Cups invited Johnston to come train with her private coach to get better. Lloyd says she did not hold her hand did not beg her to come just told her when and where to show up.  She was willing to learn wanted to get better and you can definitely see it out there that you know she is taken her opportunity and seized it.  A couple of injuries on the back line of the U.S. national team cleared room for Johnston to show off ahead of the tournament. As a defender she scored three goals. She has not always played defense. She was a midfielder and forward at Santa Clara University.  I loved being an attacker so much. I mean it was not so much that I did not think defending was fun or anything like that. It was just - growing up that is kind of all I knew - was attack attack attack.  It is that drive that her fans cannot get enough of. U.S. Team Coach Jill Ellis calls her a warrior and she brings that fire to the defensive line sometimes going on 60-yard runs up the field. Her pro-team coach Rory Dames says she is the future of the center-back position. And to think she was not that into it at first.  I think it is a whole new respect for it and I am starting to enjoy it and love it even more than I thought I could.  The pressure of this level of international competition could get to her sure. But she could be the player that scores the winning goal to bring home the World Cup title after 16 long years. Even if it is something in between Julie Johnston is worth watching. Shereen Marisol Meraji NPR News Winnipeg. 