 China's capital Beijing has put various indoor smoking bans in place over the years. Anyone who has been to the city can tell you most people ignore those rules. This month Beijing launched a new enforcement effort and health authorities' credibility is at stake. NPR's Anthony Kuhn decided to explore the city and sample the indoor air quality.  .  Banners posters and recorded messages all say it loud and clear - for the sake of the young patients no smoking is allowed at the Beijing Children's Hospital. You might think that is just common sense. But until recently it was not uncommon to see doctors nurses and patients all smoking in Chinese hospital hallways bathrooms and stairwells. Zhang Fushan is one of a handful of smokers who have retreated to a stand of trees about 50 yards from the main door of the hospital. He brought his child here for treatment.  .  Smoking in the hospital now seems to be under control he tells me. Nobody dares to smoke inside. Under Beijing's new indoor smoking ban fines for violators have been raised from 1.60  to 32. Inspectors have reportedly fanned out across the city to enforce it. I asked Mr. Zhang if he notices any difference. He points to the clear blue skies above us.  .  The air is much better he says. Quitting smoking helps to reduce the air pollution. Actually most of Beijing's air pollution comes from car exhaust not tobacco smoke. But Zhang suggests that there is a cultural shift underway. More smokers around him are trying to quit for health reasons he says and fewer of them now give cigarettes as gifts.   The band seems to be half-heartedly enforced inside the bars of Sanlitun Street where touts lure customers to drink listen to music and watch female dancers. I spotted plenty of indoor smokers there last night. Thirty-year-old dancer Zhao Teng comes out for a smoke. I ask her whether the ban is working.  .  I guess it is up to people to control themselves she says. But sometimes they cannot help it. Asked if any inspectors have come to enforce the ban she says there must be some around but I have not seen any yet. Yang Gonghuan is the former deputy director of the China Center for Disease Control and Prevention. She says that the percentage of Chinese who smoke has gone down in recent years but the total number of smokers has stayed about the same as the population has grown.   The number of workers farmers and cadres who smoke has not changed much. The decline in smoking is most obvious among intellectuals teachers and doctors.  Yang points out that China's powerful tobacco monopoly is lobbying to allow cigarette stores to advertise which is illegal under the country's advertising laws.   There are 5.4 million places in China where tobacco is sold. If those places are allowed to advertise tobacco as well then what is the point in having a ban on tobacco ads?  Yang says she knows that American culture and attitudes towards smoking took decades to evolve. As for China's awareness Yang says there have been some false dawns before but she is cautiously optimistic that this time it is the real thing. Anthony Kuhn NPR News Beijing. 