 President Trump has threatened to tear up the North American Free Trade Agreement and wants major concessions from Canada. And border towns in the U.S. are really caught between two sides here. We are going to visit Plattsburgh N.Y. a small city that is integrated its economy with that of Canada. Here's North Country Public Radio's Zach Hirsch.  There are 150 Canadian companies in the Plattsburgh area employing about 15 percent of the workforce. A lot of them are manufacturers making things out of parts that crisscross the border several times before the products are finished. Garry Douglas with the North Country Chamber of Commerce says that process is already getting trickier and more expensive. Soon he says some businesses will have to pay both Canadian and U.S. tariffs meaning extra taxes on materials and goods crossing the border.  A lot of companies are starting to be caught already in these nightmare scenarios for which there is no solution.  Douglas says there is new uncertainty especially for local manufacturers used to importing Canadian steel and aluminum which the U.S. hit this month with tariffs of 25 and 10 percent. Douglas says it is hard for the local factories to figure out pricing.  It used to be guaranteed prices for 90 days - now guaranteed price for seven days. So you are just starting to see these little impacts on the way suppliers and people are doing business with each other. They are hedging.  A half-hour's drive north of Plattsburgh on the windy border itself customs broker Amy Magnus is watching trucks funnel into the U.S.  Hundreds of trucks cross the border every day. It is very busy for a Wednesday.  She is on the U.S. side. Her firm A.N. Deringer handles cross-border paperwork and the formalities for companies importing and exporting goods. Her clients are dealing with a lot of uncertainty. She says the new tariffs really took them by surprise.  And these contracts are negotiated sometimes a year in advance maybe even longer.  It is been a wild ride she says ever since those careful arrangements were disrupted. Former Congressman Bill Owens lives in Plattsburgh. He spent decades promoting cross-border trade. He says Canadian businesses will adapt and there could even be a positive effect for the area. Owens expects Canadian businesses to move here to avoid sending materials internationally.  The fact remains that the Canadians' biggest marketplace is in the U.S. People will find ways around these rules to continue to be able to sell in the United States and make money.  This trade tiff is also affecting retail shoppers and the people who cross the border to use Plattsburgh services like the local airport. That is where I meet Jacques Juteau who is from northern Quebec. He says the people who live here are nice but the Trump administration makes him feel weird about visiting.  We like to come in the state but I do not know. The way they treat us...  He is idling in his car at the Plattsburgh Airport waiting to pick up his daughter. Then she steps off her flight from Florida. Her name is Julie Juteau. She is lived in Tampa for 20 years as a dual citizen. She says because of President Trump she is on her way back to Canada for good.  I promised that when he was elected I was going to move back and I am going to check for a house right now in Canada.  I thought it was only a joke but here I am .  If the U.S. wants a trade war bring it on she says adding we will just stay home and buy Canadian products instead. That is exactly the kind of response that many in the business community are afraid of. For NPR News I am Zach Hirsch in northern New York.  