 At a resort island just off Singapore President Trump meets North Korea's leader Kim Jong Un alone except for interpreters. That will be the start of a summit Tuesday morning Singapore time. It is the kind of dramatic one-on-one session where President Trump says he is in his element. He said he does not need to prepare much that he will know within a minute if Kim Jong Un is serious about giving up nuclear weapons - quote it is my touch. It is my feel. It is what I do. Behind that personal interaction though are the intricate interests of a nuclear power and a superpower and their neighbors and allies. In Singapore Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said he is watching to see if North Korea will do what it takes.   The United States has been fooled before. There is no doubt about it. Many presidents previously have signed off on pieces of paper only to find that the North Koreans either did not promise what we thought they had or actually reneged on their promises.  So are they serious? And is the United States? Joel Wit has been asking. He is a former U.S. diplomat deeply involved in North Korea issues. Mr. Wit welcome back to the program.  Morning Steve.  Does your experience tell you that North Korea really wants to give up its nuclear weapons?  Well I think the North Koreans are probably conflicted because on the one hand we have had 60 years of hostility between the United States and North Korea and those weapons are their main source of security. On the other hand they probably understand that if they want to actually modernize their economy their nuclear weapons are going to have to be on the negotiating table.  Have they made a serious offer in the past to give up their nuclear weapons?  Well the agreement I participated in 1994 was a denuclearization agreement. Although they did not have nuclear weapons then they certainly could build them very quickly. And I believe it was a serious agreement. The problem was we never got to the end of the implementation process.  And then in 2013 there was another statement by North Korea right?  Well in 2013 in private talks that I and other former American officials had with the North Koreans they laid out a specific road map that would lead to denuclearization. It was not overnight but it was a specific plan and I am sure they have one.  Well that raises another question then Joel Wit. Looking back on that did President Obama's administration miss an opportunity because as you have written the Obama administration heard what the North Koreans were offering but they did not think that they were really going to do it?  Well you know if I had to be pinned down I would say that the Obama administration could have tried harder to pursue denuclearization through diplomatic channels. It was stuck in this mode of coercive diplomacy and never got out of it. The beauty of what President Trump has done - and of course we do not know where it is going to lead exactly - is he is cut through all that. They are going to meet leader-to-leader and that is where decisions can really be made. And once Kim Jong Un makes a decision believe you me all the North Koreans fall in line.  Can you imagine though the United States offering enough - enough security for North Korea for Kim Jong Un to give up on that security blanket of nuclear weapons? Could a U.S. embassy in North Korea be enough? Could the lifting of economic sanctions really be enough?  Well this is the point that it cannot happen overnight. The North Koreans are not going to all of a sudden give up their weapons because of a promise from the United States. It has to be a process. It has to be confidence building. And those measures and others that you have not mentioned have to be part of that process to end what the North Koreans call U.S. hostile policy.  In 2013 you heard from the North Koreans about - I guess about a three-step process that I guess would take a number of years. They had a plan. They had a plan in mind about something that they would find acceptable. And we had on this program last week Sam Nunn and Richard Lugar former U.S. senators involved in nonproliferation efforts and they said it is really essential that the United States show up with its own plan. Looking at it from the outside do you have the impression that the United States is showing up with a plan that it does have a concrete idea to put on the table for the North Koreans?  Well I think the U.S. does have concrete plans. They have studied it very closely. And you know having been in the U.S. government I know there are cabinets filled with plans for denuclearization on North Korea inside the U.S. government. So I am sure they have a plan. The point here is that while our ideal objective would be complete verifiable and irreversible dismantlement of the program we are going to have to make compromises. And so the issue is where do we end up with our plan which essentially has been overnight and their plan which is a process that takes time?  Do you think you can trust the North Koreans with a process that takes time?  You know I do not trust anyone to implement a deal - any other country including our friends or our enemies. So of course there have to be verification provisions built into the plan. And everyone understands that including the North Koreans.  OK. Joel Wit thanks very much always a pleasure.  Thank you.  He is a former U.S. diplomat now the director of 38 North a website focused on North Korea analysis. 