 I wait all week to say time for sports.   Record-setting night for the Cleveland Cavaliers. They hit 24 3-pointers - 86 points in just the first half - to defeat the Golden State Warriors 137-116. Cleveland is now in the strategic position. All they have to do is win three more games - straight games - to submit their second NBA Championship. Of course the Warriors have to win just one. Jeh Jeh Pruitt of WBRC FOX6 here in Birmingham joins us onstage Thanks so much for being with us Jeh Jeh.  Thank you for having me.  Cavs were on fire last night were not they?  It was probably the single most impressive playoff game in the history of basketball an unbelievable game.  I knew I would love you. But go ahead yes.   No. I mean you talked about record-setting night - you know 24 3-pointers as you said. The Cavaliers scored 49 points in the first period.  Yeah.  First period - 86 points at halftime. Who does that? I mean who does that?  Yeah - LeBron James team...  .  ...With Kyrie Irving. Obviously they have to win three more.  Yes.  That is going to be more difficult right?  It is going to be very difficult for the Cavs to hit 24 3-pointers when they go back to Oakland. It is going to be difficult because the Warriors team is better than they were last year.  Yeah if you can imagine - because they added Kevin Durant. What sort of adjustments do you think the Warriors make looking forward to the next game?  Well they have got to get Stephen Curry back in the game a little bit. Stephen...  He had just - was it 9 points last night?  Yes. He did not score a single point in the first half other than two free throws. So that is - you know the Warriors are not going to win if Stephen Curry does not score any points in the first half.  Tempers seemed short last night which puzzled me. These are the two premier franchises in the NBA. Steph Curry even seemed a little upset and he is like the nicest guy in the world.  Well I am not going to - I am not on the NBA so I will not get fined for talking about the referees.  Oh yes. Yes.  But that to me was one of the single most horrific refereed games last night. I am not saying that because I am a Warriors fan or anything. But you know it was too one-sided for me. I think that the Cavs - they...  Having been surrounded by 20000 screaming Clevelanders...  Right .  ...You think the referees - yeah.  Now I am not taking anything away from the Cavs because the Cavs...  Yeah.  ...Did their job. But you know the Cavs - they had to win. They were going to do everything they could to win and they did. You know so I do not want to take any credit away from the Cavs. They did what they were supposed to do. But it was pretty interesting to watch the refs do - I mean you had seven players with technical fouls. You know Draymond Green supposedly was supposed to be...  Yeah.  ...Out of Game 5 and got in the game. But they actually called one of the technicals on Steve Kerr. So as you mentioned you know the referees - they were not playing last night.  Yeah. I understand they play football here in Alabama.  Oh yeah.   A little bit.  Tell me a little bit how things look for the Crimson Tide. We are in the middle of offseason.  Well you know for all of you Alabama fans they are preseason No. 1 again. They are looking pretty good. Nick Saban you know...   Yeah . Nick Saban does not - you know he does not recruit. He just reloads.   You know he is - he is got - his third-stringers can be starters for anybody else. That is his secret and they are going to be looking pretty good this year.  Yeah. There is another team that plays locally too is not there?  Yeah the Auburn Tigers .   Yes I know. All right. I was giving you a chance to say that OK? Yes.  .  How do things look for Auburn?  Well you know things are looking good for Auburn. They are probably going to do better than they did last year. Auburn had a really good run last year until the very - until their quarterback got hurt. And of course they did not - they could not adjust to it. They actually won like eight games in a row until the very last end. And so Gus Malzahn has got to find a way to beat Alabama. But he is also got to find a way to kind of make sure that everything is going well for the Tigers. You know the Tigers - they will be good for a second. And then they will lose a very important game. So they cannot do that if they are going to compete with Alabama.  I am sorry to end on this time with a serious question. But the concern about concussion that is in professional football - enough concern about it in college?  Yes. Yes because they are doing everything they can. In fact Dr. James Andrews Larry Lemak one of the top - I guess the two orthopedic surgeons here not only in Alabama but in the world. Those two guys - they have actually done a lot of things you know with starting - with talking about it. They have actually talked to a lot of NFL and college players. I think there should be - and I think there is a lot of concussion - a lot of people who are actually trying to talk about concussions because as you know I played football in college.  Yeah.  I had a few concussions. I was never treated for it. And that is probably the reason why I stumble my words sometimes - because ...  No no no. No you never do. Jeh Jeh Pruitt thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you for having me.  