 To help us prepare for the tournament and to talk about his new book we are joined by a former player who now helps develop U.S. tennis players Patrick McEnroe. Welcome to the program.  Thank you. Great to be here.  Let us talk about this year's tournament. Do you think we are going to get another match up of Roger Federer and the hot Spanish player Rafael Nadal?  Something tells me Deb that it may not happen this year although I think obviously many sports fans and a lot of tennis fans would love to see it although a lot of Americans would probably love to see Andy Roddick get back into the final. He played such a classic match last year.  Any surprises on the women's side?  I do not think so. I think you will see both Serena and Venus are the top two players in the world now. They have certainly earned their way back. I would give the slight edge to Serena although Venus you know has played the best tennis of her career at Wimbledon last year losing to Serena in the finals. I am sure Venus would like to get that title back.  In your book I think it is fair to say that you were tougher on Serena Williams than any other player. And what you write is she has a great deal to give if only she could forget about the taking.  Mm-hmm.  So what is that about?  But for example Deb when she loses matches she tends to not really give her opponent a lot of respect for winning. And you know in some sense that is the mindset of a champion but you never really hear Roger Federer or Rafael Nadal do that. They are always complimenting their opponents. And I think Serena's got so much to offer. She is so charismatic and I think in the last few years of her career she could really gain even more fans if she had a little more humility to her.  One of the most interesting things in your book is when you write about how much the grass court changed...  Mm-hmm.  ...after the era of Pete Sampras. Why did they have to change the grass?  And so they changed the complexion of the grass a little bit to make it a little bit thicker. They also I believe changed the balls to make the balls a little bit heavier. So what you see now is really more of an all-court game. You do have a lot of variety. You do have a lot of net play but you do not have the pure serve-and-volley tennis that you had in the past. And also the big serve while still being a huge asset you need a lot more than that to win Wimbledon.  In your book you talk about playing at Wimbledon. You did not have much success there but just playing there has to be a thrill.  Well absolutely. Thanks for the reminder by the way Deb that I did not play too well. But you are right.   One of the great things about Wimbledon - and I talk a little bit about it in the book - is sort of that first day you show up there and just to see the way they meticulously prepare the courts and they put the titanium paste they call it the lines down on the court and the beauty of that grass on that first day when it has not been worn out it has not turned into dust into dirt. It is pretty amazing. It kind of reminded me of the first time I walked into Yankee Stadium as a young kid as a baseball fan.  Thanks very much and have fun at Wimbledon.  Thank you.  Patrick McEnroe is the author of Hardcourt Confidential Tales from Twenty Years in the Pro Tennis Trenches. 