 President Biden says his economic aid plan is crucial and I forgot to bring my reading glasses.  Do you need to go get them?  No I cannot. They are at home.  Oh oh right. I could - it would be a very short show if I did not bring my reading glasses because that would be the end of that. But the bill has had a bumpy ride in the Senate. I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Scott Simon. And this is UP n-sighted edition from NPR News.  Now I am really going to tune in Scott.   Oh my.   President Biden says his economic aid plan is crucial.   Seven million kids do not have enough food. Thirteen million people are behind in their rent.  But the bill has had a bumpy ride in the Senate. I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Scott Simon. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.  The 1.9 trillion coronavirus relief package was held up by the objections of one Democratic senator before a compromise was reached. The Senate could vote to pass the plan soon.  Plus this week health care providers began to administer a third vaccine against COVID-19 authorized by the FDA. We will tell you what you need to know about the protection the Johnson  Johnson vaccine can provide.  And in New York Governor Andrew Cuomo is in the political fight of his life.  Please stay with us. We have got the news you need to start your weekend.   The Senate is expected to vote on President Biden's 1.9 trillion coronavirus relief package after a bitterly partisan and lengthy process.  No Republicans are expected to support the bill. Democrats are using a process that avoids a Republican filibuster. And in the evenly divided chamber Vice President Harris is expected to be needed to cast the tie-breaking vote.  NPR congressional correspondent Susan Davis joins us now. Good morning Sue.  Hey there.  All right what is the latest on when we can expect this very important vote?  Well senators have been working literally through the night in something called a vote-a-rama which Lulu I realized might sound more exciting than it actually is.  It sounds very exciting.  Yeah. It is essentially where senators are allowed to offer endless debates to a budget bill and they can do that until they are exhausted. And by that I mean they either run out of amendments to vote on or senators agree they just do not want to vote anymore and they agree to end debate. We do not know exactly when that is going to happen but the loose target is that that vote is likely to happen later today.  Wow. So it is dependent on the senators' stamina. There was quite a bit of drama in the Senate yesterday where Democrats were sort of scrambling to make sure that they had the votes over unemployment benefits. And what happened I think shows - right? - the slim majority the Democrats hold and the power of certain senators.  Yeah. I mean essentially Democrats went to the floor and they did not have the votes. And that really rarely happens. Senator Joe Manchin of West Virginia - he is a Democrat - was not entirely on board with the party's plan for these extended unemployment benefits. And he was threatening to vote with Republicans on a competing proposal. That derailed the entire process for about 12 hours yesterday until they finally came up with a deal to tweak unemployment benefits to shorten how long they are going to be available for by about a month. Now Manchin like a lot of Republicans just says that the benefits were too generous especially with the economy turning around and the mass availability of vaccines expected likely by early summer.  The Senate did make some significant changes to the version that the House passed. What were those?  I think most notably they scrapped the House plan for a 15 federal minimum wage. It violated Senate budget rules but also it just did not have enough support among Democrats in the Senate to pass. Joe Manchin and Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona were both against it. They also tightened the income limits for those 1400 stimulus checks and they will start phasing out for folks making over 150000 a year. They lowered the income threshold. The House bill was more generous. And they also made those extended unemployment benefits less generous. They reduced the benefit from an additional 400 a week to 300 a week. And they are going to expire now just after Labor Day instead of the end of September. I do want to note the White House has signed off on all these changes so they do not have a problem with it. And again I think it is always important to remind people that the broader contours of this bill is it is still 2 trillion nearly and very popular Democratic spending proposal. So it is also one of the largest standalone spending bills in history. And I think Democrats overall see this as a pretty big victory.  Those changes though do mean the House will have to vote again before this gets sent over to the White House for Biden's signature. When will that happen?  It should happen next week. They want to get this done and send it to President Biden by March 14 because that is when current extended unemployment benefits expire. It should be able to pass the House. Leaders there have been looped in on all these changes. They have been looped in with communications with the White House. But there is some frustration among House Democrats especially progressive Democrats that the benefits in this bill were basically cut down because of other Democrats. New Jersey Congresswoman Bonnie Coleman Watson said that she was quote disgusted by some of her Senate Democratic colleagues. She questioned whether she could support the reworked version of the bill. I think that is important because House Democrats have essentially no margin for error. They can only lose three votes on any party-line vote and still have it pass. So there could be some more drama next week. Again bottom line from the Democrats I have talked to - no one thinks the party itself is going to derail major party legislation that is a top priority for the president. And also remember this bill is hugely popular with the public in recent polling. It is not bipartisan in Congress but it is to voters. And that is a message that Biden has been pressing to lawmakers.  That is NPR congressional correspondent Susan Davis. Thank you so much.  You are welcome.   Tens of thousands of doses of the coronavirus vaccine made by Johnson  Johnson started shipping out across the country this past week.  The drug becomes the third vaccine in the arsenal against COVID-19. NPR's Maria Godoy joins us. Maria thanks so much for being with us.  My pleasure.  We have been hearing a lot about this new vaccine from Johnson  Johnson. How does it differ from the ones by - made by Pfizer and Moderna?  Well basically they use different technology. The Pfizer and Moderna vaccines both rely on something called mRNA to stimulate an immune response. The Johnson  Johnson vaccine on the other hand is what is called a viral vector vaccine. It uses a cold virus that is been modified so it cannot make you sick. And then that virus is now essentially just a delivery vehicle. And what it is delivering is the genetic blueprint for how to make that spike protein that is unique to the coronavirus.  We have seen those pictures of the coronavirus those spikes that stick out of it.  Exactly. So your immune system is learning to target those spikes and fight them.  What differences might you and I and others notice getting our shots between the effects the vaccines have?  So the main thing you would notice is that with the Johnson  Johnson vaccine you would only need one shot instead of two to be fully vaccinated. So it is one and done. And another key difference is that the JJ vaccine does not require ultra-cold storage. It can be kept at regular refrigerator temperatures for up to three months. So that makes it a lot easier to transport and store.  What about side effects or effects on people with underlying medical conditions?  You know there is no major differences. All three vaccines have the same common side effects - things like soreness at the injection site headaches fever fatigue. As for people with underlying medical conditions the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says the JJ vaccine is safe to take as long as you do not have a history of severe allergic reactions to any of the vaccine's components. And you know that is true with the other two vaccines as well.  One concern that is been raised by a number of people is the studies that show that the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines both seem to have significantly higher efficacy rates than the Johnson  Johnson vaccine. Is that quite the case?  You know experts say you cannot really compare those efficacy numbers head to head because those were different trials conducted in different places at different times in the pandemic. Johnson  Johnson started trials of its vaccine later than Moderna and Pfizer did. And it conducted trials in South Africa and Brazil at a time when more contagious variants of the virus were already rampant in both countries. So we have really good evidence that the JJ vaccine is highly effective at preventing severe disease and hospitalization even with these variants. And severe disease is what experts say we should really be focusing on. Here's Dr. Kirsten Bibbins-Domingo. She is an epidemiologist at the University of California San Francisco.  When we look at the thing we probably care about most making sure that we do not end up in the ICU or dying the efficacy of the three vaccines is virtually identical.  Think of it this way. If the worst thing that happens is that you get a headache or fever but you do not get sick enough to end up in the hospital that is a huge win.  Going to put you on the spot Maria.  .  If you had a choice between Pfizer Moderna Johnson  Johnson what would you choose?  I am actually going to let Dr. Cassandra Pierre answer that. She is an infectious disease expert at Boston Medical Center.  I would choose any of the three because I know that they will work. They will protect me and my family.  She and other experts say the best vaccine is the one you are offered first because that is the one that is going to protect you soonest.  NPR's Maria Godoy thanks so much.  Thank you.   Lawmakers in New York voted yesterday to curb Governor Andrew Cuomo's power to issue new emergency orders during the pandemic.  But despite the scandals that beset the governor the legislature allowed him to keep many of the sweeping powers that he already holds. NPR's Brian Mann has been following developments. Brian thanks for being with us.  Hi Scott.  Why did the lawmakers decide to rein in the governor's powers now after all the heavy lifting that he did several months ago?  Yeah. Well lawmakers said Scott is that this reflects the changing nature of the pandemic. But it is clearly a major rebuke for Cuomo. You know just a few weeks ago he was riding high with great approval ratings. Polls showed most New Yorkers thinking he handled this crisis really well. But things have changed. His team now acknowledges withholding data on thousands of nursing home deaths linked to the coronavirus. In a statement yesterday Cuomo's team said they were clear all along about the fact that they wanted to fact-check that information before making it public but a lot of lawmakers like Republican Assemblywoman Mary Beth Walsh are accusing Cuomo of a cover-up.   They hid it. They covered it up. They went to great lengths to control a narrative for the governor.  And Cuomo's political troubles go further. They also include accusations from three women including two who worked for him. They say he touched them inappropriately or made improper sexual advances. Cuomo denies wrongdoing but the state attorney general is investigating.  That is a lot of political flack personal flak all at the same time. But still the Democrats who control New York's legislature left most of Cuomo's emergency powers in place did not they?  Yeah they did. And Democrats made it clear - leaving Cuomo with all these huge powers to manage the pandemic is not a ringing endorsement of his leadership. It reflects the fact that scientists and doctors believe scrapping these emergency orders on things like mask-wearing and restaurant capacity that could mean a lot more people getting sick. Here's Democratic Assemblyman Ken Zebrowski.   That could turn us into Texas. I heard earlier that the virus is over. Mr. Speaker to those people that will lose their lives today the virus is not over.  And in fact more than 100 people are still dying every day in New York. But on the other side a lot of Republicans including Assemblyman Brian Manktelow argued yesterday that public health rules and all the pandemic authority held by Cuomo should just be scrapped right now. They say it is time for life and business to get back to normal. Manktelow said these rules are taking away people's freedom.   When the people fear government that is tyranny. And that is what we have going on in New York state right now.  So really this part of the debate was less about Andrew Cuomo and more about how the pandemic should be managed going forward kind of reflecting the debate we are seeing across the country.  With all the scandals that Governor Cuomo faces what does yesterday's vote say about his political standing now?  You know Cuomo is clearly back on his heels in a way we just have not seen before. He is in his third term. He is been one of the most popular governors in the country. But even some Democrats yesterday Scott called for him to resign or be impeached. But so far a majority of Democratic lawmakers appear to be sticking with him. Here's Assemblywoman Crystal Peoples-Stokes. She is the Democratic majority leader.   I know that people have issues with the governor his personal conduct things that he is been accused of doing. But when I listen to my constituencies they are still not thinking that this governor has done a bad job.  So that is a huge comedown from the kind of high praise Cuomo was used to from fellow Democrats just a few weeks ago. But it is a sign along with yesterday's vote that his political base seems to be holding up at least for now.  NPR's Brian Mann in upstate New York. Thanks so much.  Thank you Scott.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday March 6 2021. I am Scott Simon.  And I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your week. Follow us on social media. We are UpFirst on Twitter.  And for more news interviews books music fun you can find us on the radio.  Yeah. Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings. Find your NPR station at stations.npr.org.  