 Figuring out how to sign up for the coronavirus vaccine has been a frustrating process for many people but it can seem nearly impossible for those who speak less common languages. Sara Hossaini from member station KQED reports on a group of Indigenous Guatemalans in Oakland who started a project to help.   The project is a radio show called...  Radio or Radio B'alam.  Twenty-seven-year-old founder Henry Sales says the show is reaching out to thousands of Mayan Guatemalans in the Bay Area who speak a language called Mam. The name translates to Radio Jaguar a historical reference to the Mam king who led his people up a mountain to escape the Spanish invaders. So do you feel like you are trying to save your people?  Yeah. Hopefully that is what we are going to do. We are trying to you know save you know some people and you know guide them to the right direction.  Over the past 40 years a community of an estimated 18000 Mayan Mam speakers fleeing violence and poverty in Guatemala has formed in Oakland's Fruitvale neighborhood. Now they face yet another threat says Sales the pandemic.  I remember there were many of them telling me that I do not care about COVID because I will end up in the street. You got to work. There is no benefit like you know if you work in construction. So that is why many of them got sick.  A testing event in Oakland in the fall showed that more than a quarter of Mam tested already had the coronavirus the largest proportion of any ethnic group by far. But many Mam do not speak English or Spanish. And a significant number do not read which has made it harder to access public health information. So Sales came up with the idea of speaking to them directly through audio streaming. By mid-December Sales had a radio booth in the middle of an active food pantry.  So this is the space. And they are going to move over so we have like extra space.  And this food pantry is run by a local nonprofit called Homies Empowerment. The group decided to offer Radio B'alam the space after figuring out that most of the people who came were Mam and there was a communication barrier. Juan Dominguez runs the site.  So the moment that we realized how diverse our community was we wanted to find a way for representation.  Just before the winter holidays Radio B'alam went live...   .  ...Offering segments on COVID vaccines and testing virtual schooling unemployment and free groceries. County public health officials acknowledge that a successful COVID response hinges on familiar voices like those at Radio B'alam. And they say they will have more money to help support that outreach soon. Meanwhile earlier this month the show helped sign up fans for the first in a series of local vaccination events geared toward Mam. Food service worker Yenderson Aguilar is a listener who signed up for a shot. Sales translates for him.  .  I work in a restaurant. And I am very happy to get the vaccine because that way I will feel more protected.  And word from the show is broadcast is getting around. Cresensio Ramirez is a co-founder of Radio B'alam.  Even Guatemala - there is like television channels going on. And they call us - like hey we are so excited you guys are hosting this. Can you make it bigger?  Bigger as in speaking to Mam outside the Bay Area as well. But for now Radio B'alam is focused on serving its local audience.   For NPR News I am Sara Hossaini in Oakland. 