 Well last week on Super Tuesday Joe Biden did well - so well in fact that the race for the Democratic nomination is now basically down to him and Bernie Sanders. Well tomorrow we have another important Tuesday - six more contests including in Missouri and that is where we find NPR political correspondent Scott Detrow. Hi there Scott.  Hey. Good morning.  All right. So what is the landscape tomorrow? And what are you watching for?  So we have got 352 delegates up for grabs - not quite super still a lot still a significant day...  Almost super.  ...On the primary calendar you know big important.  Yeah.  Important Tuesday we can call it that. A couple states that I think could be good for Bernie Sanders but there are some questions and that is in Washington state and Idaho. Now these are two states that Sanders won in 2016 but they have shifted from caucuses to primaries. Bernie Sanders really pushed the Democratic Party to move away from the caucus system. Ironically in these states that used to be caucuses and are now primaries he is had a harder time winning or has been losing them. So that is a trend to watch. Also Mississippi that is a state with a large population of African American voters voters that Joe Biden has done very well in. That is a place that he could run up a big victory on Bernie Sanders. There is also voting in North Dakota and Missouri where I am right now. But the big state to watch for a whole bunch of reasons is Michigan.  What are those reasons? Why is that so important?  First of all the delegate count - there is simply the most delegates at stake 125 delegates. But there is huge symbolic importance as well. Michigan is the biggest win of Bernie Sanders' 2016 run for president a huge upset against Hillary Clinton that really fueled his campaign for months. So if he does not have a win again that says a lot about the trajectory of Bernie Sanders' campaign this time around. But also Michigan is one of those three states that has just loomed over the Democratic Party ever since they lost it to Donald Trump in 2016. Michigan Pennsylvania Wisconsin - these are the states the general election will be all about and this is the first contest in any of them. So you have had Bernie Sanders doing event after event in Michigan. He was in Ann Arbor last night with Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez. He had been endorsed by Jesse Jackson earlier in the day. And you could hear him have a lot more of a reflective tone than he usually does on the campaign trail.   We are capable of making sweeping change if we have the courage to do it.   So even though he is campaigning in St. Louis this morning this week has been all about Michigan to the point of canceling events in three other states to make sure he has more time on the ground there. He will be back this afternoon.  Scott the race changed so much a week ago like Super Tuesday. I mean now that it is just been mostly Biden and Bernie Sanders what - I mean have things changed as you have been watching this campaign play out?  A lot. Joe Biden keeps getting endorsement after endorsement after endorsement. But interestingly his campaign has really just been rolling those out having some of these people who are new to the Biden campaign cause campaign for him. He has not been doing a ton of events. He will actually only be in Michigan for the first time this week this morning today. It is almost like a team that has a big fourth quarter lead that is just trying to run out the clock. Sanders will be back in Michigan as I said. He is switching things up a little bit too. He is going to hold a roundtable on coronavirus in Detroit today. Typically Bernie Sanders gives the same speech everywhere he goes. So this is an acknowledgment that this is an enormous story that the presidential campaign needs to respond to that candidates need to talk about and show some leadership on.  All right NPR's Scott Detrow ahead of another big voting day tomorrow. He is in St. Louis Mo. one of the states that will be voting. Scott thanks.  Thank you. 