 English is the mother tongue of rock from Bill Haley and the Comets to Elvis Costello. But Germany's had a huge rock star at home who has been famous for 30 years. His name is Herbert Gronemeyer. He is the best-selling German recording artist of all time and has been called the German Bruce Springsteen. He plays big visceral rock ballads.   Herbert Gronemeyer got his start on the big screen appearing in the 1981 film Das Boot. But after that he turned quickly to music and has become Germany's national balladeer. He even gets back-up vocals from Bono.    This is summertime nothing on my mind. I am  'ecause we have forgiven . We forget them we deny we lose them still we try. 'ecause we love 'ecause we live. I miss you oh...  Now Herbert Gronemeyer has compiled English versions of some of his greatest German hits into a new album. It is called I Walk and it is his first U.S. album release. Herbert Gronemeyer joins us now from the BBC Studios in Berlin. Thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you. Hello.  Is to be a big rock star in Germany to no matter how successful you are live in the shadow of David Hasselhoff?   That is a funny thing. And that is so funny because it is really funny. This person I do not even know him really. I think he once had a song in Germany and that was it.  You were born when Germany was still a divided country.  Yes.  What did rock music mean to you growing up?  When I think we had been so nervous about music because of the past in Germany. Singing German was very very a place not to go because the Nazis used the language for their propaganda songs. And anyway we just escaped into English and American rock and pop music. So the Beatles the Doors the old blues the Stones then started a little bit the croc rock in the '70s. But the '60s being completely influential to us in Germany there.  How do you take a German hit and turn it into a English-lyricked song?  Oh that is a tricky question.  I mean it seems to me every book in the German language that I see is at least 25 percent longer than it is in English.  Yeah because that is we want to be very precise. It has a lot to do with German engineering everything has to be perfectly done. Even talking - we talk longer.  Is an English-language love song for example a little easier?  I think the language for the music is a bit of a smoother lover. I think the language lies more relaxed on the music in the English language. You can stretch it easier. You can make it more light. German language is immediately . And it is very guttural and very percussive. I think the English language is much much much more delicate.    And I am all so confused worlds within worlds standing beneath a stolid curl.  dreams the deepest trust the universe the universe is us no...  I hope you do not mind me asking but as I gather reading about your life you suffered I think it is safe to say two devastating losses within the same week.  Yes. The thing was that my brother passed away and my wife passed away four days later yes. My brother had a very complicated illness and cancer as well. And then my wife was already for a long long time. And yeah. Sometimes life goes in this moment of complete catastrophe than it was - yeah they both passed away in the same week yes.  Did you just want to crawl under a rock and hide from life?  I think the weird thing is it is so massive that you actually - I think the good thing in a human being is that the brain is limited. So the brain is completely numb and you do not know it does not function properly. But I think it is as you say even hiding does not help. You just stand there and you are completely gone.  Does music help?  Yes. It took me quite a while to come back on my feet. And then it was quite interesting - well not interesting - but I had to tell it to my kids that what happened 'ecause they have not been around. And my son started crying straightaway but my daughter was very tough in a way. And then she said you do not stop singing and there is no other women coming into our house. It was funny very odd that singing or me making music represented for her something very special and important in her life.    Just wanted to be right on the screen you robbed me of my senses and set the sunrise in my head. Just a beautiful dream makes me surrender and sweet surrender is all that I need...  I gathered that you are an artist that gets involved tries to make a mark say something to people about social and political issues. And I understand part of that has been working with disaffected far-right radical youths. These are widely considered very unlivable people - immigrant bashers hateful racists.  The thing is that what people underestimate it had to do with the situation in Germany that the reunification what everybody underestimated was the situation of the youth in that time. Because their parents being thrown into a complete new system. The parents had - everything was pre-done for them. You know they went to school their studies work everything was done. And suddenly they come in a world where they actually have to find their own way. And suddenly the parents had no clue how to explain this new situation to their kids. And the kids realized for the first time in their lives they realize their parents been completely without any answer and that radicalized them. And so I tried to make an example to show the politicians look if you do not look after the youth here you might get really into trouble. And what I started was a home in Leipzig for right-wing kids. And everybody called me an idiot. But in the end they figured out that the youth get more and more radical until people start caring for them. And that was something nobody was thinking about.  Do you think German audiences have a little bit more of a taste for some of the darker material than we do in this country or they do in the U.K.?  No. I would not say so no. I think there is definitely culture differences everywhere in the world where what is the way if you sit together for dinner that is different in Brazil to Japan. It is already a difference between an English and a German person at dinner. I think the English have to make a joke about themselves every 10 minutes.   That is what I love about them. The jokes yeah.  Yeah exactly. That is what I love about it. And then when they sit together with the German who does not make any jokes about himself they think oh God how can they survive? This is impossible. And we Germans like my partner Alex - I am working with him for 14 years now - he is my producer - and he fell in love with a German girl. And I ask him how it is to live in Germany? He said yeah the funny thing about the Germans is they go for dinner and they discuss all politics and solve all the problems in the world actually and then they go home all depressed.    Herbert Gronemeyer. His new album - out in English in the U.S. - is I Walk. He joined us from the BBC studios in Berlin. Mr. Gronemeyer good luck to you. Thanks very much.  Thank you very much. Thanks.    I walk...  And you can hear a few tracks from I Walk at nprmusic.org. This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. 