 The producer's touch on an artist's music can bring out the magic of a melody or the sheen of voices and instruments. Daniel Lanois' studio wizardry has earned him 11 Grammys. He is worked with a host of stars including Brian Eno Bono Peter Gabriel Emmylou Harris and Robbie Robertson. He is also put out his own albums and the latest is Heavy Sun.  HEAVY SUN   Work so hard work so hard. Down below Mary let me go.  Daniel Lanois joins us now from a studio in Toronto. Thanks so much for being with us.  Yeah you are very welcome Scott. And thank you for the invitation.  There is a real spiritual sound to this album.  It is got a lot of spirit in it that is for sure. It includes my mates my singing friends Rocco DeLuca Johnny Shepherd and Jim Wilson. These are co-written songs. And I asked Johnny who is from the Zion Baptist Church I said what kind of a place would you like to be when you are not in church? He said well a place where I can forget my troubles and be surrounded by beautiful music. I said OK well let us invent a place kind of a nightclub in outer space where that might just happen. So that was the beginning of the lyrics for  Heavy Sun.  HEAVY SUN   We gonna roll on down the road. So far we go. yeah...  So we should transport ourselves as we listen?  That would be nice. I mean I think it is the job of art to transport a viewer or a listener. And we like to think that our music can at least paint a picture for someone.  I am told the studios from which you are speaking to us your studios used to be a Buddhist temple.  Exactly. Yeah the monks were moving out and I bought the temple from them 10 years ago. I think there is still a little bit of the monks hiding in the walls and resonating with the music.  .  So it is kind of a nice place. And so the spirit of Buddha is still here.  Let us listen to a track - Johnny Shepherd doing the lead vocal. This is Please Do not Try.    For you see I asked to tell what would my future be...  There is only one musical instrument in this piece and that is the Hammond organ. And Johnny is a master at the organ. He is doing the lead vocal but he is also a great organist. And on that morning the creation of this track he came in and played the organ for about an hour and played beautifully. And then later in the day Rocco DeLuca arrived and he says I have an idea about Please Do not Try being a good title as if to say it will come to you if you give it time. So we wanted to build a song around this idea and around Johnny's organ performance.    Please do not try. Let it come to you.  You used to record gospel groups earlier in your career I gather.  As a teenager or late teens in Canada I was associated with a Christian music organization that brought vocal quartets from all over the world to tour Canada. And they stopped at my studio to make a gospel record in two days. So I was one of the tour stops - got to hear a lot of great harmonies.    People got the power.  Let us listen to another track if we could - this one Power.    We have got the power. People got the power. We have got the power - power. We have got the power. People got the power...  Does it feel especially important to hear that now?  Well you know when we recorded Power it was hardly an original thought you know that people got the power and you can make a difference to your own life. But now that in confinement and in isolation I think people are thinking about the reset button whatever that might mean maybe taking a look in the mirror and we cannot be chasing what we were chasing before. A lot of us are out of work you know including a lot of musicians. We cannot tour anymore. So it does not mean to say we stop being creative or that people stop being energized by something. So it is a chance to make an assessment of one's life and take a look in the mirror and see what kind of an improvement. In my case I am trying to be a better person. And so Power means that it gives me a little more time to check myself out and see what the right thing to do might be. Then I am OK with that you know and I think reset button - that is not a bad way to look at it.  Yeah. Have you stayed active during this time?  Well that is the - I have a bit of humor going with Wayne Llorens who - we are in the studio all the time. We did not know the pandemic had come until much later because we were just in the same place where it left us. That part has not changed. But I miss going to - having a martini across the street and I miss hanging out with friends. And all the spontaneity has been taken away from us largely. So we all miss it.  Boy that is a good - yeah I - the spontaneity has been taken away from us. That is a really good point - is not it? - just the kind of sparks and interaction between human beings laughing and having fun and working on something together. This album transports people to the - your club in the stars.  Well we hope that we can at least provide transport. You know we have a term in the studio. Does it have liftoff?  Yeah.  And liftoff is that moment when you start feeling there is a little bit of magic in something and you do not know quite how it happened. The hair comes up on the arm and you feel elevated. And those are the moments we look for in record making.  Daniel Lanois - his new album Heavy Sun - thank you so much for being with us.  You are very welcome Scott and thank you for the invitation.  