 We are back in the studio with NPR's Juan Williams. And Juan the administration's in the position of both calling on the American people for sacrifice and also pouring a lot of money into the economy. What are some of the political implications?  Well the political implication is a very basic question Scott How long will the American people remain patient with the Obama administration in terms of their efforts to revive this economy if the economy continues to flag? As we just heard you know the question is will it in fact be a recovery that takes place in 2010 or are we looking at 2011? When can we expect to see jobs return or could it be that we do not see certain jobs certain sectors revive and therefore the greater emphasis - and there was lots of talk about this over the last week - the great emphasis will have to be on retraining workers. So are you looking then at yet another stimulus package? You know more than half of the members of Congress and polls have said they think actually another stimulus package is likely. And after the numbers that we have been discussing today it could be that you are adding to this 787 billion stimulus package that is been already passed.  But let me point something First of course we want to note that the administration's polling numbers remain very high right?  Absolutely. So the patience with the President Obama administration is there right now.  On the other hand the McCain-Feingold return this week - Senators Feingold and McCain - said they are opposed to all the earmarks in the pending legislation. Senator Bayh of Indiana said that he would vote against it too. So if you do the math that new legislation might be in some trouble in Congress.  Well that is an omnibus spending bill for about 12 key agencies and yet it would be in trouble because Democrats do not have the 60 votes to stop a filibuster. The key thing is - here you have some Democrats moderate Democrats who are up for re-election in 2010 and they are going to have to go out there against a Republican line of argument that says these bills are all excessive spending that is going to put a great deal of burden on future generations and not generate jobs. And this brings us back to what you were talking about earlier Scott. You look at the number of jobs that President Obama said he wanted to deal with in terms of creation it was about 3.5 million. Already this economy's lost more than 4 million jobs.  I do not want our time with you to expire without asking you about Rush Limbaugh. President's chief of staff called him the voice of the Republican Party. Let us have a cut from Mr. Limbaugh's radio show where he responded by calling on the president to come onto his program.  Mr.  I am offering President Obama to come on this program without staffers without a teleprompter without note cards to debate me on the issues. Let us talk about free markets versus government control. Let us talk about nationalizing health care and raising taxes on small business.  I do not know why Rush Limbaugh sounds like Darth Vader. I think that some of you - let me check with our technical director. That is Internet sound or something? We are not doing anything funny to his voice. Is he the active head of the Republican Party or the Democrats have just set him up to be that?  Well both are true. You know if you think about it there is a vacuum in terms of the national leadership of the party at this moment -whether it is people saying could it be Newt Gingrich could it be Sarah Palin out in Alaska Could it be Bobby Jindal who gave the response to the president's recent address? But if you look at the Congress if you look at people like Mitch McConnell the leader in the Senate or John Boehner the leader in the House they do not have that kind of national traction that allows people to focus on them and to say that is the voice and the face of opposition to President Obama. Michael Steele has come in as the head of the RNC and tried it. But as you know last weekend when he took on Limbaugh he then had to backtrack and make all sorts of apologies. Limbaugh goes into - directly into the heart of sort of white male conservative America. And the Republican Party needs that base. But that base is so small Scott it is now smaller than the number of independents in the country and far smaller than the number of Democrats. So the tension here is how do you expand the Republican Party at this moment? And Republicans find themselves really trapped. They do not know how to do it how to get away from the base while keeping the base.  NPR News analyst Juan Williams. Always a pleasure. Thanks so much.  You are welcome Scott. 