 It is officially spring. A number of families may plot road trips when school break comes. Randy Olson is a Ph.D. candidate at Michigan State and a self-proclaimed data tinkerer. He believes he is devised a route that could allow a family to hit a landmark in each of the lower 48 states. From Grand Canyon in Arizona to the Gateway Arch in St. Louis to the Statue of Liberty and beyond with just nine days of driving but no time sleeping or using the restroom - start planning now. Mr. Olson joins us from Michigan State University. Thanks so much for being with us.  Hi thank you for having me.  So how long would this trip take?  Approximately about 9.33 days if you drove nonstop.  Yeah but that is not stopping to eat use the bathroom sleep shower...  Yeah.  Imagine that car you know like even two days into a trip like that.   I would imagine it would be pretty smelly by that point.  So how did you plot this optimal route?  Yeah so plotting the route sort of started by picking where exactly we wanted to go. So we sort of sat down and we actually spent a few days you know setting out some criteria. So once we chose 50 stops around the U.S. that is when the algorithm kicked in.  All right I understand landmarks you have listed like you know Statue of Liberty or Lincoln's home in Springfield Ill. or Taliesin - Frank Lloyd Wright's home in Wisconsin - C.W. Parker Carousel Museum in Kansas?  Yeah so basically we were using this criteria that we came to at the beginning of the project which was we had to hit at least one spot in each state. It had to be a national natural landmark or a historic site or something like that. And so when we took these lists of the landmarks in each state we then sort of relied on TripAdvisor to tell us well where is a good spot that would be family-friendly and so on.  OK now does this also explain for example why in Illinois it is Lincoln's home in Springfield which is a great place to see but not any of the architectural marvels in Chicago because that way you do not get caught up in traffic or have to go that far north?  Exactly. I mean we were not particularly trying to avoid big cities but we were trying to sort of get a nice mix of the countryside and big cities throughout the trip.  Let me try and put this nicely. Does the algorithm you develop have any use other than this utterly ridiculous trip you have plotted?   Absolutely it does.  All right.  So I mean I followed up on this trip with sort of other road trips - you know road trips hitting major cities in the U.S. road trips hitting major sites in Europe. I have also started using it when you are walking around a city as a tourist and trying to hit all the hotspots there. And also actually last month I used a very similar algorithm strangely enough to solve the Where is Waldo children's book as well.  What do you mean you solved Where is Waldo?  Well so the trouble of the Where is Waldo?...  Wait hold on for a moment. I want to tell my daughters do not listen. Go ahead.   Yeah cover their ears please. So basically the goal of Where is Waldo? is you are trying to find a guy that is always wearing the same clothes - you know it is red and white stripes and beanie hat and everything. And I remember as a kid I would spend hours poring over this book trying to find Waldo you know and oh my gosh where is he? And so I finally decided well you know what? Now as a Ph.D. student I can actually analyze this and sort of find the optimal route to look through the page to find Waldo.   This is your revenge on Waldo is not it?  Exactly.  Randy Olson a Ph.D. candidate at Michigan State University researching artificial intelligence. Thanks so much for being with us.  Great chatting with you.  