 It seemed a good week for President Obama at home and abroad book-ended by the landmark health care law and an important new arms control treaty with Russia. The White House routinely scoffs at that kind of week-by-week appraisal of the president's standing but when Mr. Obama traveled to Iowa this week to celebrate the health care law there was a new tone - and as NPR's Scott Horsley reports a not-so-new tune.  So how is that hopey-changey thing working outnow? Just weeks after being publicly mocked by Sarah Palin and a seemingly ascendant Republican Party President Obama is sounding like his old audacious self again. With the improbable success of the health care bill he can once again talk about Americans' ability to do big things  and not sound silly. On Thursday Mr. Obama took that message back to Iowa the state that launched his presidential bid and the place he says where change began. President  What this struggle has taught us  about ourselves and about this country  is so much bigger than any one issue. Because it is reminded us what so many of us learned all those months ago on a cold January night here in Iowa  and that is that change is never easy. But it is always possible.   To be sure the health care battle featured little of the bipartisan cooperation Mr. Obama campaigned on. Partisan divisions are as deep as ever. But the president does now have some major accomplishments to his credit. And having delivered change he is again free to talk about hope. President  Today because of what you did that future looks stronger and more hopeful and brighter than it has in some time - because of you.  Personally Mr. Obama is famous for his even keel whether the political winds are at his back or in his face. But a telling signal of the president's mood came at the end of Thursday's speech when they cranked up the music in the University of Iowa field house.   Instead of the old-fashioned John Phillips Souza marches that have accompanied the president since he took office fans heard Brooks and Dunn U2 and Bruce Springsteen  a reprise of the soundtrack from Obama's unlikely campaign. Running the country is harder than running for office and Mr. Obama warned repeatedly this week there are more tough times ahead. But Americans will face those challenges with new confidence he said. This is the week the president rediscovered his music.    Looking at the promise of the Promised Land.  NPR White House correspondent Scott Horsley.    One kid dreams of fame and fortune. One kid helps pay the rent. One could end up going to prison.   This is NPR News. 