 Time now for sports.   Tennis player Maria Sharapova has now joined a growing group of professional athletes with a doping scandal hanging over their heads. She tested positive to a recently banned substance. It is called meldonium. It happened at the Australian Open. She said she was taking it for a family history of diabetes and did not know the drug had been banned. Sharapova is probably one of the most visible athletes in the world but just how prevalent is doping among those athletes without a Nike contract? Let us ask Mike Pesca. He is the host of The Gist. Good morning.  Or even with a Nike contract.  Yeah right? I mean it seems like every time we turn around there is another professional athlete being accused of doping. So what is going on?  Well in the case of Sharapova everything you said is true but the context is - sure this was just newly banned. But everyone who looked at drugs and looked at doping said well we know what the drug is doing and though it has some non-performative purposes in fact this drug was first invented and one of the first uses was to help Russian soldiers in the high mountains of Afghanistan because it helps with oxygen intake exactly what a lot of illegal drugs do. So finally it got to the tennis list. It was banned in track and field. It got to the tennis list and the word went out. You have got to stop taking this. And so you know Sharapova is saying - oh I was taking this for real reasons and I just missed a memo. You know even her excuse - that I was taking it for diabetes - you are supposed to take it for four to six weeks. She was taking it continuously. It was obviously helping her performance. I am not saying it makes her a bad person but it was clear what she was doing. This drug was helping her performance.  So you say that this - it is affecting not just the big sports but things we do not pay attention to. There was some race in track and field that caught your eye.  Yeah this is the thing. When we talk about this I think sometimes our discussion hinges on the personality involved. I mean we usually - when we hear about sports and a scandal it is via a superstar right - so a Peyton Manning allegation or here Sharapova. And then even if it is not - even if it is a journeyman Major League Baseball player those guys are millionaires. Well what about the 1500 meters in the last London Olympics? Earlier this week the silver medalist of that race was found to have cheated which means - if you go down the list of who cheated in the 1500 meters - the gold medalist the silver medalist the fourth-place finisher the fifth seventh and ninth-place finishers. So this means that an American runner Shannon Rowbury who thought she finished sixth and was gutted and cried and was despondent and actually said this just means that the best I could possibly give is not good enough. No that was all a lie because all of her competitors - or so many of her competitors were cheating. And the Olympics have not gotten in touch with her and said here's your silver medal but she clearly deserves the silver medal as the clean one in that race.  But so - I do not understand. If everyone is doing this...  That is the thing. That is the thing.  ...I mean should not you just change the standards or change the rules?  That is exactly the thing. I think that the best argument against cheating is not that our sports are not entertaining or fair and it is not that the people who are doing it are bad people. It is that not - literally not everyone is doing it. But if you create a norm where it becomes hard not to do it you are forcing people who do not want to cheat to cheat. You are forcing people who do not want to hurt their bodies to hurt their bodies. We do not know 100 percent that Shannon Rowbury did not do it but she seems like as sympathetic a victim as there is - not a pitcher who gave up a home run to Barry Bonds but a runner who tried her hardest thought her hardest was not the best but it turns out it was drugs that was keeping her off the medal stand.  Mike Pesca - host of The Gist on Slate. Thanks so much Mike.  You are welcome. 