 The Senate has passed a bill to inject around 2 trillion of emergency relief into the U.S. economy.  That vote brings Americans a little closer to receiving cash from the government some compensation for the economic disaster of fighting the pandemic. Here is Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer.   There are millions of Americans watching us right now at home on their televisions separated from friends and family fearful for their children and their livelihoods unsure of when the time will come when all of our lives may return to normal. Let us tell them tonight that help is on the way.  How is that help going to work? NPR congressional correspondent Kelsey Snell is on the line. Good morning Kelsey.  Good morning.  So when should people start to expect checks in the mail? And how much should they expect to be getting?  Well the question of how much kind of depends on whether or not the IRS has already access to your bank account information because then they can do an electronic transfer and that is something that Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin says could take place in the next couple of weeks maybe three weeks. Now when it comes to paper checks people who do not have that information on file we do not really know the answer to that. And we are waiting for more information. When it comes to how much - now individuals earning less than 75000 would get a 1200 check. That goes for both parts of a married couple. So if a married couple is making 150000 they would each get 1200. And it would start to phase out after that and go away completely for people making under 99000. And parents would get 500 per child.  How soon could people see the money? And it sounds like what you are saying is there could be delays on when you see the money if the federal government does not already have your address on file.  If they do not have your bank account information on file...  OK.  ...Because these electronic transfers can be done more quickly than printing checks and sending them out to people directly.  And Kelsey we should point out that this is not just about individuals right? This is also about businesses.  Right. Actually the largest portion of this bill is focused on getting money to big businesses. And then there is another separate pot of money for small businesses. When it comes to big businesses the money is focused on loans primarily with some really interesting strings attached. There would not be an opportunity for large corporations to do stock buybacks for the entirety of a loan plus one year if they accept the money from the federal government. But also there is a provision in here that prevents the president the vice president Cabinet members and members of Congress from accessing any funds from this relief package.  OK. So some things we learned from the financial crisis if you ask an economist about that. Every senator that voted - and there were 96 of them right?  Yeah. So every senator who was present for this vote voted yes on this.  Yeah.  And I think that is a really important message because it will head over to the House for that vote on Friday. And it sends a message to House members that this is an effort that supersedes partisanship in a way that we have not seen before. If you think about it 2 trillion is a massive piece of legislation. And I have never seen a vote this large on a spending bill really of any size.  When is the House expected to take up the bill?  The House is scheduled to take that up on Friday. And the expectation is that the White House could receive it that day. It is possible that the president could sign it into law before the end of the week. The goal is to get the money out to people as quickly as possible.  NPR congressional correspondent Kelsey Snell. Kelsey thanks so much.  Thank you.  We do not know exactly how many people have lost their jobs because of the coronavirus but responsible estimates suggest it is millions of people.  In California alone more than 1 million people have filed for unemployment in less than two weeks. Today we get a national picture. The Labor Department releases the number of unemployment claims from last week which was a week in which large parts of America began to shut down.  NPR's Jim Zarroli has been watching this from New York City. Good morning Jim.  Good morning.  So what are you expecting when these numbers come out today?  I mean it is going to be brutal. We are going to see record numbers of people filing for unemployment. The estimates from economists that we have seen so far are just enormous. I mean the Economic Policy Institute says as many as 3.4 million people filed for claims last week. Just for comparison's sake I mean even during the worst weeks of the Great Recession the number never topped 665000.  Oh.  And in California alone last week we saw almost that many - 639000 jobs lost. And that was just last week. So the number of jobs lost overall in the country last week is just way more than we have ever seen before. And of course that is just last week. We are going to continue to be losing jobs for a while.  And we know Jim that some sectors of the economy are looking especially grim right?  Right yeah. Well I mean the losses will eventually affect every part of the economy. But a few industries have been really hard hit like transportation airlines for instance energy restaurants hotels anything connected to tourism. I mean we are seeing places like Florida and Nevada that depend on tourism really heavily hit very hard because nobody wants to travel right now. A trade group for the hotel industry says it probably has lost a million jobs since the crisis began. Also seeing a big drop in energy prices - so you know energy states like Texas where the oil and gas market is really important have seen a lot of layoffs. But we are seeing layoffs everywhere.  One of the remarkable things here is how quickly this happened. I mean it might seem long because of how much coverage everyone has done and how long we feel like we have been stuck behind closed doors. But it has not been that long. Compare where we are today to where we were say a month ago.  Well you remember just before the virus struck we were still in the middle of a really strong job market. We had a 3.5 unemployment rate in February. Now the St. Louis Fed estimated earlier this week that we could see unemployment go above 30 in the next month or so although it should come down pretty quickly. So a lot of people are just feeling whiplash right now. I talked to a guy named Adam Hill  from Worcester Mass. who worked recently until - a graphic designer - as  a company that does trade shows. And he says as recently as a few weeks ago the company was having a really good year. Then all of a sudden trade shows began to cancel one after another. Then within two weeks 155 shows had canceled. So now he has been told he is going to be rehired once the economy rebounds. He is now been laid off. And you know the company can afford to bring him back but no one knows when that will be.  A lot of people though will be waiting for that moment. NPR's Jim Zarroli. Thanks Jim.  You are welcome.  All right. So what is the truth about COVID-19 testing?  There are almost 70000 confirmed cases of coronavirus in this country. And we know that because of expanded testing. But there is also a lot we do not know again because of testing.  There is still a lot of confusion over this. And NPR's Allison Aubrey is here to try and help us suss some of it out. Hi Allison.  Good morning.  OK. So part of the confusion here - a big part of the confusion - is that we are getting mixed messages about testing. At this point are tests widely available?  Well you know we heard Vice President Pence last night say we are adding thousands of tests a day. But he also said this week if you do not have symptoms do not get a test. So for now priority is given to health care workers and people with symptoms such as fever cough and shortness of breath.  So when you hear Mike Pence say if you do not have symptoms do not get a test that sounds like a suggestion. But it sounds like what you are saying is there are actual restrictions on who can be tested.  That is right. That is the reality now and things are evolving quickly. But decisions are being made without much data here. That is the downside of not having the testing. I mean everyone in the country is being asked to hunker down because we know the virus is out there. But we do not know enough about who has it where it is spreading. One way to determine when and where to relax these social distancing measures and the lockdown is to do much more testing. I spoke to Aaron Carroll. He is a professor at Indiana University School of Medicine.  We have to know who is infected and who is not. And there is too many people in the community who are infected and do not know it or who are not showing symptoms. We have no idea who they are. And if we just lift the rules of shelter-in-place and let all of those people go out we will just snap right back into the growing curve of where we were before.  What is the best strategy then to get us out of this at this point?  Well in really simplistic terms there are two options here. Option A - lift the restrictions go back to life as normal. This way lots more people get infected. The upside we get to what scientists call herd immunity where many of us are exposed and then protected against the virus. We get there quickly. The downside more people die. Hospitals could be overloaded. Or - option B - keep up the social distancing to flatten the curve fewer people get sick at any one time. It may take longer to get through this but fewer people die and the health care system will not be overloaded.  OK. So option B is social distancing flattening the curve. Clearly a lot of government leaders local and state are choosing that option. Is it possible then that we will end up with a situation where some parts of the country will go back to normal sooner than other parts?  Absolutely. We heard Dr. Deborah Birx of the task force articulate that. She says we are getting a better picture of where there is a lot of spread and where there is very little. Right now more than half of all the cases are coming from the New York metro area. So the way forward for New York is going to look a lot different than the way forward in other cities.  I am in Indianapolis. We are not having the same kind of difficulties that New York City is having. But right now everyone is sheltering in place in Indiana because we do not want to get there. And we do not have a sense of where the infection is and who is at risk.  You know and testing can help solve the problem to help us figure this out. People who are positive could be quarantined and socially distanced. Broader restrictions could be softened in other places where there is not a lot of virus spreading.  NPR's Allison Aubrey. Allison thanks so much for your reporting.  Thank you. 