 This is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am Linda Wertheimer.  And I am Steve Inskeep. Ten days ago on this program we heard the beginning of a road trip. We started a drive along the whole U.S.-Mexico border beginning at the mouth of the Rio Grande. From there we moved westward along the border until we could go no more. So this is it. We have reached the end. After more than 2000 miles of travel we are on a beach at the Pacific Ocean with the waves washing in. We stood in the surf at Tijuana.  It is in the Mexican state of Baja California our final stop as we report on people goods and culture crossing the border.  Tijuana is separated from San Diego by a massive steel fence. That fence cuts over the hills and through valleys. The steel bars finally march right down across the beach and out to sea extending a hundred feet or so into the ocean. Oh yeah here are some kids who are hanging on to the steel bars as the surf washes in and out. It was a busy beach on the Tijuana side with people relaxing under the shade of umbrellas. Just uphill we were able to buy amazing fish tacos from a street-side stand while listening to a live band.   Tijuana is a famous party town though drug-related violence of a few years ago drove away many American tourists. There is much more though to this city of well over a million. We went driving into Tijuana neighborhoods perched on the sides of hills and canyons. We were looking for a local landmark a famous landmark though the streets were so tangled we had to keep asking directions.  Go down the first street down and you will see it is a dirt road. You are going to go down that road it will take you straight to it.  We parked the car and walked down that dirt path on the side of a canyon. So I glimpsed her briefly from the road. She is down here somewhere. Oh there she is. She is a statue of a woman. She has one arm upraised like the Statue of Liberty. She is 55 feet high made of concrete completely nude. Standing at her enormous feet we met with the creator Armando Munoz. What was your idea when you got started on this?  Well the idea was to celebrate the first centennial of Tijuana.  The fact you said it was the centennial of Tijuana only about 24 years ago is a reminder that although we are in a part of the world where there is been settlement for a very long time this is a new city.  Yes that is why I build this female figure as a very young anatomy.  This young woman is surrounded by a city largely under development.  Many hillside houses are built on foundations of stacked tires. You hear a rooster crowing. You see the intimacy of people's backyards because the houses are crowded together on this slope. A woman is down below us doing the laundry in an outdoor washing machine. You see a child's toy car. You see laundry hanging on the backs of several houses. You see improvised porches. It has all built up in a little more than a century making Tijuana far younger than Mexico City to the southeast or even San Francisco to the north.  There used to be no reason for a major city at Tijuana. Then at the end of the U.S. war with Mexico in 1848 a borderline was drawn across the sand. It divided the U.S. and Mexico. What drove the development of this city?  The border.  That is Hector Osuna. He is a former mayor of Tijuana. When San Diego and Los Angeles started to grow in Southern California across the border in the late 1800's Tijuana grew with them. Later Osuna says the city became famous as a place to do what was forbidden in the United States.  I think it became in times of the Prohibition I think a lot of people came here to the Casino Agua Caliente which is...  1920s 1930s...  1930s 1920s yeah.  These days Tijuana's economy is far more diverse featuring factories and tech firms. You can see the city's wealth in the building where Hector Osuna works. Its utterly modern glass walls contain a high-end restaurant on one floor a nightclub on another and also offices like Hector Osuna's. He is an architect and he is been sketching plans. We are looking at this drawing this kind of a floor plan for a...   hospital now.  It would be the latest of many specially built facilities in Tijuana. They market to Americans especially Mexican-Americans who may prefer the style of Mexican doctors. For all the border security people continue crossing from one side to the other. When we were in Arizona actually a businessman on the Arizona side a Mexican-American used the phrase border citizen.  Border citizen.  Border citizen. He struggled a little bit to define what he meant but I gathered him to mean that there is this zone along the border where culture and country and other concepts like that are just thought about a little differently than in other parts.  Of course yeah. Not a lot of people understand that. I am Mexican. I live all my life in Mexico and I have kids that go to school every day to the U.S. they were born in the U.S. You see idea of us doing that is that I want to erase from them the border in their minds. They are bicultural bi-national they do not feel that there is a border. So they go and they feel comfortable in the U.S. and they come back to Mexico and feel comfortable in Mexico.  Hector Osuna could pay to put his children in private California schools. Other people have more trouble maintaining those cross-border connections.   One of the last things we did in Tijuana was visit Friendship Park. It is a park in the shape of a circle - right on the border between the U.S. and Mexico. These days it is more proper to call it two half circles because a high rusted steel U.S. border fence cuts Friendship Park down the middle. The fence was rebuilt five years ago replacing a less imposing barrier. For a few hours on weekends people who cannot cross from one side to the other can come to this circle. They can talk through the fence with loved ones on the other side. The morning we visited two parents had come to the Tijuana side to visit with their son in the U.S. They had not seen him in years.   Oh my heart they exclaimed 15 years without seeing him. The son across the way Hector Razo cannot risk a return to Mexico because he immigrated illegally to the United States. What have you been doing these 15 years? Doing?  Doing working.  What do you do?  Yeah. I do a painting painting job.  In San Diego?  Yeah. San Diego.  OK.  I am really really very happy with your country because it is a lot of opportunities. Yeah. And the life is really different. Yeah because my kids they are really better.  His four kids had come along to the fence. And the two parts of the family chatted for a few moments in the sun barely able to glimpse each other through the heavy wire mesh. If you walk a bit downhill from Friendship Park you arrive once again on the beach. You end up where the border fence ends...   ...which is also where our journey ends. Here you to raise your voice above the crashing Pacific surf.   We have met so many people along the way. We have met people seeking asylum in the United States. We have met people trying to migrate into the United States who got caught and perhaps have already now been sent back. We have met law enforcement officials. We have met politicians on both sides of the border. We have met writers. We have met musicians. The music group Intocable who  come out of Zapata Texas and who we saw perform in Juarez Mexico. There is a poster up near the bull fighting ring here saying they are going to be performing here in Tijuana. The fact that their music stretches all the way along the border is a reminder that although we have traveled more than 2000 miles we have been in the same place the whole time - we have been in the Borderland. The Borderland is a place of many different landscapes but a shared experience. It is the experience of the border itself. This is where two nations rub together develop clash influence each other. It is where you see the two nations in their rawest form. It is where you see Mexico and the United States crossing into their future.   You can browse all the stories from the Borderland at npr.org. And next week NPR will publish a digital magazine - everything about the border the sights the sounds the facts of the border all in one place.   It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. 