   Superstar you finally made it...  Sting knows a thing or two about collaboration.    It is what they call the rise and fall.  That is Rise And Fall by British singer Craig David with Sting who supplied his voice and the melody from his 1993 song Shape Of My Heart. This collaboration is one of many on his latest album called Duets. And Sting joins us now from his studio in New York. Hello.  Hello. Nice to talk to you all.  Nice to talk to you too. Duets is fitting for this moment right? I mean there is something about the human voice in unison that is striking after a year apart.  Like everybody I spent most of the year at home ruminating about my life and about my place in the world looking back on things I would done. And most recently I would done quite a few duets with various artists mainly in Europe. And then I started to look through my archives and was very very pleasantly surprised by - one by how many actual duets I have done over the years and one the quality of them. And a very very Catholic  bag - you know lots of range from Charles Aznavour to me singing with Herbie Hancock Eric Clapton. So in a way it was a symbol of my year under lockdown of reaching out not only to the present time but also to the past.  I mean a lot of these songs have appeared on other albums as you mention - your own or those of other artists. But you have a few that were recorded in the last year. What was it like to do something apart but together?  You miss having someone facing the mic opposite you where you can watch the emotion on their faces. You can second-guess where you will be able to phrase with them by watching the way that the words are formed on their lips. So you lack that. But nonetheless the sound is the same. I also miss the rapport you can have with another musician who is you know very close. You may have just met. You have a cup of tea. You discuss the weather. You discuss their love life everything. And then you sing the song. In this case it is really just a matter of singing the song on your own sending it off. They sing their bit and they send it back. And then you mix and match and you alter it. But - so you miss that personal interchange. But nonetheless you can get a good result.  I want to ask about one way of collaborating when a song that was written as a solo piece turns into a duet. There is a new version of Englishman In New York on this album. It is with Beninese singer Shirazee. Let us take a listen.    Every day I wake up here's a win because I got here on a dream. I still hear my mother praying every day. I am an African in New York.  So how did this version come about? Tell me about this.  Well I wrote it in the '80s about a friend of mine Quentin Crisp a very very colorful man. He was a very very famous homosexual at a time in England when it was once against the law and dangerous. And then at a very old age - I think in his late 70s - he moved to the Bowery became a very flamboyant figure around town. And I made a movie with him and became very close friends with him. And I wrote this song about an Englishman in New York. But since that time it is been covered a number of occasions by other nationalities. So this was not unusual that African In New York came along by Shirazee who comes from - as you say from Benin. I thought it was a very good message for the time you know a message of unity a message of being together singing together. So I am always very happy to have that song interpreted in a different way.    I am gonna make it.   Be yourself...   I am going to make it.   ...No matter what they say. Be yourself not matter what they say.  It is so interesting in that chorus - I am an alien. I am a legal alien. It just has so much more resonance. And also I am going to make it mixed with your be yourself no matter what they say at the end. It is affirming to immigrants everywhere.  It really does. It has a universal message. And it is interesting. You know the term alien I think is being eradicated from the legal language of the government.  Yes.  But it always struck me and it struck Quentin Crisp as being rather funny you know that we are aliens as if we have you know antennae and green skin.    We could be a little something. I will be everything you once had. I could bring you real comfort.  I want to talk about Little Something your duet with jazz singer Melody Gardot. It is one of the newer songs on the album. You have never met her apparently. I love her music. But you have never met her.  No we never met. I knew of her work. And this story went back and forth between our respective studios. It was wonderful to work with her. I eventually met her in Italy where we made a video together in Florence near in my home.    I know you are going to feel like running. Would not give my love for nothing. I will be everything you wanted.  And so I invited her to dinner. We had a great time. We had a nice bottle of wine. And we had a joke-telling competition which I think she won.   What is your go-to joke?  It is not for public radio. Thank you .  Fair enough. We do not want to have too many beeps. Anyway you were having dinner and you - and thank goodness you got along.  Well she is very lovely and I am very charming. And you know we had a lovely time. It was great.   It was the same situation with the song September your duet with the Italian singer Zuccherro. Let us listen.    Counting days 'til September.  .  You know I would written this melody. And for some reason I thought you know this sounds Italian. You know I have a home in Tuscany. So I sent it to my friend Zuccherro who lives in the north of Italy. And I said what do you think? He said it sounds Italian.   I said OK. I have got some English lyrics. Why do not you write some of these lyrics in Italian and we will sing it as a duet?   .  We found interestingly enough he is a natural untrained tenor. He sounds very much like an operatic tenor. I love that song and it is really a song about waiting for the end of lockdown you know waiting for the - for September to come for the season to change.  After this period of time where are you finding inspiration?  I am currently writing a new record. What are they about? I think they are about reconnection with each other reconnect between cultures societies the world trying to build a bridge here.  And what are you most looking forward to?  Hopefully if all goes well with the vaccines and the retreat of the COVID - and I am crossing my fingers here - I am hoping I can begin just getting back to my life. But I think I have made use of the time off. I think I have kept the discipline of working every day. And so I am looking forward to flexing those muscles on a stage again.  Sting - his latest album is called Duets. Thank you very much.  Thank you Lulu.  