 Syria is again in the headlines because of rising tensions between Turkey and Russia after 33 Turkish soldiers were killed in an airstrike. And Bashar Assad's regime is closing in on the rebels last stronghold forcing hundreds of thousands of civilians to flee creating another humanitarian crisis. That said as soon as Syria gets the world's attention it is buried again by other news stories. That is been the pattern for nearly a decade. Liz Sly has covered Syria for The Washington Post since the beginning of the conflict there. She joins us from Beirut Lebanon. Welcome.  Hello. Thank you for having me.  So why is this offensive happening right now in Idlib? it is in northwest Syria. The population's mostly children. Give us some context for how we got here.  Well as you said there is been a war going on for nearly 10 years now. It all began when people began to stage demonstrations against the government. The government responded with force. The people took up weapons. Suddenly there were rebels. And that snatched pretty much half of the country. And since then we have seen the government in Damascus Assad's government steadily and slowly but surely claw back every city every province from the rebels. And now you have this last enclave in Idlib which is the last holdout of the rebels. And the Assad government has decided it wants it back.  Now you started covering this conflict before it was a conflict when a few kids spray-painted anti-government graffiti on a wall in the spring of 2011. When you started covering this did you expect it to turn the way it is turned?  I do not think anybody thought we would still be covering the Syrian revolution or war 10 years on. I do not think anybody thought it would become as violent and bloody as this. But each year that has passed it is just seemed to get worse and worse. And just when you think it cannot get any worse something worse happens. And that is sort of where we are today as well with this nearly 1 million people being squeezed into a tiny area freezing to death no shelter no food and nowhere to go. And it is yet another low for this conflict. So...  So how do you keep people's attention? And how do you get this message across when you have been telling the story and new lows for nearly a decade?  Well you try wherever is possible to humanize that story. We have been talking to people about the situation that they are in. Now when you talk to them it is really striking how desperate people are that their stories be told and that they be heard. They really feel that they have been completely forgotten by the world that nobody does care about them. And it is very very hard to keep that attention. It did look like people were starting to take notice of Idlib because - simply because of the numbers. But you have now got coronavirus spreading through the world. And the needle is swinging away from interest in this story again.  Covering Syria for so long you must have personal connections with a lot of the people that you talk to on a daily basis. Can you talk about sort of the emotional investment of covering a story like this?  I think the worst part of it is knowing that you actually cannot do anything. We like to think we make a difference. We like to think people read our stories and it has an impact. And what we have seen with Syria is that whatever we say does not make a difference. And it does not move the needle. And the world is not moved to care. And in fact it is being moved to care less and less the conflict has worn on. And so when I speak to people I feel almost a profound sense of guilt that I am in a position of privilege talking to them from outside the country. I am OK. I am not going to starve to death. I am not going to freeze to death. I am not going to be bombed in my home tonight. But I am asking you to talk to me about what that is like. And actually the act of doing that - I cannot do anything to help you.  That is gut-wrenching though. How do you keep doing it?  Because you know that looking away is not a solution either - and that is what people do not want you to do which is look away. So you actually put yourself in a position where you have - you cannot look away. And you also cannot do anything. But stopping is not the answer.  Liz Sly has covered Syria for The Washington Post for nearly a decade. Thank you so much.  Thank you. 