 And one of the issues that is come up in the health care debate over and over is not just the cost of our health care. It is what we are getting for that money. When it comes to drugs doctors mostly prescribe them based on how well doctors think individual drugs actually work. Now a study in the Journal of the American Medical Association says that in many cases doctors do not have enough information to know which drug actually is the best. NPR's Joanne Silberner has more.  One night when physician Michael Hochman was in training a patient came into the cardiac care unit. The senior doctor prescribed a drug. One of the other junior doctors wanted to know Why that drug? Dr.  And he really did not have a good answer. And so I then asked well why do you prefer this medicine? And he said it is just what I have always used and it is what I am used to using.  That did not sound like a good answer to Hochman. As his training continued though he heard it more and more. With new drugs sometimes the reason was well it looked good compared to placebo. When Hochman was done with his training he and his colleague checked six of the leading medical journals. They picked out 328 recent studies on drugs. Dr.  Well I learned what we expected we were going to learn going in and that is that only a minority - 32 percent - of all studies involving medications are aimed at helping doctors use existing therapies more effectively.  The rest were more useful for marketing purposes. Descriptions of new drugs comparisons to a placebo - no help to doctors trying to figure out whether to prescribe new drug X or old drug Y or even say a non-drug option like exercise or physical therapy. And that is a problem says Hochman. He is still prescribing drugs in the dark. In his research Hochman only found two studies that looked at the price of drugs. He also found that most of the research that pits drugs in head-to-head competitions is funded by the government not drug companies. That is understandable says Jerry Avorn. He is a professor of medicine at Harvard and a frequent critic of drug companies. Professor  Companies understandably are going to want to fund trials of their drugs or their devices that are going to highlight their product in the best possible way.  But he says doctors and patients need more information. Prof.  Given the state that our health care system's in we really do not need more studies that just show a drug is better than nothing. We need to know how does a particular drug compare with a choice that a doctor might make as an alternative and also what is the best buy for the patient or for the taxpayer.  That information may be coming eventually. President Obama in his stimulus package last year set aside 1.1 billion to fund more head-to-head studies. In a commentary in the Journal of the American Medical Association Alec O'Connor of the University of the Rochester called for the FDA to consider comparative effect in the studies when it considers new drugs. But that is going too far for Peter Pitts. He heads the Center for Medicine in the Public Interest a group that gets funding from the drug industry. He says a drug that comes out a loser in a comparative effectiveness study may still work for some people and doctors need that choice. Mr.  Asking the FDA to make comparative effectiveness a third leg in addition to safety and efficacy does not get the job done.  But others say the comparative information needs to be out there for consideration so doctors like Michael Hochman can have comparative information on prescription drugs the same way consumers can get that kind of information when they are thinking about buying new cars or computers. Joanne Silberner NPR News.   You are listening to MORNING EDITION from NPR News. 