 Boy I look forward all week to saying time for sports.   And it is March Madness the time in college basketball when small schools with double-digit seeds upset huge university athletic factories - but not last night. And FIFA reschedules the 2022 World Cup so that it practically competes with Hanukah. NPR's Tom Goldman has been courtside in Portlandia. He joins us now. Good morning Tom.  I hope you did not pull something in that intro.  . You probably hope I did Tom. Where is the madness?  Replaced by sadness.  .  At least yesterday - in 16 games only one had a lower seed beat a higher seed. Come on. We want upsets. That is not what CBS and Turner Broadcasting paid 10.8 billion for.  Boy absolutely. But Dayton did defeat Providence right?  Thank you Dayton.  Oh wait - spoiler alert. Go ahead.  It is over Scott yeah.  OK. Yeah.  Thank you Dayton. The Flyers won a First Four game a play-in game into the main draw earlier this week a game played in its hometown and then it is second round also in Ohio last night against Providence. The Flyers get one more game in Ohio and if they win that they will have to venture out into the world and see if they can sustain the magic away from home.  A little more madness possibly in today's lineup?  There is always hope Scott. You have got number-one seeds Kentucky and Villanova playing teams seeded eighth so a little more danger for the big guys. A lot of fans will be paying attention to the Georgia State-Xavier game. Georgia State is the feel-good story of the tournament so far. When Georgia State's RJ Hunter hit the winning three-pointer in the upset of number-three seed Baylor his head coach and dad Ron Hunter fell off the rolling chair he would been coaching on because he had tore his Achilles tendon in an earlier victory.  I have seen the video yes.  Yeah it went viral of Hunter's shot and then his dad falling to the court in ecstasy. I am excited about getting to watch in-person the Ohio State-Arizona game. Not necessarily for madness but for sheer beauty. Two dazzling freshmen - six-seven Arizona forward Stanley Johnson who threw down a vicious dunk in the Wildcats opening win and earned comparisons to LeBron James and Ohio State left-handed guard D'Angelo Russell. He scored 28 points against a very good VCU defense two days ago. Russell and Johnson are projected as top NBA picks and it should be very entertaining to watch.  Pro basketball - Kevin Durant might be lost to the Oklahoma City Thunder for the rest of the season. Is their season effectively over?  You would think so losing the reigning league MVP. But his sidekick guard Russell Westbrook has gone stark-raving mad on the court - seven triple-doubles since last month's All-Star break. The latest last night - 36 points 10 rebounds 14 assists in an Oklahoma City win over Atlanta which has the second-best record in the NBA. So they still might be dangerous come playoff time.  FIFA confirmed this week - 2022 World Cup will be rescheduled for winter to avoid the skillet that is Qatar in the summer. Some countries are put out. Nothing a check cannot smooth over?  A big check. FIFA's going to pay 209 million to soccer clubs whose seasons are interrupted by the switch from summer to winter in World Cup 2022. That triples the pot of money paid to clubs for last summer's World Cup in Brazil. Now almost everyone's happy except those who still think putting the World Cup in Qatar was about the most boneheaded and underhanded thing FIFA could do.  We will get to that later. NPR's Tom Goldman thanks so much.  You bet. 