 Alex Cornell does not like dinner parties or overly chatty commuters who insist upon talking to him on the bus. So he created a new app called Tickle which helps you escape awkward public situations. By simply touching the phone you can generate a fake phone call allowing you to politely excuse yourself. The app is not out yet but it reminded us of another one of Alex Cornell's attempts to avoid awkward conversations. We spoke to the San Francisco-based blogger and designer last year.  Sometimes you go to dinner with a lot of people you know but then there is some friends from out of town and you end up sitting next to the you know the roommate of the friend who does not know anyone and you know...  Who you are never going to see again.  Yeah who you are never going to see again. And it is like you can have the like where do you live where are you from what do you do conversation. But it can get a little bit repetitive.  Cornell decided to tackle this problem head on. So he posted a chart on his blog with the optimal strategy for each dinner table scenario four chairs around a table - easy. Any chair is good six people around a rectangle - tougher but go for the middle and you will be safe add one more person to that table and things start to get complicated. Now what is interesting to me about the seven-person rectangle as you suggest there is this extraneous seat and if you get stuck there well you are really committing to the conversation with the person right next to you.  Yeah. And I think if you are the one on the end actually you can be a lone operator there and kind of lob conversation topics from the end. But if you are the one right next to them you have to constantly be aware of the fact that if you lean forward you are going to be isolating them so you cannot do that. Everyone knows it is like OK they are on the end you know it is going to be tough for them. But if you are the other guy nobody's thinking about that person you know. So I think that is a high level of difficulty.  And you say unequivocally the hardest situation is two tables of any kind.  Yes. No matter what you do ironically you will always end up at a table that you think's going to be the good one - and you know when I say the good one I mean the most interesting maybe the most fun or - but you always end up at the table where the other one is - you can see them 'ecause they are usually like right next to you - and they are the ones laughing you know...  It is like the Murphy's Law of dinner parties.  Totally. And I think what I like to do is just go to the bathroom when people are sitting down so I can come back there is only one empty seat and I do not have to make the choice. It is just kind of determined for me and that is usually the easiest way out.  One scenario I wonder if you have considered is the bar. I mean have you thought of this in relation to how people stand around at a bar?  That kind of goes back to like high school dance people standing in circles situation you know where these little pods of people will kind of congregate. In that case you are much more fluid you know you can move around. But you can still kind of get stuck.   Alex Cornell is a designer and filmmaker. He is based in San Francisco.    Pressure pushing down on me pushing down on you no man ask for. Under pressure...  This is NPR News. 