 When most people see bugs on the big screen they squirm panic or just go eek. Well thanks Steven Kutcher. Mr. Kutcher's been Hollywood's bug wrangler since the 1970s. He has handled herded and otherwise directed insects in over 100 feature films including the spider that bit Peter Parker in Spider-Man and the giant mosquitoes in Jurassic Park and numerous commercials and music videos. He is also a biology instructor and a bug artist. Steven Kutcher joins us from the studios of KPCC in Pasadena. Thanks so much for being with us.  It is good to be here Scott.  So do you just point to a cockroach and say action?  Oh no. There is so much involved. Any fool could put a bucket of cockroaches on a table but it takes somebody knowledgeable to know how to make them act for camera. And so I have to make sure that whatever they are filming is sealed up that we collect them that none of them are hurt that the lighting is right that they are not using too much heat. And then I say action bug. And probably the most involved one I ever did no computer generation I had a cockroach come out of a shoe walk onto a bag of Cheetos turn left walk through some Cheetos and stop on a  magazine that had a picture of a surfboard for a movie called Race the Sun.  Well I missed that but how did you do that?  I did it by understanding how cockroaches think and cockroaches are thigmotactic which means they like to run along the edges of things and so what I do is guide them by increasing the bags of Cheetos and placing things in such a manner that I know that the odds are that the cockroach will go that direction.  Oh my gosh. There is a lot of planning that goes into this is not there?  Oh a huge amount. Most of my work was all done before computers existed.  Have computers changed the work now even if I may lessened it a little bit?  Oh yes. It does not look as good. People accept it because they have nothing to compare it to but it is more expensive but it is done because it is easier.  Your first film I gather was Exorcist II?  Yes I took care of 3000 African locusts. We had to check the sex of each one to make sure there were no females 'ecause females can reproduce. And I had large cages and I would put in flats of rye grass and then I worked with Richard Burton and I thought well that was really an interesting experience. And then right after that the assistant director was working on Wonder Woman with Linda Carter and they needed ants and so I went out and got ants. It just kind of snowballed from that.  May I ask delicately? Is there a mortality rate amongst the insects you work with?  Well I try very hard not to harm any insects for two reasons. One you cannot do it in Hollywood and two if I have some good insects I want to use them again. So for example in my painting I put paint on the feet of insects and create bug art and people say well does that hurt the insect? How do you get the paint off? And I say no it does not hurt them and I want to use them again. And I use a little stream of water and I use water-soluble paint so I have spent a lot of time studying how not to harm insects and how to manipulate them.  Do you ever run into problems with the ASPCA? Do they have anything to do with your filming?  Oh yes. You know sometimes the American Humane Society they do a good job in terms of what they are supposed to do horses and dogs and cats but when it comes to insects and fish which used to be exempt they have people there. It is really ridiculous. So they ask me - they are supposed to count the animals so they say how many ants do you have in that bucket 'ecause that is what they are supposed to ask. And I say you count them. Well how do you know how many are there? I say I count their legs and divide by six.   What do you like about bugs so much?  Oh insects are the thermometer of the world. The world is so diverse and there are so many different types of insects because they are so adaptable. You study insects and you have hundreds of lifetimes in front of you. You can never learn it all. You take a passion - and my passion was nature and specifically insects - and you broaden it out and it is unending. And so when somebody says yuck bugs I know there is a job there.  Steven Kutcher Hollywood's bug wrangler and a bug artist speaking with us from Pasadena. Thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you.   Weezer of course. You are listening to WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News.  