 Now on to a puzzle of a different kind. We are going to delve into the world of the tongue twister. We actually use these a lot in the production of our show but you never hear them on the air. It is the way we check our guests' sound levels before we start the interview. Take a listen.  Peter here we are. Peter began to pick things - the pepper.  That is musician Robyn Hitchcock and we are going to hear more from him in a moment. But first to a contest that would make Dr. Seuss and his cat tip their hats and knock the socks off that fox. It is the 13th Annual International Tongue Twister Contest. Judith Schulz is the director of the Logic Puzzle Museum in Burlington Wisconsin and that is where we reached her just after the contest finished. Hi Judith.  Hi.  So tell us how this contest works.  Well we give you 10 seconds it is timed. And in that 10 seconds you need to say as many as you can as fast as you can successfully.  OK and besides the glorious title of International Tongue Twister Champion are there any other prizes?  Oh of course. The Tongue Twister Prize for the adults is a portion of a peck of pickled peppers.   All right and you have this year's champion with you. Can you pass the phone to the winner?  And that would be the adult winner and here he is.  Great.  Hi my name is Tom Beck.  Congratulations.  Well thank you very much. I am so proud.   So what was the final alarmingly awkward alliteration that tried to trip your tongue?  Well I had to say Please pass the peas. And I have an aversion to green vegetables.  Oh no.  So this was quite a feat.  So you know we are going to ask you to do this right?  Please pass the peas. Please pass the peas. Please pass the peas. Please pass the peas. Please pass the peas. Please pass the peas. Please pass the peas.   I am done.  That was great.  Thank you.  Judith here. We have one more winner the kids' division.  OK.   Hello.  Hello. Who am I talking to?  My name is Samuel Beck.  Samuel Beck are you related to Tom Beck?  Yes.  Wait so your dad won the adult division and you won the kids' division?  Mm-hmm.  You guys clearly do a lot of tongue twisters at the dinner table?  Not really.   So Samuel what was your tongue twister that you won with?  It was Black bugs' blood.  Well done my friend. Well done a champion indeed. That was Samuel Beck his dad Thomas Beck and Judith Schulz who is the director of the Logic Puzzle Museum in Burlington Wisconsin. 