 Imagine for a moment you have just arrived at the Kennedy Center Washington's grand red-carpeted venue for the performing arts. You walk past the gift shop on parking level A and you smell something that seems too exotic for where you are frankincense oil sweet and pungent as if you have just walked into the grand souk in Cairo. And there is not just an aroma. There is also sound   the call of merchants in the Cairo Market piped through speakers in the Kennedy Center Gift Shop just one of the little touches at the Center's Festival of Arabic Arts three weeks long 800 artists 22 countries.   Egypt to Mauritania the Gulf States and much of the Middle East there is literature and dance film theater textiles and of course music. We cannot capture it all but we can give you a sample. Think of it as a little frankincense for the ears.  Ms.    Salma el Assal sings traditional Sudanese music. She has a Facebook page clips on YouTube. She lives in Egypt now but they still call her the Aretha Franklin of Sudan.  Ms.    And now to a man known as the Bob Dylan of Lebanon.  Mr.    His name is Marcel Khalife.  Mr.    On to Syria to hear a children's choir from Our Lady of Damascus Church 120 young voices in all.  Unidentified Group  Unidentified Woman  Unidentified Group   The groups at this festival perform in many dialects of Arabic. Sometimes they do not perform in Arabic at all.  Unidentified Man   We will leave you with one more voice from a faraway place - Comoros a small chain of islands off the coast of East Africa with at least one glorious export a performer named Nawal.     An organizer of this festival says there are actually many festivals - the  on stage and the smaller ones that unfold in the elevators and hallways and hotel lobbies as performers from all over the Arab world meet and mingle for the first time. It is like a party she says.     A beautiful all-night party.    Here we are.  The Arabesque Festival lasts through March 15th. Now in a video of this concert you can see audience members dancing on the Kennedy Center's royal red carpet. It is at npr.orgmusic.  It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am Steve Inskeep.  And I am Linda Wertheimer. 