 Alaska's Mount Redoubt is erupting. After months of merely rumbling the volcano is now spewing ash nine miles into the sky. Scientists say the explosions could go on for months and that is unwelcome news for central Alaska. Falling ash can clog the engines of snowmobiles and airplanes both of which are essential to get people around there. Alaska Public Radio Network's Annie Feidt has more.  The volcano is located about 100 miles southwest of Anchorage on the edge of the icy waters of Cook Inlet. As Redoubt's explosions continue Alaskans will become as familiar with the daily ash fall advisories as they are with the weather forecasts. Geophysicist John Power calls the gritty substance messy and invasive. But the biggest problem ash poses is for airplanes. Dr.  Aircraft and ash really do not mix. It is the principal hazard that you see in Alaska. You can imagine flying an airplane into a sandblaster - that is what happens when an airplane encounters an ash cloud. Presently airplanes are doing all they can to stay out of the ash.  The winds have so far carried the ash to the north and west of the most populated areas of the state. The tiny community of Skwentna was one of the first to report a dusting of the finely crushed volcanic rock. Steve Childs helps run a lodge in the village. Mr.  I looked out and the runway light we have here was just making the entire sky just glow and it was not snow.  There are no roads in and out of Skwentna and residents rely on snow machines to get around. But Childs says the grainy ash would tear a snow machine apart and he doubts airplanes will be able to bring in supplies anytime soon. He says he is prepared though. Mr.  We are going to have to be. We got plenty of food in the freezer and moose hanging in a shed. So we will be sitting it out for a little bit.  Childs remembers the last time Mount Redoubt erupted 20 years ago. Scientists are looking back at that event to try to predict how the current episode will play out. John Power with the Alaska Volcano Observatory says in 1989 Redoubt continued sending out massive ash explosions for five months. Dr.  In this business the past is always the key to the future. We might expect the volcano to behave that way again. However it does have a way of writing a new history if you will and the volcano could behave very differently. It could shut down at this point go into a longer eruption. It is really something where we are going to have to wait and see.  And it is not just Alaska residents who will be waiting and seeing for weeks to come. Redoubt's ash clouds could have far-reaching impacts. During the 1989 eruption ash hampered airline travel as far away as Texas. For NPR News I am Annie Feidt in Anchorage.  And you can see some stunning photos of the volcano at NPR.org. 