 European leaders held a summit with Turkey yesterday. They were all supposed to agree on how to manage their migrant crisis which continues. NPR's Soraya Sarhaddi Nelson is watching this from Berlin and is here to tell us what really happened. Hi Soraya.  Good morning Steve.  So what is the big idea these countries have been discussing?  Well it is a real game changer if it actually happens. But what Turkey is suggesting is that it will take back all what they call irregular migrants - in other words people who are coming through their territory does not matter their nationality and then illegally try to go on to Europe - then basically anybody who goes to Greece you know to these islands that they will take them all back. But they want something in return. And that is a real sticking point. And that is that for every Syrian they take back that Europe in turn takes another Syrian in order to relocate and resettle them there.  OK. So the Europeans also have to agree to deal with some of this ongoing crisis. What else do the Turks want?  Well for one thing they want some of this or more of the 3 billion-plus that was agreed to late last year that Turkey would get for refugees - they are supposed to get this from the EU. The prime minister in Turkey Ahmet Davutoglu is particularly angry about this 'ecause he feels like people are saying oh the Turks want this money. He is like no this is not for us. This for the Syrians. And so they are actually asking for more apparently than just the 3 billion. They want apparently another 3 billion on top of that although the amount has not been made public. The other thing that Turkey wants is that it wants a reopening of accession talks to the EU. In other words it wants to become an EU member. And it also wants a speeding-up of the waiver of visas for Turkish citizens who want to go to EU. They want that to happen as soon as June.  Oh that is really interesting. So the Turks want greater ties with Europe if they can get them. They have said they are willing to become in effect a warehouse for refugees who have come out of Syria come from a lot of other places at this point. But I gather that they have not been able to agree on how to put all this together with the Europeans?  Yeah I mean the European leaders are just not very comfortable with these demands. Germany and France for example do not think that accession talks should be linked to the refugee crisis Germany for economic reasons and France saying you know what? This country has been cracking down on the press a lot lately. And you know why do we want to open talks sort of rewarding that behavior if you will? At the same time the Dutch and Austrians are saying they do not want to give any more money. They are getting kind of angry about what they feel is like hat-in-hand you know give me more. And then in particular Hungary it led a number of countries last night in opposing any one-for-one swap. I mean they do not want anymore refugees certainly Muslim ones coming to Europe.  This raises so many interesting issues Soraya Sarhaddi Nelson one of them being that for years before this crisis Turkey has wanted to be part of Europe. Has not it this country on the edge of Europe where the toehold in Europe? But Europeans have not been sure if they want a Middle Eastern nation in their midst.  Absolutely. It is something that has gone on for quite awhile. And Turkey has not been successful in convincing certainly Germany that it is economically responsible enough. As you mentioned there is also concern about having a Middle Eastern or specifically Muslim nation as being part of the European Union. And at the same time right now with this particular Turkish government cracking down on the press and being so active in its bombing of Kurdish targets within Syria and sometimes within its own territory these sorts of things give a lot of pause to the Europeans. At the same time we are really seeing a lot of fractured - I mean within the EU block itself the summit just really highlights how divided Europeans are just about every question not just Turkish accession but in the refugee crisis.  That is NPR's Soraya Sarhaddi Nelson. She is in Berlin. Soraya thanks as always.  You are welcome Steve. 