 This is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am Linda Wertheimer.  Today in Your Health a technique that might ease the pain in your back. First let us hear about something that might not be causing the pain in your knees - jogging. It is a clich among runners that eventually jogging breaks down the knee joint. Researchers say that is not true. NPR's Patti Neighmond explains why.   Paul Rider loves to run on Mulholland Drive in Hollywood.  Fantastic view. Had a lot of rain so you can see the whole San Fernando Valley. It is beautiful. It is a great place to run.  Rider does not just run for exercise.  It is a nice emotional release. Quite a nice stress release.  Rider runs a seven- to eight-minute mile. His wife Lyra runs a little slower but pretty much for the same reasons.  I do enjoy running. I like getting out. It always feels great when you have done it.  Lyra and Paul Rider are in their mid-40s about the age when health experts used to say...  That if you jogged and jogged and ran and ran that you would be doing in your knees.  Dr. David Felson at Boston University School of Medicine says the concern was degeneration of the knee and arthritis. But when researchers actually studied the impact of running on knees that is not what they found.  When we look at people with knee arthritis we do not find much of a previous history of running. And when we look at runners and follow them over time we do not find that their risk of developing osteoarthritis is increased anymore than would be expected.  In one study researchers from Sweden found it may be even beneficial. They looked at exercise including running to see what happened to cartilage - that gooey substance which connects bones and muscle. Dr. Felson.  And they found that the biochemistry which was abnormal at the beginning actually improved a little bit in those who were running suggesting that running was healthy to the joint.  It could be the impact of the body weight when the foot hits the ground stimulates production of certain proteins in the cartilage which make it stronger in the same way exercise like running makes bones and muscles stronger. And cartilage health may turn out to be really important.  We are now starting to understand that there is some loss of cartilage annually.  Dr. Nancy Lane is a rheumatologist at the University of California. She did some of the first studies of runners and knee arthritis.  If you have a relatively normal knee and you are jogging five to six times a week at a moderate pace then there is every reason to believe that your joints will remain healthy.  And if you are more than 20 pounds overweight Lane says do not start suddenly running. All that extra weight can cause real damage - inflammation bony spurs and cartilage thinning.  If somebody is heavy and they want to start exercising I do not have them go off running. I have them walk and walk until they are to a point where I think that their body mass is reduced enough that it will not traumatize their joints.  Patti Neighmond NPR News. 