 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Rachel Martin. And it does not matter what it is - a pencil a pen a crayon - grab your nearest writing utensil because it is time for the puzzle.   Joining me now is Will Shortz. He is the puzzle editor of the New York Times. He is also WEEKEND EDITION's puzzle master. Good morning Will.  Good morning Rachel. Welcome back.  Hey thank you. So what was last week's challenge?  Yes. It came from listener Harry Hillson of Avon New Jersey. And I said if you take the first name of a nominee for Best Actor or Best Actress at the Oscars last week you can rearrange the letters into a two-word phrase that describes his or her character in the film for which he or she was nominated. Who is the star and what is the phrase. Well the answer was Sandra as in Sandra Bullock who of course was the star of Gravity. And if you rearranged the letters of Sandra you get NASA Dr. Thought that was brilliant. And I will tell you an interesting alternative answer we got from listener Todd Mcleary. He points out that if you take Jonah Hill who was nominated for his role in The Wolf of Wall Street. And he said given the number of prostitutes in the film you can rearrange Jonah to spell a john so.   Points to Todd. Very creative. We got more than 240 correct answers. Our randomly selected winner this week is Dan Mitchell of Manchester New Hampshire. He joins us on the line. Hey Dan. Congratulations.  Thank you.  So are you a big Sandra Bullock fan?  To be honest with you I have to give credit to my wife. We usually do these kind of - together. And she came up with NASA Dr. pretty quickly. But I got stuck in the actors because with Chiwetel and Leonardo and Christian in there it was so letter-rich that I got stuck there and I finally had to be convinced that it was actually NASA Dr.  Well good for your wife.  Yeah.  And what do you do in Manchester?  I am an assistant principal at an elementary school.  Oh wow. And do you have a question for Will Shortz?  Well I guess I have never had the opportunity to speak to Will and never really thought I ever would. But I wonder has there ever been a question that has stumped Will that has just hung on with you for months or days and you do not want to know the answer and you just you know think about it every once in a while?  Huh. That is interesting. Of course there are puzzles sometimes I cannot finish and I tend to just put them aside. I do not want to cheat do not want to look up the answer. I will just put them aside you know come back next week or next year and try it again.  Do you also go back to it though Will?  Well I cannot say I always go back and I am not haunted by it.   OK. With that Dan are you ready to play the puzzle?  I hope so.  All right. I think you are. I hear it in your voice. I think there is confidence there. Let us give it a go.  Sounds good.  All right Dan and Rachel. I am going to give you some five-letter words. For each one insert two letters after the first letter to complete a familiar seven-letter word. For example if I said bough B-O-U-G-H you would insert O-R to make borough.  OK.  All right. Number one is March M-A-R-C-H.  O-N - monarch.  O-N monarch. That is it. Number two is bathe B-A-T-H-E.  R-E breathe.  Breathe is it. Feign F-E-I-G-N.  O-R foreign.  That is it foreign. Onion O-N-I-O-N.  I am stumped on this one.  When you have a particular slant on something?  Oh P-I opinion.  Yeah.  Opinion is it. Award A-W-A-R-D.  W-K awkward.  Good.  Awkward is it. Clone C-L-O-N-E. It is a word everyone knows but for some reason it gives everyone fits. And that is not a hint. I just mean it is tough to see.  It is a storm.  There you go.  Oh cyclone it is Y-C.  Cyclone is it good. Villa V-I-L-L-A.  A-N vanilla.  Vanilla. Rival R-I-V-A-L.  Revival.  That is it. Elude E-L-U-D-E.  Exclude.  Oh nice. And your last one is gaff G-A-F-F-E.  Giraffe.   Giraffe nice job.  Dan that was really good.   Well done.  Thank you.  For playing the puzzle today you get a WEEKEND EDITION lapel pin. You also get puzzle books and games. You can read all about it at our website npr.orgpuzzle. And before we let you go Dan what is your public radio station?  WEVO Concord New Hampshire.  Great Dan Mitchell of Manchester New Hampshire. Thanks so much for playing the puzzle Dan. It was fun.  Thank you so much.  OK Will. What is up for next week?  Yes it is a puzzle I made for the Museum of Mathematics in New York City for an event they held two weeks ago. Take the name of a classical Greek mathematician and if you have the right one the letters in his name can be rearranged to spell two numbers. What are they? Or to state the puzzle in a different way Take the names of two numbers put them together and find an anagram of the result that names a classical Greek mathematician. Who is the mathematician and what are the numbers?  You know what to do. When you have got the answer go to our website npr.orgpuzzle. Click on that Submit Your Answer link - just one entry per person please. And our deadline for entries is Thursday March 13th at 3 p.m. Eastern Time. Do not forget a phone number where we can reach you at about that time because if you are the winner we will give you a call and then you will get to play on the air with the puzzle editor of The New York Times. And he is WEEKEND EDITION's puzzle master Will Shortz. Thanks so much Will.  Thanks Rachel.  