 Would Tennessee whiskey by any other name taste as sweet? A debate in Tennessee is on simmer over a bill to distill - sorry that was irresistible - a legal definition of what makes Tennessee whiskey Tennessee. The state legislature passed a bill last year saying whiskey can be labeled Tennessee only if it is made in the state from a mash that is 51 percent corn trickles through maple charcoal and is aged in new charred oak barrels. Now there is some precedent in the spirits world. Sparkling wine is champagne only if it is from the Champagne region of France Scotch whisky is from Scotland and tequila from blue agave grown in Mexico. The Brown-Forman Corporation which makes Jack Daniel's Tennessee Whiskey in Lynchburg likes the law. They credit their founder Mr. Daniel with steeping his mash in maple charcoal to mellow the drink. Jack Daniel's sells about 90 percent of the Tennessee whiskey in the world and Jeff Arnett their master distiller has said we should not do anything that would make Tennessee Whiskey an inferior product. But Diageo PLC - British company would not you know that owns Smirnoff Vodka and Johnnie Walker Scotch - bought the George Dickel distillery which has been making what they consider equally Tennessee whiskey since 1870. A Diageo spokesperson says we are in favor of flexibility that lets all distillers large and small make Tennessee whiskey the way their family recipes tell them. Now there is a history of Tennessee families making whiskey licensed or not that goes back to moonshining days and there are small craft-distillers today - artisanal moonshiners if you please - who make whiskey as Phil Prichard of Prichard's Distillery puts it according to our own methods with our own ingredients of choice and our own techniques. They believe they are as Tennessee as Mr. Daniel. So some representatives now have what sounds like lawmaker's remorse for the bill. Representative Ryan Haynes who chairs the state government committee now says it is wrong for the government to codify recipes. This week they moved the matter to summer study. Sounds like a nice summer. Study Tennessee whiskey on a porch at twilight over Lookout Mountain a small glass in hand and watch the sheriff chase those artisanal moonshiners.   Can you believe that is Robert Mitchum? You are listening to NPR News. 