 This is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am Renee Montagne.  And I am David Greene. We have an update now on that missing Malaysia Airlines plane. Communications satellites continued to receive signals from the plane at least five and a half hours after it disappeared over the Gulf of Thailand. That is according to a source familiar with the investigation who spoke to NPR. This information raises even more questions about the fate of the jet that disappeared nearly a week ago with 239 people on board. For more we turn to NPR's Frank Langfitt in Shanghai. And Frank can you walk us through what we know about this plane's disappearance and what is new now according to this information?  Well David we understand that the plane disappeared around 30 last Saturday morning over the Gulf of Thailand and authorities in Malaysia were not sure where it went. Now sources - a source has told us and they have told other news organizations as well that the plane continued to ping a satellite for many hours after it disappeared over the Gulf of Thailand. And this is coming from satellite data. Now this suggests that the plane was either in the air or on the ground but that it was still operating. We do not - the data will not say probably exactly where it was but in order for the plane to continue to send these signals it has to have power this thing has to be powered.  Okay and that is important. I mean we are not learning anything about where the plane might have been on the ground in the air but it is sending some sort of satellite signal. How does the system work exactly?  Well it is called the Aircraft Communication Addressing and Reporting System and it is on I think all planes. And what it does it allows pilots and other people to send text. And the way it works it will work off a satellite system in the air and what happens is the satellite will ping a plane every hour just to make sure that it is still there and using the satellite system. And so what happened is over the night we are told that the satellite was pinging the plane every hour and the plane was responding basically saying yeah I am awake I am still here. It did not send any data but it said it was still operating.  Is there any chance that they might have this wrong that this is just bad data or a false positive somehow?  That is a great question David. Of course given there is been so much misinformation about this story it involves the families of these passengers. I talked to the owner of the satellites that talked to the plane that night. It is Inmarsat. They are a very big company. They are based in London. They would not talk specifically about this case and they cited the ongoing investigation but they said - I talked to David Coiley he is the vice president of aviation there at Inmarsat and he said these signals are very reliable and he said he was - basically they are over 99 percent. It is highly unusual to get a false positive in this system and basically it would show that it was still operating.  I mean Frank you mentioned the families of people who were onboard that plane and they are hanging on every development here. I mean what - how might this information affect the search for the plane? We have had these ships and planes I mean in these areas just searching and searching for hours and hours.  Well the Malaysian officials had a press conference today and they said they are aware of the satellite data they are going to be talking to United States authorities about the satellite data. They would not tie it to any of their decision-making but what they said is they have expanded the investigation and the search west towards the Andaman Sea and into the Indian Ocean. Of course they were looking at the other side in the East so the Gulf of Thailand and the South China Sea before. And now they are expanding over in that direction. And the reason they said they are doing that is they did see a plane later in the morning heading in that direction. They could not identify it or certain as this flight. But that is what they are investigating now to see in fact if the plane was heading to the west into the Indian Ocean.  All right well we will be continuing to follow this story which seems to have a new development by the hour by the day. NPR's Frank Langfitt joining us from Shanghai. Frank thanks a lot. 